10-01-2021||News||Xi Jinping is preparing for a special birthday party. It has repercussions||India is sceptical about China delivering on its promised disengagement and de-escalation in East Ladakh before the communist party’s grand birthday party planned in July this year, people familiar with the matter said on Sunday, suggesting that President Xi Jinping is expected to stick to his strident position enforcing Mao's 1959 line on Ladakh, Bhutan, Taiwan, South China Sea and Japan as China prepares to showcase the ruling communist party’s 100th anniversary later this year.The people, who spoke on the Indian government’s assessment of the standoff set off by China’s attempt to unilaterally change the alignment of the 1,597-kilometre Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh, said Beijing was expected to drag its feet towards disengagement and de-escalation of troops across Ladakh. The Chinese expansion also diverts mind of Han people from President Xi's mishandling of coronavirus, which originated in Wuhan, and the resulting economic downturn. The pandemic has infected nearly 90 million people globally and killed close to two million people with democratic countries bearing the brunt of the disease.Also Watch | Indian Army detains Chinese soldier after he crosses LAC in LadakhChina showcases its aggression in East Ladakh to its domestic audience and builds pressure on other smaller countries in South Asia such as Nepal, Bhutan and Myanmar to fall in line. “But we are prepared to stand our ground for as long as it takes and to deal with any eventuality,” said a national security planner.India moved over 40,000 soldiers with support elements to the Himalayan border last year, matching the presence of Chinese soldiers along with the LAC after a bloody faceoff in June when troops blocked an effort by Chinese soldiers to take over Indian territory. India has called for disengagement of soldiers from the high-altitude desert to minimize the risk of accidental conflagration but insisted that Chinese troops should restore status quo ante that existed in late April 2020 when PLA’s patrol teams triggered the standoff, now into its ninth month.The standoff in Ladakh, however, wasn’t China’s one-off effort at a time China faced sharp criticism for its handling of the coronavirus disease that was first reported in Wuhan but was spreading rapidly across the world. It also coincided with Beijing’s renewed attempt to arm twist its neighbours in the South China Sea, ramp up military presence in the waters around the rocky uninhabited group of Senkaku islands under Japanese control and step up pressure on the US and Australia.President Xi also tightened the screws on Taiwan and Hong Kong; and the Buddhists of Tibet and Muslim Uighurs in Xinjiang back home where the communist party had stepped up its sinicisation efforts to wipe out religious identities of its minorities that President Xi believes is crucial to strengthening China under the communist party.As the United States had then put it, China’s aggressive stance in Ladakh fitted with the larger pattern of Chinese aggression in its neighbourhood and elsewhere in the world.Many strategists within the government suggest that tensions provoked by Beijing would be on the rise for most of this year.President Xi has planned for the 2021 centenary celebrations of the communist party for years, right down to fixing milestones when he had just taken over in 2012.The 100th anniversary celebrations of the communist party would be projected as a strong counter to the so-called ‘century of humiliation’ that the Chinese empire and the Republic of China faced between 1839 and 1949 at the hands of western powers, Russia and Japan.It is unlikely that President Xi would take any decision that doesn’t promote his narrative of “the great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation”.For a China that has sought to displace the United States as the predominant power in Asia and beyond, President Xi’s signature Belt and Roads Initiative has helped. China has loaned billions of dollars to participating countries for the trans-continental passage and projects that would have flunked the standard viability test, pushing nations into indebtedness.It will help Beijing that President Xi may be able to engineer cracks between the United States and Europe that had been working together on China with his surprise intervention last year.President Xi extended key market access concessions to EU businesses under the comprehensive agreement on investment that Europe had been asking for. The resistance to the pact within the EU melted soon after. But there are concerns that the pact - which gifted China a diplomatic coup - jeopardises the attempt to forge a common stance on Beijing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/xi-jinping-is-preparing-for-a-special-birthday-party-it-has-repercussions-101610264468272.html
10-01-2021||Other||Armed robbers fire at jeweller, his employees in Ambernath||Ambernath police on Sunday booked four thieves for allegedly firing seven bullets at a jewellery shop owner, injuring him and two of his employees in the incident. According to police, the robbers allegedly fired at a salesman while attempting to loot the shop in Sarvoday Nagar of Ambernath (West). The accused entered the shop at around 1.30pm and fired at the owner Bhushan Singh, 30, and employees Charan Dusana, 25 and Laxman Dusana, 26, when they tried to stop them. Singh sustained a bullet injury on his leg, while his employees were stabbed by robbers. The accused then fled on a motorcycle.“All injured are admitted in the nearby private hospital. One of the accused has left his revolver at the spot. We are checking CCTV footage of the area and further investigation is on,” an officer said.Meanwhile, two days ago, a CCTV footage of armed men trying to break into the houses of Ulhasnagar residents by throwing stones and threatening them, had gone viral.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/armed-robbers-fire-at-jeweller-his-employees-in-ambernath-101610303249686.html
10-01-2021||Mumbai||Shiv Sena starts campaign to woo Gujarati community ahead of 2022 BMC polls||The Shiv Sena on Sunday began its campaign “Mumbai ma jalebi fafda, Uddhav Thackeray aapda”, wooing Gujarati voters ahead of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) elections slated to be held in January-February 2022.The function, held at Andheri, was attended by 100 Gujarati community members and was used to attack the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for giving the community step-motherly treatment. Traditionally, Gujaratis and Marwaris are BJP voters and are now playing a decisive role in Mumbai’s electoral politics.Shiv Sena leader Hemraj Shah, the brain behind the campaign, said that it was time to give a chance to the Shiv Sena. “Early, we [Gujarati community] voted for the Congress and then the BJP, but both failed to give justice to the Gujarati community. The new Sena leadership under chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is a progressive one and is doing a lot of work for the people. We are asking for just one chance. The BJP’s steps like demonetisation and GST (goods and service tax) have broken the back of our businesses. We see the Sena as a hope to revive our business,” he said.None of the major Shiv Sena leaders attended the function. Shah said that the program was not meant to be held on a large scale and therefore they had invited only 100 community members. He said that the large-scale event with key Sena leaders would be organised at a later stage.The Sena also used the event to induct 10 industrialists and builders into the party, apart from scores of businessmen.Builder Kalpesh Mehta, managing director, Pramukh Developers Private Limited, said that he joined the Sena as its government cut premiums in the real estate sector. “Uddhav Thackeray has done a good job to boost the realty sector as it was hit by the Covid-19 pandemic,” said Mehta. He said his party membership would provide him with a platform to interact with the government.The BJP, however, denied giving any step-motherly treatment to the community. “I have been a BJP corporator six times, and the BJP even made me a deputy mayor. The community is solidly behind us,” said BJP leader Ram Barot, a prominent Gujarati who was the former Mumbai deputy mayor.Traditionally, the Sena does not share a good rapport with the Gujarati community as it was seen as only representing the “Marathi Manoos”. However, the current leadership under Thackeray has been shedding this image to make it an all-inclusive outfit. Thackeray’s son Aaditya, a state minister, erected hoardings in Gujarati during his campaign in the 2019 Assembly polls, which he fought from the Worli constituency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-starts-campaign-to-woo-gujarati-community-ahead-of-2022-bmc-polls-101610303010161.html
10-01-2021||Other||Man complains to police over death threats by unknown caller in Greater Noida||Noida: A Greater Noida resident has approached police after he received a call from an unknown number where the caller allegedly threatened to kill him after three days. The police said that they are investigating the case as the complainant has some property dispute. Naveen Bhati, the complainant who is a resident of Shahadra village in Noida Sector 141, runs a private school in the neighbourhood. Bhati said that he received the call at 7.55pm on January 7. “The caller started abusing me without any provocation as soon as I received the call,” he said. “Be ready...after three days I will kill you...I am calling from a jail. You have only three days. You can meet people you like and eat whatever you want in three days,” the caller allegedly told him. An audio of the phone call is also in the public domain, the police said. A case was registered on January 8 against an unknown person under sections 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace) and 507 (criminal intimidation by an anonymous communication) of IPC at Surajpur police station. When contacted, Bhati said, “I have a property dispute with some local people in the neighbourhood over two acres of land. I recently planned to fence the plot and some people objected to it. I suspect they have hired the killer to eliminate me,” he said. The Surajpur police have launched an investigation into the matter. Dilip Kumar Singh, in-charge of Surajpur police station, said, “We are investigating the matter and prima facie it appears the caller faked that he was calling from the jail. The victim has some property dispute. We are investigating the matter from all angles. The criminal will be arrested soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-complains-to-police-over-death-threats-by-unknown-caller-in-greater-noida-101610302289223.html
10-01-2021||Other||Noida factory penalised, shut down for using single-use plastic for manufacturing||NOIDA: The Noida authority has imposed a penalty against a factory that was allegedly found using banned single use plastics to make glasses, in Sector 63. The authority has also ordered for a shutdown of the factory, as making single use plastic glasses is prohibited in the city, said officials.“We conducted a raid at the factory premises and saw the manufacturing activity being carried out live. The production of the banned single use plastic glasses was underway in the building. As per the rules, we imposed a penalty of ₹25,000 against the factory owner. The rules state that we cannot go beyond a fine of ₹25,000 in this case,” said Indu Prakash Singh, officer on special duty of the Noida authority.Singh added, “Besides, the authority has ordered the shutdown of the factory. We will continue to randomly inspect factories.”The authority conducts random inspections at units manufacturing such items illegally, besides acting on tip-offs, said officials.The crackdown against single use plastics was begun on September 11, 2019. Officials have appealed to the general public to come forward to help them implement the ban on single-use plastics, which choke sewers and drains and also cause harm to the ecology.Since September 11, 2019, the authority has imposed a total of ₹40 lakh as penalty against different agencies for violating rules, said officials.“Initially we focused more on awareness in the general public and vendors, who use single-use plastic items such as carry bags, glasses or other products. However, now we are focussing more on manufacturing units which use single use plastics to make products,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/noida-factory-penalised-shut-down-for-using-single-use-plastic-for-manufacturing-101610302109212.html
10-01-2021||Other||Noida executive’s stolen car recovered, two nabbed||Noida: The Noida Police on Sunday said they had arrested two persons suspected to be involved in robbing a city resident of his car at gunpoint from near sector 135 on the night of January 6. The vehicle was also recovered, police said.The police said that the suspects were identified by their first names as Shahrukh and Mohit, both 25 years old and residents of Asgarpur area. The robbery victim, Mohsin Khan, had stopped the vehicle to attend a call when he was robbed. A case of robbery (section 392) was registered at the Expressway police station.Police said that around 1 am on Sunday, a Honda City car was flagged to stop during checking at the Hazipur underpass by a team from sector 39 police station.“They didn’t stop and fled towards the service road after which road blocks were set up. But due to road construction, the area was already blocked and the suspects tried to turn around and flee, but they were intercepted. There were three men in the car who tried to then escape on foot. One of them fired at the police team and was injured in his leg in retaliatory fire,” said additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, Kumar Ranvijay Singh.The injured man was identified as Shahrukh. He was taken to the district hospital for treatment where his condition was said to be stable. His accomplices Mohit and another unnamed person fled but Mohit was arrested later, said police.Police said that the suspects had removed the original registration plate of the vehicle and put up a fake one. The original was recovered from the car’s boot along with one countrymade pistol each from the two suspects.“There are other people involved with them who are on our radar. The suspects had come in a Swift car for the robbery and we are working on finding it. Their criminal backgrounds are being looked into though it seems that they have a crime history in Delhi-NCR,” said Singh.The suspects were booked for attempt to murder, using a false property mark and under the arms act at the sector 39 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/noida-executive-s-stolen-car-recovered-two-nabbed-101610302049660.html
10-01-2021||Other||Work on Kondli underpass expedited||NOIDA: The Noida Authority on Sunday said that it has expedited work on Kondli underpass to meet a new deadline of April instead of November 2021.The project is expected to ease traffic between sector 150 and 148 located on either side of the Noida Expressway. The project construction began in June last year.“We have completed more than 50% work,” said Rajeev Tyagi chief general manager of the Noida authority who along with the authority’s additional chief executive officer Neha Sharma reviewed the project.The authority is spending ₹43.21 crore budget on the four-lane underpass that is 830 meters wide and is being built without disturbing the traffic above the road.The underpass is being built at a distance of 19.4 km from zero point at Mahamaya flyover in Noida. As per the survey conducted by the Noida authority around 30,000 motorists will use the underpass once ready.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/work-on-kondli-underpass-expedited-101610302049132.html
10-01-2021||Other||Obscene posts in class WhatsApp groups may lead to FIR against parents, North MCD warns||New Delhi: After receiving complaints from several schools about obscene messages being posted and inappropriate videos and pictures being circulated on WhatsApp groups created to share online study material with students, the North Delhi Municipal Corporation warned parents of legal action if found responsible for any such activity.The warning was issued after the north body’s education department received a complaint from a school in the Narela zone.In an order issued on January 5 and addressed to all stakeholders, including parents, teachers, principals, and zonal education officers, the department said, “A complaint has been received from Narela Zone about posting of pornographic content by a parent in a class’ WhatsApp groups. It is a serious matter, and all parents and guardians must be warned to not use any irrelevant content in the WhatsApp groups of classes created for the purpose of online classes and must be directed to take more precautions to avoid any legal action.”“In case of any repetition, FIR must be lodged against the erring person without any delay,” it added.An official at the north civic body said, “The order was issued after receiving similar complaints from several schools. No one can harass teachers in this manner. The young students in the group will also read the messages, which can possibly create an unfavourable impact.”To be sure, officials said it was not immediately clear whether these messages were sent by parents, students, or a third party. However, these messages were received from the official registered mobile number, which is why parents were warned, officials of the civic body said.The principal of a civic body-run school in Jahangirpuri, requesting anonymity, said, “We had received an objectionable video clip in a class 5 WhatsApp group last month. The clip was sent from a student’s registered number. We summoned the students’ parents, but they denied sending the message. Our teachers regularly send messages on the groups requesting parents not to share anything on the group other than any queries related to online classes. Now, we have shared this order issued by the education department.”Ramnivas Solanki, general secretary of civic body teachers’ association, said, “A female teacher in our school had received an objectionable picture from a registered mobile number recently. When we summoned the parents, they claimed that a neighbour had sent the message. It’s good that the department has sent out such an official order in this regard. Principals will now directly file a police complaint in case anything like this happens.”North Delhi mayor Jai Prakash said, “The corporation will take serious action against those found responsible for sending such obscene messages on WhatsApp groups meant for study material to be shared.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/obscene-posts-in-class-whatsapp-groups-may-lead-to-fir-against-parents-north-mcd-warns-101610301990583.html
10-01-2021||Other||North MCD to create parking slots for 13000 cars||New Delhi: The North Delhi Municipal Corporation proposes to create space for parking nearly 13,000 cars across at least 20 sites, in a massive ramp up of the infrastructure in north Delhi areas where haphazard parking is one of the major reasons for congestion. North MCD officials say the plan, which was proposed in the civic body’s budget for 2021-22, will help bring in additional revenue for the civic body. The corporation is going through a financial crunch, forcing it to withhold salaries of its staff. According to the plan, the North corporation will build nearly 17 multilevel parking lots and three stack facilities across several areas under its jurisdiction. Currently, the North corporation runs 130 parking lots. The new multilevel parking lots are proposed to come up at 17 locations. These are Shivamarket in Pitampura (500 cars), Gandhi Maidan (2,338 cars), Qutub Road (174 cars), Sant Nagar in Rani Bagh (600 cars), Idgah Road (3150 cars), Shastri Park (577 cars), Rajendra Nagar (464 cars), U&V-block, Shalimar Bagh (288 cars), AC Block, Shalimar Bagh (350 cars), Bank Street in Karol Bagh (500 cars), Madipur (580 cars), Udyog Nagar (470 cars), Punjabi Bagh (324 cars), Nangloi (1000 cars), Mundka Metro Station (1,000 cars), RG Complex Paharganj (350 cars) and Pratap Nagar (250 cars). Stack parking lots for a total of 291 cars will come up at Nigambodh Ghat, Salim Garh near Hanuman Setu and Bagh Diwar at Fatehpuri. “Work on most of the major projects have started. At some places, construction has begun while some are in planning and tendering stage. Parking facilities at Nigambodh Ghat and Fatehpuri are likely to be opened in the beginning of next financial year while multilevel lots at Shivamarket in Pitampura, Qutub Road near Sadar and Gandhi Maidan near Chandni Chowk are likely to be made operational by the end of next year,” a senior official of the north corporation said on the condition of anonymity. He said that construction work on multilevel parking at Shivamarket, Qutub Road and Gandhi Maidan is already underway while bidding process for facilities at Sant Nagar in Rani Bagh, Shatri Park and Rajendra Nagar is likely to be started next week. Parking at Idgah Road and Mundka will be developed in collaboration with the Delhi Metro. He said that a memorandum of understanding has already been signed with the Delhi Metro for Idgah Road parking. The official further said that all the multilevel parking facilities will be at least six floors high, including basement. Officials said these parking spaces will also help in reducing traffic bottleneck in different areas. “Paharganj has featured on the traffic department’s list of most clogged areas. During our study we found out that the area is prone to traffic logjams because of haphazardly parked vehicles near RG Complex in Paharganj. We worked out a solution that a multilevel parking should be constructed to accommodate over 350 cars which spill over nearby roads. Approval from the House has been given for this project and we will soon start the process to acquire a piece of land from the DDA (Delhi Development Authority). The project will be completed in two years,” another official privy to the development, said. Jai Prakash, mayor, north corporation, said these remunerative projects will not only solve parking and traffic congestion problems but also help the civic body in generating revenue. He said the modalities of several of these projects are yet to be worked out but some of these are likely to be carried out on the basis of public private partnership. “All of these parking facilities will be made operational in next two to three years. This will help great deal in solving parking menace and traffic issues. We are also hoping to generate more annual revenue from such remunerative projects. We will also look for more new sites where multilevel, stack or surface parking sites can be developed,” Prakash said.KS Mehra, former commissioner of the unified MDD, said these are much needed initiatives and such projects will financially help the cash-strapped civic body.“This is the right approach as these projects will not only give a solution to the parking menace in congested areas like Chandni Chowk and Karol Bagh but also help the municipality in augmenting their revenue collection. These projects can be developed on PPP mode and I suggest that the government should also support such initiatives,” he said.Mehra also suggested that the civic body should also implement dynamic parking charges — charge extra during peak hours near markets — not only to streamline parking problems but also to earn more revenue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/north-mcd-to-create-parking-slots-for-13000-cars-101610301989545.html
10-01-2021||Other||Noida: Forest officials inspect Okhla Bird Sanctuary for signs of bird flu||Noida: Senior officials of the forest department on Sunday inspected the Okhla Bird Sanctuary to take stock of preparations to deal with possible cases of bird fly and to spot any plausible sign of the same.The team, led by the forest conservator, Meerut circle, inspected the sanctuary and later briefed the city’s foresters on basic protocols, including keeping protective gear ready for any emergency situation. Officials said that so far no signs have been seen of avian influenza in the city or zone’s wetlands. “So far we have not seen any sign or symptom of bird flu or came across any dead water bird with unusual symptoms in the city or zone. We are vigilant and Sunday’s inspection at the Okhla Bird Sanctuary is part of the procedure. We are also vigilant with respect to small ponds and lakes in interiors or remote areas, especially those under the jurisdiction of the state forest department. As of now, vigilance is the best we can do to keep our wetlands safe,” said G Prasad, conservator (forests), Meerut circle.He added that limited staff and manpower poses a challenge, however, they are coordinating with other departments. “The only challenge was a little shortage of staff, however, we are coordinating with other departments like animal husbandry and district administrations,” added Prasad. The divisional forest department of Gautam Budh Nagar said that the inspection drive is being held at other wetlands too as a precautionary measure.“We have formed 20 rapid response teams (RRT) to inspect different areas such as Jewar, Bisrakh, Dankaur and Dadri. Each RRT has two officials from the forest department and one from animal husbandry. These teams will coordinate with three range forest officers. The teams will have to check for symptoms among birds, and mark all big and small waterbodies where migratory birds flock to,” said PK Srivastava, divisional forest officer (DFO), GB Nagar. He added that under the protocol, if any dead bird is found it is to be approached by officials wearing PPE kits and the carcass will be sent for testing at the National Institute of High Security Animal Disease, Bhopal. The divisional forest department, Gautam Budh Nagar had last week restricted access to certain areas of Okhla Bird Sanctuary and closed the Surajpur wetland for visitors as a preventive measure. The forest department had also issued a warning, urging people and birders to be cautious around wetlands and to report any unusual bird deaths or symptoms, including tremors, diarrhoea, head tilt and paralysis. “Please don’t touch any sick or dying bird. Keep pets away from them and wash footwear after visiting any water-bird sites like ponds and lakes. Please report any dead or diseased wild waterfowl at 9412492985,” said Srivastava. So far, the city has not seen a single case of bird flu, however, as a preventive measure, a district-level task force, in addition to the RRT, has been set up in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/noida-forest-officials-inspect-okhla-bird-sanctuary-for-signs-of-bird-flu-101610301989200.html
10-01-2021||Other||Wrestling matches, bike rally brighten weekend for protesting farmers at UP Gate||Ghaziabad: Setting aside the daily routine of holding demonstrations at UP Gate, protesting farmers on Sunday organised Kisan Kesri Dangal, a mega wrestling event, at the Delhi Meerut Expressway where about 70 young wrestlers from different states, both men and women, participated in 30 freestyle wrestling bouts. Farmers have been protesting since November 28 at UP Gate and the gathering has now swelled to an estimated 10,000-15,000 people. The wrestlers had come from different states such as Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Delhi. “It was a first of a kind experience to hold such an event on an expressway. I retired from the Border Security Force in July and came here with my wrestler friends to support the farmers. We decided that we should hold such an event here and took permission from the farmers’ committee here. They welcomed the move and made arrangements,” said Padam Singh Rathi, who is an athlete and came from Meerut. About 30 bouts of wrestling, including six rounds for women wrestlers, were carried out. “It was freestyle wrestling to encourage young wrestlers and also to show our support to the farmers. A number of ‘akhadas’ (wrestlers’ clubs) participated in the event. The crowd was cheering for the wrestlers and the venue became overcrowded as everyone wanted to have a look. The wrestlers were awarded medals and trophies at the end of the event,” Singh added. Seventeen-year-old Waseem Khan also took part in the event. “It was very encouraging to wrestle amid hundreds of people who were cheering us. Due to the lockdown, I was unable to participate in any major wrestling event so I came here. It encouraged the athletes and we also showed our support to farmers who are carrying on their protest here at UP Gate,” Khan, a resident of Shalimar Garden in Ghaziabad, said. The farmers in the past week had been battling adverse conditions such as rain and winter chill but the events on Sunday under a bright morning sun brought a smile to their faces.Meanwhile, a group of bikers also came to the UP Gate site to support and express solidarity with the farmers. The motorcyclists said that they came from different parts south and east Delhi. A majority of them were riding Royal Enfield motorcycles.“Our group has about 70 bikers, who came to UP Gate on Sunday to lend support to the farmers. We also brought various daily use items as part of ‘sewa’ for the farmers. We often go to other sites at Tikri and Singhu borders. The farmers had taken out a tractor rally, so we also carried out a bike rally to support them,” said Jasmit Singh, one of the bikers who is from Govindpuri in Delhi. The farmers’ leaders said that the wrestling event was held to encourage youngsters and also to maintain an active atmosphere at the protest site.“Our protests are going on in a peaceful manner and bikers also came to show their support. The wrestling event was held to motivate youngsters and also to indulge in a new activity to keep the momentum going. Many younger wrestlers, including women wrestlers, participated and we thank all of them that they performed in the winter chill on the open road. Farmers encouraged them throughout the five hour-long event,” said Rajbir Singh, state vice-president of the Bharatiya Kisan Union.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/wrestling-matches-bike-rally-brighten-weekend-for-protesting-farmers-at-up-gate-101610301930280.html
10-01-2021||Other||Delhi’s minimum temperature falls two notches, further drop in store||New Delhi: The minimum temperature started dropping over many parts of northwest India including Delhi on Sunday, following a western disturbance that affected the western Himalayas on January 7 and 8.Delhi recorded a minimum temperature of 7.8 degrees Celsius on Sunday compared to 10.8°C on Saturday. The Palam observatory also recorded ‘cold day’ conditions, as maximum temperatures also dropped significantly below normal on Sunday. The station recorded a maximum temperature of 14.2°C, six below normal, while Safdarjung recorded 16.2°C, four below normal.Due to the prevalence of dry north or northwesterly winds over most parts of northwest India, the minimum temperature is likely to fall gradually by 3-4°C over the next three to four days, which may cause isolated cold wave conditions over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi and north Rajasthan on January 12 and 13.Surface winds, between speeds of 15 and 25kmph are very likely over the plains of northwest India during next the three days, according to India Meteorological Department’s Sunday bulletin.“Very cold northwesterly winds are blowing from snowclad Himalayas towards Delhi, so both maximum and minimum temperatures have fallen. Winds are blowing at 20 to 25 kmph, so the perception of cold is stronger. They are chilly winds. We are expecting cold day conditions over Delhi for the next few days,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre.According to the IMD, a ‘cold day’ or ‘severe cold day’ is based on two parameters — a minimum temperature below 10°C and maximum temperature is 4.5 degree C or 6.4 degree C below normal respectively. A cold wave occurs in the plains when the minimum temperature is 10°C or below and/or is 4.5 notches lower than the season’s normal for two straight days. A cold wave is also declared when the minimum temperature is less than 4°C in the plains. A cold day and cold wave together means the gap between day and night temperatures was lower than normal. Air quality still poorDespite very strong winds, Delhi recorded ‘poor’ air, with an AQI (air quality index) of 245 on Sunday. Strong winds and better ventilation conditions are likely to prevail between January 10 and 13. The air quality is likely to remain within the ‘poor’ and ‘moderate’ category on January 11 and 12, according to air quality early warning system for Delhi under the Union ministry of earth sciences.“Delhi’s air quality improved to ‘poor’ category and is improving further. We are likely to see ‘moderate’ air quality for two to three days, due to strong winds,” said VK Soni, scientist at IMD’s air quality division.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhis-minimum-temperature-falls-two-notches-further-drop-in-store-101610301929137.html
10-01-2021||Other||Four men arrested after encounter in Greater Noida||Noida The Badalpur police arrested four persons after an encounter Sunday evening who the police said were allegedly planning to execute thefts in warehouses of factories in Greater Noida. The suspects were identified as Sonu, 25, Aman, 24, residents of Jassipura in Ghaziabad and Naushad, 26, and Farhan, 27, residents of Islam Nagar in Ghaziabad.Dharmendra Sharma, station house officer, Badalpur police station, said that the police received information about suspects being on the move in a Verna car and a pick-up van, near Chhapraula village in Badalpur. The police, during checking, signalled the suspects to stop, but seven men, in the Verna and a pick-up van, allegedly hit the barrier and tried to flee. “The police and other commuters had a narrow escape. The police team then chased the suspects and also opened fire, in which four persons were injured in their legs and they were arrested,” he said. Police said that three accomplices managed to escape from the spot.“Some of these suspects had worked in factories and companies and they knew the locations of warehouses. These suspects used to conduct recee of warehouses and then conduct burglaries. At times they also held the warehouses’ security guards at gunpoint and decamped with valuables in the pick-up van,” the SHO said.The police said that last month, the suspects had allegedly given way to a similar crime in the Bisrakh area. Police have recovered four countrymade guns, four used cartridges, eight live cartridges, one pick-up van and the car from the spot. Police are yet to ascertain if the two vehicles used in the crime were stolen. “The criminals have been sent to the district hospital for treatment. They will be produced in court on Monday,” the SHO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/four-men-arrested-after-encounter-in-greater-noida-101610301870897.html
10-01-2021||Other||UP Gate protest site stays aloof from Covid protocols||Even as farmers continue to protest against the three new central government farm laws, the Ghaziabad administration is found wanting in terms of Covid-19 testing and surveillance at the UP-Gate site. While officials said that they had deployed teams offering tests, farmers say they did not trust the government.The Supreme Court had earlier expressed its concerns over the number of people on Delhi’s borders and the Covid-19 situation. It had asked the Centre to apprise it of the measures taken to protect the protesters from the coronavirus disease. The UP Gate protest had been occupied by farmers since November 28 and the gathering of a few hundreds then has swelled to more than 10,000 people, according to officials. These people are staying in temporary camps, tractor-trolleys without the luxury of following social-distancing norms. The farmers at the UP-Gate site also seem apprehensive about Covid-testing and other protocols like wearing of face masks or maintaining social-distancing norms. “They (district officials) had told us once about getting tested. We believe that the government wants to throw hurdles to derail our movement by one way or the other. It is now almost 40 days and there are no Covid-19 patients here. They talk about protection, but there are many rallies and even elections that were held across the country without paying any heed to Covid health protocols,” said Jagtar Singh Bajwa, a farmer leader from Uttarakhand. “There is no corona here. We will support Covid testing but who will ensure that the test reports are genuine? The government must accept our demands on repealing the laws and giving legal protection to minimum support price. It has been weeks now that the government has not been able to make farmers understand, so they must withdraw the laws,” said Rajbir Singh, state vice-president of the Bharatiya Kisan Union. The Supreme Court on Thursday had issued a notice seeking the Centre’s reply within two weeks. A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde remarked: “This same problem is going to arise during the farmers’ protest. We do not know if farmers are being protected from Covid. What guidelines have you issued for prevention of such things?” Ghaziabad district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey and senior superintendent of police (SSP) Kalanidhi Naithani have sent their reports to the UP government, officials who did not wish to be named said. Despite multiple attempts, Pandey nor his office did not respond to request for comment. Naithani too did not respond till press time.Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer of Ghaziabad, said,”We deployed our testing-vans initially for 2-3 days when the farmers had come to UP-Gate but no one came for testing. We cannot force them to take up tests. We have deployed two teams, about 15-20 days ago, which have been going to the site for surveillance and medical intervention. These teams are basically for providing health facilities to any farmer having health complication.” Dr Gupta could not provide figures of number of people who were tested or monitored at the UP-Gate protest site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-gate-protest-site-stays-aloof-from-covid-protocols-101610301870473.html
10-01-2021||Other||1 dead as pile of mud collapses at Dwarka construction site||New Delhi: A 34-year-old labourer died after a pile of mud collapsed on him while he was working at a construction site of a shopping mall in Dwarka on Sunday evening. Police have registered a case to are probe the death.The man who died was identified as Shek Angar. The incident took place around 5.30 pm when labourers working at the construction site called the police reporting that a portion of the dug up mud, to build the basement, has collapsed and a labourer is trapped u der the debris.A police team along with the firefighters reached spot. Atul Garg, director, Delhi Fire Service said three fire te sers were rushed to the spot and rescue operation was started. “He was pulled out and sent to a hospital,” Garg said.Deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka) Santosh Meena said information was received from the hospital that the man has been pronounced dead. “His family members were informed and the body was sent for a post mortem examination. A case of causing death due to negligence has been registered to enquire what led to the death,” Meena said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/1-dead-as-pile-of-mud-collapses-at-dwarka-construction-site-101610301809655.html
10-01-2021||Other||Nine convictions in crimes against children in last 40 days, say Noida police||NOIDA: In the last 40 days, as many as nine criminals have been convicted under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012, said officials. District commissioner of police (CP) Alok Singh said that under Uttar Pradesh’s Mission Shakti campaign, introduced last year, besides spreading awareness on women and children safety, the police are taking stern legal action. “We have started exclusive women safety cells in all police stations, where a sub-inspector (SI) rank officer is supervising cases. In the last 40 days, we have adroitly prosecuted cases at the district and session court. Life imprisonment was awarded to two convicts, while seven others were sentenced to jail terms of different durations,” he said. Vrinda Shulka, DCP (women safety), said after the introduction of the cells, the responsibilities of probe have been fixed on officers deputed. “As a result, police have arrested all suspects in every case related to sexual violence. We are also providing enough medical, chemical and legal evidences,” she said.She further said that crimes against women have gone down in the last one year in the district. “While there is a fall (34 cases) in cases of rape in 2020, as compared to 2019 (99 cases), while cases under POCSO Act have gone down to 127, compared to 147 in 2019,” she said. District special prosecution officer Chhavi Ranjan Dwivedi said: “Now, we are so much more equipped with evidence that escaping conviction has become difficult. In the last 40 days, we have ensured cancellation of bails of 34 accused in crimes against women and children,” he said. Supreme Court lawyer Rajesh Kumar said success of prosecution completely depends on authenticity of facts and evidence. “Full-proof probe is the key to ensuring conviction. Seven convictions in less than 45 days indicate that the district police are taking even minute evidence into account,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nine-convictions-in-crimes-against-children-in-last-40-days-say-noida-police-101610301809158.html
10-01-2021||Other||Missing woman found hanging from tree in Greater Noida||Greater Noida: A 45-year-old woman missing from her home for two days was found hanging from a tree near NTPC Road in Dadri on Saturday night, the police said. The woman lived with her two sons in a village that comes under the Jarcha police jurisdiction, the police said, adding that her husband had died 10 years ago. Vishal Pandey, additional DCP, Greater Noida, said that the woman had some argument with her family members and she left home without informing anyone on Thursday evening. “The family members launched a search in the neighbourhood and also alerted their relatives. However, they failed to trace the woman,” he said. Next day, the family filed a missing complaint at Jarcha police station. Pandey said that at 8pm on Saturday a passerby informed police about the woman’s body hanging from a tree. “The police team brought down the body. The body was sent for a post-mortem and medical reports revealed the woman had ended her life and there was no mark of external force,” he said. The body was handed over to the victim’s family members, the police said. Gautam Budh Nagar does not have a dedicated helpline to deal with such situations. A few major suicide prevention helpline numbers in India are 011-23389090 from Sumaitri (Delhi-based) and 044-24640050 from Sneha Foundation (Chennai-based).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/missing-woman-found-hanging-from-tree-in-greater-noida-101610301749626.html
10-01-2021||Other||Fixing liability for defective airbags will help improve automobile safety||Automobile safety got a fillip last week with the apex consumer court reiterating the car manufacturers’ liability for defective air bags.Coming as it does after publication of the proposed amendment to the Central Motor Vehicles Rules to make airbags mandatory for the front passenger too (in addition to the driver), this order acts as a wake-up call for manufacturers to comply fully with safety standards and ensure that airbags are defect free. The new consumer protection law with its specific emphasis on product liability, also underscore this point. The order of the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, directing Hyundai to pay ₹3 lakhs to a consumer for the failure of the air bags to deploy during a collision with a truck on the Delhi-Panipat highway in 2017, highlights the consumer’s right to compensation not only for a defective air bag, but also for the failure of the manufacturer to give complete and material information about the airbags prior to the sale.Dismissing the argument of the manufacturer that a) the impact of the crash was not so forceful as to require the deployment of the air bag; b) that the consumer had not produced any expert evidence in support of his claim, the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission agreed with the Delhi State Consumer Commission that the photographs of the damaged vehicle showed the impact and the location of the front collision and thereby the defect in the airbags, resulting in injuries to the passengers. And that this was a case where the doctrine of Les Ipsa Loquitor ( the thing speaks for itself) applied and there was no need to rely on an expert opinion.Presiding member CViswanath in his order also observed that “highlighting safety features including airbags while selling the car and not elaborating and disclosing the threshold limits for their opening is by itself an unfair trade practice”. (Hyundai Motors India Ltd Vs Shailender Bhatnagar, Jan 5, 2021)A 2001 study in the American Journal of Epidemiology indicated that mortality in head-on car collisions went down by 63 per cent with the deployment of air bag and by 80 per cent in combination with the seat belt. A subsequent 2011 report in the American Journal of Orthopaedics said seat belts and air bags together brought down mortality as well as injury severity by 67 per cent. It’s for this reason that air bags are considered a critical safety feature in automobiles. In the US, an estimated 2790 lives were saved by frontal air bags in 2017.However, for air bags to be effective, they must be made to precise standards. A wrong sensor setting, for example, could result in the airbag not being deployed in lower energy crashes, where they should be fired. According to the US National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA), airbags should deploy in “moderate to severe frontal or near-frontal crashes” such as those equivalent to striking a parked car of similar size at about 16-28 mph or higher.Any lacuna or defect in the sensor or the air bag module or the electronic control unit or the inflator could lead to failure of the air bag. In the last five years for example, Takata airbags installed in tens of millions of US vehicles across 19 manufacturers have been subject to recall due to a defect that may cause the air bag to explode, resulting in serious injuries and death. Described as the largest vehicle recalls in US history, the defective air bags have led to 400 injuries and 18 fatalities there.Since airbags were not mandatory in India (only driver side airbag was made compulsory from 2019) manufacturers of high-end vehicles often used it as one of the major selling points and consumers have in a number of cases hauled them up for injuries caused on account of the failure of the air bags during a frontal crash and got compensation through consumer courts and even the Supreme Court.The message from these orders is clear- respect the consumer’s right to safety and information or else pay for the consequences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fixing-liability-for-defective-airbags-will-help-improve-automobile-safety-101610301750074.html
10-01-2021||Other||Muradnagar roof collapse effect: Schools asked to identify dilapidated buildings||Ghaziabad: Days after the roof collapse incident at Muradnagar in which 24 people were killed, the Ghaziabad education department has asked all private and government schools in the district to “immediately” identify any dilapidated buildings and stop operation of classes in such structures. “The issue was recently taken up by the senior state officials of the education department, and we have given directions to all schools, about 455, to immediately identify the dilapidated structures/building and not to allow operation of classes there. A board will also be required to put up at the site. Once we receive the list of such buildings, a technical team will inspect and start the process of declaring the building as dilapidated,” said BB Chaudhary, district’s basic education officer. The technical committee comprises engineers from the Public Works Department, UP Jal Nigam and the Rural Engineering Department. “Based on a previous report by the committee, we declared 33 buildings as dilapidated during the last financial year. We have also received funds for their reconstruction. Once we get the list sought now, similar process will be taken up,” he added. Under the basic education, there are about 455 government schools running classes 1 to 8. Besides, the district has about 400 senior secondary schools that include government inter colleges and private schools affiliated to the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE). “The decision has been taken in the wake of the incident at Muradnagar. We have sought the list immediately. The private schools will take up repairs on their own. We have issued directions and in case of any incident, the respective school principals/management will be held responsible,” said Ravi Dutt, district inspector of schools. The academicians, however, said that the education department officials cannot shy away from their responsibility. “Schools are very particular about the infrastructure and adhering to construction norms. It is a general practice that whenever any school wants to get affiliation, or take up its upgradation/extension, it has to take approval from the education department officials. Before giving approval, the officials ask for all conformities. So, they cannot simply say that it is one-sided responsibility of the schools. It is a joint responsibility,” said Jyoti Gupta, city co-ordinator of CBSE and director of Delhi Public School, Sahibabad. “In case they feel the need, they have technical committees which can also take up random checks of the schools,” she added. On January 3, the roof of a shelter at Ukhlarsi cremation ground in Muradnagar had collapsed, claiming lives of 24 people. An FIR was lodged against the contractor and several officials of the Muradnagar Nagar Palika. Five persons, including the contractor, have so far been arrested in this connection. The contractor in his statements to the police has allegedly admitted that he bribed officials and also resorted to malpractices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/muradnagar-roof-collapse-effect-schools-asked-to-identify-dilapidated-buildings-101610301749235.html
10-01-2021||Other||Strong winds to improve air quality, expect cold day conditions this week||Noida: The air quality of the city and its neighbouring areas improved to the “poor” category on Sunday from the “very poor” category a day earlier, as the region experienced strong winds.According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the air quality index (AQI) of Noida on Sunday, on a scale of 0 to 500, was 239 against 346 a day earlier. The AQI of Ghaziabad too improved to 280 against 348 a day earlier. The AQI of Greater Noida, however, did not budge from the “very poor” category, though still managed to show some improvement, with an AQI of 311 on Sunday against 360 a day earlier.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe.”According to the weather department and the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), a pollution monitoring agency, the air quality is likely to improve further. “The AQI is likely to improve and to the “poor” to the “moderate” category on January 12 and 13. No sudden deterioration of AQI is expected till January 14,” said a SAFAR statement on Sunday. The weather analysts added that over the next three days from Monday, as the wind speed will rise further. However, due to clear sky and strong, icy-cold north-westerly winds, the mercury is likely to drop. Sunday saw isolated cold-day conditions at some places across the National Capital Region. The cold-day conditions are a weather phenomenon when the maximum or day time temperatures are at least four degrees Celsius below the season’s average. “The region will see high wind speed over the next two days. The effect of high winds was seen on Sunday as well, with the region receiving 18-20 kmph strong winds. From Monday onwards, this will rise to 25 to 30 kmph, which will lead to a drop in the day time temperature, especially maximum temperature, which may drop by a few degrees over the next three days, with cold day conditions already being realised at some isolated places across NCR,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, India Meteorological Department (IMD). He added that the strong wind speed will be good for the air quality of the region. “The air quality will markedly improve over the next three days as strong winds will ventilate most of the pollutants from the city,” Srivastava added. On Sunday, the mercury fell by four degrees Celsius in the city due to icy cold winds from the Himalayan region. The minimum temperature for Noida, realised at the automatic weather monitoring station Sector 62, Noida, was recorded at 8.1 degrees Celsius, against 12.3 degrees Celsius a day earlier. The maximum temperature also dropped by almost four degrees in Noida and an average of three degrees across NCR. The maximum temperature or Noida was recorded at 16.2 degrees Celsius, against 19.9 degrees Celsius a day earlier. Meanwhile, the average minimum and maximum temperatures in NCR, based on the Safdarjung observatory, were recorded at 7.8 degrees Celsius and 16.2 degrees Celsius, respectively. “There has been snow over the mountain regions, so the minimum and maximum temperatures will drop further. There will be a nip in the air and despite a clear sky and sunshine, the days will feel cold due to winds,” added Srivastava.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/strong-winds-to-improve-air-quality-expect-cold-day-conditions-this-week-101610301629118.html
10-01-2021||Gurugram||Woman kills self, family alleges foul play||A 30-year-old woman allegedly committed suicide by hanging from a ceiling fan at her Basai residence on Friday, the police said. The family members of the woman have accused a male friend of the woman’s and his family for the suicide, alleging that she was depressed for the last few months due to harassment by them.On the basis of a complaint filed by the woman’s family, a case was filed under sections 306 (abetment to suicide) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Sector 10A police station on Saturday. The woman, according to the police, used to work at a private hospital in Sector 37 for the past year and had befriended the man six months ago. The man had initially promised to marry her but allegedly refused to do so two months ago, it has been alleged.The woman’s family members said she lived in a rented room in Basai village and had visited her three children, who stay with her grandmothers, at Dhanwaspur village in Sector 104 three days ago.Subhash Boken, the spokesperson for Gurugram police, said that her family has alleged that her male friend had visited her on Friday, murdered her and hung the body from the fan to make it look like a suicide. Boken said the room was found locked from the outside, due to which the family is suspecting foul play. “The Sector 10 A police station received a call on Saturday and rushed to the spot. They found the body hanging and have sent it for a post-mortem examination. The teams are conducting an investigation,” he said. A dog squad and fingerprint experts also visited the spot and took samples, the police said. The family members alleged that she sounded low while talking to them on Thursday and had told them that she would call them later after her friend’s visit. Boken said that as per an initial probe, it seems like the woman had hanged to death after the man refused to marry her. “An initial investigation suggests that the woman committed suicide due to relationship issues. However, the police are investigating all aspects of the case,” he said. The suspect works at a private hospital and lives in Sector 10 of Basai Enclave, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/woman-kills-self-family-alleges-foul-play-101610300909672.html
10-01-2021||Gurugram||Farmers from J&K join protesters at Haryana border||A group of farmers from Jammu and Kashmir joined the ongoing agitation on the Haryana-Rajasthan border on Saturday. Farmers said that were not deterred by the plummeting temperatures and preparing for January 26, when they plan to hold a parallel Republic Day parade. Farmers from Rajasthan, Haryana, Gujarat and Maharashtra have been camping at Jaisinghpur Khera, located near Shahjahanpur in Alwar district for the past 29 days. Farmers have been protesting against the three new farm laws, which were passed by the Centre in September last year. They fear that the new laws will leave them at the mercy of big corporations and end the minimum support price (MSP) for important crops. Sanjay Madhav, member of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha—the umbrella body of farmer unions protesting at Delhi’s borders— and the state convener of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee in Rajasthan, said that a contingent of farmers from Jammu and Kashmir had joined the agitation on Saturday. “Farmers from various states and union territories such as Jammu and Kashmir are joining us. Activist Medha Patkar had also joined us on Saturday to extend support to farmers and motivate them. The government might think that farmers will back down but our resolve only grows with each passing day,” said Madhav. He said that farmers were facing difficulties in procuring supplies since the Haryana Police had placed restrictions and closed a slip lane that was being used by farmers earlier. “On the Haryana end, the police have placed trucks and containers. A slip road that we were using has been closed now. So, vehicles ferrying our supplies can’t reach us easily. We are trying to source our supplies from Rajasthan,” said Madhav. Rajesh Kumar, deputy superintendent of Bawal, had earlier said that while the protesting farmers were not being allowed to cross the border, the allegations of the police stopping supplies were baseless.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/farmers-from-j-k-join-protesters-at-haryana-border-101610300909139.html
10-01-2021||Gurugram||Education department starts helpline for students facing mental distress||In an initiative aimed at increasing awareness about mental health issues among college students, the state higher education department has started a distress call centre for psychological aid and support of college students going through emotional stress. Launched last week, the goal of the call centre is to help improve the mental well-being and resilience of students facing mental stress. In a letter shared with principals of all government colleges last Friday, the department of higher education said that students could avail assistance by calling on the round-the-clock, toll-free helpline number +917419864999 for psychological aid and intervention under the Nayi Disha (new direction) initiative. Officials said that the helpline would allow students to receive professional psychological and emotional support from a team of 35 trained psychologists. Mohd Rafique, principal, Government College for Girls, Sector 52, said that the initiative would help students battling mental health issues such as anxiety or depression. “During the pandemic, mental health issues among people of all ages including students have gone up. Due to restricted social interaction, students are struggling with loneliness and other concerns. To help such students, the department has formed a panel of psychologists who can give professional help to students,” said Rafique. He said that since the facility was free of cost, students would be less hesitant in availing help. “While classes are taking place both online and offline, college life has been impacted. All students may not get the chance to share their concerns with their friends or family. In such a situation, taking help from professionals can be beneficial for students,” said Rafique. Virender Singh Antil, principal of Dronacharya Government College, said that the centre was aimed at spreading awareness and reducing stigma around mental health issues among students. He said that while there had been counselling support in the past, this time, the department had formed a team of professionals. “Mental health issues are quite prevalent among students these days. The lockdown and pandemic restrictions have also aggravated the stress faced by students. Under this initiative, students can reach out to experts for intervention. They can book an appointment and share their concerns with the team,” said Antil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/education-department-starts-helpline-for-students-facing-mental-distress-101610300849495.html
10-01-2021||Gurugram||Teachers in colleges mandated to create e-content due to Covid-19 situation||The state higher education department has made it mandatory for all college teachers to create e-content, mainly comprising video lectures, for the current semester and has linked it to their performance evaluations. Earlier, only a team of select teachers were being asked to prepare e-content, but the department has now made it mandatory for all teachers to record video lectures, keeping in view the delay in resuming in-person classroom sessions due to the ongoing pandemic. In a letter shared with principals of government colleges on Friday, the department of higher education said that changes in the teaching-learning pedagogy were being witnessed due to the pandemic and the department is encouraging faculty to use various means of technology to reach out to students. Preparation of e-content will be linked to the performance of the teachers, the department said. Hemant Verma, deputy director (coordination), higher education department, said that while some teachers were already engaged in the creation of e-content, it had now been decided to engage all teachers, both regular and those on an extension, for the preparation of online lecturers. He said that the heads of departments will ensure that all topics of the syllabus for all courses are covered. “Students will be able to access and learn from lecture videos produced by teachers across the states since teachers from different districts will be sharing their content with the department,” said Verma. Satyamanyu Yadav, the principal of Government College in Sector 9, said that the move would ensure that all teachers become fluent in producing and disseminating lecture videos at a time when online education is expected to continue for the near future. “Earlier, the creation of e-content was optional for teachers. Only a select team of teachers was being asked to produce lectures for transmission via different mediums. Now, the department has made it mandatory for all teachers to produce e-content. They are of the view that every teacher should produce lecture videos since the pandemic situation might prolong or continue for the next few months,” said Yadav. He said that teachers had received the necessary training for creating e-content as part of faculty development programmes held last year, during the lockdown. “Everyone needs to be acquainted with the tools that can be used for online content creation. Last year, we had also conducted a 14-day workshop in this regard. Based on those learnings, teachers should be in a position to create e-content,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/teachers-in-colleges-mandated-to-create-e-content-due-to-covid-19-situation-101610300849111.html
10-01-2021||Gurugram||Slowdown in new Covid cases continues in district||With 73 new cases of Covid-19 reported on Sunday, the number of daily new infections in Gurugram continues to slow down for the sixth straight week, following a gradual decline from the third wave of cases that began in mid-November. In the week ending January 10, Gurugram reported 404 new cases of Covid-19 — down from 442 reported the week prior. This was once again the lowest seven-day aggregate of new cases in several weeks.Gurugram’s total tally of Covid-19, as of Sunday, stands at 57,488 cases, of which just under two percent of the cases are currently active. From 828 active patients a week ago, Gurugram’s count of active patients fell to 779 in the week ending January 10. Of these, only 79 are in hospitals, while 697 are under home isolation. Another three people are under observation at various district Covid care centres.Meanwhile, the district saw only one new Covid-related death in the past week, taking the total toll to 347. Hospital bed occupancy rates are also currently at an all time low, with only 51 of 369 ICU beds in use. These include 253 ventilator beds, out of which only 19 are in use. As per health department data, Gurugram has been testing an estimated 2,500 to 3,000 samples per day for Covid-19, with an average daily test positivity rate between 2 and 2.5 percent. This has been the case for over two weeks now.With daily new infections and test positivity rates remaining low for two consecutive weeks, officials said there is a slim chance of another surge in cases taking place over the next month. This will allow them adequate time to focus on the vaccine roll-out plan set to be implemented on January 16. “By the look of the way things have been for the last two weeks, it is unlikely that we will face a large burden of contact tracing and active cases over the next fortnight. This will make things logistically easier for the vaccine camps,” said Dr Jai Prakash Sharma, district surveillance officer, Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme, Gurugram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/slowdown-in-new-covid-cases-continues-in-district-101610300791273.html
10-01-2021||Gurugram||Colleges told to set up centres on environment, road safety||The higher education department has directed colleges across the state to set up nature and traffic interpretation centres, which shall educate students about issues pertaining to environmental degradation and road safety. These centres will also introduce action-based programmes for students in the two fields. In a letter shared with principals of all government colleges on Wednesday, the department of higher education said that while the traffic interpretation centre was aimed at creating awareness about growing road accidents, the nature interpretation centre shall educate students about various environmental issues. It is mandatory for all students to register for both the nature and traffic interpretation centres, which will operate out of a common room. “In India, pollution and environmental degradation have reached alarming dimensions due to deforestation and industrial development without adequate environmental safeguards. This creates an urgent need to generate awareness among students. The aim of establishment of the traffic interpretation centre is to instil in the minds of people that road safety is as important as any other survival skill,” said an official, associated with the project. College heads said that the centre shall work towards motivating students to develop an interest in road safety and environmental issues through various programs and would have both online and offline presence. Colleges will be getting virtual reality (VR) sets and other resources to help students ideate on projects through these centres. Dr Satyamanyu Yadav, principal of Government College in Sector 9, said that the new centres were aimed at providing students with a platform through which they could contribute towards society in a constructive manner. “The government is keen on reviving a conversation about nature and road safety through these centres. The idea is to put in place a mechanism through which students can imbibe knowledge about road safety and environmental issues. The centres will further give them a chance to develop solutions for tackling various issues around road safety and environmental degradation,” said Yadav. He said that students will be connected through WhatsApp groups and online resources will be shared initially due to social distancing concerns. “While we will initiate work on the campus soon, online engagements and activities will start first since many students are not visiting the college for physical classroom sessions,” said Yadav. Virender Singh Antil, principal of Dronacharya Government College, said that the college would involve faculty from the geography department to spearhead the nature and interpretation centre. “We will be allocating a common room on the college campus where both these centres will be set up with necessary resources. In all likelihood, faculty from the geography department will be roped in for carrying out the various activities and programs that need to be implemented for creating awareness among students,” said Antil. Hemant Verma, deputy director (coordination), higher education department, said that the initiative is primarily aimed at raising awareness about issues of environment protection and road safety. “Students need to be aware of these issues so that they can take proactive steps and be sensitive to their surroundings,” said Verma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/colleges-told-to-set-up-centres-on-environment-road-safety-101610300790804.html
10-01-2021||Gurugram||Isolated cold wave conditions to return: IMD||Temperatures in the city are likely to fall by three to five degrees over the next few days, leading to isolated cold wave conditions, as per the officials of the India Meteorological Department (IMD).While the IMD’s automatic weather station (AWS) for Gurugram did not record either the minimum or the maximum temperature on Sunday, the IMD’s weather station in Palam in Delhi, recorded the day’s minimum temperature at 8.1 degrees Celsius and maximum temperature at 14.2 degrees Celsius. This was a colder day than Saturday, when the Palam AWS recorded a minimum temperature of 11.4 degrees and a maximum of 19.2 degrees Celsius.As per the IMD’s weekly forecast for the city, the maximum and minimum temperatures are expected to hover around 7 degrees Celsius and 19 degrees Celsius respectively on Monday. The minimum temperature is likely to fall gradually by 3-5 degrees Celsius during next few days and may cause isolated cold wave conditions over Punjab, Haryana and north Rajasthan between January 12 and 13. The IMD has also predicted strong surface winds of speeds ranging between 15 and 25 kmph over the plains of northwest India during the next three days, particularly during the afternoons.Air quality in the city meanwhile remained in the “poor” category of the AQI, with an index value of 215 on the Central Pollution Control Board’s daily pollution bulletin. This is down slightly from yesterday’s AQI reading of 230, also indicating “poor” air quality. As per the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, “Strong winds and better ventilation conditions are likely to prevail from 10th to 13th January. The air quality is likely to remain in Poor to Moderate category on 11.01.2021 and 12.01.2021.”According to Sachin Panwar, a city-based independent air quality scientist, “Even though some colder conditions are likely to be setting in over the next few days, the influence of strong northwesterly winds will prevent a severe deterioration in air quality. In fact, Gurugram may even see moderate air on Monday, after wind speeds pick up during the afternoon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/isolated-cold-wave-conditions-to-return-imd-101610300789749.html
10-01-2021||Gurugram||Officials of Gurugram, Manesar civic bodies hold meetings with residents||The officials of the municipal corporations of Gurugram and Manesar held two separate meetings with representatives of housing societies, public representatives and prominent persons of areas that have recently been incorporated under the two civic bodies. The municipal officials and MLAs who attended the meetings assured the residents that basic infrastructure, maintenance of services and similar issues would be taken care of in a better way by the two civic bodies. Sanjay Singh, MLA from Sohna, said civic development in the new areas would happen in a more planned and coordinated manner under the aegis of the two municipal bodies. “The works related to storm water drainage, sewage, solid waste management will be taken care of more efficiently,” he said. Vinay Pratap Singh, municipal commissioner, Gurugram and Manesar, said that new areas have been included in a zone-wise manner and officials in different areas have been assigned the work that they need to take up. Singh also informed that as of now, road sweeping machines have been deployed for cleaning the roads. Madhu Azad, mayor, Gurugram, said that all efforts would be made to expand the services to the people in new areas and serve them better. Representatives of the RWAs and residents of these areas, who were present in the meeting raised issues pertaining to road infrastructure, street lights, cleaning, maintenance and related issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/officials-of-gurugram-manesar-civic-bodies-hold-meetings-with-residents-101610300790307.html
10-01-2021||Gurugram||At least 25 bird carcasses found so far at Tau Devi Biodiversity Park, bird flu suspected||Carcasses of at least 25 birds have been found at the Tau Devi Biodiversity Park over the past few days, officials of the wildlife department said on Sunday, amid growing concerns over an outbreak of avian influenza virus (AIV).Officials said that the increasing bird deaths in the city, especially at the biodiversity park, are most likely due to avian influenza. The carcasses of the birds were buried at the biodiversity park and samples sent for testing.During a spot visit to the park in Sector 56 on Sunday afternoon, a Hindustan Times team was able to spot at least five carcasses in the park, including those of three crows, a myna and an egret. The team also came upon two crows that appeared sickly and unable to move.Wildlife officials confirmed that a higher incidence of bird mortality has indeed been reported from Tau Devi Lal Biodiversity park, particularly among crows.“In the last two to three days alone, some 25 dead birds have been retrieved and buried at Tau Devi Lal Biodiversity Park, to prevent any further spread of bird flu. Almost all are crows, with one or two mynas and egrets. Even though confirmatory results from the lab in Jalandhar are yet to come, bird flu seems to be the likeliest cause of death. We are now keeping a very close eye on Sultanpur, Basai and Najafgarh wetlands for anything out of the ordinary, but there has been no unusual activity there so far among local or migrant birds,” said Rajesh Chahal, wildlife inspector.The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA), which maintains the Tau Devi Lal Biodiversity Park, erected signboards at the park’s entrance on Sunday that read: “A lot of birds are dying in the park because of bird flu. Please be cautious for your own safety.”Subash Yadav, a metropolitan green planner with the GMDA, also said that footfall in the park decreased sharply over the past week. “The park was the emptiest it has been on a Sunday in several months. Walkers and joggers make up a huge portion of the crowd, but there is reluctance due to the bird flu scare. If the lab report confirms the presence of AIV, we will shut the park to walkers for a few days.”However, officials also said that any confirmation of bird flu in Gurugram will still take at least another two weeks. “The Regional Disease Diagnostic Lab (RDDL) in Jalandhar is processing samples from all over the country, so the test results will take some time to arrive. In fact, the RDDL’s backlog of samples is so much that we have stopped conducting RT-PCR tests there for Covid-19 so that these bird flu samples can be cleared first,” an official of the animal husbandry department said, requesting anonymity.Meanwhile, 11 rapid response teams conducted clinical surveillance of poultry farms on Sunday but did not find any sign of an avian influenza outbreak. “I cannot say much except that we have not seen anything unusual with the health of poultry. We are on the lookout. Our field teams have been in constant touch with poultry farmers. Nothing is out of the ordinary there,” said the official cited above. Dr Punita Gahlot, deputy director, animal husbandry, declined comment on the issue, saying that dead wild birds are the remit of the wildlife department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/at-least-25-bird-carcasses-found-so-far-at-tau-devi-biodiversity-park-bird-flu-suspected-101610300789245.html
10-01-2021||Chandigarh||At 12°C, Chandigarh colder than Manali||With cold northerly winds making a comeback and cloudy weather prevailing in the city, the maximum temperature dropped to 12°C on Sunday, eight notches below normal. As per the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Chandigarh witnessed severe cold day conditions as the night temperature too fell to 9.4°C.Due to this, the city was colder during the day than Shimla at 18.9°C, Dharamshala at 16.6°C and Manali at 14°C.Severe cold day is declared when minimum temperature falls below 10°C and maximum temperature is more than 6.5°C below normal.“Northerly winds blow from the Himalayas over the region and are icy and dry in nature. Earlier, the effect of easterly winds coming from the southern parts of India had kept the region warm along with rainfall. However, now rainfall seems likely in the coming days and cold day conditions are expected to continue. Light to moderate fog may also continue in the city,” said an IMD official.This is the coldest the city has been since December 30, when maximum temperature dropped to 11.6°C, the season’s lowest and the last time a severe cold day was recorded this season. In the next three days, maximum temperature is likely to remain between 13°C and 14°C while the minimum temperature will hover between 6°C and 8°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/at-12-c-chandigarh-colder-than-manali-101610299649801.html
10-01-2021||Other||Woman politician shot dead in Ambala||Haryana Jan Chetna Party’s Amarjeet Kaur Sodhi, who contested unsuccessfully in the recent municipal elections in Ambala, was shot dead at her friend’s house in Housing Board Colony, Baldev Nagar, on Sunday evening. The shooter, identified as Isham Singh, a Karnal resident who reportedly had business ties with Sodhi’s family, later shot himself too. Using a .32 bore revolver, he had opened fire at Sodhi, a resident of Ram Nagar in Ambala City, hitting her in the head and foot.“After the incident, Kaur had died on the spot. Isham was rushed to hospital, where he too succumbed to the bullet injury,” said inspector Hamir Singh, station house officer, Baldev Nagar.Sodhi’s son Gagandeep reportedly told police that his family had business ties with Isham’s family. “As of now, the reason behind the murder is not clear. The woman at whose place the crime took place has also not been able to tell anything. The murder weapon, from which three rounds were fired, has been seized,” said the SHO.On Gagandeep complaint, a case of murder has been registered against Isham. After the incident, a large number of people gathered outside the civil hospital. Sodhi, who was in her early 50s, was earlier associated with the Congress and had joined Venod Sharma’s party just before the municipal elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/woman-politician-shot-dead-in-ambala-101610299409590.html
10-01-2021||Other||Bird flu scare: Mohali admn starts sampling of poultry||Ramping up precautions against bird flu in the district, the Mohali animal husbandry department on Sunday collected 100 samples of live chicken from nine poultry farms and meat shops in Kharar area.These samples will be sent to Northern Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory (NRDDL), Jalandhar, for testing on Monday, said officials.“After the Barwala (Panchkula) incident, we do not want to take any risk. We have issued directions to 30 veterinary officers to start sampling live chicken in their jurisdiction. Every day, 50 samples will be collected across the district,” said Sangeeta Toor, deputy director, Mohali animal husbandry department.The directions were issued during an emergency meeting called by Toor on Saturday, wherein the officers were asked to intensify surveillance of poultry farms as well as meat shops in the district.The deputy director said that teams will collect live poultry samples as per the specifications and directions issued by the NRDDL to avoid inconclusive reports during testing in the lab. Recently, samples taken from chicken carcasses by the animal husbandry department of Panchkula had turned out inconclusive at the time of testing, following which a team of NRDDL arrived at Barwala and took the samples again.Meanwhile, Toor confirmed that so far there was no report of chicken deaths from any of the poultry farms situated in Dera Bassi, Lalru, Zirakpur, Gharuan and Banur.7 more dead birds found in ChandigarhChandigarh Seven more dead birds were found in the city on Sunday, taking the total count to 20 in six days.Chief conservator of forests Debendra Dalai said the seven birds include two crows, three pigeons and two mynahs. “They were recovered from Sectors 5, 7, 33, 39 and Daria village,” he said.Samples of first two birds sent to the Jalandhar lab had tested negative for bird flu on Friday.Dalai said results of other samples are likely to come back by Monday. “Till then, we will not send any more samples of any dead bird found in isolation,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bird-flu-scare-mohali-admn-starts-sampling-of-poultry-101610299349538.html
10-01-2021||Other||Bird flu found at four more poultry farms in Panchkula: Lab director||The Northern Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory, Jalandhar, on Sunday confirmed bird flu in samples taken from four more poultry farms in Panchukula’s Barwala-Raipur Rani belt, adding to the number of birds to be culled.Meanwhile, culling operations are moving at a snail’s pace, with the district administration managing to dispose of only 13,000 birds at two farms in the past two days. While confirming the outbreak on Friday, the Haryana animal husbandry and dairying department had announced plans to cull 1.66 lakh birds at five affected farms in Kheri and Dandalwar-Ganauli villages.“We had collected samples from 15 poultry farms. Samples from four farms have tested positive. These four samples, along with samples from some other farms, have been sent to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD) in Bhopal (for final confirmation),” said Dr Mohinder Pal Singh, director, NRDDL, Jalandhar. After NIHSAD on Thursday night confirmed bird flu in samples taken from Siddharth Poultry Farm, Kheri, and Nature Poultry Farm, Dandlawar-Ganauli, the Haryana government on Friday evening turned the area within a kilometre of the two epicentres as infected zone (covering three more farms in Kheri) and 1-10km as surveillance zone.Culling could begin only by Saturday afternoon amid delays in putting the teams together. By night, only 3,700 birds were culled at Sidharth and Nature farms. On Sunday, 9,395 more birds were culled, taking the count to 13,095.What admn says“The special task force culled 3,845 birds at Sidharth Poultry Farm and 5,550 at Nature Poultry Farm on Sunday,” stated a press release issued by Panchkula deputy commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja, adding that the work is going on a “war footing”.“By Monday, culling will be completed in the two farms and teams will move to other farms falling in the infected area,” said Ahuja. He said 120 men divided into 30 teams carried out culling operations on Saturday, and 100 additional men were deployed on Sunday.When asked how many days it will take to cull 1.66 lakh birds at the five farms even while cases are surfacing at more farms, Ahuja said: “I will issue a new notification on Monday about the number of farms falling in the infected area and the number of chickens to be culled. The given number of 1.66 lakh is not final.”On new cases, he said that no further report has been received from Bhopal.Meanwhile, Kanwar Daman Singh, nodal officer for bird flu, said: “Rapid response teams are putting up at four schools in Raipur Rani, which have been turned into quarantine facilities.”“More than the department’s team, our labour is working throughout the day. What about their safety? Where will they be quarantined,” questioned a poultry farm owner, who did not wish to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bird-flu-found-at-four-more-poultry-farms-in-panchkula-lab-director-101610299229641.html
10-01-2021||Jaipur||Bird flu: Samples found positive from 2 more Rajasthan districts||The avian influenza (bird flu) has spread to a total of 13 districts in Rajasthan with the samples of dead birds from Sirohi and Pratapgarh found positive on Sunday.The samples from districts such as Jhalawar, Kota, Baran, Sawai Madhopur, Jaipur, Chittorgarh, Banswara, Hanumangarh, Dausa, Pali and Jaisalmer have already been confirmed with bird flu. The test report identifies avian influenza subtype H5N8 in the birds, which according to experts is less infectious.The death of birds continues to be reported across Rajasthan but no case of bird flu has been found in chickens yet. Fatalities in birds is spreading at an alarming rate across the state - the cumulative tally reached 2950, with 428 deaths reported today.A senior official of animal husbandry department said that since December 26, around 2,166 birds have died with majority of them being crows (2289) followed by peacocks (170), pigeon (156), and 335 other birds. A total of 226 samples have been sent from 24 districts, he said, adding that the random samples of migratory birds and chickens are taken as a precaution. “No confirmation of bird flu diseases is found in chickens,” he said.Also read: PM Modi to meet chief ministers on Monday over Covid-19 vaccine rolloutThe first-ever incident of bird flu in Rajasthan is a serious concern of the government, especially when the people are already struggling with Covid-19 pandemic. Bird flu (avian influenza) caused by the virus is contagious and fatal.In March 2020, the death of dozens of crows due to bird flu was reported from various parts of Bihar which sparked fear among the residents amid the outbreak of coronavirus pandemic. In 2006, the death of chickens due to this flu was reported from Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/bird-flu-samples-found-positive-from-2-more-rajasthan-districts-101610298043741.html
10-01-2021||Kolkata||90L people received benefits of 'Duare Sarkar' prog in 29 days: WB CM Mamata||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday said around 90 lakh people have already received benefits of her government's 'Duare Sarkar' programme in the past 29 days, and thanked all officials who have worked hard to ensure doorstep delivery of services.With an eye on the assembly polls, due in April-May, the TMC administration launched the 'Duare Sarkar' (government at doorsteps) programme last month to deliver benefits of 11 state-run welfare schemes."Happy to share that as of 4pm today, the total number of visitors in #DuareSarkar camps has crossed 2 Crores! I once again congratulate & thank every single GoWB official for ensuring smooth door-step delivery of Govt services & benefits. Thanking all participants too!" Banerjee tweeted.Almost 90 Lakh people across West Bengal received different kinds of services. This includes 62 Lakh beneficiaries under Swasthya Sathi, 7 Lakh beneficiaries who received SC/ST/OBC certificates & 4 Lakh beneficiaries who received assistance under Krishak Bandhu. (2/3)According to government records, over 2.03 crore people have visited the camps, set up across the state - with 2.63 lakh attendees alone registered on Sunday."Almost 90 Lakh people across West Bengal received different kinds of services. This includes 62 Lakh beneficiaries under Swasthya Sathi, 7 Lakh beneficiaries who received SC/ST/OBC certificates & 4 Lakh beneficiaries who received assistance under Krishak Bandhu," the CM said."Further, benefits of other GoWB schemes like Kanyashree, Rupashree, Khadya Sathi, Aikyashree, Shikshashree, Jai Johar, Taposhili Bandhu, Manabik etc were extended to lakhs of people. Everyone who applied for various services at the camps were also provided helping hands," she wrote on Twitter.Asserting that the state government has received an overwhelming response to the initiative, state education minister Partha Chatterjee said the TMC dispensation will always strive hard to work for common people."Overwhelmed to see the great response of people to @MamataOfficial's unique initiative Duare Sarkar. Our first priority has always been to serve the people of Bengal and we want to continue this endeavor in the coming days as well," he said on the microblogging site.Overwhelmed to see the great response of people to @MamataOfficial's unique initiative Duare Sarkar.Our first priority has always been to serve the people of Bengal and we want to continue this endeavor in the coming days as well.#2KotirDuareSarkar pic.twitter.com/xWupreVDskEchoing him, urban development minister Firhad Hakim said efforts of Mamata Banerjee have ensured that the programme turns out to be a success."Duare Sarkar - a resounding success only owing to the unique efforts of @MamataOfficial! 2 Cr people have registered & 90L people have benefitted already. Absolutely stunning! Hakim tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/90l-people-received-benefits-of-duare-sarkar-prog-in-29-days-wb-cm-mamata-101610295202694.html
10-01-2021||Bhopal||In Madhya Pradesh, organisations seek to stop Covaxin trial||Four organisations working for Bhopal Gas Tragedy survivors wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Sunday demanding immediate stopping of Cocaxin trial in Bhopal, compensation to the family, which they alleged, lost its member due to the vaccine trial and punishment to officials responsible for irregularities.Covaxin is India’s first indigenous Covid-19 vaccine developed by Bharat Biotech. While the latter as well as People’s College of Medical Sciences and Research Centre, Bhopal, a private medical college conducting the trial, clarified on Saturday that the volunteer didn’t die due to the vaccine trial, the state government gave a clean chit to the medical college in connection with the death."The volunteer, at the time of enrolment, had fulfilled all the inclusion and exclusion criteria to be accepted as a participant in the Phase III trial and was reported to be healthy in all the site follow up calls post seven days of his dosing and no AE's were observed or reported," said Bharat Biotech in its clarification through media on Saturday."As per the post-mortem report issued by the Gandhi Medical College, Bhopal, the probable cause of death was due to cardiorespiratory failure as a result of suspected poisoning and the case is under police investigation as well," Bharat Biotech added.Also read: PM Modi to meet chief ministers on Monday over Covid-19 vaccine rolloutThe organisations which raised their voice against the vaccine trial in the letter include Bhopal Gas Peedit Mahila Stationery Karmchari Sangh, Bhopal Gas Peedit Mahila Purush Sangharsh Morcha, Bhopal Group for Information and Action, and Children Against Dow Carbide.Talking to media, Rasheeda Bee from Bhopal Gas Peedit Mahila Stationery Karmchari Sangh said at least 700 of 1,700 people on whom the vaccine was being tested were those suffering from ailments caused by the Bhopal Gas Tragedy. One gas victim already died within 10 days of getting the trial shot and many continued to have health complaints of serious nature. No one had been punished for the death of 13 gas victims who died during trials by pharmaceutical companies in Bhopal some twelve years back.“We are writing to the Prime Minister to ensure there is no repeat,” she added.She said, “Family of the gas victim who died during the Covaxin trial should be paid ₹50 lakhs as is done in the case of deceased Corona warriors".Also read: 'Bogus claim,' says BJP after Bengal CM announces free Covid-19 vaccine for allRachna Dhingra from Bhopal Group for Information & Action said, "People whose health is compromised due to Union Carbide's poisons are being given the Covaxin trial shots without their knowledge or consent. No records are kept of the health problems the trial's participants have had following the shots and several have been turned away without tending the adverse effect of the shots. Trial participants who leave or are excluded halfway are denied care and are not followed up."Shehzadi Bee of Bhopal Gas Peedit Mahila Purush Sangharsh Morcha said, "In addition to immediate stoppage of the trial and compensation for the gas victim who has died during this trial, we demand a thorough and impartial audit, criminal punishment to officials and institutions responsible for this public health disaster and compensation for injuries caused due to trial vaccines."Nousheen Khan of the Children Against Dow Carbide said, "By ignoring the ongoing criminal irregularities in the Covaxin trial in Bhopal, the government is potentially unleashing a public health disaster."Dean of People’s College of Medical Sciences and Research Centre, Dr Anil Dixit said, “There is no possibility of the death (of the vaccine trial participant), that took place 9 days after getting the vaccine, caused due to the trial. Also, since the trial is a blinded trial, it’s not known if the volunteer was administered the vaccine or placebo.”Minister for medical education Vishwas Sarang said, “A committee was immediately instituted to look into the matter and found no irregularities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/in-madhya-pradesh-organisations-seek-to-stop-covaxin-trial-101610296004119.html
10-01-2021||Kolkata||‘BJP will win over 200 seats in Bengal,’ says Union minister Prahlad Singh Patel||Union minister Prahlad Singh Patel on Sunday took a swipe at West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee saying the state was a victim of government’s negligence and that the Bharatiya Janata Party will win over 200 seats in the assembly elections slated for later this year.The minister also accused the Trinamool Congress government of digressing from the path of progress and ignoring the local art and culture. “Nature has given everything to Darjeeling, but this area has been the victim of the negligence of the state government. There is no improvement in the status of tea garden workers,” Patel told reporters during his stay in Darjeeling. He also attacked the wage board for tea garden workers and the state government for lease-related issues.Promising a solution to the Gorkha problems in the region, Patel said, “our manifesto is our resolution letter. We believe in the timebound solution to the problem. Whatever promises we make, we fulfil that within the stipulated time. We will find a permanent political solution to the Gorkha problems.”Alleging that there is no platform available for conducting cultural activities in Darjeeling, the Union minister demanded that the Bengal government provide a place like Tagore Culture Space and said if the state government provides the land, his ministry can do a lot of work here in the field of art and culture. “The culture of Bengal is very rich but there is a lack of institutions through which the artists of this place may know about the culture, and work to further improve it,” he added. He promised that when his party comes to power in Bengal, a lot of work will be done in the art and culture domain.Criticising the government on lack of development, Patel said that many types of taxes are collected here since the time of the British, but facilities are not provided in accordance. He alleged that MPs of opposition parties in Bengal cannot spend their MPLAD funds for the development works which is why the people of Bengal want change and “that will happen”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bjp-will-win-over-200-seats-in-bengal-says-union-minister-prahlad-singh-patel-101610295646018.html
10-01-2021||Other||PMC includes “Kharata Paltan” in Swach team||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to support the “Kharata Paltan”– a group of 40 women beggars and include them in the civic body’s Swach team.Every Friday they will be cleaning the city roads in the area allotted to them by the civic body and will be paid Rs200 per day.The civic body has started the initiative from January 8 (Friday) and has currently allotted an area in Bhavani peth.“Kharata Paltan” was formed by Dr Abhijeet Sonawane in December 2020 to provide the financially disadvantaged people with a source of income.The initiative was proposed to the civic body by Dr Sonawane, who runs Soham Trust, which works to create an enabling environment for deprived and marginalized communities to ensure that they get access to appropriate health care services.“Earlier I was selling snacks on the train, but due to lockdown, the business was affected. I had no other option other than begging. This opportunity will help me to be financially stable,” said Mangal Ambavane (65), who is blind.Ratnamala Holkar (38), another member of the group said, “I have relatives, but no one helped me during the time of crisis. Working with PMC will help me to be financially independent.”“We are supporting this cause as it will provide better livelihood to these financially disadvantaged people. We are providing them with all the logistics help which is required to clean the roads,” said Sachin Tamkade, assistant commissioner, PMC.“As of now, they will be working every Friday in an allotted area. In future we plan to take them on board,” he said.“Joining hands with PMC will help these people to secure their future. In the coming days we will also have a group of men who will join the group,” said Dr Sonawane.Once the number increases – PMC plans to allot Kharata Paltan other areas in the city as well.“We have plans to conduct such activities in the other areas of the city as well once more members join in,” said Ketaki Ghatge, PMC medical officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-includes-kharata-paltan-in-swach-team-101610295748831.html
10-01-2021||Pune||SPPU’s senate meeting concludes on “disappointing” note||The two-day senate meeting of the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) concluded on Sunday after several issues were discussed by the senate members. The senate raised the issue of not having a representative on the committee formed by the state government to amend the Maharashtra University Act, 2016. All the senate members unanimously pointed out their disappointment at not having the SPPU vice-chancellor on the committee, despite the state government’s decision about giving financial responsibility of the committee to SPPU. “SPPU is one of the leading and reputed universities in the state and changes made in the university act are important. It is disappointing that SPPU’s representative as vice-chancellor is not a part of this committee. Through this senate meeting, the disappointment of senate members should be conveyed to the state government,” said Girish Bhawalkar, a senate member on behalf of all the other senate members. “On one hand, the state government has given orders to file expenses of this committee from the SPPU budget; however, there is no SPPU member on this committee. It is necessary that the state government gives a clarification,” said another senate member Bageshree Manthalkar. In the last hour of the senate meeting, issues related to online examinations were discussed which led to a heated debate between senate members and SPPU examination department officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sppus-senate-meeting-concludes-on-disappointing-note-101610295688903.html
10-01-2021||Pune||19-year-old in police custody for Mandai temple jewellery theft||The Mumbai police on Saturday helped the Pune police nab a burglar who had stolen jewellery from the Mandai Ganesha temple in Pune on Friday. Ajay Mahavir Bhuktar, (19), a resident of Hamalwadi in Siddharth nagar of Hingoli, Maharashtra was arrested by the LT Marg police station officials in Mumbai. “He has been remanded to police custody until January 4. We are investigating what he did with the rest of the gold,” said police sub inspector Sanjay Gaikwad. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Shripad Govind Kulkarni, (57), a resident of Shukrawar peth area of Pune. The jewellery stolen by Bhuktar was estimated to weigh around 22 tolas (220 grams). Of the stolen gold, 14.5 tolas (145 grams) was recovered from his possession. The man is suspected to have sold the rest of the gold in Palghar and Mumbai area, according to the police. Cash worth ₹1, 50,000 suspected to have been stolen from the donation box of the temple was also recovered from him. Bhuktar alleged entered the temple premise in the early hours of Friday. The police followed his tracks to a lodge in Pune where a bag with the clothes he was seen wearing in CCTV footage was found, according to a statement issued by Pune police. He was further tracked to Mumbai’s gold jewellery market where the LT Marg police station officials on night patrol found him based on his picture that was circulated by Pune police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/19yearold-in-police-custody-for-mandai-temple-jewellery-theft-101610295510517.html
10-01-2021||Other||Pune district reports 635 new Covid-19 cases, 7 deaths||PUNE The district reported 635 new Covid-19 cases and seven deaths in 24 hours, according to the state health department on Sunday.The total Covid-19 cases now stand at 3.78 lakh of which 3.55 lakh have recovered, 7,865 have been reported dead and 14, 726 are active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals or in home isolation.The city, meanwhile, reported 275 new cases taking the total cases to 194,059 and four deaths which took the death toll to 4,439, while Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) reported 176 new cases taking the total cases to 94,877 while two deaths which took the death toll to 1,290. Pune rural reported 184 new cases which took the total cases to 89,603 while one death which took the death toll to 2,099. The department reported that 2,302 patients were discharged on Sunday taking the final count of such cases to over 18.63 lakh. The recovery rate in the state is 94.65 per cent. Also, 3,558 new cases were reported in the state taking the total to over 19.69 lakh. Besides, 34 Covid-19 deaths were reported taking the death toll to 51,233. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.54 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-district-reports-635-new-covid-19-cases-7-deaths-101610295509879.html
10-01-2021||Pune||Local authorities prep up for vaccination launch, but await more info||The health ministry announced on Saturday announced that the first phase of the Covid-19 vaccination programme will start in the country on January 16 and accordingly, local authorities have started preparation for the vaccination drive which would possibly be one of the biggest such drives in the country. However, with almost no information at hand about which vaccine would be administered and how many doses the city would get, local authorities are left to prepare without a plan. The state has shortlisted 511 vaccination centres based on the number of healthcare workers who have registered themselves on the CoWin app. Pune district has a total of 55 vaccination centres of which 16 each are for the two municipal corporations while remaining centres are for the rural areas and the councils. As of now, about 90 thousand healthcare workers including nurses, doctors, midwives and the clerical staff at hospitals have registered themselves from Pune district. While the dry run at the four centres went smoothly, uncertainty about the future plan could lead to a possible chaos.A senior official from the PMC’s health department, who is aware of the developments, said, “The uncertainty could lead to a major chaos. The dry run for the vaccination was mostly about the technical part which was the software registration and verification. However, even till date we do not know which vaccine would be administered, we do not know how many do we have to vaccinate every day and for how many days would this first phase go on. We do not even know how many doses we would get. The first 16 centres are being kept ready for the inauguration on January 16. Earlier, we were asked to prepare five sites and now we have to prepare 16.” Dr Ashish Bharti, chief health officer from Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), said, “We have to send a list of 16 vaccination centres where the first phase vaccination would take place. These would include mostly government facilities, but also major private hospitals like Deenanath Mangeshkar, Ruby Hall Clinic, Noble hospital and Bharatiya hospital who have expressed willingness to take part in the drive. We will finalise the names and send it.” Dr.Archana Patil, director of health services, said, “We have been asked to provide a lot of information which is ongoing. We are yet to know which vaccine would be administered, how many doses would we get and if it is from the Serum institute, then we would get the dose from Pune itself. As of now, we have identified 511 centres across the state for the launch on January 16.” PMC has estimated that it would need a total of 88 lakh doses required for the total population of 44 lakh citizens in the city which includes healthcare workers (46,000), frontline workers (approximately 1.5 lakh), high-risk population (>50 years of age) and <50yrs with associated comorbid conditions (approximately 12 lakh).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/local-authorities-prep-up-for-vaccination-launch-but-await-more-info-101610295508824.html
10-01-2021||Pune||Pune ZP to start post-Covid screening for all patients from rural areas||The Pune Zilla Parishad is planning to start health screenings for over 86,000 former Covid-19 patients who have now recovered completely from the infection. However, with after-effects of the virus being reported in a few patients, the administration is now planning to test every recovered patient to look for multiple symptoms which could have been caused because of the infection. Every patient will undergo three screenings through the medical officers over the next three months. Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer, Zilla Parishad said, “Over 77,000 persons who have recovered from Covid-19 are from the non-municipal corporation areas in Pune districts. They would undergo three screenings through medical officers over the months of January, February and March for post-Covid-19 symptoms. If anyone is found to be suffering from any symptoms, the patient would be referred to a higher hospital for treatment. The aim is to prevent the long-term effect of Covid-19.” A program is being designed by the administration to make sure that all the possible symptoms are covered including neurological, ENT, dermatological, abdominal, renal, respiratory, psychological, cardiovascular and muscular. Regular follow-ups would be taken every month until March to make sure that the patients are completely checked for any post-Covid-19 related symptoms. As per the district health office, as of Saturday about 89,709 Covid-19 patients have recovered and discharged from rural areas, councils and the three cantonment boards. Post Covid-19 symptoms have been reported especially among those who were on a ventilator for a long time. Earlier, the PMC started its post-Covid-19 clinic at the COEP, jumbo facility which saw a lukewarm response. Most patients at the centre were admitted from the nearby rural areas and another district for tertiary care.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-zp-to-start-post-covid-screening-for-all-patients-from-rural-areas-101610295509309.html
10-01-2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh govt to adopt Kerala's Responsible Tourism Mission model||Taking a cue from Kerala's successful responsible tourism (RT) mission, Madhya Pradesh government has expressed interest to implement the model, aimed at development of village and local communities, eradicating poverty and giving emphasis to women empowerment. A Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) will be signed between the two states in this connection on January 13, the Kerala Tourism department said on Sunday. A 13-member high-level delegation led by Madhya Pradesh Tourism minister Usha Thakur will arrive here on January 12 and undertake a seven-day tour of various places to understand the RT mission model, a release said.A Kerala delegation would soon visit Madhya Pradesh to help that state in implementing the initiative. "It's gratifying to watch other states implementing the community-oriented and heritage-preserving responsible tourism mission activities of Kerala. Apart from Madhya Pradesh, many other states too have expressed their interest in the project," Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran said. The RT mission in Kerala has established 20,000 units with 1,09,000 beneficiaries and has given the local population an income of ₹38 crore from the tourism sector alone, state Tourism Secretary Rani George said. Launched in October 2017, the mission is the nodal agency to spread and implement the ideologies and initiatives of responsible tourism across the state. It is a 'triple-bottom-line' mission which comprises economic, social and environmental responsibilities and aims at making tourism a tool for the development of village and local communities, eradicating poverty and giving emphasis to women empowerment, the release said. The mission aspires to provide an additional income and a better livelihood to farmers, traditional artisans, and marginalised people along with creating a social and environmental equilibrium. The MoU consists of a 16-point programme for creation of a masterplan, developingand training the human resource for the purpose, locate sustainable tourism projects, formulation of social and economic security measures among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/madhya-pradesh-govt-to-adopt-kerala-s-responsible-tourism-mission-model-101610291874623.html
10-01-2021||Other||Himachal Pradesh civic polls see 66 per cent voter turnout||The local body elections in Himachal Pradesh recorded a total turnout of 65.80 per cent on Sunday with several Covid-19 patients casting their votes, state election commission officials said.With Covid protocol in place, around 1.97 lakh people cast their votes for 401 ward members in 29 municipal councils and 21 nagar panchayats of the state.Six newly-created nagar panchayats were not included in the election process.Una district recorded the highest voter turnout of 73.40 per cent, followed by Bilaspur (70.20 per cent), Hamirpur (69.80 per cent), Chamba (69.60 per cent) and Kangra (69.50 per cent).The lowest turnout was recorded in Mandi (55.80 per cent) and Solan (56.60 per cent) districts.A total of 66 people who were either Covid patients or those staying under quarantine cast their votes, they said, adding that the exact number of Covid patients who exercised their franchise was not immediately available.Following the safety protocol, Covid patients and people under quarantine were allowed to reach the polling stations and cast their votes. Sixteen such votes were cast in Mandi, 15 in Una and 10 in Bilaspur.Polling was held from 8 am to 4 pm and counting was underway at the municipal headquarters. The results are to be declared immediately after the counting of votes.A total of 1,185 candidates contested the elections, with Kangra district having the highest number of wards and candidates.Polling was not held in some wards where candidates were elected unopposed.Elections to the five municipal corporations in the state will be held later and elections to most panchayati raj institutions in the state are scheduled to be held in three phases beginning next Sunday.Municipal and panchayat elections in Himachal are not held on party symbols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/himachal-pradesh-civic-polls-see-66-per-cent-voter-turnout-101610292073610.html
10-01-2021||Patna||We will boycott assembly session if it is truncated: Tejashwi Yadav||The opposition Grand Alliance in Bihar on Sunday declared it would boycott the upcoming budget session of state assembly and lay siege to residences of the chief minister and his deputies if proceedings of the House were curtailed in the name of facilitating Covid-19 vaccination. The announcement was made by RJD de facto leader Tejashwi Yadav after a meeting with delegates of Congress, CPI(ML), CPI and CPI(M) which together constitute the opposition coalition helmed by his party. "We met the Speaker yesterday. He had suggested that the budget session, normally held in March, be advanced and the proceedings which often last for a month or so, be wrapped up in a few days. "The reason stated by him was possible vaccination drive for COVID-19 in March", Yadav told reporters. The former Deputy CM alleged that proposed shortening of the session was "a ploy by the Nitish Kumar government to avoid facing elected representatives and getting cornered over the issue of high-handedness of the bureaucracy". He pointed out that assembly elections in the state were held last year while the pandemic was at its peak but large public gatherings in the form of rallies were allowed. "Now they are trying to tell us that just 243 members of the House cannot assemble because of the pandemic. They are talking about vaccination. Can they give a tentative date of its commencement? "Do they have even a faint idea as to how many vials of the shot will be made available to Bihar?", Yadav asked mockingly. Underscoring that legislative business had suffered in the state over the past one year because of the pandemic, Yadav said if the upcoming session was shortened "we will boycott it and gherao the residences of the Chief Minister and the deputy CMs". The RJD leader also took potshots at Nitish Kumar over his failure to come out "with even a small statement or a tweet" condoling the death of dozens of protesting farmers in the national capital. "We have always supported the cause espoused by the protestors and in yet another expression of solidarity, the opposition will be holding a state-wide human chain on January 30", Yadav declared. The younger son of jailed RJD supremo Lalu Prasad, who was stripped of the deputy CMs post more than three years ago following Nitish Kumars abrupt return to the NDA, scoffed at complaints of the JD(U) about having been "cheated" in the assembly elections an allusion to the LJPs sudden rebellion and the BJPs failure to rein in a renegade Chirag Paswan. "Kumar is reaping what he has sown. What did he do to George Fernandes and Digivijay Singh?", asked Yadav, referring to the former Union ministers who were close associates of Kumar early on, but bitterly parted ways towards the end of their lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/we-will-boycott-assembly-session-if-it-is-truncated-tejashwi-yadav-101610291143162.html
10-01-2021||Kolkata||'Bogus claim,' says BJP after Bengal CM announces free Covid-19 vaccine for all||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has announced free Covid-19 vaccine for all citizens of the state.In an open letter, which Banerjee wrote to all health workers of West Bengal, the chief minister said that the government was making arrangements to ensure that Covid-19 vaccine reaches every citizen free of cost.ALSO WATCH | Covid vaccine: Congress minister's appeal to Modi govt after Jan 16 launch move“I am very happy to announce that our government is making arrangements to facilitate the administration of Covid-19 vaccine to all the people of state without any cost,” Banerjee wrote in the letter.She also wrote that in the first phase, the state would provide vaccine to all health workers.The state population is around 10 crore and there are around six lakh health workers. The vaccination program is scheduled to start from January 16 across India.Also read: Xi Jinping is preparing for a special birthday party. It has repercussionsAfter one crore health care workers and two crore front line workers, the Centre plans to vaccinate 27 crore people who are at a greater risk of contracting the disease.The Bharatiya Janata Party has hit back saying that the chief minister was making bogus claims.“Pishi (aunt) was a disaster when it came to managing Covid. From doctors to policemen, everyone protested against Chief Minister’s apathy. But now that the center has announced free priority vaccination for 3 crore frontline workers across the country, Pishi is rushing to take credit,” Amit Malviya, head of BJP’s IT cell, tweeted on Sunday.In another tweet, he wrote that TMC posters could be seen publicizing the chief minister’s message.“It doesn’t stop at CM making bogus claim that her government is providing free Covid vaccine to all frontline workers, TMC cadres are rushing to put posters, which read, ‘Every person of our state to be given Covid vaccine for free, announces Didi’. Shamelessness has no limit,” Malviya tweeted.In November 2020, Banerjee had expanded the state-run Swasthya Sathi health scheme to cover the entire population of the state||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bogus-claim-says-bjp-after-bengal-cm-announces-free-covid-19-vaccine-for-all-101610291404121.html
10-01-2021||Pune||‘Mahamarg Suraksha Dal’ to help highway police during emergencies on e-way||In a bid to improve road safety on the Mumbai-Pune expressway and seek help from local villagers during emergency situations, the Highway State Police (HSP), Pune division, have begun forming “Mahamarg Suraksha Dal” committees. The initiative is being undertaken by the HSP Pune division under the guidance of Bhushan Kumar Upadhyay, additional director general of police (traffic) Maharashtra. In order to form the Mahamarg Suraksha Dal, prominent persons from villages near the e-way are chosen. From sarpanch, school principals to college students, members are selected and trained to serve on the committee. The training consists of things to do during an emergency and ways to help the highway police. According to Sanjay Jadhav, superintendent of police, Highway State Police (HSP), Pune, the focus in 2021 is on public awareness and improving the safety of expressway with the contribution of local villagers around the e-way. “We have introduced a new scheme for it, under which we have identified villages on both sides of the expressway. In each of the village, a committee is formed named as ‘Mahamarg Suraksha Dal’. This committee will have five to 10 prominent people from the village like the sarpanch, school and college principals, student representative, youth, medical professionals, prominent women from the village, vehicle garage and roadside dhaba owners and other such people will be part of this committee. This idea of forming such committees was given by our ADGP Bhushan Kumar Upadhyay and we are now implementing it,” Jadhav said. Jadhav added that once the committees are formed in all villages on both the sides of the expressway, awareness programmes will be undertaken in each village. The awareness programmes will elaborate on following traffic rules such as not riding triple seat on a bike, avoiding unauthorised entry on the e-way, the harms of drink and drive, driving on the wrong side, and the compulsion of helmets. “Currently, almost in all the villages these committees are being formed and from our department, each police constable is given the responsibility of a village to focus on. A Whatsapp mobile group will be formed for each village for better communication. So,having continuous dialogue with these local villagers who are part of the committee, we are getting immediate information about accidents or any emergency situation on the highway,” added Jadhav. The committee members will also be trained for first aid and what to do to help accident victims on the highway. “Generally, what happens is that when an accident occurs on the e-way, nearby villagers pull out victims from the vehicle in an untrained fashion. Some victims are given water to drink which causes more damage. However, if proper training about first aid and medical help is given, it will benefit the accident victims. With the help of Lokmanya hospital, we have plans to give such type of training to these committee members in a phase-wise manner,” said Jadhav. Through this committee, the HSP police will also, try to interact with the gram panchayat or local civic bodies of the village to undertake necessary infrastructure work on the roads connecting to the highway. For example, speed breakers, signage boards and signals on roads connecting to the e-way.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mahamarg-suraksha-dal-to-help-highway-police-during-emergencies-on-eway-101610291368645.html
10-01-2021||Arts||World Hindi Day: Youngsters take to social media to say ‘Hindi hain hum’||New DelhiFrom tagging each other on memes created in Hindi to gramming Hindi poetry, youngsters say they have found a new means to revive their love for the language on social media. Some have been captioning their photos on social media in Hindi; for a few it helps express better whereas for others, it’s the new in-thing! And there are some who have even created pages/accounts dedicated to prose and poetry in Hindi.“Jis bhaasha ko hum bachpan se bolte hai usme dil ki bhavnao ko vyakt karna aasan to hota hi hai, par use ek alag nazariye se dekhne aur usme memes banana bhi ek kala hai!” – Sanjay Kataria, a DU student“Hindi ek aisi bhasha hai jisme main khul ke apne vicharo ko vyakt kar pata hun, kabhi kavita ke roop main toh kabhi koi nibhandh ke roop main. Har ek bhaasha ki apni khoobsurati hoti hai, aur Hindi ki khoobsurati alag hi hai,” says Sanjay Kataria, a student pursuing masters at Delhi University, adding, “Aaj kal social media par Hindi kahaniyo ke pages, Hindi kavitao ke pages mushoor ho rahe hain. Jis bhaasha ko hum bachpan se bolte hai usme dil ki bhavnao ko vyakt karna aasan to hota hi hai, par use ek alag nazariye se dekhne aur usme memes banana bhi ek kala hai! Mere bahut sare mitr Hindi ke memes banakar ek dusre ko tag karte hain.”Reels on Instagram have youngsters lip syncing to Hindi music, poetry, dialogues and dancing to Hindi songs. And now millennials take pride in conversing, writing and speaking in Hindi. “Bachpan se maine Hindi medium mein padhai ki hai. Aaj main apne social media account pe photos ke caption Hindi mein hi likhti hun. Aur Hindi sahitya aur kavita ke social media ke bahut saare pages ko bhi follow karti hun. Achcha lagta hai apni bhasha ko ek naye rang roop me dekhna, padhna,” says Alka Nimesh, a PhD student at DU. She adds the popularity of Hindi reels, on Instagram, has grown by leaps and bounds in recent times. “Bahut log Hindi kavita, gaane aur chutkule ki video post karte hain. Aur in sab pe kaafi comments aate hain. Ye dekh kar ashcharya bhi hota hai aur achcha bhi lagta hai ki in pages ki following lagatar badti ja rahi hai. Isse pata chalta hai ki aaj ke yuva varg me Hindi ka mahatva badh raha hai; keval dikhave matra ke liye nahi par use aaj ke samay me samajhne ke liye,” adds Nimesh.Alongside podcasts and social media videos, videos of Hindi poetry have been going viral especially due to the motivational content they have. “Hindi ke podcasts dheere dheere badhne lage hain. Mujhe Hindi kahaniya sunne aur sunane mein bahut anand aata hai. Ab jaise social media par Piyush Mishra ji ki kavitaye nayi peedi ko zabardast aakarshit karti hai,” says Roopika Jain, a student of Noida-based varsity.Agreeing to the rising popularity of Hindi poetry on social media, Ankush Kumar, 26-year-old founder of Hindinama on Insta, says, “For me, Hindi is not just a language. Mere liye Hindi samman hai!” The description of this account reads: “Sahitya ko samarpit ek prayas.” And Kumar explains, “I started a Facebook page in 2006, with my friend Ujjwal Bhadana to bring to the forefront jo kavitayein hum aaj kal likh rahe hai, ya jo Hindi sahitya ki duniya mein ho raha hai. I started posting my poems, and gradually we started promoting not just Hindi literature, but literature of all languages, taki aur logon ko pahuch sake. The response has been great, too.”“I’m trying to promote Hindi language and literature through my page. Aur Vishva Hindi Diwas ek acha avsar hai Hindi bhasha ki jaagrookta badane ke liye.” – Rashi Sharma, from parichay.bhashaThere are many more like Kumar, who run popular pages on social media, to promote the language in their own unique and distinct ways. For instance, parichay.bhasha posts poetry/verses on handmade posters. Delhiite Rashi Sharma, who is the founder of this page, says, “I’m trying to promote Hindi language and literature through my page. Aur Vishva Hindi Diwas ek acha avsar hai Hindi bhasha ki jaagrookta badane ke liye. Par vishwa ki sabse lokpriya basha ka prachar karne ke liye, keval ek diwas ki awashaykta nahi padni chahiye.”The reason one chooses Hindi as a language to express could be many, but the sentiment that almost always gives one a feeling of pride is often the one expressed in the popular patriotic song Sare Jahan Se Achcha... Hindi Hain Hum Watan Hai Hindustan Hamara!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lifestyle/art-culture/world-hindi-day-youngsters-take-to-social-media-to-say-hindi-hain-hum-101610290351995.html
10-01-2021||Other||Three PMC hospitals with infant wards have fire safety concerns: fire chief||PUNE The central fire brigade of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) during its special re-audit of three civic hospitals with infant wards, has found that firefighting equipment is non-functional, fire-fighting pumps are dysfunctional and at one spot, necessary firefighting equipment was not in place. The units checked by the fire departments were Kamla Nehru Hospital, Rajiv Gandhi hospital and Sonawane Hospital, all run by the Pune civic body. The fire re-audit, conducted by the fire department following strict directions from fire chief Prashant Ranpise on Sunday, post the Bhandara hospital fire tragedy in which 10 infants perised, has raised serious concerns. At the Rajeev Gandhi Hospital in Yerawada, fire-fighting pumps were found to be shut. At the Kamala Nehru Hospital, the pump room was locked and the location of the keys unknown. Fire-fighting equipment was broken and not in service. Sonawane Hospital did not have the necessary fire- fighting equipment in place. “We are immediately sending our findings to the health department asking them to direct the agency appointed to fulfil the norms as these loopholes are dangerous and life threatening. The entire system must be put in place at the three hospitals. We put special focus on these hospitals as infants are here and hence, we did not want to take any chance. We carried out an immediate fire audit today and found serious lapses at Kamla Nehru Hospital, Rajiv Gandhi hospital and Sonawane Hospital,” said Ranpise. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) central fire brigade, on Saturday, claimed that all private and government hospitals under its jurisdiction have complied with the fire safety norms as per the Supreme Court December 2020 directive. It, however, carried out a re-audit of three hospitals having neonatal intensive care units following orders from deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar. The apex court had directed all state and Union territory governments to form committees to undertake fire safety audits of all hospitals, including Covid-19 hospitals, every month. A bench said that every state government must appoint a nodal officer to ensure adherence to fire safety norms in hospitals. According to the civic administration, fire no-objection certificates (NOC) were issued to hospitals after regular inspection of properties during visits carried out by the fire brigade staff. According to PMC records, the city houses between 400-500 small and big hospitals. The central government has been regularly directing state governments to conduct fire safety audits in all major hospitals and nursing homes by the fire and emergency services. The Maharashtra Fire Prevention and Life Safety Measures Act, 2006 stipulates that building owners and occupants must install firefighting measures and ensure proper evacuation measures in the case of fire emergency. The Act contains comprehensive guidelines towards securing the fire safety of old as well as new buildings in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/three-pmc-hospitals-with-infant-wards-have-fire-safety-concerns-fire-chief-101610290348613.html
10-01-2021||Other||Polio immunisation drive in Kerala postponed||The pulse polio immunisation drive in Kerala, which was scheduled on January 17 as part of the National Polio Eradication Program, has been postponed, State health minister KK Shailaja informed on Sunday.The official said that the drive has been postponed on the directives of the Union Health Ministry as the country is currently focusing on the Covid-19 vaccination program."Pulse polio immunisation was decided on January 17 in the state, as part of National Polio Eradication Program. But Union Health Ministry asked us to postpone distribution of polio vaccine as Covid vaccine was being distributed," Shailaja said adding that the revised date will be announced later.On January 8, Union Minister Health Minister Harsh Vardhan had announced a three-day national immunisation drive for polio from January 17 onwards, but the Ministry has postponed it in view of the Covid-19 vaccination drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/polio-immunisation-drive-in-kerala-postponed-101610285940458.html
10-01-2021||Patna||Umesh Kushwaha appointed as new Bihar chief of JDU||Former legislator Umesh Kushwaha has been elected as the Janata Dal (United) Bihar unit president.The announcement was made on the second day of the two-day meeting of the JDU state executive committee here.Kushwaha has succeeded Rajya Sabha MP Vashishth Narayan Singh."Umesh Kushwaha will be the new Bihar president of the party. We will work for all and focus on strengthening our party in the state," JDU leader Rajeev Ranjan Singh said.After being appointed as Bihar JDU chief Kushwaha said, "I will try to successfully fulfill my duty which I have received as State President. We will follow the basic mantra of our party, 'Development of all with justice."During the press conference, party spokesperson Rajeev Ranjan Singh said JDU is standing firmly with National Democratic Alliance (NDA)."A lot of speculations about our party leader and CM Nitish Kumar are being made. We would like to clarify that our party stands strongly with NDA," he said.Read more: 'Despite internal problems with alliance partner...': Manjhi salutes NitishThe statement comes a day after the Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar said that he could not understand who was his friend and who was his enemy before the state Assembly elections and hence the party suffered massive losses in the elections held in November 2019.Kumar in a cryptic message to its ally, the Bharatiya Janata Party, had said, "We failed to anticipate who our friends were and were not, and on whom we should have trusted. After the election campaign, we got to understand that things were not conducive for us but by that time it was too late."He had stated that the issue of his Cabinet expansion was not taken up for discussion during the talks he had with top BJP leaders at his official residence. By winning 74 seats against the JDU's tally of 43, the BJP is said to be insistent on having a bigger share of the pie.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/umesh-kushwaha-appointed-as-new-bihar-chief-of-jdu-101610289424667.html
10-01-2021||Other||Pune metro to sport light-weight, energy-saving coaches||PUNE Pune Metro is to get light-weight and energy-saving coaches with advanced features, according to officials on Sunday, who added that the Kolkata-based Titagarh Firema Company will conduct its first trial run on the factory premises in May. Maharashtra Metro rail Corporation (Maha-Metro) officials visited the Titagarh unit in Kolkata. According to Maha-Metro Managing director Brijesh Dixit, the coaches will start arriving in Pune after testing and approval from different government agencies. Earlier last year, Titagarh Firema had won an international bid for supply of 102 ultra-modern aluminium bodied metro rail coaches for the Pune metro. The coaches, according to officials, are made of aluminium and are therefore lightweight and energy saving. Titagarh Wagons is an Indian multinational based in Kolkata, West Bengal and Titagarh Firema SPA is the wholly owned Italian subsidiary of Titagarh Wagons Limited. According to officials, the contract for coaches is for a total 34 train sets, each having three cars. “It will be supplied by the firm in a span of 160 weeks. The total cost of train coaches is around ₹1,100 crore,” said Dixit. The axle load of coaches is 15.4 tonnes, lower when compared to existing coaches used in other Indian Metro trains. At present, most of the Indian Metros are using coaches which have a load of 16.4 tonnes. Due to its 15.4 tonnes of load, Pune Metro will save 2 per cent in energy. Durgashankar Mishra, secretary, ministry of housing & urban Affairs, and Maha Metro chairman, along with Dixit, and Maha Metro director Sunil Mathur visited the company and inspected the workshop. Features of coaches As per Metro officials, aluminium coaches will be able to attain a maximum speed of 95 kmph. It will have the capacity to accommodate as many as 850 passengersThese coaches will be fully air conditioned with humidity controlCoaches will be equipped with mobile and laptop charging facilities for passengers on board. Coaches will also be capable of operation in driverless mode.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-metro-to-sport-light-weight-energy-saving-coaches-101610289268567.html
10-01-2021||Dehradun||Reviving ghost villages: Uttarakhand govt to train 10k youth in mushroom farming||The agriculture department of Uttarakhand government, in an initiative to curb migration from the villages of rural areas and boost the rural economy, is soon going to train youths in mushroom farming.Under the initiative, the government will train people, especially those from migration-affected villages in the hilly areas, in mushroom farming. The focus of the government would be the villages abandoned by its residents in the hills which are popularly known as 'ghost villages'.State agriculture minister Subodh Uniyal said that the initiative had been brought to "impart skills to the youth in mushroom farming using the houses abandoned since long.""The move will greatly help in curbing the migration from our villages in the hilly areas and provide a source of livelihood to the youth who can earn a significant income by selling mushrooms," said Uniyal.The minister said that as the "climatic conditions in the state's hilly areas are suitable for growing mushrooms, the initiative will help to boost the rural economy also.""We have identified about 2,000 villages including the ghost villages where we would be training almost 10,000 youths in mushroom farming. Once trained, they would be able to grow various types of mushrooms and earn money," said Uniyal.The minister added that "The department is also working on boosting the number and quality of mushroom spawns or seeds so as to promote them more."Also read: Ahead of Covid-19 vaccine rollout, how states have made preparations 10 pointsDivya Rawat, an eminent mushroom grower in the state, popularly known as the mushroom girl of Uttarakhand, who has been also training people across the country in mushroom farming said, "It is a welcome move for the villages in our hilly areas.""The initiative will surely help in curbing the migration which would in turn boost the economy. Once the economy gets going, fewer people would like to go out as they could get their livelihood at their native place itself," said Rawat.She, however, said that the government should not just limit itself to just training the youths in mushroom cultivation."It should rather train them in all aspects of mushroom farming, then only it would succeed. If the training is right then mushrooms grown by not just 10,000 youths but 10 lakh youths would also fall short in market," she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/reviving-ghost-villages-uttarakhand-govt-to-train-10k-youth-in-mushroom-farming-101610287402883.html
10-01-2021||Dehradun||NSG commandos to counter terror threat during Mahakumbh 2021||By Sandeep RawatIn the wake of a terror threat, for the first time during Kumbh fair, elite counter-terrorism unit National Security Guards (NSG) commandos will be deployed in upcoming Mahakumbh fair in Haridwar, Uttarakhand.In two phases, the NSG commandos will be arriving for Mahakumbh mela with the first team to reach by February end. The second team will land before the first Shahi Snaan (royal dip) of Maha Shivratri to be held on March 11.Kumbh Mela Force had sought elite National Security Guards for Kumbh fair keeping in mind the sensitivity of the mega fair and terror threat and now the NSG has given a go-ahead for the deployment of two NSG teams, comprising 50 odd commandos in each of them.Already a team led by the National Security Guard Team Commander Mukul Chaudhary last week visited Haridwar and met Mela Force officials to assess and finalise the deployment of elite commandos for the two-month-long fair.According to Kumbh Mela Force Inspector General Sanjay Gunjiyal, the security aspect is of paramount importance for Kumbh fair and in this regard, central paramilitary forces and NSG commandos are being deployed.Also read: 'Despite internal problems with alliance partner...' - Manjhi salutes Nitish“Central paramilitary forces and elite NSG commandos will be providing additional security cover in addition to Anti- Terrorist Squad, Special Task Force and Uttarakhand police. NSG deployment at sensitive and vital core mela zones will be done which will be finalized later according to the security scenario and requirements. Kumbh Force is preparing for the mega fair taking into consideration varied aspects and intelligence inputs,” said Kumbh Mela Force Inspector General Sanjay Gunjiyal.Notably, already one thousand-odd Kumbh force personnel from Uttarakhand police and Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) have arrived for Mahakumbh.Meanwhile, verification drive is being carried out in the district particularly in industrial areas, border villages with the neighbouring state of Uttar Pradesh and at sensitive clusters. A major focus is on those who hail from other states, living in rented accommodation and work as labourers and employees in industrial factories and slum clusters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/nsg-commandos-to-counter-terror-threat-during-mahakumbh-2021-101610285778298.html
10-01-2021||Other||60% aspirants in Mumbai Metropolitan Region confirm their FYJC seats in 2nd special round||Nearly 60% students who were allotted seats for first-year junior college (FYJC) in the second special merit list have confirmed their admissions till Saturday evening, which was the deadline to complete admissions under the round.A total of 21,835 students were allotted seats in the second special round in colleges across the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). Of them, 12,896 confirmed their seats. The second special round marked the end of merit lists for FYJC admissions this year. However, after five rounds, more than 1.24 lakh seats remain vacant in the MMR. While the education department has not released the figures for students who are yet to get a seat, nearly 20,000 students in the MMR are likely to participate in the following rounds.The state education department will now release a schedule for the first-come first-served (FCFS) admission rounds soon. While the department had earlier declared that there would be no FCFS rounds and only special rounds this year, it later revoked its decision with several students left without a seat even after five admission rounds.Meanwhile, most colleges in the city have started classes for FYJC and are awaiting clarity from the education department about the conduct of exams. “We have planned to finish the syllabus as early as possible so that students are prepared for whatever decision comes regarding examinations,” said the principal of a south Mumbai-based junior college.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/60-aspirants-in-mumbai-metropolitan-region-confirm-their-fyjc-seats-in-2nd-special-round-101610286509052.html
10-01-2021||Other||Maharashtra forms panel to verify status of Uran wetlands||The state government set up a special committee on Wednesday to verify the status of all wetlands in Uran identified under the National Wetland Inventory Atlas (NWIA), Maharashtra 2011. The committee was set under the direction of the Bombay high court (HC)-appointed Konkan wetland grievance redressal and the state mangrove monitoring committee. A notice over the panel was issued by Padmashri Bainade, resident deputy collector, Raigad-Alibag, which HT has access to. The committee was formed following directions of the Konkan wetland grievance redressal and the state mangrove monitoring committee after the Raigad district administration told the court that there were no wetland sites in Uran taluka. The committee will be chaired by the sub-divisional officer and will include forest and Cidco (City and Industrial Development Corporation) officials as members. An official from the state department of environment and climate change will be appointed as the panel secretary. D Stalin, director, of NGO Vanashakti, is also a member of the panel. On December 9, 2020, the Raigad district administration had informed the HC-appointed state mangrove and wetland panel that there were no wetlands in Uran taluka, which has faced numerous cases of environmental violations over the past two years. Bainade had then informed members of the panel that following a detailed verification exercise of 13 areas that had wetland features in Uran, none qualified as a wetland as per the Wetland (Conservation and Management) Rules, 2017. Days later, the HC-appointed panel directed that a sub-committee be formed to verify the status of all the wetlands in Uran. “The district administration’s submission to the panel that there were no wetlands in Uran taluka is in contradiction to the Wetland Atlas and Baseline Survey of Birds (January-March 2015) report at the proposed Navi Mumbai International Airport by the Bombay Natural History Society (BHNS),” said Stalin. The BNHS report highlights that several potential habitats will be destroyed in the near future due to rapid development and land use pattern changes in Navi Mumbai and the adjoining areas in Raigad district, especially due to projects such as the proposed Mumbai Trans-Harbour Link, Navi Mumbai International Airport and the terminal project of Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust. Raigad collector Nidhi Chaudhary said, “This committee has been formed under the direction of the HC-appointed panel and has experts from department of environment and police officials. However, none of them are experts on wetlands. If the committee finds that there is a water body with flora and fauna, they will recommend the same. We will then write to the Wetland Authority to verify them as wetlands.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maharashtra-forms-panel-to-verify-status-of-uran-wetlands-101610286088854.html
10-01-2021||Delhi||Air quality 'poor' in parts of Delhi NCR||The average air quality was 'very poor' in Greater Noida and 'poor' in Ghaziabad, Noida, Faridabad and Gurgaon on Sunday, according to a 24-hour data provided by a government agency.Pollutants PM 2.5 and PM 10 remained prominent in the air of the five immediate neighbours of Delhi, according to the air quality index (AQI) maintained by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).An AQI between zero and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'.The average 24-hour AQI at 4 pm on Sunday was 280 in Ghaziabad, 311 in Greater Noida, 239 in Noida, 251 in Faridabad and 215 in Gurgaon, according to CPCB's Sameer app.On Saturday, the AQI was 348 in Ghaziabad, 360 in Greater Noida, 346 in Noida, 311 in Faridabad and 230 in Gurgaon.According to the CPCB, an AQI in the 'very poor' category may cause respiratory illness on prolonged exposure, while prolonged exposure to 'poor' quality air may cause breathing discomfort to most people.The AQI for each city is based on the average value of all stations there. Ghaziabad and Gurgaon have three such stations while Noida, Greater Noida and Faridabad have two stations each, according to the app.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/air-quality-poor-in-parts-of-delhi-ncr-101610283901378.html
10-01-2021||Other||Maharashtra past grim mark of 50K Covid-19 deaths||On Saturday, Maharashtra crossed the grim landmark of 50,000 Covid-19 deaths. After 308 days into the battle against Covid-19, the state has recorded the most number of fatalities in the country, and has the second-highest case fatality rate (CFR) after Punjab. However, for the past few months, Maharashtra has been recording fewer deaths as compared to the earlier months of the pandemic outbreak. The first death in Maharashtra was reported last year on March 17, which was the third Covid-19 death in the country. Of the 150,798 Covid-related fatalities in India, one-third (33.17%) are from Maharashtra. Meanwhile on Saturday, the state reported 3,581 Covid-19 infections, pushing the tally to 1,965,556. The active cases in the state now stand at 52,960. The toll has surged to 50,027 after 57 deaths were recorded on Saturday. After witnessing a decline, the state had seen a slight increase in the fatality figures in the past four days. Officials attributed the marginal surge in the fatalities to the delay in recording the deaths. The total number of recovered patients in the state reached 1,861,400 after 2,401 people were discharged on Saturday. The recovery rate of the state stood at 94.7%. So far, the state has tested 13,338,488 samples and has an overall positivity rate of 14.74%. In the past 24 hours, the state tested 70,571 samples. Mumbai reported 596 new cases and eight fatalities on Saturday, taking the city’s tally to 298,235 and toll to 11,181. The active cases in the city stood at 7,680. Senior health department officials said the measures adopted by the administration to curb the absolute number of deaths in the state have been paying off since October. Officials said the death figures are on a decline each month from October. In September, Maharashtra reported 12,079 deaths, when the state had hit the peak in terms of cases and deaths in a day. The following month, the state saw around 40% (7,249) decline in deaths. In November, the number of fatalities dropped further to 3,314, which was a 54% decline from October. In December, it recorded the least number of deaths since May with 2,370 fatalities. “Various interventions, including strict treatment protocol, increased surveillance, tracing, awareness campaigns etc, over the months have resulted in the reduction in deaths. The CFR is still high at 2.55%, but that is due to the deaths reported in the earlier months of the outbreak. The situation is very much under control,” a health department official said. Meanwhile in other parts of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, Thane city reported 130 new cases and five fatalities, followed by Navi Mumbai with 88 cases and two deaths. Overall, the region reported 548 cases and 10 deaths on Saturday. Pune city recorded 298 new cases and one death on Saturday, while its rural areas reported 189 new cases and one death. Pimpri-Chinchwad reported 152 new cases and one death. Aurangabad district reported 138 new cases, while Nashik district recorded 207 new cases and four deaths. At Nagpur, 365 new cases and two deaths were reported in Saturday, while its rural areas saw 54 fresh cases and one death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maharashtra-past-grim-mark-of-50k-covid-19-deaths-101610283449531.html
10-01-2021||Other||11 lakh from 1.2 cr database to get vaccine on priority: Gujarat CM Rupani||Nearly 11 lakh people engaged in Covid-19 duties, including health care and frontline personnel, will be vaccinated for coronavirus on priority in Gujarat, Chief Minister Vijay Rupani said on Sunday, adding that 16,000 personnel have been trained for administering the shots.He said the state had created a database of 1.2 crore people under four priority groups who will be administered the vaccine as per the Centre's guidelines.The Central government on Saturday said India will launch its Covid-19 vaccination drive from January 16, with priority to be given to nearly three crore health care and frontline workers.Rupani said six regional depots as well as other infrastructure, including cold chains, for the storage and supply of vaccine doses have been established."We have completed the work to create a database (of priority groups) across Gujarat. Around 11 lakh people engaged in Covid-19 duties, including over four lakh health care staff and six lakh frontline personnel like police and sanitation workers etc, will get the first benefit of the vaccine," the CM said in a video message.As per a house-to-house survey for priority groups, more than 1.05 crore people over the age of 50 and 2.75 lakh people under 50 with comorbidities have been identified, he said.Read more: Gujarat schools to reopen for classes 10, 12 students from Jan 11"Thus, around 1.2 crore people under four priority groups will be administered vaccines as per the Centre's guidelines. Cold chains and other facilities for the storage and transportation of the vaccines have been put in place and their auditing is complete," Rupani informed.Gujarat has also received additional facilities from the Central government for the purpose, he added.In his video message, Rupani asked people to not pay heed to rumours related to vaccination, and attacked the opposition parties for questioning the efficacy of the vaccine and, thereby, questioning the scientists and doctors who created them in the country."Those who questioned our soldiers after the surgical strike, the EVMs after losing elections, and judiciary after the Ram Mandir judgment, are raising questions on scientists and doctors who created these Made in India vaccines. It shows the low-level political mentality of the opposition parties, and people will not forgive them for this," he said.Read more: Gujarat's amendment to Industrial Disputes Act gets presidential nod"I promise you as Gujarat Chief Minister that all will certainly get vaccination as per priority arrangement. We should keep patience and trust," he said.The CM said the Covid-19 case recovery rate in Gujarat was above 94 per cent and a majority of beds earmarked for treatment of the viral infection were lying unoccupied."We have fought well, but the fight continues, and it has now reached its last stage. We look at 2021 with new hope. Our long wait for the Covid-19 vaccine ends, now that the vaccine has arrived. Both the vaccines are made in India, and show the will power of our scientists to realise the dream of Atmanirbhar Bharat," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/11-lakh-from-1-2-cr-database-to-get-vaccine-on-priority-gujarat-cm-rupani-101610282616988.html
10-01-2021||Other||Bulk garbage generators: Clear wet garbage at source or get ready to pay heavy fines||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has issued an ultimatum to establishments generating 100kg of garbage per day, to recycle the wet waste or pay a heavy fine as the corporation will not clear the wet waste. PMC has also allowed establishments to appoint private agencies to clear the wet waste if the space to recycle the same is an issue.This latest decision has come in the light of PMC discovering that housing societies that are claiming a property tax rebate because of eco-measures introduced, are in fact, not complying with vermiculture, solar power generation or rainwater harvesting systems.Establishments generating waste of 100kg per day have until March 31, 2021, to put a recycling plan into place, or then pay a hefty fine.As per the Solid Waste Management Rules 2016, “Bulk Waste Generator means and includes buildings occupied by the Central Government Departments or Undertakings, State Government Departments or Undertakings, Local Bodies, Public Sector Undertakings or Private Companies, Hospitals, Nursing Homes, Schools, Colleges, Universities, other Educational Institutions, Hostels, Hotels, Commercial Establishments, Markets, Places of Worship, Stadia and Sports Complexes, having an average waste generation rate exceeding 100kg per day (of all waste streams put together)”.Currently in areas under the PMC, there are 692 bulk waste generators of which at least 30 don’t have a mechanism to process garbage at source.Kunal Khemnar, additional municipal commissioner, said, “If establishments are giving reasons for lack of space to process wet garbage at source, they should appoint a private agency to process it. Corporation is ready to pick up dry garbage. PMC will not pick up garbage from bulk generators after March 31, 2021 and impose a fine as per law.”“If societies or establishments don’t follow this, the corporation will charge a first-time fine of ₹5,000. After giving notices if the corporation finds a society is still not following the rules, the corporation will issue a ₹10,000 fine. After a third notice, the corporation will charge ₹15000. Despite three notices and three fines, societies or establishment that continues to disobey the rules will be fined ₹15,000 for each penalty thereafter,” Khemnar added.Action on establishmentsAt present, there are 75,038 establishments - residential and commercial units - taking advantage of tax rebates for having implemented eco-measures. During inspection, the corporation found that 3,081 of these establishments are not recycling wet garbage at source.Vaibhav Kadlakh, assistant municipal commissioner, Property Tax department, said, “We get information from the ward offices and soild waste department about rebates to societies. After that, we mention the rebate and provide a final tax bill to the society or property. Now, the solid waste department has given instructions to discontinue rebates to certain societies.” No longer notices, direct action Madhav Jagtap, deputy municipal commissioner in charge of solid waste management said, “Corporation is giving a rebate to property tax bills where vermiculture, rainwater harvesting and solar panel system are set up. Most societies chose vermiculture and rainwater harvesting as it is cheaper to set up as compared to set up solar panels. The vermiculture is not maintained well is what we found in our survey.”“We were given several notices to different societies to dispose of garbage on their premises. Societies are not keen to support PMC. Therefore, we have taken the decision to discontinue rebate benefits.”‘Action is not solution’Shuas Patvardhan, chairman of Pune District Cooperative Housing Federation said, “Fines is not the solution. PMC should motivate societies and sort out their problems, such as providing space for composting and technical guidance from experts. It is a continuous process. It cannot change immediately. It needs time.He admitted, “Societies are also responsible for not maintaining units. Builders install units for rebate. But, societies fail to maintain it due to lack of guidance and expertise. PMC should have to help and counsel them about the importance of garbage problems and disposal. We are appealing to societies to cooperate with the PMC.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bulk-garbage-generators-clear-wet-garbage-at-source-or-get-ready-to-pay-heavy-fines-101610280748148.html
10-01-2021||Other||Swach opposes PMC plan to privatise garbage collection in city||PUNE: The Swach co-operative movement has opposed the Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) attempt to privatise the garbage collection process in the city.Swach issued a statement on Saturday, saying: “In the name of breaking the monopoly of Swach, PMC issued a tender and plans to allot work to other organisations. Swach is a co-operative and working on behalf of the PMC. 3,500 waste pickers of Swach cover 70 per cent of the city.The statement added: “The cooperative is owned, controlled and operated by waste pickers. This model has been recognised globally and nationally as one of the most socially, inclusive, financially responsible waste management models. PMC’s attempt to introduce private contractors under the guise of competition is a clear attempt to deprive waste pickers.”Shiv Sena leader Prithviraj Sutar opposed the extension of agreement with Swach and appealed to the PMC to appoint a new agency alleging complaints against Swach. Sutar said: “Many citizens as well as elected members also raised the question over Swach functioning. Considering that there is a need to appoint a new agency as proper competition.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/swach-opposes-pmc-plan-to-privatise-garbage-collection-in-city-101610274867849.html
10-01-2021||Other||Transport of Covid vaccine to begin soon, Pune police to provide security||The transport of Serum Institute of India’s (SII’s) Covishield vaccine will begin soon from its city-based campus to at least 40 government depots all over the country. The Pune police will be providing security to the vaccine up to the state-border for trucks bound for other states and up to the airport and other destinations within the state limits.“Today (Saturday), I had a meeting with the logistics company and SII. The transport has been outsourced to Koolex Integrated Cold Chain Solutions. We will be providing security to the vaccine trucks. For some part, it will be by road but most of it will go by air,” said Amitabh Gupta, commissioner of Pune police.SII refused to comment when asked about the preparedness, government response, and allocation of the vials to various destinations.Covishield, along with Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin was granted approval by the Drug Controller General of India on January 3 for restricted emergency use.“There is no update on vaccine transportation from Pune airport,” said Kuldeep Singh Rishi, director, Pune airport, on Saturday, who had earlier confirmed that the airport authority is ready with a cargo capacity of 500 tonnes and it can be optimised to 1,714 tonnes if the airport functions at full capacity.“We will be handling the transport from the producers to the government depots. There are some 40-42 destinations that we are looking at. From there onward to the district-level, it will be the government’s responsibility. Although, we have put forth our proposal to take up that part of the transport as well,” said Rahul Agarwal, founder, Koolex Integrated Cold Chain Solutions, which will be playing a key role in transporting the vaccine first 3 crore for front-line workers as well as the following doses in all the states.The transport will be done partially by road and partially by air. However, air transport will reduce after the first few rounds are over.“If you consider the population, it is not going to be a two-three day process. We are looking at three-five years. The cost of air travel is much more per kg, per km. So in the initial phase, the air travel may be preferred for an emergency but slowly it will fizzle out and road transport will be preferred. More importantly, there is no live temperature tracking system on flights whereas our trucks are equipped to provide 24*7 temperature and location tracking,” said Agarwal.When asked about the time taken by road as against time required by air, Agarwal pointed out that the government facility will need time to make space for replenishment as well.While air transport will be handled by the government in coordination with Koolex, road transport will be handled by the company.“For example, to Karnal, Haryana, we will send the vials from Serum to the Pune airport, from there it will either go to Delhi or Chandigarh airport and there out trucks will take over for the final destination,” he added.The company will be providing transport for Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin as well as Zydus Cadila Group’s vaccine which is under trial. With a fleet of 300 trucks equipped to transport the vaccines, the company will also be taking the vaccine to neighbouring countries of Nepal, Bangladesh, and Bhutan, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/transport-of-covid-vaccine-likely-to-begin-soon-pune-police-to-provide-security-101610273908450.html
10-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra govt reduces security cover to Devendra Fadnavis, Raj Thackeray||The Maharashtra government has scaled down security cover to political leaders, mostly from the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). In its recent order, the home department has reduced the security cover to former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, his wife Amruta, daughter Divija, Maharashtra Navnirman Sena chief Raj Thackeray, BJP’s state unit chief Chandrakant Patil, former Uttar Pradesh governor and BJP leader Ram Naik, among others.In an order dated January 8, the security cover of around 13 persons has been scaled down while it has been increased for special public prosecutor Ujjwal Nikam and Congress leader Shatrughna Sinha from Y-Plus to Z and Y-plus to Y-Plus with escort, respectively.ALSO WATCH | Bhandara fire: State orders high-level probe as 10 infants die at hospitalDevendra Fadnavis’s security has been reduced to Y-plus with escorts from Z-plus, his wife Amruta and daughter Divija Fadnavis security has been downgraded from Y-plus to X category. Raj Thackeray’s security has been scaled down to Y-plus with escort from Z, Republic Party of India (A) chief and Union minister Ramdas Athawale’s escort facility has been removed from the Y-plus category security. BJP leaders Ram Naik and Ashish Shelar’s security has been reduced to Y category from Y-Plus cover.Former minister of state for home and Shiv Sena leader Deepak Kesarkar, too, is among the leaders with scaled down security. His security cover has been scaled down from Y-plus to Y category.The list however, has the names of leaders and their relatives from the ruling parties too. For some in the ruling party, the security cover has been reduced while a few others have been given additional security cover. Deputy Speaker and NCP leader Narhari Zirwal and the leader of opposition in legislative council, Pravin Darekar, have been give Y security, while deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar’s wife Sunetra, former Shiv Sena MLA Rajesh Kshirsagar, Yuva Sena chief Varun Sardesai will enjoy X-category security.State home minister Anil Deshmukh said, "The decision about the change in security was taken by a committee of five top home department officials, based on the threat perception. During the BJP government in the state, the security cover of Sharad Pawar, Ajit Pawar, too, was scaled down. The decision is not political, but based on the threat perception to the leaders."A senior home department official, too, claimed that the downgrade was not political in nature. "The committee headed by the chief secretary takes a final decision on the security cover based on the threat perceptions to the leaders. There are names of Congress leaders like former minister Arif Naseem Khan, whose cover has been reduced. Over 10,000 police personnel have been affected due to Covid-19 and hundreds have died due to the infection. Besides, we have a heavy load of VVIPs visiting from other states and from the national capital of Delhi. It occupies a major chunk of the force for security,” he said, requesting anonymity.BJP has hit out at the state government, saying the downgrade has been done for vendetta politics. “Security cover to BJP leaders has been reduced due to vendetta politics and to suppress the voice of the Opposition. Senior police officers have given reports against reducing the security cover to our leaders, despite which it has been done. It is just because we have been exposing the state government for its failures on many fronts, including relief to farmers, handling of Covid-19 pandemic,” said BJP leader Ram Kadam.Maharashtra Congress general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant responded by asking BJP, why the party did not question the downgrading of security cover for Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, by the BJP-led Central government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-govt-reduces-security-cover-to-devendra-fadnavis-raj-thackeray-101610271748319.html
10-01-2021||Bhopal||Fog, chill in parts of MP; Bhopal, many other areas get rain||People in many parts of Madhya Pradesh woke up to a foggy and chilly morning on Sunday and the mercury is expected to further dip by evening, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.Besides, almost all divisions of the state also received rainfall in the 24 hours ending at 8.30 am on Sunday, P K Saha, senior meteorologist at IMD's Bhopal office, said.Dense to moderate fog prevailed in the morning in large parts of the state, including the state capital Bhopal and Rajgarh.Due to the fog, visibility was not beyond 10 metres at in Bhopal at 2.30 am, and not beyond 50 metres at the Raja Bhoj Airport here around 10 am on Sunday, the official said.Read more: Cold wave to be back in northwest India from January 22Bhopal received 4.4 mm rainfall, while Indore recorded 2.9 mm rainfall in the last 24 hours, as per the IMD.Saha said clouds and drizzle caused by the westerly disturbances are likely to wither shortly, paving the way for a clear sky and chill.The minimum temperature across the state is likely to dip by 3 to 5 degrees Celsius in the next two days, he said.Bhopal recorded a minimum temperature was 19.2 degrees Celsius on Saturday, which decreased further to 16.4 degrees Celsius on Sunday morning, the official said.He said Madhya Pradesh has witnessed three wet spells during the current winter season, including two this month.The state received rain for the first time this winter in the second-half of last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/fog-chill-in-parts-of-mp-bhopal-many-other-areas-get-rain-101610268203664.html
10-01-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand Congress plans 'charge sheet' against BJP government||Uttarakhand Congress has formed a ‘Charge sheet Committee’ to document the alleged failures of the BJP-led state government in its four years of rule. This political ‘charge sheet’ would then be taken to every household in the state.Congress state unit in-charge Devendra Yadav announced the committee in Dehradun on Saturday. He was in Uttarakhand for a three day visit, during which, he held several meetings with party members keeping the next assembly elections in 2022 in view."The BJP government has failed on all aspects whether it is jobs, women security, farmers' issues or controlling inflation in the last about four years. To highlight these, we have formed a Charge sheet committee, which will compile all the failures into a 'charge sheet', which we will release on March 18, when the BJP government will complete its four years," said Yadav.Yadav said booth and block level workers of the Congress will visit people's houses with the 'charge sheet' to make them aware of BJP government’s alleged ‘failures’."During my visit this time, we held meetings with the booth committees to chalk out a strategy for the upcoming assembly elections. They will go among the public, learn about their issues so as to expose the government, which makes big claims but did nothing so far. We have activated our booth level workers to ensure robust coordination with the state leadership," he said.Yadav reiterated a claim made by a senior party leader that “many leaders of the ruling party are contacting Congress leadership.""They are using various channels to get in touch with our leadership. However, before welcoming anyone in the party, we will analyse if the leader has a good reputation and a clean track record or not. Only after doing this we will welcome them," said Yadav.He claimed people of the state were fed up with the BJP government."They are looking at the Congress with hope in the Assembly elections, for which we are fully prepared. We are sure that we will come to power and fulfil the dreams of the public," said Yadav.Earlier, Congress state president Pritam Singh alleged that the BJP government was "neck deep" in corruption."The government claims zero tolerance towards corruption, which is however, miles away from the reality. The level of corruption in the state is such that the high court ordered an FIR against the CM and a CBI probe in the allegations of corruption against him," said Singh.He also attacked BJP state president Bansidhar Bhagat for calling senior Congress leader Indira Hridayesh a ‘Budhiya’ during a BJP event in Nainital on Tuesday."With the kind of language he used against our leader, it clearly shows how much BJP and its leaders respect women. It seems that though Bhagat plays the role of Dashrath, he has transitioned into the character of Ravana in real life," Singh said, while taking a dig at Bhagat, who had played Dashrath in a staged enactment of Ramayana.The BJP responded by saying that the Congress leaders needed to look with ‘open eyes’ to see development in the state."If the Congress leaders look with open eyes then they could see development in the state. Or else they could see anything they want," said Devendra Bhasin, BJP state vice president."As far as their claim of coming to power in 2022 is concerned, nobody can stop them from dreaming, which is miles away from the ground reality, as people know what the BJP government has done for them," said Bhasin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-congress-plans-charge-sheet-against-bjp-government-101610263515788.html
10-01-2021||Lucknow||Bird flu in UP: 2 red jungle fowls in Kanpur zoo test positive||Bird flu has made its presence felt in Uttar Pradesh with the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal confirming that at least two samples of the 10 red jungle fowls, found dead in Kanpur zoo over the past three days, have tested positive for avian influenza, an official said.To check the spread of the disease among other birds, a decision was taken to cull all red jungle fowls in the Kanpur zoo and other birds that might have come in contact with them. The zoo administration sanitised the cages in which the birds were kept.Officials say the jungle fowls were possibly infected by the migratory birds, which flock the zoo lake in winter in thousands. This year, their number was nearly half.The animal husbandry department in Sonbhadra district of eastern Uttar Pradesh has asked farmers and traders dealing in poultry products not to transport chicken and other poultry products from Madhya Pradesh, said chief veterinary officer, Sonbhadra, Dr AK Srivastava. Bird flu has spread rapidly to several districts of Madhya Pradesh.Dr Srivastava added that four rapid response teams, each comprising four members, had been constituted in four tehsils of the district for monitoring and containment of the disease.Eighty five samples were collected from poultry farms in Varanasi to be sent to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal for testing, according to veterinary officer Dr Satish Tiwari.Two peacocks were found dead at farms on the outskirts of Raghunathpur village in Badagaon area of Varanasi on Saturday. One peacock died due to cold and the other due to dog bite, said Dr Tiwari, who conducted the autopsy. The birds had no symptoms of Bird flu.(With inputs from HT Correspondent in Varanasi)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bird-flu-in-up-2-red-jungle-fowls-in-kanpur-zoo-test-positive-101610247330886.html
10-01-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka CM to visit Delhi today to discuss cabinet expansion||Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa is travelling on Sunday to New Delhi to meet Union Ministers to discuss several issues including long-pending cabinet expansion or reshuffle.According to an official statement, the Chief Minister will board the flight from Kempegowda International Airport, Bengaluru at 8:20 am and will reach New Delhi Airport at 11:05 AM.As per the statement, Resident Commissioner, Karnataka Bhavan, New Delhi, is requested to make all necessary protocol arrangements of reception, security, transportation and accommodation as per the above programme.The Deputy Commissioner of Police, VVIP Security, New Delhi, is requested to provide adequate security, escort and pilot to the Chief Minister during the above visit. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-cm-to-visit-delhi-today-to-discuss-cabinet-expansion-101610239029020.html
10-01-2021||Delhi||Ghazipur’s poultry hub shut amid bird flu scare||The Delhi government on Saturday announced the closure of the Ghazipur wholesale poultry market for 10 days and banned the import of live birds in the Capital as a preventive measure to stop the potential spread of avian influenza, or bird flu, after more bird deaths were reported, prompting the shutdown of a few recreational parks and the Sanjay Lake.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said in a digital news briefing that while no confirmed case had so far been registered in Delhi, the government was taking all possible measures to prevent the spread of bird flu.The government’s move came at a time when at least 64 birds were found dead in various locations across the national capital over the past few days. The deaths led the Delhi Development Authority (DDA), which maintains most of the big parks in the city, to shut at least four major district parks in Hauz Khaz, Dwarka Sector 9, Hastsal and Sanjay Lake as a precautionary measure until further orders.While experts supported the decision as a preventive measure, traders at the Ghazipur market and poultry retailers said it would impact the availability of chicken and eggs in the market. According to the government’s animal husbandry department, at least 250,000 live birds (chicken) arrive in Delhi every day and almost all of them are sold out in retail the same day. On Sundays, theses arrivals and sales nearly double.Kejriwal said that the results of the first set of samples collected from Delhi sent to the Northern Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory in Jalandhar for testing and the reports will come on Monday. “In view of the prevailing situation and to prevent the virus from spreading in the city, the Delhi government has taken two very important decisions today. Firstly, we have put a complete ban on imports of live birds in the city. Secondly, the Ghazipur wholesale poultry market has been ordered shut for 10 days,” he said.The government has also launched a 24-hour helpline number – 23890318 – for people to report any spotting of dead birds or seek assistance.Seven states – Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Kerala, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh – have reported the outbreak, which began in December-end. No case among the human population has been reported.A senior DDA official said that at the Sanjay Lake in east Delhi’s Mayur Vihar Phase II, 10 ducks were found dead. “The samples have been sent to ascertain the cause of death. Besides, 24 crows died in the last four days at the district park in Jasola. DDA is monitoring the situation closely and is in touch with other government agencies. Meanwhile, precautionary measures like spraying of disinfectant are being carried out in the DDA parks,” the official said on condition of anonymity.While four major parks mentioned above have been shut Saturday onwards, the district park in Jasola was not immediately shut.“We are monitoring the situation. We have closed Hauz Khas parks as a lot of people visit it, especially during the weekend,” said the DDA official.On Friday, the government’s animal husbandry department found nearly 50 carcasses of crows in east Delhi’s Mayur Vihar, Dwarka and Hastsal in west Delhi.Dr Rakesh Singh of the animal husbandry department said that until Friday, a total of 104 samples were sent from Delhi to Jalandhar. Five more samples were sent to the National Institute of High Security Animal Disease, ICAR, Bhopal on Saturday.“Of the 104 samples that have been sent already, 100 are faecal and blood samples and four are dead crows,” he said. He said the first set of results will come in by Monday.Traders in Ghazipur, meanwhile, appealed to the chief minister to conduct sample tests at poultry farms in other states from where live birds arrive in Delhi.At least 1,200 birds were found dead across the country on Saturday, including 900 in a poultry farm in Maharashtra, with the Centre saying that the outbreak of avian influenza has been reported in Uttar Pradesh, taking the total number of affected states to seven.The Centre said the reports of samples collected in Delhi, Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra were awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ghazipurs-poultry-hub-shut-amid-bird-flu-scare-101610224779543.html
10-01-2021||Bhopal||Woman dies by suicide, kin seek case under MP religious conversion law||The family members of a 26-year-old woman who recently died by suicide in Madhya Pradesh’s Bhopal have sought a case against her partner under the newly enacted Freedom of Religion Ordinance 2020, alleging that he was forcing the woman to convert.The Madhya Pradesh Dharmik Swatantrata (Freedom of Religion) Ordinance, 2020, came into effect on Saturday after the state government issued a gazette notification. The ordinance, which was signed by MP governor Anandiben Patel on January 7, prescribes a punishment of two to 10 years in prison and a fine of ₹50,000 for forcing women to change their religion.The police said the woman died by suicide on Friday and had named the accused in a note. Superintendent of police, Bhopal (south), Sai Krishna Thota, said the accused has been booked under sections 376 (rape), 309 (abetment of suicide) of the Indian Penal Code, and relevant sections of the SC/ST (prevention of atrocities) Act.The brother of the deceased, however, lodged a complaint with the police on Saturday, accusing the man of forcing his sister to convert for marriage. The brother also accused the man of sexually abusing the woman. “The man hid his religion from my sister as he introduced himself as Babloo. When she came to know about his religion, accused started harassing her. He forced my sister for conversion for marriage but she refused. He left her and also harassed her sexually and mentally,” said the brother.The accused, meanwhile, told the police that he was in a relationship with the woman for the past eight years. He said the relationship ended with mutual consent due to opposition from their families and after his family fixed his marriage, said an officer familiar with the probe.Deputy inspector general (DIG) of police, Bhopal, Irshad Wali said: “Police are investigating the case and taking legal opinion on how to register the case under sections of new MP Freedom of Religion Act 2020, which has a provision of imprisonment up to 10 years and fine up to ₹1 lakh for forcing anyone for conversion.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/woman-dies-by-suicide-kin-seek-case-under-mp-religious-conversion-law-101610223852077.html
10-01-2021||Kolkata||Nadda reaches out to farmers, defends laws||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president JP Nadda on Saturday launched a farmer outreach drive in poll-bound West Bengal as he defended the newly enacted farm laws and credited the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led central government with working for the benefit of the farmers.The campaign comes against the backdrop of an ongoing farmers’ protest against the three contentious farm laws. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, have been camping at Delhi’s borders since November 26, demanding a repeal of these laws.“Ever since the BJP came to power at the Centre, Prime Minster Narendra Modi has made a six-fold increase in the central budget for farmers. These will enable farmers to set the price of their products and choose the buyer,” Nadda said while launching the ‘Krishok Surokkha’ (farmers’ protection) programme at Jagadanandapur village in the Katwa area of East Burdwan district.The BJP president announced that the party would hold 40,000 such meetings across Bengal in the run-up to the upcoming assembly elections.Saturday marked Nadda’s second visit to the state in two months. Last year on December 10, during a two-day visit, Nadda’s convoy came under attack when stones were pelted at it. The BJP accused the state’s ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) of orchestrating the attack, leading to a new flashpoint in the tussle between the Centre and the state. The ministry of home affairs called the three IPS officers who were responsible for providing security to the BJP chief back on central deputation but the TMC refused to send them, accusing the Centre of political vendetta. It also denied any role in the attack on Nadda’s convoy.Later, addressing a press conference in Kolkata, Nadda hit out at the TMC, alleging that the party never represented the Bengali culture but symbolized “anarchy and corruption”.Nadda alleged that the TMC was working with a criminal instinct and had institutionalised corruption.“The TMC never represented true Bengali culture. It represents anarchy, corruption and extortion. The BJP and Syama Prasad Mookerjee represent true Bengali culture,” Nadda said, amid accusations by the TMC that the BJP does not have any idea about the culture of Bengal.He also reiterated that the Centre was determined to implement the new citizenship law in the country but did not set any timeframe. “The Citizenship (Amendment) Act will be implemented in letter and spirit. We are committed. We are framing the rules,” said Nadda.During the visit, Nadda also launched “Ek Muthi Chawal” (a fistful of rice), a programme under which he collected rice from farmers and briefed them about the benefits of the new farm laws. “The warmth you all have shown to welcome me shows you have decided that Mamata Banerjee government is going to be shown the door and BJP will form the govt in Bengal. Your happiness and confidence shows the public is ready to welcome us to form the government,” Nadda said.Nadda accused the TMC leadership of indulging in corruption and misappropriating ration sent by the Centre during the Covid-19 pandemic.“Smuggling of coal and sand is all that you hear about these days. The Calcutta high court ordered an audit into the expenses made towards relief (after cyclone Amphan). But the government challenged it in the Supreme Court. Why? Why is Mamata Banerjee so worried?” said Nadda.Reacting to Nadda’s remarks, TMC Lok Sabha member and party spokesperson Saugata Roy said, “Nadda hails from Himachal Pradesh. What does he know about Bengal? Spreading misinformation will not help the BJP. The TMC will return to power with absolute majority.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/nadda-reaches-out-to-farmers-defends-laws-101610223488606.html
10-01-2021||City||Fire breaks out at hospital in Maharashtra, 10 infants dead||Ten infants were killed after a fire broke out at the neonatal care ward of the district municipal hospital in Maharashtra’s Bhandara on Saturday morning. Only seven of 17 newborns in the ward could be rescued, said an official.Dr Pramod Khandate, civil surgeon of Bhandara district, said a fire broke out in the Sick Newborn Care Unit around 2am on Saturday. “The hospital nurse first noticed smoke coming out of the neonatal section and informed the hospital authorities. Fire brigade was also called to the hospital immediately which rescued seven babies who have been shifted to another ward,” he added.Shubhangi Sathavne and Smita Ambilduke, the two nurses who were on night duty, said they heard explosion-like sounds in the neonatal ward. “When we rushed inside, smoke filled our noses and eyes. We could not see anything, but heard glass shattering. We raised the alarm and with the help of security guards and fire brigade staff rescued seven of the children,” they were quoted as saying by news agency PTI.According to an official familiar with the matter, at least three of the 10 infants were charred to death, while the rest possibly died of asphyxiation. “The exact cause of death would be ascertained after post-mortem,” Khandate said.The cause of the fire in the four-storey building is yet to be ascertained. Preliminary investigations suggested that a short circuit caused it, a fire department official said on condition of anonymity. “It was said that heaters were being used for the newborn babies at the hospital. It may be the reason for the short circuit there,” the official said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed grief over the incident on Twitter. “Heart-wrenching tragedy in Bhandara, Maharashtra, where we have lost precious young lives. My thoughts are with all the bereaved families. I hope the injured recover as early as possible,” he posted.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray called the incident “very unfortunate”, and announced aid of ₹5 lakh for family members of the deceased.“At present, the entire health care system and hospitals are fighting with coronavirus pandemic. The state government will not tolerate any compromise with security and safety of the hospitals. To make sure such incidents are not repeated I have directed to check fire audit status of all the hospitals in the state,” he said.State health minister Rajesh Tope said a six-member committee headed by director, health, Sadhana Tayade will conduct an inquiry into the fire and submit a report within three days.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi condoled the deaths. “The unfortunate incident of fire at Bhandara District General Hospital in Maharashtra is extremely tragic,” he wrote on Twitter.Meanwhile, Bharatiya Janata Party leader and former energy minister of the state, Chandrashekhar Bawankule, claimed that relatives of the infants had complained about power fluctuations in the ward last week.“The relatives had asked the hospital staff to check electric switches etc, but apparently no action was taken,” Bawankule told PTI.He also alleged that the hospital didn’t have proper fire safety equipment, and a proposal to purchase fire safety equipment worth over ₹1 crore sent to the health department was pending for approval.Former Maharashtra chief minister and BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis, too, termed the incident “very painful”, and demanded a thorough probe.Parents of the deceased children, meanwhile, were struggling to come to terms with the tragedy. “We had not even named our daughter and now we have got her burnt dead body,” said Vishwanath Behere, a labourer.Vandana Shedam (28) said she lived in the hospital itself as her seven-day-old daughter was admitted to the neonatal ward for being underweight. “We came to know about the fire around 2am but had no idea of the condition of my baby till 8 in the morning. Then they put her burnt body before me,” she said.An RTI application has revealed that the fire safety audit of the Bhandara Civil Hospital was not done since 2018. Moreover, the district administration had sent a proposal of over ₹1.52 crore for purchasing fire safety equipment for the hospital on May 12 last year to the joint director (health services), Mumbai, which has not been addressed yet.RTI activist Vikas Madankar, who sought information from the district health department regarding the fire safety measures of the Bhandara Civil Hospital, was informed a few months ago that fire hydrants, sprinklers, smoke alarm, fire escape ladder and fire escape routes, which are mandatory in such institutions, are not available in the hospital.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fire-breaks-out-at-hospital-in-maharashtra-10-infants-dead-101610222887905.html
10-01-2021||Patna||Delay in deciding distribution of seats cost JD(U) in polls: Nitish Kumar||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Saturday said the delay in deciding the distribution of seats among the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) partners cost the Janata Dal (United) in the recently held state elections. The JD(U) contested on 115 seats in the 2020 assembly elections and won 43, a drop from the 71 seats it won five years ago. The BJP, an ally of the JD(U), bagged 74 seats and the opposition RJD emerged as the single-largest party in the 243-member assembly with 75 seats.“The seat distribution within the NDA should have been done five months prior to the elections but that was not done and as a result, JD(U) had to pay a big price.Nitish’s comments come against the backdrop of six JD(U) legislators joining the BJP in Arunachal in December, leaving the party with just one MLA in the 60-member state assembly.Reacting to Nitish’s remark, BJP spokesperson Nikhil Anand said: “This kind of assessment is good to strengthen the inner party system and overcome negative factors. Good that our NDA partner JD (U) is working towards strengthening the party."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/delay-in-deciding-distribution-of-seats-cost-jd-u-in-polls-nitish-kumar-101610221609015.html
10-01-2021||Jaipur||'So-called farmers enjoying chicken biryani, trying to spread bird flu': BJP MLA||By Aabshar H QuaziAmid growing bird flu scare in the country, BJP MLA from Ramganjmandi, Kota and Rajasthan BJP general secretary Madan Dilawar has alleged that some ‘so-called’ farmers are doing Chicken biryani parties and picnic in the ongoing farmer agitation which is a conspiracy to spread bird flu.Dilawar, in a statement today, stated that the so-called farmers are doing picnic in the name of farmer agitation in the country and are not really concerned about the farmers.“They are not participating in any movement but enjoying chicken biryani and dry fruits for leisure”, he said. “It is a conspiracy to spread bird flu,” he said.Dilawar said, “If these so-called farmers are not removed from the agitation sites then bird flu can spread to the entire country so they should be immediately removed from the agitation sites”.These so-called farmers have blocked roads which is causing public inconvenience so if they do not readily leave the roads then they should be dealt with strictness to avoid the spread of bird flu in the country, he said.He further said that terrorists and robbers are also attending the farmer agitation in disguise who are not just enemies of the farmers but also of the country.Also read: 40-year-old Punjab farmer dies after consuming poison at Singhu border - PoliceDilawar’s statement has come at a time when bird flu is spreading its wings in the country and farmers are also running mass movements on demand of repealing the farm laws.The farmers' leaders at Shahjahanpur have criticised Dilawar's statement. Rampal Jat, National President of Kisan Mahapanchayat said, “Dilawar should give list of such bird flu-infected persons who are spreading bird flu and also the terrorist/robbers who are participating in the farmer agitation”.Rampal said that Dilawar has made a vague allegation just to grab headlines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/socalled-farmers-enjoying-chicken-biryani-trying-to-spread-bird-flu-bjp-mla-101610217359930.html
10-01-2021||Delhi||Kejriwal urges Centre to give Covid vaccine for free to all||Describing the Covid-19 pandemic as the “biggest epidemic of the century”, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday urged the Central government to provide vaccines for free to all citizens of the country.“The coronavirus pandemic is the biggest epidemic of the century. It is very important to protect our people from this. I request the Central Government that the vaccine should be provided free of cost to all countrymen. The expenditure on this will be helpful in saving the lives of many Indians,” Kejriwal tweeted in Hindi.Senior officials in the chief minister’s office said Kejriwal is likely to reiterate the free vaccination demand during the scheduled interaction of chief ministers with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday. This will be his first meeting of the PM with CMs of all states after the recent approval of the two vaccines, Covishield and Covaxin, for restricted emergency use by the country’s drugs regulator.Delhi, like all other states, will also start the Covid vaccination drive from January 16.Earlier, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain had said that Covid vaccine doses will be provided free of cost to all Delhi residents and asserted that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)-led government had made all preparations for the vaccination drive.“The Delhi government had so far made preparations to vaccinate 100,000 people in a day,” Jain added.Chief minister Kejriwal had said on December 24 last year that a total of 5.1 million people, under the Centre’s primary category, would be administered Covid-19 vaccine doses in the first phase. He further segregated the primary category into health care and front line workers, senior citizens and those with co-morbidities. Kejriwal also said that each person would be given two doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/kejriwal-urges-centre-to-give-covid-vaccine-for-free-to-all-101610217094684.html
10-01-2021||Kolkata||JP Nadda sharpens attack on Mamata Banerjee, avoids naming Abhishek||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national president JP Nadda, who visited West Bengal for about 10 hours on Saturday, sharpened his attack on chief minister Mamata Banerjee, alleging that she has lost her credibility because in Bengal “corruption has been institutionalized, the administration has been politicized and politics has been criminalized.”Nadda, who visited a village at Katwa in East Burdwan district to launch the party’s first poll campaign aimed at Bengal’s farmers and later held a massive roadshow in the district’s Burdwan town, told the media in the evening that the TMC, which brands BJP leaders as “outsider,” does not represent Bengal’s culture but the BJP does.Nadda reiterated at the press conference that the Centre was determined to implement the new citizenship law in the country but did not set any timeframe. “The Citizenship (Amendment) Act will be implemented in letter and spirit. We are committed. We are framing the rules,” said Nadda.Interestingly, for the first time, Nadda did not refer to Mamata Banerjee as pishi (aunt) and her nephew Abhishek Banerjee as bhaipo in Bengali. During one of his speeches he said, “While the farmer’s income has touched the bottom, that of the 'naya rajkumar' (new prince) has gone up 200 times.”When asked who he was referring to as the 'new prince', Nadda said, “The masses know who he is. They were taking his name today. Why do you want me to name him?”Nadda also refused to comment on Madhya Pradesh minister Narottam Mishra’s comment during a recent visit to a Bengal district. Mishra had said that once the BJP comes to power in the state it will introduce a law against inter-religious marriage commonly referred to as love jihad. The Madhya Pradesh government introduced the Madhya Pradesh Freedom of Religion ordinance 2020 on Thursday.“Our only jihad (holy war in Islam) is against infiltrators,” said Nadda.Significantly, the exchange of rhetoric between the BJP and the TMC revolved around Bengal’s history and culture throughout Saturday although Nadda made several remarks on politics and the state’s economy. For every comment that Nadda made in Katwa at Burdwan, replies from TMC leaders came at ruling party rallies in other districts.Also read: Bengal governor meets Amit Shah, fears violence in run-up to crucial polls“Do coal mafia, extortion, politics of appeasement and cow smuggling represent the rich culture of Bengal? There was a time when people used to say “What Bengal thinks today, India thinks tomorrow.” The state contributed immensely to the freedom struggle and every intellectual movement. Shyama Prasad Mookerjee, founder of the Bharatiya Jan Sangh (parent party of the BJP) was a pride of Bengal. We drew inspiration from Bengal to build the nation. We present the true culture of Bengal,” said Nadda.Nadda, whose wife is a Bengali, quipped, “In personal life, I live Bengal.”“On the other hand, the language Mamata Banerjee has used in her comments on me and the Prime Minister is not befitting of a chief minister,” he added.Several TMC leaders reacted to Nadda’s comments. While addressing a TMC rally in North 24 Parganas district, Lok Sabha member Saugata Roy said, “These BJP leaders, including Narendra Modi, parrot a few lines from Tagore’s poems from written scripts. Ask them to recite the next four lines and they will go silent. They cannot become Bengalis or know its culture and heritage overnight.”Nadda also said that during the day Bengal ranks 24th among the 29 states when it comes to procurement price paid to farmers. He launched the BJP’s first campaign for Bengal’s farmers at Jagadanandapur village in the Katwa area of East Burdwan, which is considered the state’s rice bowl.“Ever since the BJP came to power at the Centre, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has made a six-fold increase in the central budget for farmers. He implemented the minimum support price recommended by the Swaminathan committee. The new farm laws will make farmers free. These will enable farmers to set the price of their products and choose the buyer,” Nadda said while launching the 'Krishok Surokkha' (farmers’ protection) programme.Nadda announced that 40,000 such meetings will be held across Bengal before the assembly elections.Nadda’s plane landed at Andal airport in West Burdwan district. He flew to Katwa and Burdwan town in a chopper.He also launched the door-to-door rice collection programme which has been named 'Ek Mutthi Chawal Sangrah' (collecting a fistful of rice) campaign. He visited five homes and collected the rice.Also read: Extremists could return to Washington, disrupt Biden’s inauguration: Report“The 'Ek Mutthi Chawal Sangrah' campaign is to reassert the party and its government's commitment and conviction towards the growth, progress and prosperity of farmers. Before the 2021 Vidhan Sabha elections in West Bengal, the BJP will reach out to the homes of all the 73 lakh villagers across the state,” the BJP central office in Delhi said in the statement on Friday.After collecting the rice, Nadda visited the home of Mathura Mondal, a farmer, to have lunch. Before addressing the rally he offered prayers at the popular Radha Gobinda temple associated with 15th-century saint Sri Chaitanya Mahaprabhu.The TMC government is planning to hold a special session of the legislative assembly to introduce a resolution against the Centre’s recent farm laws that led to unrest in Punjab.Reacting to the campaign, Saugata Roy said, “Thousands of farmers are agitating outside the gates of Delhi against the Centre’s farm laws. Nadda should talk to the farmers if he dares to face them.”“During my last visit on December 10, I was welcomed differently,” Nadda said, referring to the attack on his convoy. “Today I saw people in a different mood. The enthusiasm I notice shows that people of Bengal have made up their mind to welcome the BJP. Mamata Banerjee has now written to the Prime Minister that she wants to implement the Prime Minister Kisan Samman Nidhi programme. We have been asking her for a long time to do it,” said Nadda.“The Calcutta High Court ordered an audit into the expenses made towards relief (after cyclone Amphan). But the government challenged it in the Supreme Court. Why? Why is she worried?” said Nadda.Nadda offered prayers at the historic Sarbamangala temple in Burdwan town and led a roadshow from Burdwan Clock Tower to the Curzon Gate.He addressed the media and the party's core committee members before returning to Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/jp-nadda-sharpens-attack-on-mamata-banerjee-avoids-naming-abhishek-101610216985727.html
10-01-2021||Gurugram||Avian influenza test results of wild bird carcasses to be out in two weeks||The wildlife department officials on Saturday said that test reports of wild bird carcasses retrieved from Tau Devi Lal Biodiversity Park to detect Avian Influenza (H5N8) will be declared in two weeks. Officials cited that due to a high volume of samples at the Regional Disease Diagnostic Lab in Jalandhar, the test results are getting delayed.“Nothing concrete can be said about the avian influenza until the test results are declared. It will take nearly 15 days as informed by the lab. Until then we will continue to monitor the status as migratory birds are arriving at Sultanpur bird sanctuary,” said Rajesh Chahal, wildlife inspector, Gurugram on Saturday. According to him, the park has been closed for public since the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic.Tau Devi Lal Biodiversity park, where carcasses of four crows and one egret were found on Friday morning, will continue to remain open. Samples of two birds have been sent for testing while other birds are buried. Amid a bird flu scare in the national Capital, Sanjay lake and three recreational parks were closed on Saturday. Officials in Gurugram said that the parks in the district will remain open as there is no fear of infection yet.Subhash Yadav, metropolitan green planner in GMDA’s urban environment division, said, “Decision of closing major parks like Tau Devi Lal, and those in sectors 29 and 22 will be taken after test results are out or in case if we find more carcasses.”Haryana has notified an outbreak of influenza strain H5N8, with Panchkula’s Ganauli and Kheri being declared as the epicentre. In Gurugram, to keep an eye on the situation, 28 teams have been formed by the animal husbandry department to check poultry farms and markets for sick or dead birds. Lab staff has also been trained to detect avian flu symptoms from other diseases. They are monitoring the status of chicken farms and migratory birds on wetlands, who are feared to be spreading the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/avian-influenza-test-results-of-wild-bird-carcasses-to-be-out-in-two-weeks-101610216544218.html
10-01-2021||Other||As Jan 31 deadline approaches, 1,624 of 1,644 polluting industries switch to PNG||Of the total 1,644 polluting industries in the national capital, 1,624 units have switched over to piped natural gas (PNG), according to the latest status report by the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) on Saturday.The Commission for Air Quality Management(CAQM) in NCR and adjoining areas last December had directed all industrial units in Delhi to switch over to PNG by January 31 and had directed the DPCC to inspect and identify industries using polluting fuels and penalise those units.A senior DPCC official said on Saturday, “A total of 1,624 industrial units in Delhi have converted to PNG, a safer and non-polluting fuel.”The official said a status report of this has been submitted to the CAQM and the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).In an air review meeting conducted on December 22, che Commission reviewed the progress of industries switching over to PNG. Representatives of the Delhi government, DPCC, Gas Authority of India Limited (GAIL), and Indraprastha Gas Limited (IGL) had attended the meeting to chalk out a plan to switch these industrial units to cleaner fuels as a long-term initiative to reduce pollution in Delhi.“About 1,644 of the industrial units are spread across 50 industrial areas in Delhi had been identified for the switch over to PNG. The commission stressed on the need to switch over to a cleaner fuel by all identified industries in Delhi, considering that the sector is one of the major contributors to air pollution in Delhi and the NCR,” the minutes of the meeting read.IGL and GAIL have been directed to complete the pipeline network, metering, and associated infrastructure by January 31.MM Kutty, former Delhi chief secretary, who is currently the chairman of the commission, had earlier said they were also working on a long-term solution to crop stubble fires that also pollute the region’s air.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/as-jan-31-deadline-approaches-1-624-of-1-644-polluting-industries-switch-to-png-101610216305252.html
10-01-2021||Delhi||Two minors held for murdering 10-year-old, hiding body in mosque||Two boys — aged 12 and 17 years — allegedly killed a 10-year-old in a mosque in north-east Delhi’s Khajuri Khas area and then hid his body on the same premises with a plan to extort money, the police said on Saturday after apprehending both the suspects.This was the duo’s second attempt in 10 days to kill the boy, said Ved Prakash Surya, deputy commissioner of police (north-east). “The first time they had offered him water mixed with sleeping pills, but it didn’t have any impact on the boy,” said the DCP.The victim, investigators claimed, lived with his parents and his father owns a footwear manufacturing unit.The two suspects lived in the same neighbourhood as the victim.“The 17-year-old had lured the 12-year-old plan to commit the murder and then extort money. The boys didn’t have any concrete plan on how to go about the extortion or the amount to ask. They just thought that they would somehow inform the boy’s father that his child was with them and would be released only if the money was paid. The two boys planned to flee from their homes after getting the money,” said the DCP, based on initial details shared by the two alleged juveniles.So, after the first failed attempt, the boys allegedly caught hold of the victim a second time when he was walking to the local mosque around 6.30pm on Thursday.“They gave some cash to the boy and asked him to buy momos from a stall. They then asked him to accompany them to the first floor of the mosque to eat the momos together,” said the DCP.After having the momos, they lured the boy to the terrace where the younger of them grabbed the 10-year-old victim’s feet while the older one strangulated him, said the police.Thereafter, they dragged his body to the second floor where they hid in amid some debris and covered it with a sack containing cement.Meanwhile, the victim’s father approached police with a missing persons complaint upon which a probe was launched and boy’s friends and relatives questioned. When the police got to know that the boy was last spotted walking to the mosque, they focused their probe there and got to know that the victim was last seen with the two boys. The police searched the mosque and recovered the boy’s body.The DCP said that CCTV footage from the mosque was scanned, revealing the role of the two boys mentioned by the public.“We spoke to the two boys separately and there were contradictions in their statements. They finally owned up to the crime,” the officer said, adding that it continues to be probed if any adults were involved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-minors-held-for-murdering-10-year-old-hiding-body-in-mosque-101610216304221.html
10-01-2021||Delhi||10 ducks, 2 crows die in Sanjay Lake triggering fears of avian influenza spread||At least 10 ducks and a couple of crows were found dead between Friday and Saturday in the Sanjay Lake, a popular water-body developed by Delhi Development Authority (DDA) in east Delhi’s Trilokpuri near Mayur Vihar, sparking fears of an outbreak of bird flu (avian influenza) in the city.A senior DDA official said that 24 crows were found dead over a period of four days between January 5 and January 8 in the district park in Jasola Vihar in south-east Delhi.On Saturday, four district parks — in Hauz Khas, Hastsal, Dwarka sector 9 and Sanjay Lake — were closed for public. The district park in Jasola has not been shut for public as of now.“We are monitoring the situation. We have closed Hauz Khas park as a lot of people visit it, especially during the weekend,” said the official.A senior DDA official said, “At Sanjay Lake, at least 10 ducks were found dead. Their samples have been sent to ascertain the cause of death. Besides that, at least 24 crows have died in the last four days at the district park in Jasola. DDA is monitoring the situation closely and is in touch with other government agencies. Meanwhile, precautionary measures like spraying of disinfectants is being carried out in all DDA parks.”The deaths of the ducks and the crows came to fore on Saturday, a day after the carcasses of dozens of crows were found in a park in east Delhi’s Mayur Vihar Phase-3, Dwarka and Hastsal .The deaths have triggered fear of an outbreak of bird flu and has prompted authorities to collect samples of dead birds and send them to laboratories to ascertain if the deaths were caused by the potential spread of the virus, similar to the one that has affected at least six other states. The report of the samples collected on Friday is expected on Monday.The death of the birds in the last few days has also prompted the government to order closure of the Ghazipur wholesale poultry market for 10 days and impose a ban on the import of live poultry in the city. The government said the measures were preventive in nature and aimed at checking the spread of the avian influenza.Also, on Saturday, at least three crows were found dead in three separate parks located near Krishna Kunj Apartments, a residential society in Rohini Sector-15. The samples of the three birds were not collected before the carcasses being buried by the authorities, as officials believed that the deaths were not caused by avian influenza.“Sample testing is done only when birds die in groups of 10 or more. As far as the carcasses of the three crows are concerned, they were found in three separate parks, each at a distance of nearly 300 metres,” said a municipal corporation doctor, who visited the spots but did not want to be named.According to the doctor, the crows in Rohini were found dead around 11.30 am by residents, who informed the local resident welfare association (RWA) and its officials in turn alerted the authorities.On Saturday morning, 10 ducks died one after another at the Sanjay Lake complex, where nearly 450 ducks are kept and looked after by caretakers employed by the DDA.When HT visited Sanjay Lake on Saturday afternoon, one of the largest green areas in east Delhi and spread over 69 hectares, several dead fish were also found floating in the artificial lake located within the premises.The employees working there said that apart from 10 ducks that died on Saturday morning, two more ducks had died late on Friday evening, while two crows were also found dead in the park the same morning.“Around 6am, all the ducks were taken out of the barn and left in the lake to swim. Around 11am, four-five of them began swimming in circles.. Some more ducks also showed similar symptoms. We immediately rushed them to the barn and gave them medicine. But 10 of them died and we informed our senior officers,” said a caretaker, requesting anonymity.A security guard at the premises said that a medical team, along with DDA officials, arrived after being informed about the deaths and collected samples of five-six dead ducks. “After the sample collection, the dead ducks were buried near the barn on the instructions of the doctors,” the guard said.Despite the death of the ducks, the recreational area remained open and scores of visitors, including children, were seen playing, walking, fishing, and enjoying boating in the lake throughout Saturday. Many visitors were unaware of the deaths of the ducks while a few did know about the possible scare of the bird flu in some states.Farid, a resident of Trilokpuri who claimed to be present near the lake when the ducks died, said “I often come here (Sanjay Lake) to collect dry wood. Today, some 12-14 ducks fell unconscious soon after they were taken out of the lake. They all died and were buried.”About the deaths of the fish, Shiv Bahadur Singh, another employee at the Sanjay Lake said, “We are also baffled by the deaths of the fish. It could also be because of the extreme weather conditions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/10-ducks-two-crows-die-in-sanjay-lake-triggering-fears-of-avian-influenza-spread-in-city-101610215704182.html
10-01-2021||Delhi||All 256 test -ve for Covid in Delhi on Day 2 of UK flight resumption||All 256 passengers who arrived at Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport from the United Kingdom (UK) on Saturday tested negative for Covid and were sent for a seven days of mandatory institutional quarantine.The 256 passengers landed in Delhi around 1pm on Vistara flight UK18 that had departed Heathrow airport late on Friday night. As soon as they landed, the passengers were escorted by Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel for their immigration clearance, baggage collection and customs clearance. They were then whisked away to a waiting hall to get their RT-PCR tests done.Dr Gauri Agarwal, founder and director of Genestrings diagnostics that is conducting the RT-PCR tests at the Delhi airport, said none of the 256 passengers tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday.“We gave all the reports within 4-5 hours. We also had our staff strength increased to make sure the process is smooth and quick. The tests were completed smoothly. The flights arriving from the UK are under tight scrutiny given the high alert due to the new strain circulating there. Hence, multidisciplinary operational and administrative teams — comprising CISF, Delhi government officials, Delhi Police personnel and GMR-DIAL officials — have been deputed to ensure highest level of security and checks,” she said.Officials at the airport said those who have tested positive so far since Friday, have been sent to Covid designated hospitals while those found negative, were sent for a seven days institutional quarantine, as per the new rule.On Friday afternoon, the Delhi government issued an order making it mandatory for all UK returnees to undergo a seven-day institutional quarantine, even if they tested negative. International returnees, other than those coming in from the UK, can apply for exemption from institutional quarantine online, produce a negative Covid-19 report, and can quarantine for 14 days at home.Officials said the flight, UK18, was to initially supposed to bring 291 passengers but 35 of them cancelled their trip because of the new mandatory quarantine rules.On Friday, the first flight that landed in India from the the UK after 16 days of ban, brought 256 passengers, out of which two tested positive for Covid-19 at Delhi airport.Deputy commissioner of police (IGIA) Rajeev Ranjan said all those who opted for paid quarantine facility were taken to Aerocity where some hotels have been declared as Covid quarantine facilities. “We have adequate deployment in place at the hotels as well as at the testing centre to make sure that everyone gets tested and no one manages to escape,” Ranjan said.A senior government official in-charge at the airport said of the 512 passengers who arrived from the UK on Friday and Saturday, only 5 opted for the free government facility at Terapanth Bhawan in South Delhi’s Chhatarpur area.A Delhi government spokesperson said all protocols laid down by them are being followed in letter and spirit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/all-256-test-ve-for-covid-in-delhi-on-day-2-of-uk-flight-resumption-101610215405522.html
10-01-2021||Delhi||10 men, many walkie-talkies, one open-top jeep:How one group keeps Singhu secure||From dealing with suspected pickpockets to rushing the sick into ambulances, and from patrolling the congested seven-kilometre long farmers’ protest site to clearing traffic along this stretch, a group of 10 men wielding walkie-talkies and driving an open-top jeep say they are in charge of security at Singhu Border.On Thursday, when hundreds of farmers took out a tractor march, this security vehicle played an important role, the men manning it said. “We travelled alongside the tractors and repeatedly went back and forth to ensure no queues were broken and the farmers were not undisciplined,” says Mandeep Singh Gill, one of the security men, breaking away routinely to hear the audio on his walkie-talkie.The “security team” has left no stone unturned to make their presence felt at the site. A large LED board atop the jeep continuously rolls out the words ‘Security Patrol’ in English, and the farmers manning the security vehicle used loudspeakers and hooters to announce their arrival.While it is the farmers who are providing the security arrangement, the vehicle — that bears a Delhi registration number plate — belongs to Gurdeep Singh Sidhu, of Bhogpur in Punjab’s Jalandhar.“I was using the jeep as a private vehicle in Jalandhar. But soon after farmers began assembling here, I knew there would be security issues, and I donated my vehicle temporarily for use as a security patrol,” Sidhu said.The security team works around the clock, he says, patrolling the stretch multiple times. “Farmers across the stretch have the phone numbers of the security team and give them a call at the slightest hint of trouble,” he said.In recent weeks, the group said, they have saved the lives of at least three farmers who fell seriously ill and had to be rushed to an ambulance. “We would load them in the vehicle and zoom through the congested route to reach the nearest ambulance. Since most farmers know about us, they quickly make way to facilitate our movement,” Gill says.The toughest job, however, these security men say, is clearing traffic for movement of essential vehicles through the maze of other parked vehicles and the tents set up here.“Since we are fully aware of the entire route, we are able to reach any such point quickly. A few weeks here has taught us how to clear the traffic,” said Gill.In the daytime, as many as six security men patrol in this vehicle. At nights, usually just two or three men make the rounds.While the Delhi Police is stationed at one end of the protest site of the Singhu Border, they have maintained a safe distance and do not venture amidst the farmers. Much of the protest site falls in the jurisdiction of Haryana, but the Haryana police are also only guarding the outer areas and do not mix up with protesting farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/10-men-many-walkie-talkies-one-open-top-jeep-how-one-group-keeps-singhu-secure-101610214084183.html
10-01-2021||City||1 dead, 45 hospitalised after consuming spurious toddy in Telangana's Vikarabad||One person died and another 45 people, including women, were hospitalised after consuming adulterated toddy in Telangana’s Vikarabad district, about 100 kilometres from Hyderabad on Friday night, the police said on Saturday.The deceased was identified as Krishna Reddy, 58, of Pendlimadugu village of Nawabpet block. Few others, whose condition turned worse, were moved to Hyderabad. Of them, the condition of Pyata Ramulu, 60, from Chittigidda village is said to be critical.The remaining affected people are undergoing treatment in different government and private hospitals in Nawabpet and Vikarabad towns.Vikarabad deputy superintendent of police Sanjeeva Rao said preliminary inquiries revealed that the toddy was supplied from a depot at Chittigidda village to various villages including Nawabpet, Arkatala, Vatti Meenapalli, Ekamamidi, Kesavapalli, Timmareddypalli, Mamdanpalli, Kothagadi, Narayanapur, Pathuru, Pendlimadugu and Kamareddiguda.Also read: 300 casualties in Balakot airstrike by India, admits former Pak diplomat: Report“Some of those who consumed liquor initially complained that there was a difference in the taste of toddy. Later, they started feeling giddiness and collapsed, while some others suffered fits. They were immediately shifted to the local hospitals,” the DSP said.While Krishna Reddy died on Saturday morning, Ramulu and a few others were shifted to Hyderabad, he said, adding that all 45 people were admitted to various hospitals.On coming to know about the incidents, district collector Pausumi Basu, local MLA Methuku Anand and Chevella MLA Kale Yadaiah, along with excise officials, toured the affected villages and spoke to the families of the affected persons.The excise officials seized the toddy shops, collected the samples and sent them for laboratories to find out the extent of adulteration. “We are awaiting the medical reports and based on them, we shall take appropriate action,” the district collector said.Vikarabad MLA Anand, who is also a doctor, examined a few patients in the local government hospital. He asked the district authorities to set up medical camps in the affected villages.“We have booked a case against the toddy depot owners under the Excise Act and are investigating the case,” the DSP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/one-dead-45-hospitalised-after-consuming-spurious-toddy-in-telangana-s-vikaraba-101610203206503.html
10-01-2021||Other||Ludhiana realtor ends life; NRI woman among 5 booked for abetment||Distressed over being threatened with a false rape case and threats of property grab, a 50-year-old realtor ended his life by hanging himself at his office in Jhabewal village on Thursday. Following recovery of a suicide note, the Jamalpur police on Friday booked five people, including three women, for abetment to suicide, as they had been threatening the deceased with the intention of grabbing his house in Thalla village, Phillaur, Jalandhar.The accused have been identified as Mahinder Kaur, an NRI; Poonam, alias Nand Rani, and her husband, Aman, of Wadala village, Phillaur; Amrit Singh of Thalla village of Phillaur, who is the husband of the village sarpanch; and Gurdev Kaur, alias Baldev Kaur. In his complaint to the police, the deceased’s son said his father used to live with his maternal uncle and aunt in Thalla village. After the death of her husband, the aunt had transferred a 188 square yards house to his name. This left the aunt’s relatives vexed and they started threatening his father to grab the house, and filed a fake rape complaint to coerce him. This left him deeply disturbed and he hanged himself at his office on Thursday.Assistant sub-inspector Paramjit Singh said they had launched a manhunt for the arrest of the accused, who had been booked under Sections 306 (abetment to suicide) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-realtor-ends-life-nri-woman-among-5-booked-for-abetment-101610196503380.html
10-01-2021||World||Vaccine scams, medical staff shortage hit UK; toll over 80,000||As the number of UK deaths crossed another grim figure of 80,000, authorities are grappling with thousands of ailing medical staff going on leave amidst increasing caseload on hospitals and growing concerns of vaccine scamsters targeting the elderly and vulnerable.Covid-19 indicators at various levels have gone beyond the last peak of March-April 2020, with the Boris Johnson government unleashing another information campaign to encourage people not to relax vigil and to follow lockdown restrictions strictly.Prime Minister Boris Johnson said: “Our hospitals are under more pressure than at any other time since the start of the pandemic, and infection rates across the entire country continue to soar at an alarming rate.“The vaccine has given us renewed hope in our fight against the virus but we must not be complacent. The NHS is under severe strain and we must take action to protect it, both so our doctors and nurses can continue to save lives and so they can vaccinate as many people as possible as quickly as we can.”Labour leader Keir Starmer on Sunday reflected the concerns of experts when he told the BBC’s Andrew Marr Show that the current curbs may not be strong enough to contain the virus and its variant that have spread exponentially since the norms were eased for Christmas.The National Crime Agency issued a caution on vaccine scams that include people receiving text messages that seem genuine with NHS logo, informing recipients that they are eligible for the vaccine, and asking to click on a link, which seeks personal details and payment. In one case, a scamster injected a 92-year-old woman and charged her £160, with no details of what she was injected with. The vaccines are being administered free according to a priority list of groups of people considered most at risk. So far nearly 2 million people have received shots, including Queen Elizabeth and Prince Philip, who are in the most vulnerable group due to their age.Graeme Biggar of the National Crime Agency said: “The current level of reported fraud in relation to the vaccine remains very low but is increasing. The advice is very simple. The vaccine is only available on the NHS, and you will never be asked to pay for it or to provide your bank details. Anything that suggests otherwise is a fraud.”Cabinet Office minister Julia Lopez added: “I am sad to say that throughout the pandemic, we have seen fraudsters adapt their methods to take advantage of Covid support schemes and exploit the fears of vulnerable people when they feel at their most anxious”. “This latest scam, which plays on people’s hopes for a vaccine, is one of the most callous and despicable so far, which is why we want to arm everyone with the knowledge that the NHS will never ask for cash or financial details to pay for the vaccine or verify a patient’s identity,” she added.According to Chand Nagpaul of the British Medical Association, over 40,000 ailing medical professionals are on leave, while there has been no new recruitment, forcing hospitals to deal with increasing caseloads with lesser number of staff.Chris Whitty, chief medical officer, said: “Hospitals are always busy in the winter but the NHS in some parts of the country is currently facing the most dangerous situation anyone can remember. If the virus continues on its current trajectory many hospitals will be in real difficulties, and very soon…There will be avoidable deaths”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/vaccine-scams-medical-staff-shortage-hit-uk-toll-over-80000-101610302230418.html
10-01-2021||World||Conspiracists and gun activists: Know Trump loyalists who stormed the Capitol||The tattoo-chested man in a horned headdress, the middle-aged intruder with his foot on Speaker Nancy Pelosi's desk and the woman shot dead by police: Their images have been beamed around the world but who are the Donald Trump supporters who stormed the Capitol?Pro-gun campaigner -Richard Barnett, 60, from Gravette in northwest Arkansas, barged into the office of House Democrat leader Pelosi where he was photographed leaning back in a chair with his left foot on her desk.Barnett, known locally for hosting the pro-gun Facebook group 2A NWA STAND!!!, told Arkansas news channel KFSM 5News that he somehow ended up there by accident."I didn't break the doors. I was shoved in. I didn't mean to be in there. Hell, I was looking for the bathroom," said Barnett.He added though that he had every right to be in Pelosi's office."My desk. I'm a taxpayer. I'm a patriot. It ain't her desk. We loaned her that desk."Before leaving, Barnett stole an envelope and left Pelosi a note calling her a "bitch," he told KFSM 5News.QAnon 'digital soldier'Shirtless, sporting face paint and a fur hat complete with buffalo horns, Jake Angeli is a prominent supporter of the far-right QAnon conspiracy theory.He describes himself as a "digital soldier" of the movement that claims Trump is waging a secret war against a global liberal cult of Satan-worshipping pedophiles.The 33-year-old Angeli presented himself as a "shamanist and consultant for the Trump supporters" when he was photographed by AFP at a rally in Phoenix, Arizona in November. He was wearing his headdress then too."We're patriots on the front lines in Arizona who wish to take our positive energy to DC," he wrote on the ultra-conservative social network Parler in December.Social media users noted similarities between Angeli's look and that of 1990s Jamiroquai singer Jay Kay, forcing the jazz-funk performer to assure fans that he wasn't in Washington on Wednesday.Read | US Capitol violence: What crimes can the rioters be charged with?Military veteranAshli Babbitt was named by police as the woman shot at close range by a police officer as she tried to climb through a broken window in the hallway of Congress.The 35-year-old from San Diego later died from her injuries. KUSI-TV quoted her husband as saying she had been a staunch Trump supporter and "a great patriot."Babbitt was a US Air Force veteran who described herself as a "Libertarian" on her Twitter page.On Tuesday she tweeted: "Nothing will stop us....they can try and try and try but the storm is here and it is descending upon DC in less than 24 hours....dark to light!"Lectern thiefLooking particularly pleased with his day's efforts was a man in a Trump winter beanie hat smiling and waving at cameras as he carried Pelosi's lectern.Local media identified him as 36-year-old Adam Johnson, a father of five from Parrish, Florida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/conspiracists-and-gun-activists-know-trump-loyalists-who-stormed-the-capitol-101610296043818.html
10-01-2021||World||Man who sat at Nancy Pelosi aide's desk during Capitol riots faces charges||A West Virginia state lawmaker and a man pictured sitting at an aide's desk in US House of Representatives Speaker Nancy Pelosi's office are among those facing federal charges stemming from the siege on the US Capitol by President Donald Trump's supporters, federal prosecutors said on Friday.In a related development, Acting Attorney General Jeffrey Rosen announced the FBI would team up with Washington's police department to jointly investigate the death of Capitol Police Officer Brian Sicknick, who was injured while defending the US Capitol on Wednesday."Just because you've left the D.C. region, you can still expect a knock on the door if we find out you were part of the criminal activity at the Capitol," Steven D'antuono, the FBI Washington Field Office's assistant director in charge, told reporters in a telephone news briefing.The Justice Department on Friday released details on 13 defendants who were charged in the US District Court for the District of Columbia for their roles in connection with the Capitol riots.They included Cleveland Meredith, who was charged with threatening Pelosi as well as possession of an unregistered firearm and unregistered ammunition, and Richard Barnett, the Gravette, Arkansas, man who was photographed sitting at Pelosi's desk and is also known as Bigo."The shocking images of Mr. Barnett with his boots up on a desk in the speaker of the House’s office on Wednesday was repulsive,” Rosen said in a statement. "Those who are proven to have committed criminal acts during the storming of the Capitol will face justice."Prosecutors also charged Nick Ochs, a prominent member of the Proud Boys, with being in the Capitol unlawfully, based in large part on a photo he posted on Twitter of himself smoking a cigarette in the Capitol along with the caption "Hello from the Capital lol."Among others facing charges were Lonnie Coffman of Falkville, Alabama - whose truck parked near the Capitol and inspected by police contained 11 Molotov cocktails as well as firearms - and Mark Leffingwell, who is accused of assaulting a police officer.Ken Kohl, a prosecutor in the US Attorney's Office, told reporters in the news briefing that West Virginia Delegate Derrick Evans also faces criminal charges after he apparently "recorded himself storming the Capitol."John Bryan, an attorney for Evans, said in a statement that his client is "an independent activist and journalist" who was exercising his First Amendment rights to peacefully protest and ﬁlm a historic and dynamic event" and did not engage in violence.Leffingwell and Meredith both made virtual court appearances in Washington, D.C. on Friday evening. Several others appeared in federal court in other states.Leffingwell's wife Julie told the judge her husband works at a packaging plant in Seattle, and his lawyer said his client is a disabled veteran who suffered a traumatic brain injury while he was serving in Iraq.Magistrate Judge Michael Harvey released Leffingwell from custody but ordered him not to possess any firearms and to report to pretrial services on a weekly basis.Meredith, 52, told the judge he is unemployed after selling his business in 2019.The judge ordered he must remain in custody, pending a hearing on Jan. 13.In addition to the 13 people facing criminal charges in US District Court, another 40 people were facing lesser charges in the District of Columbia Superior Court, a local venue.Many of those individuals were arraigned on Thursday and released, with an order from the judge not to return to Washington unless it is for court appearances or meetings with their attorneys.D'antuono on Friday declined to characterize the probe of Sicknick's death as a homicide investigation during the briefing, saying the circumstances were still being reviewed."We're not going to go into it at this point because it's an active investigation," he said.Capitol Police confirmed late on Thursday evening that Sicknick had died after suffering injuries while on duty at the US Capitol during the riot.After being injured by protesters, the officer returned to his office where he collapsed. He died at a hospital.Capitol Police have said the Washington police's homicide unit was probing the death.Pelosi on Friday ordered flags at the Capitol lowered to half-staff in honor of Sicknick.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/man-who-sat-at-nancy-pelosi-aide-s-desk-during-capitol-riots-faces-charges-101610294868458.html
10-01-2021||World||Pashtun movement to organize 350 mile march in US, highlight Pak atrocities||The Pashtun Tahafuz Movement (PTM) on Saturday staged a protest outside the residence of the Pakistani ambassador to the US in Washington DC against human rights violation of Pashtun people in Pakistan.One of the members of the protest also made an important announcement regarding a 350-mile long march from New York to Washington DC which will be organised shortly."We are going to organise a long march, long walk from New York to Washington DC, 350 miles," said the protestor.PTM is a civil society group comprising mainly of ethnic Pashtuns living in Pakistan's tribal areas, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and Balochistan provinces, and parts of Karachi.Pakistan had been always harsh on them. Earlier, the government resorted to arrest and travel restrictions on its leaders and supporters. But, under Imran Khan's government, the PTM protestors are killed. There are instances of forced disappearances too.Read more: 'Finally Imran Khan introduces night mode': Pak Twitterati on massive blackout"PTM is struggling for the missing persons, for the human rights of Pashtun peoples, they are being oppressed, and they are victims of terrorism," said another demonstrator.He also advised to put sanctions against Pakistan for promoting proxy terrorism, "Sanctions should be imposed on Pakistan, and then only Pakistan can learn it. If America stops giving money, then they can learn it"."We urge Pakistan to instead of sponsoring in proxy terrorism, invest in your people, they need food, your people need food", added another protestor.He called Pakistan a "shrewd" and "thug" country that blackmails America as well as everyone.In response to recent happenings in Pakistan, he said, "because of sponsoring proxy terrorism in Kashmir, they lost Kashmir, now they will lose the other side of Kashmir as well".Read more: Global terrorist Masood Azhar is finally a wanted man in Pak. Dawood next?Earlier, Pakistan police had arrested PTM member Abdul Haq, PTM leader Dr Said Alam Mahsud from his home located in Hayatabad Township.Both the PTM leaders were arrested because they participated in the Peshawar protest.PTM leader Ali Wazir too was arrested on December 16 when he along with millions of Pashtuns were remembering the sixth anniversary of the Army Public School attack in which more than 150 children and teachers were killed.The PTM said that Pakistan has not only failed to bring the killers to justice but has tried to silence those who would ask for answers and accountability.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pashtun-movement-to-organize-350-mile-march-in-us-highlight-pak-atrocities-101610268232665.html
10-01-2021||World||US intelligence agencies have less than 6 months to reveal details on UFOs||A unique 180-day countdown for US intelligence agencies started in December when President Donald Trump signed a massive $2.3 trillion Covid-19 relief and government spending bill into law. The Intelligence Authorisation Act for Fiscal Year 2021 was a part of the spending bill under which the Senate intelligence committee directed the intelligence agencies to submit a report on “unidentified aerial phenomena” within 180 days.The Senate intelligence committee's directive came into force months after the department of defence released three declassified videos that showed US Navy pilots encountering what appears to be unidentified flying objects (UFOs). Following the declassification of videos, the US Navy released seven incident reports in May 2020 on the series of encounters between Navy pilots and “unidentified aerial phenomena”.According to the first incident report, a white-coloured aircraft was spotted in 2013 which was approximately the size and shape of a “drone or missile” and left a visible exhaust trail. Another report from 2014 detailed the encounter in which the aircraft appeared to be “approximately the size of a suitcase”, and was silver in colour. The report highlighted that the pilot was able to pass within 1,000 feet of the unknown aircraft but couldn’t identify it.Read | Mysterious monolith found in US Desert draws wild theories about aliens, UFOsA former senator from Nevada, Harry Reid, had then hailed the declassification of videos and called on the authorities to take a serious look at any potential national security implications. Taking to Twitter, Reid said that that the footage only “scratches the surface of research and materials available”. The director of National Intelligence and the secretary of defence now have less than six months to tell the Congressional intelligence and armed services committees what they know about UFOs.According to the Senate intelligence committee's directive, the report must contain detailed analyses of UFO data as well as intel inputs from the Office of Naval Intelligence, the Unidentified Aerial Phenomena Task Force and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The committee has directed the federal agencies to identify potential national security threats posed by UFOs and to assess the possibility of an adversary nation behind such activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-intelligence-agencies-have-less-than-6-months-to-reveal-details-on-ufos-101610293547600.html
10-01-2021||World||Best outcome is for Donald Trump to resign, GOP Senator Toomey says||A former Republican ally of Donald Trump said the best option for the US now “is for the president to resign and go away as soon as possible.”“It does not look as though there is the will or the consensus to exercise the 25th Amendment option. And I don’t think there’s time to do an impeachment,” Senator Pat Toomey of Pennsylvania said on NBC’s “Meet the Press.” “The best thing would be a resignation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/best-outcome-is-for-donald-trump-to-resign-gop-senator-toomey-says-101610289616188.html
10-01-2021||World||Anti-abortion faith leaders support use of Covid-19 vaccines||In a growing consensus, religious leaders at the forefront of the anti-abortion movement in the United States are telling their followers that the leading vaccines available to combat Covid-19 are acceptable to take, given their remote and indirect connection to lines of cells derived from aborted fetuses.One outspoken foe of abortion based in Dallas, Southern Baptist megachurch pastor Robert Jeffress, has called the vaccines a “present from God.”“To ask God for help but then refuse the vaccine makes no more sense than calling 911 when your house is on fire, but refusing to allow the firemen in,” Jeffress said via email. “There is no legitimate faith-based reason for refusing to take the vaccine.”The Rev. Al Mohler, president of the Southern Baptist Theological Seminary, also has celebrated their development.“I will take it not only for what I hope will be the good of my own health, but for others as well,” he said on his website.The US Conference of Catholic Bishops, which says fighting abortion is its “preeminent” priority, said last month that getting vaccinated against the coronavirus “ought to be understood as an act of charity toward the other members of our community,” according to a statement by the chairmen of its Committee on Doctrine and Committee on Pro-Life Activities.The bishops said it is morally acceptable for Catholics to use either of the two vaccines approved for use in the US — made by Pfizer and Moderna — despite a “remote connection to morally compromised cell lines.” This entailed the use of fetal cell lines for lab tests seeking to confirm the vaccines' effectiveness.Another leading vaccine, made by AstraZeneca and approved for use in Britain and some other countries, is “more morally compromised,” and should be avoided if there are alternatives available, the bishops said.Coinciding with the USCCB, four bishops in Colorado issued their own statement taking a somewhat more negative stance on AstraZeneca, describing it as “not a morally valid option.”AstraZeneca used a cell line known as HEK293 to develop its vaccine. According to the Oxford University team that developed it, the original HEK293 cells were taken from the kidney of an aborted fetus in 1973, but the cells used now are clones of the original cells and are not the original fetal tissue.As the first vaccines neared approval last year, some Catholic bishops warned they might be morally unacceptable. Among them was Bishop Joseph Brennan of Fresno, California, who urged Catholics not to jump on the “vaccine bandwagon.”He later modified his stance, saying that due to health risks for individuals and communities, “Catholics may ethically decide for serious reasons to utilize such vaccines.”Also questioning the vaccines was Bishop Joseph Strickland of Tyler, Texas, who has depicted any use of aborted fetuses in vaccine development as evil and says he won’t take any of the currently available vaccines.“The Church has said that under some circumstances receiving the vaccine is permissible and I do not dispute that,” he said via email. “The Church has also said we should vigorously call for morally produced vaccines, and I urge those who take the vaccine to join that mission and demand change.”Strickland is encouraging donations to the John Paul II Medical Research Institute, which supports research aimed at developing what it calls “ethical” cell lines — using adults’ stem cells — that would be used in the manufacturing of vaccines and other medical therapies.Some other outspokenly anti-abortion bishops have embraced the vaccines.“As a Christian engages the world, it’s impossible, in many settings, to completely avoid cooperating with moral evil,” tweeted Bishop Thomas Tobin of Providence, Rhode Island. “The Church, on multiple levels, has said that it’s morally acceptable to receive the vaccines that are currently available. I agree.”Bishop Richard Stika of Knoxville, Tennessee, said he had no qualms about getting vaccinated.“I just hope they don’t implant a microchip in my arm to ascertain when I cheat on my diet,” he joked on Twitter.Among Protestant evangelical leaders, who generally have strong anti-abortion views, there’s been relatively little anti-vaccine rhetoric, according to the Rev. Russell Moore, who heads the public policy arm of the Southern Baptist Convention.“I wouldn’t be able to think of one evangelical pastor who’s saying, ‘Don’t be vaccinated,’” he said.A more notable challenge for pastors, Moore said, is countering baseless anti-vaccine conspiracy theories embraced by some members of their congregations or communities — for example that the vaccines would alter a recipient’s DNA or covertly implant a microchip.On a global level, the Vatican has issued guidelines largely similar to those from the US bishops, declaring it morally acceptable for Catholics to receive Covid-19 vaccines based on research that used cells derived from aborted fetuses.One difference: It didn’t name or give details about specific vaccines. The Vatican plans to use the Pfizer vaccine starting this week for employees and their families, and Pope Francis — in an interview with an Italian broadcaster being aired this weekend — said he has an appointment to be vaccinated.The Vatican has suggested it is wrong to refuse a vaccine based solely on the abortion objection, since refusal "may also result in a risk to others.”Nicanor Austriaco, a molecular biologist and Catholic priest who teaches at universities in the US and the Philippines, said the Vatican has appropriately addressed faith-based concerns about vaccines indirectly connected to research that used aborted fetal cells.“The moral evil being contemplated here” took place in the 1970s when the original cell line was created, Austriaco said, “and it is remote.”G. Kevin Donovan, a pediatrics professor at Georgetown University who directs its Pellegrino Center for Clinical Bioethics, said leaders of his Catholic faith couldn’t have been “more clear-cut.”“The advantage Catholics have is … the highest levels of authority have made it very clear this is a morally acceptable thing to do,” said Donovan.In Indonesia, home to the world’s largest Muslim population, a Muslim clerical council has been included in that nation's vaccine procurement process to ensure that a product is halal, or acceptable for use under Islamic law. In the past, the council has ruled that some vaccines for other diseases were unacceptable because they used pork-derived gelatin.But on Friday the council gave its approval to China’s Sinovac Covid-19 vaccine, paving the way for its distribution in Indonesia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/antiabortion-faith-leaders-support-use-of-covid-19-vaccines-101610288090658.html
10-01-2021||World||Explained: Why is Indonesia prone to plane crashes||Saturday's plane crash in Indonesia, in which a Sriwijaya Air Boeing 737-500 plunged into the Java Sea shortly after takeoff, has once again cast the limelight on the safety of the country's aviation industry.Indonesia's aviation record is one of the worst in Asia, with more civilian airliner passenger accidents since 1945 than any other country in the region. Past accidents have been attributed to poor pilot training, mechanical failures, air traffic control issues and poor aircraft maintenance.While experts say there have been many improvements in recent years, the latest crash has experts questioning the true progress of Indonesia's aviation oversight and regulation.Why has Indonesia had so many plane crashes?It's due to a combination of economic, social and geographical factors.In the early years of Indonesia’s aviation boom, after the fall of Suharto in the late 1990s opened the economy following decades of dictatorships, there was little regulation or oversight of the industry.Low-cost air carriers including Lion Air — which saw one of its planes crash in 2018, killing 189 people — flooded the market, enabling flying to become a common way for many to travel across the vast archipelago nation, which has many areas that still lack efficient or safe transportation infrastructure.According to data from the Aviation Safety Network, Indonesia has had 104 civilian airliner accidents with over 1,300 related fatalities since 1945, ranking it as the most dangerous place to fly in Asia.The United States banned Indonesian carriers from operating in the country from 2007 to 2016 because they were “deficient in one or more areas, such as technical expertise, trained personnel, record-keeping or inspection procedures.” The European Union had a similar ban from 2007 until 2018.Have things improved?Yes, they have.“Engagement with the industry has significantly improved and oversight has become more rigorous,” aviation expert and editor-in-chief of AirlineRatings.com Geoffrey Thomas told The Associated Press.That includes more frequent inspections, stronger regulation of maintenance facilities and procedures, and better pilot training, he said.The US Federal Aviation Administration granted Indonesia a Category 1 rating in 2016, meaning it determined that the country complied with International Civil Aviation Organization safety standards.Why did the latest crash happen?It’s too soon to tell. Experts said there could be several reasons, including human error, the plane’s condition and poor weather in Jakarta, where the plane departed from.Fishermen in the vicinity of the crash said they heard an explosion, followed by debris and fuel surrounding their boat. But heavy rain impaired their vision and they were unable to see much more.Sriwijaya Air has had only minor incidents in the past, though a farmer was killed in 2008 when one of its planes went off the runway while landing due to a hydraulic issue.The airline's president director, Jefferson Irwin Jauwena, said the plane that crashed, which was 26 years old and previously used by airlines in the United States, was airworthy. He told reporters that the plane had previously flown on the same day.But experts said an investigation is needed to determine whether the plane was in fact fit to fly.When will we know more?Officials said they located the wreckage site and the plane's black boxes on Sunday. Authorities are currently working to retrieve the flight data recorder and cockpit voice recorder from the sea. Materials pulled from water, including the black boxes, could provide some insight into what happened.But the investigation could take weeks, likely months, said Indonesian aviation consultant Gerry Soejatman.Indonesia is expected to lead the investigation, with international observers typically welcomed as well. There should be an interim report from Indonesia’s National Transportation Safety Committee within a month, Soejatman said.“The analysis will start with that report," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/explained-why-is-indonesia-prone-to-plane-crashes-101610286049379.html
10-01-2021||World||'Open-door policy': Biden's Cabinet picks shed light on how he plans to govern||Joe Biden promised that his presidency would mean a return to normalcy. His Cabinet picks help demonstrate how he plans to deliver.The president-elect announced his final nominees this past week, completing a diverse team of two dozen people. He noted Friday that this will be the “first Cabinet ever” to reach gender parity and include a majority of people of colour, notable given earlier concerns that he was leaning largely on white men.Some nominees have decades of experience in their respective agencies. Many held prominent roles in the Obama administration. Many have already begun meeting with interest groups and advocacy organizations, and his transition team has had what’s been described as an “open-door policy” toward advocacy groups for months.It’s a sharp contrast to President Donald Trump’s Cabinet, which was dominated largely by white men with little experience in Washington. Biden’s aides say that was one of the goals he set in filling out his Cabinet: to signal that his presidency means a return to competent, stable leadership government.That's especially important, Democrats say, as the pandemic and economic turmoil rage and the country navigates through the aftermath of last week's violent insurrection at the US Capitol.“Joe Biden is taking office under the most challenging circumstances in a century,” said Dan Pfeiffer, a former Obama White House senior adviser. “There is no time for on the job training. He needs people who can hit the ground running because what happens in the first six months of his presidency will likely determine the trajectory of all four years.”Biden's Cabinet is unlikely to be in place when he assumes the presidency on Jan. 20. The Senate, which must confirm the nominees, hasn't scheduled hearings for many of the picks. One exception is Lloyd Austin, Biden's nominee for defense secretary, who is expected to appear before the Senate Armed Services Committee on Jan. 19.Some nominees faced early questions about their confirmation prospects, particularly Neera Tanden, Biden's pick to lead the Office of Management and Budget. Tanden has angered Republicans with her outspoken criticism of them on Twitter.But the confirmation process for many of the nominees may be smoother after Democrats picked up two Senate seats in Georgia last week, leaving the chamber evenly divided. Vice President-elect Kamala Harris will be the tie-breaking vote, giving Democrats the edge.Biden spokesman Andrew Bates said that the president-elect is "working in good faith with both parties in Congress toward swift confirmation because with so much at stake, with our national security on the line and lives and jobs being lost every day, our nation cannot afford to waste any time.”But many nominees may face unprecedented levels of scrutiny as they work to dig their departments out of both the erosion in public trust in government and an erosion of morale from within. Many department budgets and staff were gutted during the Trump administration.That hollowing out is part of why it’s so important for Biden to choose seasoned veterans for his Cabinet, according to Eric Schultz, a former senior White House adviser.“One of the problems that Biden faces that Obama did not in 2009 is how the Trump administration has treated federal agencies and departments,” he said. “Rebuilding — just, operationally — these agencies, to get that back up and running, is going to take a lot of work. So it wouldn’t make sense to put in a bunch of newbies.”They’ll also have to navigate demands from progressives looking for major changes from leaders at agencies ranging from the Department of Homeland Security to the Environmental Protection Agency and the Justice Department. Many of them will be on the front lines of addressing a pandemic that’s killed more than 371,000 people in the United States, while taking action on the issues of race and inequality and climate change that have prompted national movements for change in recent years.To get ahead of those problems, Biden's transition team has spent months meeting with trade, advocacy and interest groups across Washington and beyond, looking to re-establish relationships that had atrophied during the Trump administration. Now that his team has been named, his nominees have begun their own meetings with key groups as they prepare to take office.Some meetings are aimed at assuaging concerns among critics, such as when Tom Vilsack, Biden’s pick for agriculture secretary, met with Black farm advocates. Vilsack has faced questions about what critics say was his failure to address discrimination against Black farmers within the agency while he was Obama's agriculture chief.But still others have included representatives from areas not typically seen as pet Democratic constituencies. Three of Biden’s top picks for health adviser positions met with interfaith leaders on Thursday, and the next day Alejandro Mayorkas, Biden's pick at Homeland Security, met with 20 leaders who share his Jewish faith.The Rev. Gabriel Salguero, a Florida-based pastor who founded the National Latino Evangelical Coalition, said the Biden transition has made a “very robust and very intentional” effort to build relationships with faith leaders. Salguero recalled other faith-specific calls with Susan Rice, chosen as Biden’s domestic policy adviser, and Tanden.While Salguero recalled meetings with the Trump administration on key issues, he said the Biden transition team’s outreach already has gone further.Even those groups that may be more aligned with Trump and Republicans on their issues are already pleased with Biden's approach to governing. Democratic lobbyist Steve Elmendorf said that the reaction from his business clients and other Washington lobbyists has been, he said, “very positive” because “business likes certainly.”“Business likes a plan,” Elmendorf said. “And while some of the outcomes under Donald Trump, people liked, they really didn’t like the government by tweet and Fox News.”Even those who don’t agree with all of Biden’s policies, Elmendorf said, are relieved at the return to normal working order because “they believe that there will be a process that is know, and is transparent, and where stakeholders will have an opportunity to make their views known."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/opendoor-policy-biden-s-cabinet-picks-shed-light-on-how-he-plans-to-govern-101610286841740.html
10-01-2021||World||Daily low flying Israeli jets over Lebanon spread jitters||Israeli military jets carried out several low flying flights over Beirut as reconnaissance drones also buzzed overhead Sunday in what has become a daily occurrence.Israel regularly violates Lebanon airspace, often to carry out strikes in neighboring Syria. On Christmas Eve, Israeli jets flew low late into the night, terrorizing Beirut residents who are no strangers to such flights. They were followed by reported Israeli strikes in Syria.The frequency of low flying warplanes over the capital has intensified in the last two weeks, making residents jittery as tensions run high in the region on the final days of President Donald Trump's administration.Israel rarely comments on these reports.Many fear conflict may erupt in the area before Trump leaves office in retaliation for the US killing of Iranian commander Qassem Soleimani in Iraq last year, or to scuttle efforts by the incoming administration of Joe Biden to negotiate with Iran.On Friday, the Lebanese army recorded an Israeli flight that lasted nearly six hours in the country’s south.A Twitter account that tracks aircraft movement in the Middle East, #Intel_Sky, has recorded dozens of Israeli jets flying over Lebanon, including mock raids, since the start of the year. #Intel_Sky called Sunday's flights “mock raids.”At one point this summer, the Lebanese army said Israel violated its airspace nearly 30 times in two days, flying reconnaissance drones and jets into Lebanese territory.The United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon says Israel enters Lebanese airspace on a daily basis in violation of U.N. resolutions and the country’s sovereignty.Between June and October 2020, UNIFIL recorded a daily average of 12.63 airspace violations, totaling 61 hours and 51 minutes in flight time, a significant increase from the previous four months. Drones accounted for approximately 95% of the violations, UNIFIL said.Israel and Lebanon are technically at war. Hezbollah, the powerful Lebanese militant group backed by Iran, is a sworn enemy of Israel and the two have had a series of confrontations, including a full-scale war in 2006.Hezbollah's leader, Hassan Nasrallah, in a year-end interview, said Israel’s efforts to curb his group’s ability to acquire precision-guided missiles have failed. He boasted that Hezbollah now has twice as many such missiles as it had last year.Israel has in recent months expressed concern that Hezbollah is trying to establish production facilities to make precision-guided missiles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/daily-low-flying-israeli-jets-over-lebanon-spread-jitters-101610287174448.html
10-01-2021||World||'Encouraged violence': Trump legacy on race shadowed by divisive rhetoric||President Donald Trump repeatedly claimed in the final months of his presidency — and without a trace of irony — to have done more for Black Americans than anyone with the “possible exception” of Abraham Lincoln.He boasted that the African American unemployment rate dropped to record lows under his watch before the coronavirus pandemic ravaged the economy. Trump heralded his administration’s criminal justice overhaul for shortening mandatory minimum sentences for nonviolent drug offenses and leading to the release of thousands of incarcerated people, mostly Black Americans. Trump also relished that he increased funding for historically black colleges and universities.But in the end, historians say Trump’s legacy — and his electoral undoing — will be largely shaped by rhetoric aimed at stirring significant swaths of his white base that tugged at the long-frayed strands of race relations in America.His strategy of divisiveness was on display this past week as he urged supporters, mostly white men, to descend on the US Capitol in the name of his baseless claims of election fraud.After the pro-Trump mob stormed the hallowed halls of Congress, Trump did not immediately condemn the violence. He did not denigrate the rioters as “THUGS” or warn that he was prepared to greet them with “vicious dogs” and “ominous weapons” as he had threatened largely peaceful Black Lives Matter demonstrators after the police killing of George Floyd this year.Instead, his initial response was a series of tepid tweets and video messages in which he asked his violent loyalists to “go home in peace," let them know he felt their “pain" and told them he loved them.Trump was frequently explicit in using race as a cudgel.He claimed without evidence that Barack Obama, the nation’s first Black president, wasn’t born in the United States, has said Mexican immigrants were “bringing crime” and were “rapists” and argued there were “very fine people on both sides” after violence at a white supremacist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia, left one counterprotester dead.He privately questioned why the United States would accept more immigrants from Haiti and “shithole countries” in Africa rather than from places such as Norway. Trump even wrote in a tweet that appeared to be intended for a group of then-first-term lawmakers — progressive Democrats and women of color — to “go back and help fix the totally broken and crime infested places from which they came.”“Since the Black civil rights movement of the mid-20th century, there has been this kind of tacit agreement in the American political conversation that one could appeal to racial animus, but you had to do so in a particular sort of way,” said Eddie Glaude, Jr., chairman of Princeton University’s African American studies program. “Trump made that all explicit again. He brought it to the fore. He mainstreamed certain assumptions about race that were driving our politics anyway.”Human rights activists say that the Capitol siege was the macabre ending of a presidency that embraced white supremacist groups and extremists and fanned the flames of chaos and violence.“This is a moment of reckoning for the United States," said Bob Goodfellow, interim executive director of Amnesty International USA. “President Trump has repeatedly encouraged violence and disorder by his supporters. These are not the actions of a leader, but an instigator.”The New York real estate tycoon rose to the presidency despite his complicated past with his hometown's Black and Latino communities. There was his refusal to apologize for harsh comments in 1989 about five Black and Latino men who as teenagers were wrongly convicted in a jogger's brutal rape in New York City's Central Park. Trump paid for newspaper advertisements back then calling for New York state to adopt the death penalty after the attack.Early in his real estate career, Trump and his father were sued by the Justice Department for violating fair housing laws by discriminating against Black applicants. The Trumps ultimately entered a consent decree but did not admit guilt.Trump's 2016 White House win over Democrat Hillary Clinton was aided by the first decline in Black voter turnout in 20 years. Since his November loss to President-elect Joe Biden, he has made unsubstantiated allegations of voter fraud in large urban centers such as Detroit, Milwaukee and Philadelphia — all areas with big African American electorates — that proved critical to Trump's defeat.There has been no evidence of the massive fraud or gross error that Trump and his team alleged in scores of lawsuits that judges, whether appointed by Republicans, Democrats or Trump himself, systematically dismissed.Still, the Republican National Committee, in the aftermath of Trump's loss, has tried to cast the Trump era as one in which the GOP loosened the Democratic grip on Black voters."Because of his leadership we have changed the political map forever and Republicans have a road map on how to be competitive and victorious in nontraditional communities,” RNC spokesman Paris Dennard said in a statement.The Rev. Marshall Hatch, a civil rights activist in Chicago, said that Trump’s defeat at the polls brought a moment of relief.But Hatch said his joy quickly was eclipsed by the recognition that some 74 million Americans were OK voting for Trump even though he repeatedly has played down white supremacy, vilified women of color and tried to diminish the issue of racial injustice in American policing.Hatch leads the New Mount Pilgrim Missionary Baptist Church in Chicago’s West Garfield Park neighborhood that still has scars from the riots that followed the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr.’s assassination more than 50 years ago. The predominantly Black neighborhood has been disproportionately affected by the toll of the coronavirus pandemic.The areas surrounding the church have among the highest infection rates in the state. Hatch's church community has lost several congregants — including his older sister, Rhoda Jean Hatch — to the virus.“If these were disproportionately white people dying, it is hard to see Trump or the nation reacting the way it has in the political context,” Hatch said. “It is hard to reconcile that there are some 74 million Americans — and a majority of white people — who thought Donald Trump still deserved a second term.”A few miles down the road on Chicago's West Side, Hatch's friend and fellow activist, the Rev. Ira Acree, said he fell into a depression early in the summer as the mood darkened in Black neighborhoods like his own after the Memorial Day police killing of George Floyd in Minneapolis.Acree, who was recovering at home after being diagnosed with Covid-19, recalled watching on television as law enforcement officers used tear gas and riot control tactics to clear protesters from near the White House moments before Trump strode across Lafayette Square for a photo op in front of the church that had been damaged during unrest the night before.Acree's concerns grew months later after Trump refused to condemn the far-right extremist group, the Proud Boys, during a presidential debate.Acree said he was trying to remain optimistic that Trump's defeat marked a turning point for race relations, but then the riot at the Capitol dashed much of that hope.“I'm worried that this may be only the beginning,” Acree said. “It's going to blow up if our better selves don't rise up and say enough is enough.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/encouraged-violence-trump-legacy-on-race-shadowed-by-divisive-rhetoric-101610286861937.html
10-01-2021||World||Nancy Pelosi urges Democrats to return to DC amid Trump's impeachment calls||US House of Representatives Speaker Nancy Pelosi told her Democratic colleagues in the lower chamber to prepare to return to Washington this week amid talks of impeaching President Donald Trump for a second time over his role in inciting the mob that breached the US Capitol on Wednesday.According to The Hill, in a "Dear Colleague" letter sent to Democratic members on Saturday, Pelosi wrote: "We will be proceeding with meetings with Members and Constitutional experts and others. I continue to welcome your comments. I urge you to be prepared to return to Washington this week."The letter comes as the lower chamber Democrats "appear poised" to impeach Trump over his role in inciting Wednesday's attack on the Capitol -- as members of both the Senate and the House were certifying Joe Biden's electoral college win in the Presidential election -- which saw a mob of his supporters damaging windows, vandalizing congressional offices and even accessing the chambers.Five people died in the attacks, including 42-year-old Capitol Hill Police Officer Brian Sicknick.Pelosi stated in the letter that lawmakers have taken an oath of office to defend democracy."For that reason, it is absolutely essential that those who perpetrated the assault on our democracy be held accountable. There must be a recognition that this desecration was instigated by the President," she wrote."From what I have heard from Members and from the deluge that I have received from the public, it is clear that, once again, the 'Times Have Found Us' to save our democracy," the House speaker concluded.The Hill reported that Democrats and some Republicans had previously voiced support of vice president Mike Pence and other Cabinet members invoking the 25th amendment to remove Trump out of fear he could incite more violence in the remaining days of his presidency.The Speaker previously threatened impeachment if Pence did not invoke the 25th amendment, a move that the vice president reportedly opposes, according to sources in talks with the White House.Pelosi said on Friday night that if Trump does not resign she has directed the Rules Committee to quickly take up a motion to impeach Trump as well as legislation to create a commission that can declare that the President is "unable to discharge the powers and duties of his office."Chaotic and violent scenes erupted at the Capitol on Wednesday as Trump supporters stormed the building to protest the Electoral College vote, forcing a lockdown and confrontations with the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nancy-pelosi-urges-democrats-to-return-to-dc-amid-trump-s-impeachment-calls-101610284616822.html
10-01-2021||World||China recovering fast ahead of most big economies, says IMF||China is recovering fast ahead of most large economies, but the recovery is still unbalanced and facing significant downside risks, the IMF has said, projecting an eight per cent growth rate for the world’s second-largest economy in 2021.However, the main concern around the Chinese recovery that the International Monetary Fund (IMF) has is the lack of balance, said Hlge Berger, Mission Chief for China and Assistant Director, Asia and Pacific Department of the IMF.The recovery is still relying mostly on public support. Private investment has strengthened recently, but consumption is lagging. Growth rates and consumption recently have been higher, but the level of consumption compared to its pre-crisis trend is still rather low, he told reporters during a conference call on Saturday on the publication of the 2020 China Article IV Staff Report.“China is recovering fast ahead of most large economies, but the recovery is still unbalanced and facing significant downside risks. We are seeing growth at around 2 per cent in 2020 and around 8 per cent in 2021. December numbers have been surprising on the upside, so there are some upside risks to that forecast,” said Berger.On the other hand, he said that there are significant downside risks. Domestically, there is a pandemic risk that is still around. Also, the external environment has generally become a little bit more difficult for China and its economic relations with other countries.“This is a large reason for the fact that we think that there's still an output gap this year of 1.8 per cent. That's the difference between what the economy potentially can have in terms of GDP and what we are actually expecting in terms of demand. So that's where this lack of balance comes in, and this has important implications for the way macro policies should be conducted,” Berger said.In the short term, he said, the IMF does not withdraw macroeconomic policy support prematurely in China. And this is the advice that other countries are getting from the IMF, so this is a bit of a global concern, but it applies to China as well.“The second implication of our analysis of the outlook and the risks around it is that we need to make sure that we adjust the composition of macroeconomic support away from investment towards household support. This will directly help consumption. This has implications, of course, for our policies to strengthen the social safety net,” Berger said.Noting that structural reforms have been progressing despite the pandemic which is quite an achievement in China, Berger said that this reform effort has been predominately in the area of opening financial services to the outside world, and less so in the real sector. Real sector reforms, however, are important, he said.While productivity has increased in the past, the levels for the productivity in China are still relatively low compared to the global frontier, he said. Aerage productivity across all sectors is around 30 per cent of the global frontier.The external environment has become a bit difficult in recent years and if that stays like this, it will be harder to tap into external productivity improvements through normal means of trade and FDI, he said.China, Berger said, can also help others to overcome the challenges from the crisis.“There we note the very helpful engagement of China to providing debt relief for low-income countries,” he added.China is the world's second largest economy behind the US.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-recovering-fast-ahead-of-most-big-economies-says-imf-101610283090031.html
10-01-2021||World||Japan govt says new coronavirus variant found in travellers from Brazil||A new coronavirus variant has been detected in four travellers from Brazil's Amazonas state, Japan's Health Ministry said on Sunday, in the latest instance the pandemic virus is evolving.A ministry official said studies were underway into the efficacy of vaccines against the new variant, which differs from highly-infectious variants first found in Britain and South Africa that have driven a surge in cases."At the moment, there is no proof showing the new variant found in those from Brazil is high in infectiousness," Takaji Wakita, head of the National Institute of Infectious Diseases, told a health ministry briefing.Of the four travellers who arrived at Tokyo's Haneda airport on Jan. 2, a man in his forties had a problem breathing, a woman in her thirties had a headache and sore throat and a man in his teens had a fever, while a woman in her teens showed no symptoms, the health ministry said.After seeing a steep rise in coronavirus cases, Japan declared a state of emergency for Tokyo and three prefectures neighbouring the capital on Thursday.Nationwide cases have totalled about 289,000, with 4,061 deaths, public broadcaster NHK said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/japan-govt-says-new-coronavirus-variant-found-in-travellers-from-brazil-101610282646024.html
10-01-2021||World||End in sight? Israel rolls out Covid booster shots||Israel's coronavirus vaccination campaign, the world's fastest per capita, shifted to booster shots on Sunday in a bid to protect the most vulnerable citizens by next month and ease curbs on the economy.Israelis over the age of 60, those with health problems and medical personnel have been receiving first injections of Pfizer Inc. vaccines since Dec 19. As three weeks have passed, they are beginning to be due for follow-up, final doses."It changes everything," said Guy Choshen, a director of the Covid-19 ward at Tel Aviv's Ichilov Hospital, who got his second injection. "I'm really happy that I'm over that (and) looking forward for all this epidemic to be finished."The Health Ministry said 19.5% of the population have been vaccinated, including more than 72% of the over-60s. Latecomer elderly will be admitted for first shots, officials say, but otherwise vaccines will be reserved for boosters.Israel's vaccination rate is by far the fastest compared to the rest of the world, according to the Our World in Data website, which is run by research organisation Oxford Martin School.In second place is the United Arab Emirates, which as of Sunday had inoculated 10% of its population, followed by Bahrain and the United States at 5% and 2%, respectively.Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has said vaccinating vulnerable cohorts will allow Israel to emerge from the pandemic in February. He is up for reelection in March.Israel has in parallel tightened a lockdown to rein in a surge in coronavirus cases. Officials say public over-confidence in the vaccines may have led to laxity in other precautions and stoked fresh contagions. Hospitals worry about being overwhelmed by patients and personnel being more exposed."We have quite a rise in the numbers of medical staff which are infected in the last 10 days - an extreme increase - and we are afraid that we'll be short of people," Chosen said.A week after the booster, each recipient will be issued with a Health Ministry vaccination certificate providing exemption from quarantine, officials say.Israel last week received an initial shipment of Moderna Inc vaccines which Netanyahu said would be administered at home to those who cannot come to clinics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/end-in-sight-israel-rolls-out-covid-booster-shots-101610283080714.html
10-01-2021||World||Scarce doses and empty vaccination centres: Germany's vaccine rollout headache||Proud of their national reputation for efficiency, Germans are growing increasingly frustrated by the slow rollout of a Covid-19 vaccine its scientists helped develop.Scarce vaccine supply, cumbersome paperwork, a lack of healthcare staff and an aged and immobile population are hampering efforts to get early doses of a vaccine made by US-based Pfizer and German partner BioNTech into the arms of the people.Germany has set up hundreds of vaccination centres in sports halls and concert arenas and has the infrastructure to administer up to 300,000 shots a day, Health Minister Jens Spahn said.But the majority are standing empty, with most states not planning to open centres until mid-January as they prioritise sending mobile teams into care homes.A day spent with a vaccination team in the small town of Dillenburg, 100 km (60 miles) to the north of Germany's financial capital Frankfurt, shows just how painstaking the task is.The team starts out by loading a cool-box containing 84 doses of the Pfizer vaccine defrosted overnight into a waiting ambulance, and setting out for the Elisabeth residential care home.Read more: Germany records more than 1,100 Covid-19 deaths in 24 hours as concerns over mutated strain risesThere they are met by manager Peter Bittermann, who has already dealt with the forms needed to vaccinate residents and staff, and provided space for the shots to be administered and recipients monitored post-vaccination.The four-member immunisation team, plus two trainees, has just a few hours to dispense the temperature-sensitive Pfizer vaccine before it is no longer fit for use.The German Red Cross needs an extra 350 people to run its local vaccination campaign, said Nicole Fey, spokeswoman of the local district administration."We've been able to recruit some, but there can never be enough," she told Reuters TV.In the first two weeks of its vaccination drive Germany has given 533,000 shots, just two-fifths of the 1.3 million doses received. Britain, by contrast, has reached the 2 million mark.Read more: Germany set for longer lockdown as death figures spikeIsrael, the world leader in terms of the share of population covered, is inoculating 150,000 people daily, with its universal and digitally enabled healthcare system making it easier to schedule appointments.Germany's larger size and federal set-up are complicating operations, a problem also faced in the United States.Elsewhere in Europe, the decentralisation of Spain's vaccination operation has exposed differences between regions and led to tensions with the central government.Germany's 16 states blame the federal government for not securing enough doses. Doctors in some centres say shifts have been cancelled. In Berlin, one vaccination centre was opened, only to be closed over New Year due to a lack of shots.Spahn says manufacturing problems rather than too few orders are to blame for the limited supply, after Pfizer and BioNTech in December halved their production forecast to 50 million doses by year-end. Each recipient requires two shots..The government is working with BioNTech to open a new production site in the western town of Marburg, he said. BioNTech's chief executive said last week the Marburg plant may enter service in February, ahead of schedule."With the capacity we have already created in Germany, we will be able to carry out between 250,000 and 300,000 vaccinations per day - when we have the vaccine doses," Spahn said this week.Germany expects to receive 5.3 million shots from Pfizer/BioNTech by mid-February and another 2 million doses of a second vaccine from Moderna, just approved by the European Union, by the end of March.Yet this will barely be enough to cover the 5.7 million people, or 6.8% of the population, aged over 80.Read more: Germany urges patience with Covid vaccine rollout under fireThe Last MileAs in Spain, state-by-state performance in Germany varies widely. Top of the class is Mecklenburg-Vorpommern in the north, with 15.6 vaccinations per 1,000 residents, while Saxony has a rate of just 4.4.In Thuringia, another laggard, state premier Bodo Ramelow said on Tuesday that many doses sent to hospitals had been returned. "If the brakes come on at a vaccination rate of 30 or 33%, we have a real problem," he told Deutschlandfunk radio.In Saxony, the social affairs ministry said missing consent forms, challenges with route planning, Covid outbreaks in homes and last-minute cancellations had slowed its rollout.Shots in Saxony were stored centrally until recently, meaning mobile teams had to drive long distances before heading to care homes.In contrast to Dillenburg, Saxony has been overrun by people volunteering for its vaccination drive, said Lars Werthmann, regional logistics chief at the German Red Cross."The next mammoth task is to coordinate all these people,” Werthmann said.Doctors meanwhile express frustration at appointment booking systems that vary from state to state, saying they cause confusion and erode trust.To speed up the rollout of Covid-19 shots, Germany should distribute them through its network of family doctors' practices as soon as there is a vaccine that can be easily stored in a fridge, said Berlin paediatrician Burkhard Ruppert.Germany is hoping to administer shots at doctors’ practices in a second phase."Our strength in Germany is this outpatient care system," said Ruppert, who heads a local doctors' association. "We're not a country of large-scale managed systems like the United Kingdom or Israel might be.""We are in a race against a virus," he added. "We will only win if we vaccinate as much and as fast as possible."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/scarce-doses-and-empty-vaccination-centres-germany-s-vaccine-rollout-headache-101610280221135.html
10-01-2021||World||Power supply in Pakistan being restored after hours of blackout||Power supply in Pakistan is being restored in phases after the country witnessed one of its worst blackouts around midnight, leaving millions of citizens in darkness.As of Sunday afternoon, supplies were beginning to resume in the cities, power minister Omar Ayub Khan said on Twitter. The nationwide outage was triggered by a snag at the Guddu power plant, the country’s largest, causing the national grid to collapse, according to Khan.Residents took to Twitter to voice their anger at the situation, while others offered good wishes for those being treated in hospitals.“Meanwhile, please pray for all those who are currently on ventilators,” a resident tweeted. “I hope every hospital in Pakistan has adequate power supply during this time.”The incident points to a need to overhaul the country’s power transmission system to provide reliable electricity.“It’s not the first time this has happened; the country’s power infrastructure is fragile,” Michael Kugelman, senior associate for South Asia at the Washington-based Wilson Center said on Twitter. “In the past, separatist attacks have been blamed for such outages. That doesn’t appear to be the case this time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/power-supply-in-pakistan-being-restored-after-hours-of-blackout-101610280518844.html
10-01-2021||World||Twitter removes Chinese embassy ‘baby-making machines’ tweet on Uighur women||Twitter has removed a post by the Chinese embassy in the US that defended the allegations of forced sterilisation by saying Uighur women were no longer “baby-making machines”. The micro-blogging platform said that the tweet “violated the Twitter rules”, but didn’t provide any further details.The Chinese embassy on Thursday shared an article by state mouthpiece China Daily, saying the minds of Uighur women were “emancipated” and their reproductive health was “promoted, making them no longer baby-making machines.” The tweet drew widespread condemnation and the US envoy on international religious freedom, Sam Brownback, said that he was “appalled and disgusted” by the lies of the Chinese embassy.“Mass detention is not emancipation. Coercive population control is not reproductive health care. Uyghur women deserve to enjoy their religious freedom and unalienable rights with dignity to make their own choices,” tweeted Brownback.Appalled and disgusted at lies of the @ChineseEmbinUS. Mass detention is not emancipation. Coercive population control is not reproductive health care. Uyghur women deserve to enjoy their religious freedom and unalienable rights with dignity to make their own choices.The Council on American-Islamic Relations (CAIR), an advocacy group, had urged Twitter to remove the tweet, accusing the Chinese embassy of openly celebrating its use of forced sterilisations and other forms of torture. CAIR National Executive Director Nihad Awad said in a statement that Twitter can help by immediately deleting the “horrific tweet” and ensuring that foreign governments cannot use their platforms to “justify or celebrate crimes against humanity.”Also Read | China signals it won’t stop crackdown in Xinjiang despite international backlashAfter Twitter removed the post, the embassy promoted the same article, originally published by another state-run media Xinhua, with a different caption. Citing a study titled ‘An Analysis Report on Population Change in Xinjiang’, the report claimed that the “natural growth rate” of the population in Xinjiang decreased from 11.4 per 1,000 people in 2017 to 6.13 per 1,000 people in 2018. It attributed the change to the implementation of a “unified family planning policy” and eradication of “religious extremism in the region.”Last year, the Associated Press had reported that Beijing has been taking draconian measures to curb birth rates among Uighurs as a part of the crackdown on China’s Muslim population. German researcher Adrian Zenz, who is known for his studies of the Xinjiang re-education camps, found the kind of decline in the Muslim population “unprecedented” and said that there was a ruthlessness to it.US State Secretary Mike Pompeo had then called on China to immediately stop forced sterilisation and said that the revelations made by Zenz were “sadly consistent” with decades of the Chinese Communist Party practices. “We call on the Chinese Communist Party to immediately end these horrific practices and ask all nations to join the United States in demanding an end to these dehumanizing abuses,” the top US diplomat had said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/twitter-removes-chinese-embassy-baby-making-machines-tweet-on-uighur-women-101610279468132.html
10-01-2021||World||Arnold Schwarzenegger tells President Trump he is ‘Terminated’||Arnold Schwarzenegger offered his trademark parting message to Donald Trump after last week’s storming of the U.S. Capitol by the president’s supporters: “You are terminated, Mr. President,” Schwarzenegger told Germany’s Bild am Sonntag newspaper.The former California governor and Hollywood action star, a native of Austria, said the scenes from the Capitol saddened him. “That’s not our America. That’s not my America,” he said.Schwarzenegger, a Republican, wrote a piece for the Economist the day before last week’s tumult, saying Trump needed to end his “stupid, crazy and evil” ploy to cling to power. He told Bild am Sonntag that he had spent time with Trump, but never seen him acting as he recently has been.The U.S., the “wonderful” country he fell in love with in the 1960s, will survive this period of turmoil thanks to its strength and perseverance, Schwarzenegger said. It always manages to get up again, “like a phoenix from the ashes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/arnold-schwarzenegger-tells-president-trump-he-is-terminated-101610280010236.html
10-01-2021||World||Chinese state media blast latest Pompeo move on Taiwan||China's state media lashed out at the latest move on Taiwan by the departing Trump administration, accusing US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo of “seeking to maliciously inflict a long-lasting scar on China-U.S. ties.”A writer for the official Xinhua News Agency said in a commentary Sunday that the lifting of longstanding restrictions on US government contacts with Taiwanese counterparts proves that Pompeo “is only interested in stoking unwarranted confrontations, and has no interest in world peace.”A commentary posted online by CGTN, the English-language channel of state broadcaster CCTV, called Pompeo's announcement “a cowardly act of sabotage" of the next US administration.“The Trump administration, in its continuing efforts to burn the house down before leaving office, has crossed a dangerous red line with China days before incoming President Joe Biden takes office,” the commentary read in part.Biden takes office on Jan. 20.There was no immediate comment from the Chinese government on Pompeo's decision to end State Department restrictions on how US officials can interact with Taiwan, which he said had been implemented to appease the Communist regime in Beijing.“No more,” Pompeo declared in a statement Saturday. “Today I am announcing that I am lifting all of these self-imposed restrictions.”Taiwan is a sensitive issue for China's ruling Communist Party, which considers the self-governing island of 23.6 million people a renegade province that should be brought under its rule.Under the one-China policy, the US recognizes Beijing as the government of China and doesn't have diplomatic relations with Taiwan. However, it maintains unofficial contacts including a de facto embassy in Taipei, the capital, and supplies military equipment for the island's defense.Taiwanese leaders welcomed Pompeo's announcement.“We are expressing our gratitude toward the US for speaking out and supporting Taiwan,” Premier Su Tseng-chang told reporters. "We also hope to interact actively with each other further, so that Taiwan could have an even bigger space in the international society.”He and Foreign Minister Joseph Wu, who thanked Pompeo on Twitter, emphasized the values of freedom and democracy shared by Taiwan and the US — a contrast to China’s authoritarian one-party state.Pompeo's announcement came two days after he said he would send Kelly Craft, the US ambassador to the United Nations, to Taiwan for meetings this week. She is due to arrive on Wednesday.Craft's trip follows one by Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar in August, the first Cabinet member to visit Taiwan since 2014, and another by Under Secretary of State Keith Krach in September.China, which opposes Taiwan having its own foreign relations, sharply criticizes all such interaction. It stepped up aerial patrols off Taiwan last year and used its diplomatic clout to block Taiwan from participating in international forums, such as the World Health Organization's annual meeting.Hu Xijin, the editor of China's state-owned Global Times newspaper, tweeted that if Pompeo's announcement is the new starting point for America's Taiwan policy, it will also mark the start of the countdown for the survival of Taiwan's government.“(China's) fighter jets can fly over Taiwan island anytime,” he tweeted. “The option of using military means to solve (the) Taiwan question will also be put on the table.”Pompeo said that the US maintains relationships with unofficial partners around the world, and that Taiwan is no exception.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinese-state-media-blast-latest-pompeo-move-on-taiwan-101610279591117.html
10-01-2021||World||Putin to host first post-war talks between Armenia, Azerbaijan||Armenian Prime Minister Nikol Pashinyan and Azerbaijan President Ilham Aliyev plan to meet in Moscow Monday for the first time since their countries fought a 44-day war.The talks, which will also include Russian President Vladimir Putin, will focus on aiding residents of the war zone and unblocking economic and transportation links between the countries, the Kremlin said in a statement Sunday. Putin initiated the meeting, according to the release.Read more: Russia 2020 output at lowest in nearly a decadeMore than 5,500 soldiers on both sides died in fighting over the disputed territory of Nagorno-Karabakh before Russia brokered a truce on Nov. 10. Armenia withdrew from several Azerbaijani regions it had occupied for nearly three decades under the deal, which is being overseen by Russian peacekeepers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/putin-to-host-first-post-war-talks-between-armenia-azerbaijan-101610279242990.html
10-01-2021||World||German parliament boosts security after US Capitol riots||Security has been stepped up at Germany's Bundestag (lower house of parliament) after the storming of the Capitol in Washington by rioters last week, Bundestag President Wolfgang Schaeuble has told lawmakers, Bild am Sonntag weekly reported."Berlin state police have arranged for a reinforcement of their forces around the Reichstag building," it quoted Schaueble as saying in a letter to lawmakers.A spokeswoman for the Bundestag confirmed that Schaeuble had written to lawmakers about the current situation but declined to give details of the content of the letter.In photos: Trump supporters storm US CapitolBild am Sonntag also reported that Schaeuble had asked the Foreign Ministry for a report on the Washington violence and would "clarify with the federal government and the state of Berlin what conclusions should be drawn for Bundestag security".Angry supporters of US President Donald Trump, voted out of office in a November election, broke into the Washington Capitol, seat of the US House of Representatives and Senate, on Wednesday. Five people died, including a police officer.In Berlin, protesters against coronavirus restrictions stormed the steps of the parliament building during a demonstration in August. Some were waving the far-right Reichsflagge flag.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/german-parliament-boosts-security-after-us-capitol-riots-101610276026963.html
10-01-2021||World||French lack confidence in Macron virus effort, poll shows||A majority of French people lack confidence in the government’s ability to deal effectively with the coronavirus pandemic or manage the vaccination campaign, even after President Emmanuel Macron accelerated efforts to distribute the shots, according to a survey in newspaper Journal du Dimanche.The percentage of those lacking confidence in the management of the crisis stood at 62%, according to the survey by Ifop for the newspaper, little changed from readings earlier this month and in December. The poll of 1,028 people conducted Thursday and Friday found that 63% doubted the handling of the inoculation effort.Macron and Prime Minister Jean Castex have come under criticism for the slow start to vaccinations since they began Dec. 27. Government officials vowed to speed up the process and said Saturday that 100,000 people will have been vaccinated by the end of the weekend.“We want to go quickly; we wanted first to do things safely, and to be serious,” Castex said Saturday in televised remarks to reporters during a visit to a vaccination center in Tarbes, southwest France.Read more: Moderna vaccine set to arrive in France as country steps up anti-Covid driveFrance reported 20,177 new coronavirus cases on Saturday, while the number of deaths increased by 171 to 67,599, according to statistics from the national health agency. While the government has been aiming to bring the number of daily new cases to below 5,000, there has been around four times that number on most days in January, prompting officials to put more of the nation under an earlier curfew.The virus is circulating at an elevated level, with an average of 18,000 new cases daily, Health Minister Olivier Veran said Sunday in an interview with Cnews television and Europe1 radio.Asked whether France will have to resort to a nationwide lockdown for the third time since the outbreak began, he said that case numbers are still growing slowly, unlike in other European countries such as the U.K. and Germany.Read more: India, France firm on inclusive Indo-Pacific, equal access to Covid-19 vaccines“If we find that there’s again a strong growth in the epidemic, with pressure on the health system, obviously that will have consequences for the decisions we make,” he said. “We’ve always taken and will continue to take the steps necessary, at the moment when it’s necessary to take them, to protect the health of the French.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/french-lack-confidence-in-macron-virus-effort-poll-shows-101610278324222.html
10-01-2021||World||A year after first death in China, coronavirus source still a puzzle||It is the world's most pressing scientific puzzle, but experts warn there may never be conclusive answers over the source of the coronavirus, after an investigative effort marked from the start by disarray, Chinese secrecy and international rancour.January 11 marks the anniversary of China confirming its first death from Covid-19, a 61-year-old man who was a regular at the now-notorious Wuhan wet market.Nearly two million deaths later, the pandemic is out of control across much of the world, leaving tens of millions ill, a pulverised global economy and recriminations flying between nations.Yet China, which has broadly controlled the pandemic on its soil, is still frustrating independent attempts to trace the virus' origins and the central question of how it jumped from animals to humans.There is little dispute that the virus which brought the world to its knees sparked its first known outbreak in late 2019 at a wet market in the central Chinese city of Wuhan where wildlife was sold as food, and the pathogen is believed to have originated in an undetermined bat species.Read more: China: WHO team’s Wuhan visit preparations underwayBut the trail ends there, clouded by a mishmash of subsequent clues that suggest its origins may predate Wuhan as well as conspiracy theories -- amplified by US President Donald Trump -- that it leaked from a Wuhan lab.Establishing the source is vital for extinguishing future outbreaks early, leading virologists say, providing clues that can guide policy decisions on whether to cull animal populations, quarantine affected persons, or limit wildlife hunting and other human-animal interactions."If we can identify why they (viruses) keep emerging, we can reduce those underlying drivers," said Peter Daszak, president of EcoHealth Alliance, a global NGO focused on infectious disease prevention.Doubts about Wuhan marketChina won early kudos for reporting the virus and releasing its gene sequence in a timely manner, compared with its cover-up of the 2002-03 SARS outbreak.But there has also been secrecy and shifting stories.Wuhan authorities initially tried to cover up the outbreak and later spent precious weeks denying human-to-human transmission.Early on, Chinese officials declared flatly that the outbreak began at the Huanan Seafood Market in Wuhan.But Chinese data in January 2020 showed that several of the first cases had no known links to the now-shuttered market, suggesting a source elsewhere.China's story morphed again last March when top Chinese disease control official Gao Fu said the market was not the source, but a "victim", a place where the pathogen was merely amplified.But China has since failed to publicly connect any dots, releasing scant information on animal and environmental samples taken at the market that could aid investigators, experts say.Read more: China sees fresh surge of Covid-19, most cases reported from Hebei provinceAnd it has kept foreign experts at arm's length, with a planned mission by World Health Organization virus sleuths now in limbo after China denied them entry.On Saturday, a top Chinese health official said the country was now "ready" for the 10-strong team and opened the door to a visit to Wuhan.Yet "the specific time is being determined", National Health Commission vice minister Zeng Yixin told reporters.Cold caseWhat the scientists will be allowed to see or may expect to find a year on is also in doubt. Experts say authorities may have destroyed or scrubbed away crucial evidence in a panicked initial response."Every outbreak goes the same way. It's chaotic and dysfunctional," said Daszak."They didn't do a great job on the animal investigation early on," he added."In some ways, they were quite open, in others they were less than open."The reasons for China's secrecy are unclear, but the ruling Communist Party has a history of suppressing politically damaging information.Whistleblowers and citizen reporters who shared details of the terrifying early weeks of the virus on the internet have since been muzzled or jailed.Beijing may want to hide regulatory or investigative lapses to avoid domestic embarrassment or global "blowback", said Daniel Lucey, a Georgetown University epidemiologist who closely tracks global outbreaks.The Wuhan market might not even be the issue, Lucey adds.He notes that the virus was already spreading rapidly in Wuhan by December 2019, indicating that it was in circulation much earlier.That's because it may take months or even years for a virus to develop the necessary mutations to become highly contagious among humans.The market-origin theory is "just not plausible whatsoever", Lucey said."It occurred naturally and it had to have been many months earlier, perhaps a year, perhaps more than a year."Read more: Chinese city sealed off to squash coronavirus outbreakAugmenting the doubt, in December China said the number of coronavirus cases circulating in Wuhan may have been 10 times higher early in the epidemic than revealed by official figures at the time.The trail has now gone cold, with the drip of subsequent clues only adding to the confusion, including findings that the virus may have existed in Europe and Brazil before Wuhan's outbreak, unconfirmed suggestions which China has seized upon to deflect blame.'We'll never know for sure'Daszak remains hopeful the source can be found, especially after US President Donald Trump's re-election loss.He blames Trump for killing cooperation with China by politicising the virus -- typified by his "China virus" label -- and his administration's promotion of the conspiracy theory that China created it in a lab, which scientists reject."I'm confident we will eventually find out the bat species it came from and the likely pathway," Daszak said.Others are less certain.Diana Bell, a wildlife disease expert at the University of East Anglia who has studied the SARS virus, Ebola and other pathogens, said focusing on a particular origin species is misguided.She says the overarching threat has already been exposed: a global wildlife trade that fosters a "combustible mix" of trafficked species, a known breeding ground for disease outbreaks."(The species) actually doesn't matter. We don't need to know the source, we just need to stop that sodding mixing of animals in markets," she said."We need to stop the wildlife trade for human consumption."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/a-year-after-first-death-in-china-coronavirus-source-still-a-puzzle-101610276465142.html
10-01-2021||World||Sri Lanka's Jaffna University war memorial removed, Tamil Nadu CM condemns move||The decision to remove the Mullivaikkal War Memorial at the Jaffna University campus in Sri Lanka was taken by the Vice-Chancellor of Jaffna University Professor Satkunarajah, said University Grants Commission (UGC) Chairman Professor Sampath Amaratunga on Saturday.The move was "strongly condemned" by Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu Edappadi K Palaniswami.Sri Lanka UGC Chairman said that the decision to remove the Mullivaikkal War Memorial was taken by Vice-Chancellor, as it can be an obstruction to unity between the North and South and reconciliation, Daily Mirror reported.The memorial in Jaffna University was built in 2018 in memory of the people and students who died in the Mullivaikkal war in 2009 between the Tamil extremist group Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam and the Sri Lanka government forces.Read more: After West Bengal, Nadda to head to Assam and Tamil NaduMeanwhile, CM of Tamil Nadu Edappadi K Palaniswami took to Twitter to strongly condemn the demolition and said, "The news that a monument erected at the Jaffna University campus in memory of university students and the general public who were mercilessly killed in the final phase of the war in Mullivaikkal, Sri Lanka, has been demolished overnight is shocking.""I strongly condemn this monthly act of the Government of Sri Lanka which has caused great pain to the Tamils of the world and to the Vice-Chancellor of the University of Jaffna who accompanied it," Palaniswami said in another tweet.The Jaffna area has a majority ethnic Tamil population. The area witnessed a brutal civil war between the LTTE and Sri Lankan forces that continued for several years and led to the loss of lives of thousands of people.Meanwhile, Daily Mirror quoted the UGC Chairman as saying, "The Vice-Chancellor of Jaffna University Professor Srisatkunarajah is an eminent scientist in Sri Lanka. He is also an excellent administrator. He had decided that the memorial statue does not suit the present or the future, so he instructed the statue to be removed from the university premises."Read more: Tamil Nadu reverses 100% occupancy order in movie theatres after Centre’s notice"Our students who are presently in the university system would have been 9, 10, and 11 years old when the war ended. Regardless of their race or religion, Tamil, Sinhala or Muslim, they are all our children. I'm happy to say that some 1,500 Sinhala students study at the Jaffna university today. Similarly, at least 600 to 700 Tamil students, especially from the North and East are studying in universities of the South. There are no problems among these students, and that is most important," he said.Professor Amaratunga said that the only factor that can ensure a repetition of the problems of the past, is the unity of these students. "They reside in common hostel facilities. They participate in common lectures, common sports events, and other activities. As a country we are fortunate that these students have been responsible to experience no issues at these universities," he added."The Vice-Chancellor of Jaffna University has decided to remove the memorial from the university last night. I think it's a timely decision. What we need is memorials of peace, not war. We should engage in these requirements together with our students," he stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sri-lanka-s-jaffna-university-war-memorial-removed-tamil-nadu-cm-condemns-move-101610269261819.html
10-01-2021||World||Japan says new coronavirus variant found in travellers from Brazil||A new coronavirus variant was detected in four travellers from Brazil, Japan's health ministry said on Sunday, marking an advance in changes to the pandemic virus.The new variant is different from those first found in Britain and South Africa, although the three of them share some common mutation, said Takaji Wakita, head of the National Institute of Infectious Diseases."I understand a new variant that is different from Britain's and South Africa's has been found," Wakita told a health ministry briefing.Characteristics of the new variant, such as how effective vaccines can be against it and how serious its symptoms can be, are being studied, a health ministry official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/japan-says-new-coronavirus-variant-found-in-travellers-from-brazil-101610275363144.html
10-01-2021||World||Kim Jong Un's big plan to grow North Korea's economy faces harsh reality||Kim Jong Un's ambitious new plan for the next five years is aimed at developing North Korea's shattered economy, but the proposals may falter in the face of major crises that have already stalled the young leader's current projects.In remarks released this weekend, Kim blamed international sanctions as well as unanticipated crises including the coronavirus pandemic and natural disasters, for preventing the government from improving people's lives, while criticising officials for mistakes that needed to be fixed.He proposed becoming less dependent on imports, growing nearly every industry, and reforming the way officials work.However, the new plan is unlikely to turn around the growing decay of the North Korean economy, making it difficult for Kim to deliver on his lofty promises and potentially cutting the resources available for treasured military projects, said Chad O'Carroll, CEO of Korea Risk Group, which monitors North Korea."(There is) no apparent interest in reform, sanctions relief, or an opening of the economy," he said in a post on Twitter.Also Read | North Korea to pursue more advanced nuclear technology, says Kim Jong UnSince Kim came to power in 2011, standards of living improved for many North Koreans as markets proliferated and consumer goods became more widely available. But now the country is facing the most challenging situation since a famine in the 1990s, and projects such as tourist resorts, economic zones, and a large hospital appear stalled.Kim's decision to stage a huge congress and talk of ambitious projects in the face serious shortages for many North Koreans shows how the government has "internalised its own propaganda," said Leif-Eric Easley, a professor at Ewha University in Seoul."The country's economic and social conditions are worse than many outsiders appreciate," he said. "Kim tells his people about domestic shortfalls and promises improvements but is unlikely to adjust policies to receive aid and assistance."Economic wish listThe plan - which includes proposals for more advanced nuclear weapons - appears to be doubling down on North Korea's "Byungjin," or parallel development policy, said Kang Dong-wan, professor of Political Science & Diplomacy at Donga University in Busan."North Korea is going back to its 2017 plan – dual policy of improving its nuclear deterrent and self-reliant economy," he said.The new five-year plan includes a long wish list for expanding almost every category of industry, from metal and chemical production to coal mining, tourism, modernized railways, and more public transit.North Korea plans to invest in tidal and nuclear electricity plants as well as "zero-carbon buildings and zero-energy buildings in keeping with the world trends of architectural development", while the country's mobile communication networks should become "next-generation" as soon as possible.At least 50,000 apartments are to be built in the capital of Pyongyang, and another 25,000 dwellings in the Komdok area, which is home to major mining operations.Kim called for the capacity to produce 8 million tons of cement to support the large building projects.Also Read | North Korea's Kim calls US 'our biggest enemy' in challenge to Biden'The state's leading role'Improving the economy can't depend solely on solving outside problems and will only be possible after "breaking with current wrong ideological viewpoint, irresponsible working attitude, incompetence and obsolete working manner," Kim said.North Korea's economy shifted away from being fully centralised after many private markets and business sprung up in the face of government failures to provide in the 1990s.Analysts say those markets are here to stay, but there are signs the government is reasserting itself in ways that effectively roll back or curtail at least some of those reforms."The important tasks... is to restore the state's leading role and control in the overall commerce service activities and preserve the nature of socialist commerce serving the people," Kim said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kim-jong-un-s-big-plan-to-grow-north-korea-s-economy-faces-harsh-reality-101610273419745.html
10-01-2021||World||Hong Kong protest-related website says users' access blocked||A Hong Kong website that publishes material mainly related to anti-government protests in 2019 said its users' access had been blocked by the city's internet service providers (ISPs).The website, HKChronicles, said it began receiving reports from Hong Kong-based users saying they could no longer access the site since Wednesday evening."After discussing and investigating with our supporters, we found that some ISPs of Hong Kong have deliberately dropped any connection to our servers, so that the user could not receive replies from our servers, resulting in an inability to access our content," chief editor Naomi Chan said in a statement.The South China Morning Post, citing unnamed sources, said on Sunday that Hong Kong police had invoked the city's national security law for the first time to block HKChronicles.The police force had started asking ISPs to halt access, citing Article 43 of the law, the newspaper reported.The Hong Kong police said they could not comment on individual cases. The city’s government did not immediately respond to a request for comment.Under the controversial legislation imposed on the Chinese-ruled city in June, the police can request service providers to restrict access to electronic platforms or messages that could pose a threat to national security.HKChronicles said that based on reports from users, the ISPs suspected of being involved in the blocking included Smartone, China Mobile Hong Kong, PCCW "and others". It did not elaborate.China Mobile, Smartone, and PCCW did not respond to requests for comment.The security law punishes what China broadly defines as secession, subversion, terrorism and collusion with foreign forces with up to life in jail.The Hong Kong and Beijing governments say it is vital to plug holes in national security defences exposed by months of sometimes violent anti-government and anti-China protests that rocked the global financial hub in 2019.Hong Kong police arrested 53 people in dawn raids on democracy activists on Wednesday, in the biggest crackdown since China imposed the security law. The arrests have raised alarm that Hong Kong has taken a swift authoritarian turn."I think right now many users are being affected, but few websites are being affected. It seems like it's a technology test, to test the influence of blocking websites to the entire Hong Kong network," Chan told Reuters via the social media platform Telegram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hong-kong-protest-related-website-says-users-access-blocked-101610273302032.html
10-01-2021||World||Social media platform Gab capitalises on Twitter bans, Parler’s suspension||Social networking website Gab.com appears to have capitalised on the recent bans by Facebook and Twitter on US President Donald Trump following the Capitol insurrection for violating companies’ policies. Gab is popular among far-right groups and the suspension of Parler from Google’s Play Store and Apple’s App Store has further boosted the traffic on the social media platform.Gab took to its official Twitter handle to announce that it gained 500,000 new users on Saturday, with 18 million visits on the platform. It also said that the company is receiving resumes from senior-level employees working at Big Tech companies, claiming that there is an “internal civil war among staff and executives.”“500,000+ new users today. 18 million visits. You don't need an account to use the site. The Silicon Valley Exodus has begun. Get in the Ark: http://Gab.com The best is yet to come,” the company tweeted.500,000+ new users today. 18 million visits. You don't need an account to use the site.The Silicon Valley Exodus has begun. Get in the Ark: https://t.co/J3Rfto6fi3 The best is yet to come.Gab was founded in 2016 by Andrew Torba and the platform was reportedly banned from multiple cloud hosting providers, prompting the company to migrate to its own in-house servers. It was removed from Play Store in 2017 for violating Google’s hate speech policy and was rejected by App Store for similar reasons.Also Read | Apple, Amazon suspend Parler from App Store over posts inciting violenceThe layout of the controversial platform is similar to that of Twitter, displaying trending post at the centre and aggregated news on the right. The menu and explore sections are on the left of the homepage. According to a Vox report, Gab had 465,000 to 800,000 users in October 2018. On Saturday, the company tweeted that it was gaining more than 10,000 new users every hour.10,000+ new Gab users every hour.In a blog post, Torba has condemned the suspension of Parler from the app stores of Google and Apple, calling it politically motivated gesture and “evidence of Silicon Valley elites’ disdain for ordinary Americans.” Gab’s chief executive officer said that Big Techs will attempt to destroy businesses built on the backs of “Silicon Valley tyrants” if and when the companies become a “threat to their interests.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/social-media-platform-gab-capitalises-on-twitter-bans-parler-s-suspension-101610272107268.html
10-01-2021||World||On course to meet Covid-19 vaccination target, says UK health secretary Hancock||Health Secretary Matt Hancock said the U.K. is on course to meet its coronavirus target, but warned the surge in cases has left the state-run National Health Service in a “very, very serious situation.”In an interview with Sky News, Hancock said more than 200,000 people are being vaccinated every day, including one-third of the over-80s regarded as the most vulnerable group to the disease. He said mass vaccination centers are opening to accelerate the rollout.Prime Minister Boris Johnson has set a target of delivering about 15 million shots by mid-February as his government races to get ahead of a new variant of the virus that has triggered a surge in cases in recent weeks. The U.K. reported an additional 59,937 cases on Saturday, taking the total above 3 million. It has the worse death toll in western Europe at more than 80,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/on-course-to-meet-covid-19-vaccination-target-says-uk-health-secretary-hancock-101610272387830.html
10-01-2021||World||Indonesia locates two black boxes of crashed plane: Transport committee||Indonesian authorities on Sunday located the black boxes of the Sriwijaya Air jet that crashed into the sea soon after taking off from the capital Jakarta, as human body parts and suspected pieces of the plane were retrieved.Indonesia National Transport Safety Committee chief Soerjanto Tjahjono said the locations of the two black boxes of crashed Sriwijaya Air plane have been identified on Sunday after nearly a day of searching.Military chief Hadi Tjahjanto said the boxes can hopefully be retrieved soon."Hopefully, we can retrieve them soon," said military chief Hadi Tjahjanto, without giving an estimated timeframe.The Boeing 737-500 with 62 passengers and crew was headed to Pontianak in West Kalimantan on Saturday before it disappeared from radar screens four minutes after takeoff.It is the first major aircrash in Indonesia since 189 passengers and crew were killed in 2018 when a Lion Air Boeing 737 Max in 2018 also plunged into the Java Sea soon after takeoff from Soekarno-Hatta International Airport.Even before the latest crash, more people had died in air cashes in Indonesia than in any other country over the past decade, according to Aviation Safety Network's database.Pieces of wreckage were brought to Jakarta port by rescuers. Authorities said they came from a depth of 23 metres (75 feet) near a group of islands off the Jakarta coast.One twisted piece of metal was painted in Sriwijaya Air's blue and red colours. Indonesian authorities said they had also retrieved body parts and clothing.Police asked families to provide information such as dental records and DNA samples to help identify bodies.The plane had 12 crew and 50 passengers on board, all Indonesians and including seven children and three babies.President Joko Widodo, speaking at the palace in Bogor, expressed "deep condolences" over the disaster and urged the public to pray the missing people could be found.'We feel powerless'Tracking service Flightradar24 said the aircraft took off at 2:36 p.m. local time (0736 GMT) and climbed to reach 10,900 feet within four minutes. It then began a steep descent and stopped transmitting data 21 seconds later.There were no immediate clues on what caused the jet's sudden descent. Most air accidents are caused by a cocktail of factors that can take months to establish, safety experts say.A transport ministry spokeswoman said air traffic control had asked the pilot why the plane was heading northwest instead of on its expected flight path seconds before it disappeared.Read more: 'We stand with Indonesia': PM Modi's message after plane crashThe pilots had decades of experience between them with the flight captain reported to be a former air force pilot and his co-pilot at Sriwijaya Air since 2013, according to his Linkedin profile.The Sriwijaya Air plane was a nearly 27-year-old Boeing 737-500, much older than Boeing's problem-plagued 737 MAX model. Older 737 models are widely flown and do not have the stall-prevention system implicated in the MAX safety crisis."We are in contact with our airline customer and stand ready to support them during this difficult time," Boeing said in a statement. "Our thoughts are with the crew, passengers, and their families."Distraught relatives waited in Pontianak about 740 km (460 miles) from Jakarta for news of their loved ones. At Jakarta's main airport a crisis centre was set up for families."We feel powerless, we can only wait and hope to get any information soon," Irfansyah Riyanto, who had five relatives on the flight, told reporters.Founded in 2003, Jakarta-based Sriwijaya Air group flies largely within Indonesia's sprawling archipelago. The budget airline has had a solid safety record, with no onboard casualties in four incidents recorded on the Aviation Safety Network database.In 2007, the European Union banned all Indonesian airlines following a series of crashes and reports of deteriorating oversight and maintenance since deregulation in the late 1990s. The restrictions were fully lifted in 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indonesia-locates-two-black-boxes-of-crashed-plane-transport-committee-101610270407521.html
10-01-2021||World||Sriwijaya Air crash places Indonesia's aviation safety under fresh spotlight||Indonesia's chequered air safety record is again in the spotlight after a Sriwijaya Air jet carrying 62 people crashed into the Java Sea minutes after takeoff on Saturday, marking the country's third major airline crash in just over six years.Before the crash there had been 697 fatalities in Indonesia over the last decade including military and private planes, making it the deadliest aviation market in the world - ahead of Russia, Iran and Pakistan - according to Aviation Safety Network's database.The Sriwijaya crash of a Boeing Co 737-500 follows the loss of a Lion Air 737 MAX in October 2018 that contributed to a global grounding of the model and the crash of an AirAsia Indonesia Airbus SE A320 in December 2014.Indonesia, an archipelago of thousands of islands, is highly dependent on air travel.From 2007 to 2018, the European Union (EU) banned Indonesian airlines following a series of crashes and reports of deteriorating oversight and maintenance. The United States lowered its Indonesia safety evaluation to Category 2, meaning its regulatory system was inadequate, between 2007 and 2016.Indonesia's air safety record has improved in recent years, receiving a favourable evaluation by the United Nations (UN) aviation agency in 2018. But in a country with a large death toll from vehicle and ferry accidents, the safety culture is battling against a mindset that it is inevitable for some crashes to occur, experts said.Saturday's "crash has nothing to do with the MAX, but Boeing would do well to guide Indonesia - which has a chequered air safety record - to restore confidence in its aviation industry," said Shukor Yusof, the head of Malaysia-based aviation consultancy Endau Analytics.As authorities searched for the Sriwijaya jet's flight data recorder and cockpit voice recorder, experts said it was too early to determine the factors responsible for the crash of the nearly 27-year-old plane.The flight took off from Jakarta's Soekarno-Hatta International Airport, the same airport from which the Lion Air jet took off and soon crashed into the sea. The Sriwijaya jet climbed to 10,900 feet within four minutes but then began a steep descent and stopped transmitting data 21 seconds later, according to tracking website FlightRadar24."There has been a lot of noise made about the speed of its final descent," said Geoff Dell, an air accident investigation expert based in Australia. "It is indicative of what happened but why it happened is still in many ways a guess really. There are multiple ways you can get an aeroplane to go down at that pace."He said investigators would look into factors including mechanical failure, pilot actions, maintenance records, weather conditions, and whether there was any unlawful interference with the plane. Most air accidents are caused by a combination of factors that can take months to establish.Various Factors Under ScrutinySriwijaya's operating record will also be placed under scrutiny."Its safety record has been mixed," said Greg Waldron, Asia managing editor at industry publication FlightGlobal. He said the airline had written off three 737s between 2008 and 2012 due to bad landings that resulted in runway overruns, with the 2008 accident resulting in one death and 14 injuries.The airline in late 2019 ended a year-long partnership with national carrier Garuda Indonesia and had been operating independently.Just before ending the pact, more than half of Sriwijaya's fleet had been grounded by the Transportation Ministry due to airworthiness concerns, according to media reports at the time.Sriwijaya did not respond immediately to a request for comment, though the airline's chief executive said on Saturday the plane that crashed was in good condition.Like other Indonesian carriers, Sriwijaya had slashed its flight schedule during the Covid-19 pandemic, which experts said will be examined as part of the investigation."The challenges that the pandemic brings impacts aviation safety," said Chappy Hakim, an Indonesian aviation analyst and former air force official. "For instance, pilots/technicians were downsized, salaries not paid in full, planes are grounded."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sriwijaya-air-crash-places-indonesia-s-aviation-safety-under-fresh-spotlight-101610269641595.html
10-01-2021||World||Boris Johnson under fire as UK again faces onslaught of Covid-19||The crisis facing Britain this winter is depressingly familiar: Stay-at-home orders and empty streets. Hospitals overflowing. A daily toll of many hundreds of coronavirus deaths.The UK is the epicenter of Europe’s Covid-19 outbreak once more, and Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s Conservative government is facing questions, and anger, as people demand to know how the country has ended up here — again.Many countries are enduring new waves of the virus, but Britain’s is among the worst, and it comes after a horrendous 2020. More than 3 million people in the UK have tested positive for the coronavirus and 81,000 have died — 30,000 in just the last 30 days. The economy has shrunk by 8%, more than 800,000 jobs have been lost and hundreds of thousands more furloughed workers are in limbo.Follow live update on Covid-19 hereEven with the new lockdown, London Mayor Sadiq Khan said Friday that the situation in the capital was “critical,” with one in every 30 people infected. “The stark reality is that we will run out of beds for patients in the next couple of weeks unless the spread of the virus slows down drastically,″ he said.Medical staff are also at breaking point.“Whereas before, everyone went into a mode of, ‘We just need to get through this,’ (now) everybody is like, ‘Here we go again — can I get through this?’” said Lindsey Izard, a senior intensive care nurse at St. George’s Hospital in London. “That’s really, really hard for our staff.”Much of the blame for Britain’s poor performance has been laid at the door of Johnson, who came down with the virus in the spring and ended up in intensive care. Critics say his government’s slow response as the new respiratory virus emerged from China was the first in a string of lethal mistakes.Anthony Costello, professor of global health at University College London, said “dilly-dallying” in March about whether to lock down the U.K. cost thousands of lives.Britain locked down on March 23, and Costello said if the decision had come a week or two sooner, “we would be back down at 30,000-40,000 deaths. ... More like Germany.”“And the problem is, they’ve repeated these delays,” said Costello, a member of Independent SAGE, a group of scientists set up as an alternative to the government’s official Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies.Most countries have struggled during the pandemic, but Britain had some disadvantages from the start. Its public health system was frayed after years of spending cuts by austerity-minded Conservative governments. It had only a tiny capacity to test for the new virus. And while authorities had planned for a hypothetical pandemic, they assumed it would be a less deadly and less contagious flu-like illness.The government sought advice from scientists, but critics say its pool of advisers was too narrow. And their recommendations were not always heeded by a prime minister whose laissez-faire instincts make him reluctant to clamp down on the economy and daily life.Johnson has defended his record, saying it’s easy to find fault when looking back.“The retro-spectroscope is a magnificent instrument,” Johnson said in a BBC interview last week.“Scientific advisors have said all sorts of different things at different times,” he added. “They’re by no mean unanimous.”A future public inquiry will likely pore over the failings in Britain’s coronavirus response, but the inquisition has already begun.Parliament’s Science and Technology Committee said in a report published Friday that the government was not transparent enough about the scientific advice it received, failed to learn from other countries and responded too slowly when “the pandemic has demanded that policy be made and adapted on a faster timescale.”The government points out, correctly, that there has been huge progress since last spring. Early problems getting protective equipment to medical workers have largely been resolved. Britain now carries out almost half a million coronavirus tests a day. A national test-and-trace system has been set up to find and isolate infected people, though it struggles to cope with demand and can’t enforce requests to self-isolate.Treatments including the steroid dexamethasone, whose effectiveness was discovered during a UK trial, have improved survival rates among the most seriously ill. And now there are vaccines, three of which have been approved for use in Britain. The government has vowed to give the first of two shots to almost 15 million people, including everyone over 70, by mid-February.But critics say the government has continued to repeat its mistakes, adapting too slowly to a changing situation.As infection rates fell in the summer, the government encouraged people to return to restaurants and workplaces to help revive the economy. When the virus began to surge again in September, Johnson rejected advice from his scientific advisers to lock the country down, before eventually announcing a month-long second national lockdown on Oct. 31.Hopes that move would be enough to curb the spread of the virus were dashed in December, when scientists warned that a new variant was up to 70% more transmissible than the original strain.Johnson tightened restrictions for London and the southeast, but the government’s scientific advisory committee warned Dec. 22 that would not be enough. Johnson did not announce a third national lockdown for England until almost two weeks later, on Jan. 4.Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland make their own public health policies and have similar restrictions in place.“Why is this prime minister, with all the scientific expertise at his disposal, all the power to make a difference, always the last to grasp what needs to happen?” said Jonathan Ashworth, health spokesman for the opposition Labour Party. “The prime minister hasn’t been short of data, he has been short of judgment."Costello said Johnson should not bear all the blame. He said a sense of “exceptionalism” had led many British officials to watch scenes from Wuhan, China, early in 2020 and think “that’s all happening over in Asia and it’s not going to come here.”“We were found wanting,” he said. “And I think that’s a wakeup call.”John Bell, Regius professor of medicine at the University of Oxford, said people should be more forgiving of official missteps.“It’s very easy to be critical about how we’ve done, but you do have to remember that there’s nobody who’s really managed a pandemic like this, who’s ever done it before,” he told the BBC. “We’re all trying to make decisions on the run, and some of those decisions will inevitably be the wrong decisions."“Everybody should be doing their best, and I think on the whole people are — including, I have to say, the politicians. So don’t beat them up too badly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/boris-johnson-under-fire-as-uk-again-faces-onslaught-of-covid19-101610269864135.html
10-01-2021||World||Indonesia finds body parts, debris, detects emergency signal of crashed jet||Indonesia detected signals on Sunday that could come from a flight recorder of a Sriwijaya Air jet that crashed into the sea soon after taking off from the capital Jakarta, as human body parts and suspected pieces of the plane were retrieved. The Boeing 737-500 with 62 passengers and crew was headed to Pontianak in West Kalimantan before it disappeared on Saturday from radar screens four minutes after takeoff.It is the first major aircrash in Indonesia since 189 passengers and crew were killed in 2018 when a Lion Air Boeing 737 Max in 2018 also plunged into the Java Sea soon after takeoff from Soekarno-Hatta International Airport.Even before the latest crash, more people had died in air cashes in Indonesia than in any other country over the past decade, according to Aviation Safety Network's database."We have detected signals in two points. This could be the black box," Bagus Puruhito, chief of Indonesia's search and rescue agency, told reporters aboard a military ship.Pieces of wreckage were brought to Jakarta port by rescuers. One twisted piece of metal was painted in Sriwijaya Air's blue and red colours. Indonesian authorities said they had also retrieved body parts and clothing.Police asked families to provide information such as dental records and DNA samples to help identify bodies.Flight SJ 182 had 12 crew and 50 passengers on board, all Indonesians and including seven children and three babies."I am optimistic we will find (the plane) soon," Henri Alfiandi, an assistant to the chief of staff of the Indonesian Air Force, told a news briefing.President Joko Widodo, speaking at the palace in Bogor, expressed "deep condolences" over the disaster and urged the public to pray the missing people could be found.The search focuses on the outer ring of the Laki and Lancang islands off the Jakarta coast. The sea in this area is about 20 to 23 metres (65-75 feet) deep."WE FEEL POWERLESS"Tracking service Flightradar24 said the aircraft took off at 2:36 p.m. local time (0736 GMT) and climbed to reach 10,900 feet within four minutes. It then began a steep descent and stopped transmitting data 21 seconds later.There were no immediate clues on what may have caused the jet's sudden descent. Safety experts stress most air accidents are caused by a cocktail of factors that can take months to establish.A transport ministry spokeswoman said air traffic control had asked the pilot why the plane was heading northwest instead of on its expected flight path seconds before it disappeared.The pilots had decades of experience between them with the flight captain reported to be a former air force pilot and his co-pilot had been at Sriwijaya Air since 2013, according to his Linkedin profile.The Sriwijaya Air plane was a nearly 27-year-old Boeing 737-500, much older than Boeing's problem-plagued 737 MAX model. Older 737 models are widely flown and do not have the stall-prevention system implicated in the MAX safety crisis."We are in contact with our airline customer and stand ready to support them during this difficult time," Boeing said in a statement. "Our thoughts are with the crew, passengers, and their families."Distraught relatives waited in Pontianak about 740 km (460 miles) from Jakarta for news of their loved ones. At Jakarta's main airport a crisis centre was set up for families."We feel powerless, we can only wait and hope to get any information soon," Irfansyah Riyanto, who had five relatives on the flight, told reporters.Founded in 2003, Jakarta-based Sriwijaya Air group flies largely within Indonesia's sprawling archipelago. The budget airline has had a solid safety record, with no onboard casualties in four incidents recorded on the Aviation Safety Network database.In 2007, the European Union banned all Indonesian airlines following a series of crashes and reports of deteriorating oversight and maintenance since deregulation in the late 1990s. The restrictions were fully lifted in 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indonesia-finds-body-parts-debris-detects-emergency-signal-of-crashed-jet-101610268739084.html
10-01-2021||World||Spain sends out vaccine, food convoys after snowstorm paralyses roads||The Spanish government will send convoys carrying the Covid-19 vaccine and food supplies on Sunday to areas cut off by Storm Filomena which brought the heaviest snowfall in decades across central Spain and killed four people.In the Madrid area, rescuers reached 1,500 people trapped in cars, while police broke up a large snowball fight after authorities appealed for citizens to stay at home for risk of accidents or spreading coronavirus.Forecasters warned of dangerous conditions in the coming days, with temperatures expected to fall to up to minus 10 Celsius (14 Fahrenheit) next week and the prospect of snow turning to ice and damaged trees falling.Madrid's main international airport was closed and the operator said would not re-open until Sunday afternoon at the earliest, when flights would resume gradually.About 20,000 km of roads across central Spain were affected by the storm and the government would send convoys transporting the vaccine and food supplies to those in need, transport minister Jose Luis Abalos said on Saturday.A 36-year-old woman gave birth in an ambulance in Madrid on Saturday after health workers were unable to get her to hospital.One man and a woman in a car drowned after a river burst near Malaga in the south, while two homeless people froze to death in Madrid and Calatayud in the east, officials said.The State Metereological Agency (Aemet) said up to 20-30 cm (7-8 inches) of snow fell in Madrid on Saturday, the most since 1971.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/spain-sends-out-vaccine-food-convoys-after-snowstorm-paralyses-roads-101610269304902.html
10-01-2021||World||US eases restrictions on contact with Taiwan in jab at China||The US will remove decades-old, self-imposed restrictions on how its diplomats and other officials interact with Taiwan, a move that may inflame tensions with Beijing just a little over a week before President-elect Joe Biden is sworn in.“For several decades the State Department has created complex internal restrictions to regulate our diplomats, service members, and other officials’ interactions with their Taiwanese counterparts,” Secretary of State Michael Pompeo said in a statement Saturday in Washington. “No more.”The announcement was the latest in a series of moves by the Trump administration to reshape the US relationship with Taiwan. , Donald Trump accepted a telephone call from Taiwan’s President Tsai Ing-wen weeks before taking office in January 2017, has said his support for the “One China” policy was contingent on getting better trade deals, announced arms sales, and sent senior officials to Taipei.“While the implications of the announcement are not yet clear, it seems the intent is to nudge unofficial US-Taiwan relations toward something more akin to official ties,” said Maggie Lewis, a law professor at Seton Hall Law School who has written extensively on Taiwan and China.Taiwan Walks Tightrope Between China and Not ChinaChina opposes meetings between US and Taiwanese officials and has made no secret of its displeasure at improving ties between Washington and Taipei. The Chinese foreign ministry didn’t respond to a request for comment on the latest announcement.Taiwan’s Minister of Foreign Affairs Joseph Wu said in a tweet that he was grateful to Pompeo for “lifting restrictions unnecessarily limiting our engagements.”“The closer partnership between Taiwan and the US is firmly based on our shared values, common interests and unshakeable belief in freedom and democracy,” the minister said.Future ContactsGoing forward, executive branch agencies should consider all “contact guidelines” concerning relations with Taiwan previously issued by the State Department to be null and void, Pompeo said.The US ambassador to the United Nations Kelly Craft is expected to visit Taiwan this week. That will be the first such visit since Taiwan was excluded from the UN in 1971, and she will meet with senior Taiwanese counterparts.China’s foreign ministry had earlier called Craft’s visit “a breach of the One China principle” and accused Pompeo of “staging a final show of madness” to “sabotage China-US relations.”The announcement by Pompeo is one of a number the administration has launched or strengthened in the final days of its term, including an initiative to punish companies with close ties to the Chinese military.Bedrock Policy“Best case, the Biden Administration sees this as a blank slate and starts an internal process to develop what the ideal US-Taiwan engagement structure and process looks like, consistent with the unofficial relationship, shared democratic values, and the benefits the bilateral relationship brings,” said Drew Thompson, formerly a US Department of Defense official responsible for Taiwan policy.Beijing’s “One China” principle states that Taiwan and China are part of the same China. While the US recognises that the government of the People’s Republic of China (PRC) is the only legitimate government of China, it only acknowledges that the PRC claims Taiwan is a part of China.Why Trump Raising Doubts About ‘One-China’ Is a Big DealTaiwan’s government views the island as a de-facto independent, sovereign nation.Hong Kong StatementIn another action against China, Pompeo on Saturday issued a joint statement with the foreign ministers of the U.K., Canada and Australia in expressing “serious concern” about the arrest of 55 activists and politicians in Hong Kong last week.US, Western Allies ‘Concerned’ Over Hong Kong ArrestsHong Kong’s National Security Law is a breach of the Sino-British Joint Declaration and undermines the “one country, two systems” framework, according to the statement. The legislation “has curtailed the rights and freedoms of the people of Hong Kong. It is clear that the National Security Law is being used to eliminate dissent and opposing political views,” the governments said.Hong Kong’s government later rejected that criticism. China has repeatedly said no other nations have the right to interfere in its internal affairs, including in Hong Kong.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-eases-restrictions-on-contact-with-taiwan-in-jab-at-china-101610268174332.html
10-01-2021||World||After massive blackout, power supply being restored gradually in Pakistan||Pakistani authorities on Sunday started restoring power supply in several cities in the country, including capital Islamabad, after a major outage took place late Saturday night, leading to a massive blackout in several cities and towns. The outage, which was also reported in cities like Karachi, Lahore, Rawalpindi, Multan etc. was attributed by the government to the tripping of the National Transmission Despatch Company’s lines.Also Read | Several major cities in Pakistan plunge into darkness due to huge power blackoutFederal minister for power, Omar Ayub Khan, on Sunday listed out several power grids in and around the city of Lahore that, he said, had been energised. He, however, added that it will still take some time before normal supply is restored.132 kv Grids Around Lahore Energized including 11kv. 1. Shadman2. Qartaba3. Mc Leod Road4. Gulshan Ravi.5. Fort.6. Saidpur7. Shamke.8. Saghian 9. Ravi. 10. Bund Road.11. Badami Bagh.12. Sabzar.13. Sheikhupura. 14. Orient.15. Sapphire.Earlier, after the outage, Khan had said the frequency in the power distribution system suddenly dipped from 50 to zero, leading to the blackout. The energy ministry, meanwhile, said as per initial reports, there was a fault in the Guddu power plant in Sindh province at 11:41 pm on Saturday, adding that the fault tripped the high transmission lines, which further resulted in the system frequency going from 50 to zero in less than a second, causing power plants to shut down.While Pakistan suffered this major blackout, neighbouring India, too, has had severe outages of its own, including in its financial capital of Mumbai in October 2020. The outage, which lasted for several hours, was attributed by the local administration to a technical failure in one of the power supply circuits at a supply station in the nearby city of Thane.Also Read | Mumbai power outage: Electricity restored in suburban areas after a wait of 15 hoursIn July 2012, a two-day nationwide blackout, among the largest in the world, took place in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/after-massive-blackout-power-supply-being-restored-gradually-in-pakistan-101610267565586.html
10-01-2021||World||US Capitol violence: What crimes can the rioters be charged with?||Dozens of supporters of US President Donald Trump have been criminally charged in connection with the violent storming of the US Capitol building earlier this week, and many more cases are expected.Five people died as a result of the riot, including a Capitol Police officer. No one has been charged yet in connection with any of those deaths.Several different criminal statutes and theories of liability could be used against the rioters, legal experts said.Here is an overview of some of the potential charges, including seditious conspiracy and felony murder.What criminal charges have been filed so far?Some of the more than 50 defendants in the federal district and superior courts have been charged with gun-related offenses. There are federal laws against carrying a gun in the Capitol building, and possessing an unregistered firearm or unlicensed ammunition in the District of Columbia.A Seattle man, Mark Leffingwell, has been charged with assaulting a federal law enforcement officer, a federal crime. He is accused of punching a Capitol Police officer in a separate incident from the one that led to an officer's death. A lawyer for Leffingwell did not immediately respond to a request for comment.Several dozen individuals have been charged with unlawful entry on the Capitol grounds, which is a crime under the Washington D.C. criminal code and federal law. Those include Nicholas Ochs, a member of the far-right group Proud Boys, who posted a photo of himself inside the Capitol building. A lawyer for Ochs could not be identified.Could multiple people be charged with killing a police officer?Capitol Police Officer Brian Sicknick died on Thursday. Sicknick "was injured while physically engaging with protesters," the police department said in a statement. He collapsed after he returned to his divisional office, the statement said.Sicknick was one of the five people to die as a result of the riot.A top priority for law enforcement will be identifying anyone responsible for Sicknick's death, said Matt Jones, a former federal prosecutor in Washington now at the law firm Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr.If someone assaulted Sicknick, that person could be charged with murder or manslaughter.Anyone who assisted the main perpetrator could face criminal charges for "aiding and abetting" murder or manslaughter.If Sicknick was killed as part of a coordinated plot to attack individuals inside the Capitol, individuals involved in that scheme could be charged as co-conspirators, Jones said."Prosecutors are no doubt scouring every phone and social media post they can," Jones said. "And, to the extent they show an intent to cause harm to an officer, or member of Congress or their staff, that will dramatically move the ball forward."Jay Town, former US Attorney for the Northern District of Alabama, said rioters who were simply present in the room when Sicknick was engaged with protesters are far less likely to be charged."To assign culpability beyond the actual assailant, or those that aided or abetted them, would normally require proof that other individuals knew that the commission of their criminal acts might likely lead to death or serious bodily injury," Town said.Could there be felony murder charges?There is a doctrine of US law, recognized in Washington, called felony murder, which allows prosecutors to charge people with murder even if they did not intend to kill.Typically, a defendant is charged with felony murder if they engage in a violent crime and a death indirectly results from their actions.Ken Kohl, a top prosecutor on the case, said at a news conference on Friday that felony murder "is always in play in something like this."Legal experts said more facts were needed to determine if this theory of liability would apply.Jones said it could be difficult to bring felony murder charges. To do so, prosecutors may need to prove certain underlying offenses such as armed robbery or kidnapping, which do not appear to be present here.What about sedition?It is very possible individuals will be charged with a federal law that bans efforts to overthrow the government, legal experts said.That law prohibits conspiring to "overthrow, put down, or to destroy by force" the U.S. government.The statute "will absolutely apply once the investigation is completed," said Justo Mendez, a criminal defense attorney at Holland & Knight in Texas and a former federal prosecutor. "The evidence of 'conspire to overthrow' is all over social media."Who is bringing the criminal cases?All of the criminal charges so far have been brought by the US Attorney's Office for the District of Columbia, part of the US Justice Department. These prosecutors enforce federal laws, as well as the District of Columbia's criminal code.Federal prosecutors around the country could also bring charges if plans to carry out violence were made within their jurisdictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-capitol-violence-what-crimes-can-the-rioters-be-charged-with-101610266306683.html
10-01-2021||World||Saudi Arabia, Qatar to restart direct flights after three years from Monday||Saudi Arabia and Qatar plan to restart cross-border flights for the first time in more than three years from Jan. 11.Saudi Arabian Airlines will operate weekly flights from Jeddah and Riyadh to Doha, while Qatar Airways will resume flights to several destinations in the kingdom.Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain and Egypt agreed last week to fully restore ties with Qatar, ending a three-year dispute that divided the energy-producing region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/saudi-arabia-qatar-to-restart-direct-flights-after-three-years-from-monday-101610266115508.html
10-01-2021||World||Roadside bomb kills 3 people in Afghan capital: Officials||A roadside bomb exploded in Afghanistan's capital Sunday, killing at least three people in a vehicle, the latest attack to take place even as government negotiators are in Qatar to resume peace talks with the Taliban.Tariq Arian, spokesman for the interior minister, said a spokesman for the ministry's public protection forces — a security force — was one of the three killed in the attack. One other person was wounded he said.No one immediately claimed responsibility for the attack.The Islamic State group has claimed responsibility for multiple attacks in the capital in recent months, including on educational institutions that killed 50 people, most of them students. IS has claimed responsibility for rocket attacks in December targeting the major US base in Afghanistan. There were no casualties.Taliban militants have meanwhile continued their insurgency against government forces while keeping their promise not to attack US and NATO troops.Sunday's attack comes as Afghan negotiators are to resume talks with the Taliban aimed at finding an end to decades of relentless conflict. Frustration and fear have grown over a spike in violence that has combatants on both sides blaming the other.The stop-and-go talks between the Taliban and the government come amid growing doubt over a US-Taliban peace deal brokered by the administration of outgoing President Donald Trump. An accelerated withdrawal of US troops ordered by Trump means just 2,500 American soldiers will still be in Afghanistan when President-elect Joe Biden takes office this month.Biden has advocated for keeping a small intelligence-based presence in Afghanistan, but Taliban leaders have flatly rejected any foreign troops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/roadside-bomb-kills-3-people-in-afghan-capital-officials-101610265126483.html
10-01-2021||World||China vows to strengthen anti-monopoly legal actions in 2021||An annual central conference for China’s judicial, prosecution and public security work promised to strengthen law enforcement and judicial work against monopolies and unfair competition in 2021.The meeting was held Saturday and Sunday in Beijing, according to a statement on the WeChat account of the Commission for Political and Legal Affairs of the Communist Party Central Committee.The authorities urged Internet platforms to regulate businesses according to laws.Government agencies will remain highly vigilant against risks from private funds, online lending and apartment renting platforms amid the coronavirus outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-vows-to-strengthen-anti-monopoly-legal-actions-in-2021-101610263990714.html
10-01-2021||World||Canadian party distances from politician who attended farmers’ rally||Canada’s Conservative Party has distanced itself from a former candidate for a seat in the House of Commons, who had recently appeared at the protests by farmers at the Delhi border.Ramandeep Brar had contested from the riding (constituency) of Brampton South in the October 2019 federal elections but suffered a heavy defeat to sitting MP Sonia Sidhu. While Brar has been described as a Conservative Party leader, a spokesman for its leader Erin O’Toole described him as a “private citizen” and added, “Currently there is no Conservative candidate in Brampton South since Conservative Party members have not yet chosen their candidate for the next election.”In response to queries from the Hindustan Times in this regard, the spokesperson, Cory Hann, also had some sharp words for Brar’s presence at the protests at Kundli even as there is public backlash against Canadian politicians who have travelled abroad in recent days for non-essential reasons despite a second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.He said, “Mr O’Toole has continued to emphasise the necessity for all members of caucus to follow all public health guidance including travel advisories. Canadians have made it clear that those with political ambitions would be wise to follow that same guidance.”Several politicians have lost their posts due to their travels during this period, including MP Kamal Khera, who resigned as Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister for International Development.Brar holds an Overseas Citizen of India or OCI card, a lifelong visa. While OCIs were not allowed to travel to India in the initial months of the coronavirus crisis, such restrictions were later lifted by late summer of 2020.The Ministry of External Affairs had earlier stated that it was aware of Brar’s presence at the protests and was ascertaining if he violated norms for getting an OCI card.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canadian-party-distances-from-politician-who-attended-farmers-rally-101610261667974.html
10-01-2021||World||US, western allies ‘concerned’ over Hong Kong arrests||The U.S. Secretary of State and foreign ministers of the U.K., Canada and Australia expressed their “serious concern” about the arrest of 55 politicians and activists in Hong Kong, the governments said in a joint statement.Hong Kong’s National Security Law, under which the arrests were made, is a breach of the Sino-British Joint Declaration and undermines the “one country, two systems” framework, according to the statement.The legislation“has curtailed the rights and freedoms of the people of Hong Kong. It is clear that the National Security Law is being used to eliminate dissent and opposing political views,” the governments said.“We call on the Hong Kong and Chinese central authorities to respect the legally guaranteed rights and freedoms of the people of Hong Kong without fear of arrest and detention,” the officials said in the statement.“It is crucial that the postponed Legislative Council elections in September proceed in a fair way that includes candidates representing a range of political opinions,” they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-western-allies-concerned-over-hong-kong-arrests-101610258149633.html
10-01-2021||World||Google, Microsoft among corporate donors to Joe Biden’s inauguration||Alphabet Inc.’s Google and Microsoft Corp. are among the more than 960 organizations and individuals that have donated more than $200 for President-elect Joe Biden’s inauguration, according to a list released by the committee organizing the event.The committee didn’t list individual totals or provide additional details of the donations.Other companies that donated include Qualcomm Inc., cable providers Comcast Corp. and Charter Communications Inc., Boeing Co., and insurer Anthem Inc. The Presidential Inaugural Committee also received donations from the American Federation of Teachers and the United Food and Commercial Workers.Notable individuals who gave include former Senator Barbara Boxerof California and singer Barbra Streisand.For individuals, the inaugural committee only provided the state where individuals live. It will have to report detailed information on donors’ employers and addresses to the Federal Election Commission on April 15.The inauguration, which had already been scaled back dramatically due to the coronavirus pandemic, will be held under particularly tight security. It comes only days after supporters of President Donald Trump stormed the Capitol building in a riot that left five dead, including a police officers.In his last message before Twitter banned Trump, he said he would not be attending. Vice President Mike Pence will break with the president and attend, however, two people familiar with his plans said.Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris had asked Americans to stay home on Jan. 20 and mark his inauguration virtually.After consulting with public health officials, the Presidential Inaugural Committee said it would not hold the traditional mass gathering on the National Mall. The committee also announced the traditional parade following the inauguration from the Capitol to the White House will be “reimagined.” Few other details about the day have been released, including how Biden will deliver his inaugural address.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/google-microsoft-among-corporate-donors-to-joe-biden-s-inauguration-101610257612258.html
10-01-2021||World||Indonesian prez Joko Widodo confirms Sriwijaya Air flight crashed into Java Sea||Indonesia’s President Joko Widodo confirmed that the missing Boeing 737-500 jet operated by Sriwijaya Air crashed into Java Sea.He received the report from the transport ministry on Saturday evening, Jokowi said in a statement. He called on all parties to expend all effort to search for and rescue the victims.An Indonesian search-and-rescue team has located the suspected crash site of the plane, the country’s military chief Hadi Tjahjanto said in a separate televised briefing. The team found debris that it suspects to be from the 26-year-old aircraft and plans to recover more of the wreckage on Sunday afternoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indonesian-prez-joko-widodo-confirms-sriwijaya-air-flight-crashed-into-java-sea-101610255389175.html
10-01-2021||World||Indonesian search team locates crash site of Sriwijaya Air Flight SJ182||An Indonesian search-and-rescue team has located the suspected crash site of the missing the Boeing Co. jet carrying 62 people operated by Sriwijaya Air, military chief Hadi Tjahjanto said.The team found debris that it suspects to be from Flight SJ182, and plans to recover more of the wreckage on Sunday afternoon. Indonesian President Joko Widodo confirmed the plane had crashed about 20 hours after it went missing following its departure from capital Jakarta, calling on all parties to expend all efforts to search for and rescue the victims.“We believe that it is the location of the crash,” Tjahjanto said in a televised briefing. Items found 23 meters (75 feet) underwater include life vests and parts of the aircraft that bears its registration number, he said.The accident has once again pushed the country’s aviation industry into crisis mode. The Southeast Asian nation has had a spate of plane crashes in the past decade, including the Lion Air Flight 610 disaster that killed 189 people in 2018, the first of the two 737 Max crashes before the global grounding. In December 2014, an AirAsia Group Bhd. plane plunged into the Java Sea with 162 people on board.Weather has been a contributing factor in several of the past crashes. On Saturday, heavy rain in Jakarta delayed the takeoff for the 90-minute flight to Pontianak on the island of Borneo.It finally took off at 2:36 p.m., reaching 1,700 feet a minute later, where it was cleared by the Jakarta air traffic controllers to ascend to 29,000 feet, according to Transportation Minister Budi Karya Sumadi. Four minutes after takeoff, the control noticed the aircraft was not on its assigned track. It radioed the crew, and within seconds, the aircraft disappeared from radar, he said.Flightradar24’s tracking data showed the plane leveling off at an altitude of about 10,000 to 11,000 feet 3 minutes after taking off, before a rapid descent to the water in just 14 seconds. That meant it was dropping at more than 40,000 feet per minute, a rate far above routine operations.Without access yet to the plane’s black-box flight recorders, it’s impossible to say what may have triggered the sudden dive, said Jeffrey Guzzetti, the former head of accident investigations at the US Federal Aviation Administration. “Right now, given the amount of sparse information, that flight track could fit many scenarios, such as flight crew confusion, instrumentation problems, catastrophic mechanical failures or even an intentional act,” he said.Indonesia deployed divers, warships, vessels with sonar and airplanes on Sunday to the area where the aircraft made the last contact, officials from the national army and the search and rescue agency said.The plane that Sriwijaya Air was flying is a 737-500 model that’s much older than the Max 737 aircraft.“This is not even the model before the Max, it has been in service for 30 years so it’s unlikely to be a design fault,” said Richard Aboulafia, an aviation analyst at Teal Group Corp. “Thousands of these planes have been built and production ended over 20 years ago, so something would have been discovered by now.”The crash comes as the aviation industry is reeling from the effects of the coronavirus pandemic, which brought air travel to its knees. Covid-19 tore through in a tumultuous, unprecedented way -- leaving carriers in a deep hole, along with a constellation of aerospace manufacturers, airports and leasing firms. The International Air Transport Association said last week that global passenger demand dropped significantly during November, down 70% versus the same period of 2019 when measured in revenue passenger kilometers.“While we don’t know anything else about the cause of this crash, the biggest thing concerning me is serious concerns about Indonesian air safety standards that were identified by the European Union Aviation Safety Agency and others years ago,” Aboulafia said. “I am not completely certain that the proper procedures have been put in place.”Of the 62 people, 56 were passengers, including seven children and three infants, and there were two pilots and four cabin crew, local media reported. There were no foreign nationals on board.Boeing is “closely monitoring the situation,” spokeswoman Zoe Leong said in a statement. “We are working to gather more information.” Sriwijaya Air said it’s working to obtain more detailed information about the flight, and will release an official statement later.The U.S. National Transportation Safety Board has appointed a senior investigator to assist in the probe, but is awaiting more information before determining whether it will send a team, it said in an emailed statement. Under a United Nations treaty, the NTSB along with technical experts from Boeing and possibly the manufacturers of other components would participate in the probe because the jet was built in the US.The 737-500 model first flew in 1989 and, according to tracking website Planespotters.net, this particular plane first flew in May 1994.Debris, Oil SpillFishermen in the Thousand Islands regency earlier found debris and an oil spill in the water, according to footage shown by local news channel MetroTV. It also showed parts found that are suspected to come from the emergency slide, with words including “Boeing” and “737” written on a tag. The regent of Thousand Islands received a report of a plane crashing on Laki Island on Saturday afternoon, he told Detik.com.Indonesia, which had one of the fastest-growing airline industries in the world prior to Covid, has a patchy safety record when it comes to air accidents. Its poor aviation history saw carriers from the nation banned from the European Union in 2007 and it was only in June 2018 that the full ban was lifted. In 1997, Garuda Indonesia Flight 152 crashed approaching an airport in Medan in North Sumatra, killing 234. The AirAsia Flight 8501 that crashed in late 2014 was en route to Singapore from Surabaya.On Oct. 29, 2018, the Boeing 737 Max flown by Lion Air plunged into the Java Sea 13 minutes after takeoff, killing all 189 passengers and crew. That was Indonesia’s second-deadliest aircraft accident.Boeing woesThe coronavirus pandemic has complicated aviation insomuch as pilots aren’t getting enough opportunities to fly because airlines have grounded planes and scaled back operations due to a slump in demand. On Sept. 15, an Indonesian flight carrying 307 passengers and 11 crew to the northern city of Medan momentarily veered off the runway after landing, sparking an investigation by the transport safety regulator. It found the pilot had flown less than three hours in the previous 90 days. The first officer hadn’t flown at all since Feb. 1.Saturday’s accident also follows a tumultuous period for Boeing, which only in November had its 737 Max cleared to fly again by the US Federal Aviation Administration, ending the longest grounding of a jetliner in US history. Brazil’s Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA was the first airline to resume regular flights using the jet, beginning Dec. 9 on domestic routes from Sao Paulo. American Airlines Group Inc. has since also reintroduced the Max on Miami-New York flights.SettlementEarlier this month, Boeing reached a $2.5 billion agreement with the Justice Department to settle a criminal charge that it defrauded the US government by concealing information about the 737 Max, capping a two-year investigation that devastated the company’s reputation for engineering prowess.Sriwijaya Air was established in November 2003. Its fleet is comprised of the Boeing 737 family of jets and ATR 72-600 turboprops. While the company primarily serves domestic routes, it flies internationally to Penang, Malaysia and Dili, Timor Leste. Flag carrier PT Garuda Indonesia briefly took over the operation of Sriwijaya and its unit NAM Air in 2018 to expedite Sriwijaya’s debt restructuring, including clearance of dues to Garuda’s unit.The Boeing jet in question had been operated by Sriwijaya Air since 2012, according to fleet data on Planespotters.net, and was previously used by Continental Air Lines and United Airlines Holdings Inc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indonesian-search-team-locates-crash-site-of-sriwijaya-air-flight-sj182-101610254612381.html
10-01-2021||World||Indonesian divers spot parts of plane wreckage in Java Sea||Indonesian divers on Sunday located parts of the wreckage of a Boeing 737-500 at a depth of 23 meters (75 feet) in the Java Sea, a day after the aircraft with 62 people onboard crashed shortly after takeoff from Jakarta.“We received reports from the diver team that the visibility in the water is good and clear, allowing the discovery of some parts of the plane," Air Chief Marshal Hadi Tjahjanto said in a statement. “We are sure that is the point where the plane crashed.”He said the objects included broken pieces of fuselage with aircraft registration parts.Earlier, rescuers pulled out body parts, pieces of clothing and scraps of metal from the surface.“Hopefully until this afternoon the current conditions and the view under the sea are still good so that we can continue the search,” he said.The break in the search for Sriwijaya Air Flight 182 came after sonar equipment on a navy ship detected a signal from the aircraft at a location that fit the coordinates from the last contact made by the pilots before the plane went missing on Saturday afternoon.It’s still unclear what caused the crash. There was no sign of survivors.“I represent the government and all Indonesians in expressing my deep condolences for this tragedy," President Joko Widodo said.“We are doing our best to save the victims. We pray together so that the victims can be found,” he said, adding that he had asked the National Transport Safety Committee to conduct an investigation.Fishermen in the area between Lancang and Laki islands, part of an archipelago around Thousand Islands north of Jakarta’s coast, reported hearing an explosion around 2:30 p.m. Saturday.“We heard something explode, we thought it was a bomb or a tsunami since after that we saw the big splash from the water," Solihin, who goes by one name, told The Associated Press by phone.“It was raining heavily and the weather was so bad. So it is difficult to see around clearly. But we can see the splash and a big wave after the sounds. We were very shocked and directly saw the plane debris and the fuel around our boat.”Transportation Minister Budi Karya Sumadi said Flight SJ182 was delayed for an hour before it took off at 2:36 p.m. It disappeared from radar four minutes later, after the pilot contacted air traffic control to ascend to an altitude of 29,000 feet (8,839 meters), he said.There were 62 people on board, including seven children and three babies.“We are aware of media reports from Jakarta regarding Sriwijaya Air flight SJ-182,” Boeing said in a statement. “Our thoughts are with the crew, passengers, and their families. We are in contact with our airline customer and stand ready to support them during this difficult time.”Authorities established two crisis centers, one at airport and one at port. Families gathered to wait for news of loved ones.On social media, people began circulating the flight manifesto with photos and videos of those who were listed as passengers. One video shows a woman with her children waving goodbye while walking through the airport.Sriwijaya Air President Director Jefferson Irwin Jauwena said the plane, which is 26 years old and previously used by airlines in the United States, was airworthy. He told reporters Saturday that the plane had previously flown to Pontianak and Pangkal Pinang city on the same day.“Maintenance report said everything went well and airworthy,” Jauwena told a news conference. He said the plane was delayed due to bad weather, not because of any damage.Indonesia, the world’s largest archipelago nation, with more than 260 million people, has been plagued by transportation accidents on land, sea and air because of overcrowding on ferries, aging infrastructure and poorly enforced safety standards.In October 2018, a Boeing 737 MAX 8 jet operated by Lion Air plunged into the Java Sea just minutes after taking off from Jakarta, killing all 189 people on board. The plane involved in Saturday’s incident did not have the automated flight-control system that played a role in the Lion Air crash and another crash of a 737 MAX 8 jet in Ethiopia five months later, leading to the grounding of the MAX 8 for 20 months.The Lion Air crash was Indonesia’s worst airline disaster since 1997, when 234 people were killed on a Garuda airlines flight near Medan on Sumatra island. In December 2014, an AirAsia flight from the Indonesian city of Surabaya to Singapore plunged into the sea, killing 162 people.Sriwijaya Air has only has several minor incidents in the past, though a farmer was killed in 2008 when landing plane went off runway due to a hydraulic issue.The United States banned Indonesian carriers from operating in the country in 2007, but reversed the decision in 2016, citing improvements in compliance with international aviation standards. The European Union has previously had similar bans, lifting them in June 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indonesian-divers-spot-parts-of-plane-wreckage-in-java-sea-101610253624439.html
10-01-2021||World||Top Republican says Trump committed 'impeachable offenses'||Democrats' momentum for a fresh drive to quickly impeach outgoing President Donald Trump gained support Saturday, and a top Republican said the president's role in the deadly riot at the Capitol by a violent mob of Trump supporters was worthy of rebuke.Sen. Pat Toomey, R-Pa., said he believed Trump had committed “impeachable offenses.” But he did not explicitly say whether he would vote to remove the president from office at the conclusion of a Senate trial if the House sent over articles of impeachment.“I don’t know what they are going to send over and one of the things that I’m concerned about, frankly, is whether the House would completely politicize something,” Toomey said Saturday on Fox News Channel, speaking of the Democratic-controlled House.“I do think the president committed impeachable offenses, but I don’t know what is going to land on the Senate floor, if anything," Toomey said.Late Saturday, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi sent a letter to her Democratic colleagues reiterating that Trump must be held accountable — but stopped short of committing to an impeachment vote. Still, she told her caucus, “I urge you to be prepared to return to Washington this week.”“It is absolutely essential that those who perpetrated the assault on our democracy be held accountable,” Pelosi wrote. “There must be a recognition that this desecration was instigated by the President.”Pelosi said House Democrats “will be proceeding with meetings with Members and Constitutional experts and others.”The new Democratic effort to stamp Trump's presidential record — for the second time and days before his term ends — with the indelible mark of impeachment gained more supporters Saturday. Rep. David Cicilline, D-R.I, a leader of the House effort to draft impeachment articles — or charges — accusing Trump of inciting insurrection, said his group had grown to include 185 co-sponsors.Lawmakers plan to formally introduce the proposal on Monday in the House, where articles of impeachment must originate. If Democrats decide to move forward, a vote could be possible by Wednesday — exactly one week before Democrat Joe Biden becomes president at noon on Jan. 20.The articles, if passed by the House, could then be transmitted to the Senate for a trial, with senators acting as jurors who would ultimately vote on whether to acquit or convict Trump. If convicted, Trump would be removed from office and succeeded by the vice president.Earlier Saturday, Pelosi told her San Francisco constituents during an online video conference that it is "a decision that we have to make.”Potentially complicating that decision is what it means for Biden and the beginning of his presidency. While reiterating that he has long viewed Trump as unfit for office, Biden on Friday sidestepped a question about impeachment, saying what Congress does “is for them to decide.”If the House decided to impeach, the soonest the Senate could begin an impeachment trial under the current calendar would be Jan. 20, Inauguration Day.A violent and largely white mob of Trump supporters overpowered police, broke through security lines and rampaged through the Capitol on Wednesday, forcing lawmakers to scatter as they were putting the final, formal touches on Biden’s victory over Trump in the Electoral College.The crowd surged to the domed symbol of American democracy following a rally near the White House, where Trump repeated his bogus claims that the election was stolen from him and urged his supporters to march in force toward the Capitol.Five people, including a Capitol police officer, died as a result of the siege.“It has been an epiphany for the world to see that there are people in our country led by this president, for the moment, who have chosen their whiteness over democracy,” Pelosi said of the attack.She added: “This cannot be exaggerated. The complicity, not only the complicity, the instigation of the president of United States, must and will be addressed.”No. 4 House Democratic leader Hakeem Jeffries of New York reiterated support for moving against what he deemed “an act of sedition that was incited and encouraged by Donald Trump.”Speaking of Trump, Jeffries said Saturday: “He should be impeached, convicted and thrown out of 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue and forever banished to the dustbin of history."Outrage over the attack and Trump's role in egging it on capped a divisive, chaotic presidency like few others in the nation’s history. There are less than two weeks until Trump is out of office but Democrats have made clear they don't want to wait that long.Trump, meanwhile, has few fellow Republicans speaking out in his defense. He's become increasingly isolated, holed up in the White House as he has been abandoned in the aftermath of the riot by many aides, leading Republicans and, so far, two Cabinet members — both women.Sen. Lisa Murkowski, R-Alaska, who has long voiced her exasperation with Trump's conduct in office, told the Anchorage Daily News on Friday that he simply “needs to get out.”Sen. Ben Sasse, another Trump critic, said more important than what happens to Trump “is what happens to the United States people and this union 12 days and beyond.”But the Nebraska Republican also told “CBS This Morning” on Friday that he “will definitely consider” whatever articles the House sends over because he believes Trump “has disregarded his oath of office” to preserve, protect and defend the Constitution.After spending many weeks refusing to concede defeat in the November election, Trump promised — after the Capitol riot — to oversee a smooth transfer of power to Biden. He called for reconciliation and healing, but then announced he will not attend the inauguration — the first such presidential snub since just after the Civil War.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/top-republican-says-trump-committed-impeachable-offenses-101610253439465.html
10-01-2021||World||Apple, Amazon suspend Parler from App Store over posts inciting violence||Apple Inc and Amazon.com Inc have suspended Parler from their respective App Store and web hosting service, saying the social networking service popular with many right-leaning social media users has not taken adequate measures to prevent the spread of posts inciting violence.The action by Apple and Amazon follows a similar move by Alphabet Inc's Google on Friday. Parler is favored by many supporters of US President Donald Trump, who was permanently suspended from Twitter on Friday, and it is seen as a haven for people expelled from Twitter."We have suspended Parler from the App Store until they resolve these issues," Apple said in a statement Saturday.Apple had given Parler 24 hours to submit a detailed moderation plan, pointing to participants' using the service to coordinate Wednesday's siege of the US Capitol.Amazon's move effectively takes the site offline unless it can find a new company to host its services.Amazon suspended Parler from its Amazon Web Services (AWS) unit, for violating AWS's terms of services by failing to effectively deal with a steady increase in violent content, according to an email by an AWS Trust and Safety team to Parler, seen by Reuters.An Amazon spokesperson confirmed the letter was authentic.Due to the "very real risk to public safety" that Parler poses, AWS plans to suspend Parler's account effective Sunday, at 11:59 p.m. PST, the email seen by Reuters showed.Parler Chief Executive John Matze lashed out at Amazon, Google and Apple, saying it was a coordinated effort knowing Parler's options would be limited and it would inflict the most damage right as Trump was banned from other social media platforms."There is the possibility Parler will be unavailable on internet for up to a week as we rebuild from scratch," he said in a post on Parler."This was a coordinated attack by the tech giants to kill competition in the market place... You can expect the war on competition and free speech to continue, but don't count us out."In addition to Parler, right-leaning social media users in the United States have flocked to messaging app Telegram and hands-off social site Gab, citing the more aggressive policing of political comments on mainstream platforms such as Twitter Inc and Facebook Inc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/apple-amazon-suspend-parler-from-app-store-over-posts-inciting-violence-101610253034261.html
10-01-2021||World||Donald Trump likely to target big tech in his final days||President Donald Trump will be targeting Twitter and other social media platforms during his final days in office to shift the narrative away from the riots at Capitol Hill which took place earlier this week, reported CNN.A Trump adviser said that Trump was outraged by Twitter on his permanent suspension from the platform on Friday night (local time).Trump aides have advised him to use this opportunity to reignite arguments of anti-conservative bias on social media and to frame the ban as an attack on his supporters."This isn't just about President Trump, but this is literally about the 75 million Americans" who supported him, the adviser said.Earlier, Trump was banned by other big tech companies like Instagram, YouTube, and Twitch, etc after a chaotic and violent scene erupted at the Capitol on Wednesday (local time) as his supporters stormed the building to protest the Electoral College vote, forcing a lockdown and confrontation with police resulting in the death of five persons, including an Air Force veteran.The violence came hours after Trump coaxed his supporters to fight against the election results as Congress was in process of certifying Biden's victory in the November elections.Meanwhile, Trump and his Republican allies have long accused social media companies of bias against conservatives, often making false allegations that social media platforms secretly "shadow ban" prominent Republicans, reported CNN."Big Tech and Capitol Hill Democrats seem to have the magic ability to galvanize the Republican base in a way that only they know how to do," said the adviser.CNN reported that the fight with social media companies is likely to help galvanize the Trump base; it is unlikely to shift the conversation away from Trump's role in inciting the riots on Capitol Hill last week.Trump is also expected to issue a raft of pardons, travel to the border wall and sign some executive orders in his final days in office.Meanwhile, several of Trump administration members resigned from the post following the violence, including US Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao, White House Deputy Press Secretary Sarah Matthews, chief of staff for First Lady Melania Trump, Stephanie Grisham, and White House social secretary Anna Cristina "Rickie" Niceta.Also, several lawmakers slammed Trump for inciting violence, with some calling for his immediate impeachment and removal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-likely-to-target-big-tech-in-his-final-days-101610253160972.html
10-01-2021||World||Angela Merkel’s health minister mulling a run for chancellor: Reports||German Health Minister Jens Spahn is considering a run to take over from Angela Merkel as chancellor, local media reported, as competition to succeed her after September’s election heats up.Spahn, whose standing among voters has risen during the coronavirus pandemic, has been sounding out party colleagues to gauge support for the move, Der Spiegel magazine reported Friday, citing six unidentified officials from Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union. Bild newspaper also reported that Spahn is mulling a bid for the chancellor candidacy.The 40-year-old has long been considered a rising star in Merkel’s conservative bloc and one poll last month showed he had moved ahead of her to become the nation’s most popular politician.A protege of former Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble, Spahn made a name for himself with attacks on Merkel over her handling of the euro crisis and her migrant policy. He put his hat in the ring in 2018 as a candidate for CDU leader, and although he came in third, his run was well received by the party and the media.According to a Kantar poll in Bild last month, 52% of those surveyed said Spahn should play a major role in German politics in 2021, up from 28% at the end of 2019. Merkel’s approval rating was 51%, up 11 percentage points from the previous year.Since then, however, criticism has swirled around the start of Germany’s Covid-19 vaccination program, putting Spahn under pressure. Merkel was drawn into the controversy after a June letter from Spahn was leaked to Bild. The message to the European Commission indicated that the German leader was behind the strategy to hand off vaccine procurement to the bloc.The fallout could hurt his chances. An infratest dimap poll for ARD television published Thursday showed his approval rating had dropped by eight points to 56%, the lowest since May last year, though he held on to second place behind Merkel on 72%.The chancellor will step down following the next election in September after 16 years in power. The CDU will elect a new leader -- who will have a strong say in the chancellor candidacy -- at a virtual congress next week in a tight three-way race.Spahn has backed Armin Laschet to become CDU chief, but the premier of the state of North Rhine-Westphalia has faltered in recent months. Friedrich Merz, a long-time Merkel rival, and Norbert Roettgen, a former environment minister, are also running.The winner could step aside to allow Spahn to run as chancellor if he’s seen as having the best chance of winning the election. Spiegel said that Laschet rejected handing the chancellor candidacy to Spahn. Bavarian Premier Markus Soeder from the CSU sister party is also a leading contender to become the bloc’s chancellor candidate.Spahn is in regular contact with party member to gauge the mood before the convention and support Laschet and the party, an unidentified health ministry spokesman told Spiegel.Laschet said Friday he did not think that the controversy over Spahn’s handling of the vaccine program would affect his own candidacy for CDU leader.“Jens Spahn is one of the popular German politicians,” Laschet said on ARD television. “But in the crisis it gets bumpy sometimes -- there are problems, the vaccine doesn’t come as quick as you think or whatever. He’s doing a good job.”For more articles like this, please visit us at bloomberg.com©2021 Bloomberg L.P.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/angela-merkel-s-health-minister-mulling-a-run-for-chancellor-reports-101610249700650.html
10-01-2021||World||US, Canada, Britain, Australia slam China as Hong Kong arrests activists||Foreign ministers from the United States, Canada, Britain and Australia condemned last week's arrest of over 50 democracy activists in Hong Kong in a joint statement on Sunday, calling on China to respect the freedom of the people on the island.Hong Kong police made the arrests on Wednesday in dawn raids, the biggest crackdown since China imposed a security law in 2020, which opponents say is aimed at quashing dissent in the former British colony."It is clear that the National Security Law is being used to eliminate dissent and opposing political views," the foreign ministers said in the joint statement issued by Australia's Foreign Minister Marise Payne."We call on the Hong Kong and Chinese central authorities to respect the legally guaranteed rights and freedoms of the people of Hong Kong without fear of arrest and detention."Hong Kong's most prominent pro-democracy advocates were arrested as authorities said last year's unofficial vote to choose opposition candidates in city elections was part of a plan to "overthrow" the government.On Thursday, US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said Washington may sanction those involved in the arrests and will send the US ambassador to the United Nations to visit Taiwan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-canada-britain-australia-slam-china-as-hong-kong-arrests-activists-101610248542966.html
10-01-2021||World||'Finally Imran Khan introduces night mode': Pak Twitterati on massive blackout||As Pakistan was plunged into darkness due to a massive power blackout, the incident has evoked humourous reactions from social media users in the country. Soon after the breakdown, the term #blackout became a top trend on Twitter with over 52,800 tweets till 2:18 am."So finally Pakistan showed unity in something that sounds good. 2021 game strong," said a Twitter user.Another user on Twitter commented: "Finally Imran khan introduces Night mode in Naya Pakistan.""Everyone in Pakistan on Twitter will be an electrical engineer till morning," said another Twitterati.Another person said: "Pakistanis: Bhai Pakistan sahi nhi chal raha @ImranKhanPTI have you tried turning it off and on?"Meanwhile, some users also expressed concerns for the residents in Pakistan affected by the blackout."Meanwhile, please pray for all those who are currently on ventilators. I hope every hospital in Pakistan has adequate power supply during this time," said one person on Twitter.Earlier in a tweet, Islamabad Deputy Commissioner Hamza Shafqaat said the blackout was caused by the National Transmission & Despatch Company (NTDC) system tripping."NTDC system tripped. It will take sometime before everything gets back to normal," he tweeted.Meanwhile, Energy Minister Omar Ayub on Twitter said that the "frequency in the power distribution system suddenly dropped from 50 to 0 which caused the blackout"."We are trying to ascertain what caused the drop in frequency," he said while requesting the nation to exercise patience."All of our teams have reached their respective stations. As the Minister for Power, I am personally overseeing the work for the restoration of power. We will keep you updated periodically over the progress in power restoration," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/finally-imran-khan-introduces-night-mode-pak-twitterati-on-massive-blackout-101610246728074.html
10-01-2021||World||Pence to break with Trump, attend Biden-Harris inauguration||Vice President Mike Pence will attend the inauguration of President-elect Joe Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris, breaking ranks with President Donald Trump, who said that he wouldn’t attend.Pence plans to be at the Jan. 20 event, according to two people familiar with his plans who asked not to be identified discussing internal deliberations. Trump, in the final tweet before his account was suspended by Twitter on Friday, said that he “will not be going to the Inauguration.”On Wednesday, the vice president defied Trump’s call to overturn the election and instead fulfilled his ceremonial duty to preside over Congress’s acceptance of the Electoral College results.During the proceedings, an angry mob of Trump supporters descended on the Capitol and overtook security, storming into the building and causing lawmakers and others to evacuate. Five people were killed in the melee, including a police officer.On Friday, Biden, speaking to reporters, said that he agreed that Trump shouldn’t attend the inauguration but that Pence was “welcome,” and that he’d be honored if the vice president were to attend.“I’d be honored to have him there,” Biden said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pence-to-break-with-trump-attend-biden-harris-inauguration-101610245012248.html
10-01-2021||World||China sees fresh surge of Covid-19, most cases reported from Hebei province||Mainland China reported 69 new Covid-19 cases on January 9, more than double the 33 reported cases a day earlier, the country's national health authority said on Sunday.The National Health Commission said in its daily bulletin that 21 of the new cases were imported.The bulk of locally transmitted cases, 46 out of 48, were in Hebei, the province surrounding Beijing which entered a "wartime mode" this week as it battles a new cluster of coronavirus infections.Another 27 asymptomatic cases were also reported on Jan. 9, down from 38 a day earlier. China does not classify these patients, who have been infected by the SARS-CoV-2 virus that causes the disease but are not yet showing any Covid-19 symptoms, as confirmed cases.Mainland China has now reported an accumulated total of 87,433 confirmed coronavirus cases, with 4,634 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-sees-fresh-surge-of-covid-19-most-cases-reported-from-hebei-province-101610244450029.html
10-01-2021||World||Sriwijaya Air Flight 182 crash: Rescuers find body parts, debris||Indonesian rescuers pulled out body parts, pieces of clothing and scraps of metal from the Java Sea early Sunday morning, a day after a Boeing 737-500 with 62 people onboard crashed shortly after takeoff from Jakarta, officials said.Officials were hopeful they were honing in on the wreckage of Sriwijaya Air Flight 182 after sonar equipment detected a signal from the aircraft.Transportation Minister Budi Karya Sumadi told reporters that authorities have launched massive search efforts after identifying “the possible location of the crash site.”“These pieces were found by the SAR team between Lancang Island and Laki Island,” National Search and Rescue Agency Bagus Puruhito in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sriwijaya-air-flight-182-crash-rescuers-find-body-parts-debris-101610243556124.html
10-01-2021||World||Several major cities in Pakistan plunge into darkness due to huge power blackout||Several cities and towns across Pakistan plunged into darkness late on Saturday night following a huge blackout due to a fault in the power distribution system, according to media reports.The power outage was reported shortly before midnight almost simultaneously in many cities. Residents of Karachi, Rawalpindi, Lahore, Islamabad, Multan and others faced the blackout, the reports stated.Islamabad Deputy Commissioner Hamza Shafqaat tweeted that the National Transmission Despatch Company's lines have tripped, causing outage. "It will take sometime before everything gets back to normal," he added.Power Minister Omar Ayub Khan said the frequency in the power distribution system suddenly dropped from 50 to zero, causing the blackout. "We are trying to ascertain what caused the drop in frequency, Ayub said.Initial reports suggest there was a fault in the Guddu power plant in Sindh province at 11.41 pm, the Energy Ministry tweeted.The fault tripped the high transmission lines and this resulted in the system frequency to drop from 50 to zero in less than a second, causing power plants to shut down, according to the ministry.It added that Khan was overseeing the restoration work at the National Power Control Center.The minister appealed to people to maintain restraint and said power restoration was being carried out with caution and teams were on the ground.Later, Khan posted a series of tweets regarding restoration of power in several grids.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/several-major-cities-in-pakistan-plunge-into-darkness-due-to-huge-power-blackout-101610242335275.html
10-01-2021||World||US House of Representatives to introduce Trump impeachment article on Monday||Democrats in the US House of Representatives will introduce legislation on Monday urging the impeachment of President Donald Trump, Representative Ted Lieu said on Saturday.In a tweet, Lieu, who was an active participant in the December 2019 House impeachment of Trump that ultimately failed in the Senate, said there were now 180 co-sponsors for one new article of impeachment following rioting in the US Capitol on Wednesday by Trump supporters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-house-of-representatives-to-introduce-trump-impeachment-article-on-monday-101610239742613.html
10-01-2021||World||More arrests in US Capitol riot as more video reveals brutality||Police arrested more Capitol rioters on Saturday, including a man who carried off the House speaker’s lectern, as more graphic details of the insurrection emerged, revealing the violence and brutality of the mob that stormed a seat of American political power.A bloodied officer was crushed in a doorway screaming in Wednesday's siege, which forced lawmakers to go into hiding for hours and halt their voting to affirm President-elect Joe Biden’s victory. Another officer tumbled over a railing into the crowd below after being body-slammed from behind. Members of the media were cursed, shoved and punched.A vast number of photos and videos captured the riot, which left five people dead. Many of the images were taken by the rioters themselves, few of whom wore masks that would have lowered not only their chances of contracting the coronavirus, but their chances of being identified. Some took pains to stand out.Jacob Anthony Chansley, an Arizona man seen in photos and video of the mob with a painted face and wearing a costume that included a horned, fur hat, was taken into custody Saturday and charged with counts that include violent entry and disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds.Chansley, more commonly known as Jake Angeli, will remain in custody in Arizona pending a detention hearing that will be scheduled during an initial court appearance early in the coming week, Assistant U.S. Attorney Esther Winne told The Associated Press by email. Chansley did not immediately respond to messages left via email and telephone.Chansley, who had become a staple in his costume at pro-Trump protests across the country, is now among dozens of people arrested in the wake of the Capitol invasion by a large mob of Trump supporters enraged over his election loss.The rioters took over the House and Senate chambers, smashed windows and waved Trump, American and Confederate flags.A Florida man accused of making off with Pelosi’s lectern during the chaos was arrested Friday night on a federal warrant and was being held Saturday without bail in Pinellas County, Florida. Jail records do not show if Adam Johnson, 36, of Parrish, Florida, has an attorney.Johnson was charged Saturday with theft, violent entry and disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds.The married father of five was quickly identified on social media by local residents as the man in a photo smiling as he walked through the Capitol rotunda carrying Pelosi’s lectern, The Bradenton Herald reported.Johnson posted on social media that he was in Washington, D.C., during Wednesday’s riots and included disparaging comments about the Black Lives Matter movement, according to The Bradenton Herald. Those posts were later deleted or taken down.During Wednesday's violence, Capitol Police Officer Brian Sicknick was wounded in a confrontation with attackers and was reportedly struck by a fire extinguisher. He died Thursday night. Another officer was crushed in a doorway, but it’s unclear what happened to that officer, whose plight was captured on camera and shared by the progressive organization Status Coup. Members of media organizations, including the AP and The New York Times, were also attacked.By Saturday, prosecutors had filed 17 cases in federal district court and 40 others in the District of Columbia Superior Court for a variety of offenses ranging from assaulting police officers to entering restricted areas of the U.S. Capitol, stealing federal property and threatening lawmakers.Prosecutors said additional cases remained under seal, dozens of other people were being sought by federal agents, and the U.S. attorney in Washington vowed Friday that “all options were on the table” for charges, including possibly sedition.Other notable arrests in the Capitol invasion include:— Doug Jensen, an Iowa man, was jailed early Saturday on federal charges, including trespassing and disorderly conduct counts, for his alleged role in the Capitol riot. Jensen, 41, of Des Moines, was being held without bond at the Polk County Jail and county sheriff's Sgt. Ryan Evans said he didn’t know if Jensen had an attorney. Video posted online during the storming of the Capitol showed a man who appears to be Jensen, who is white, pursuing a Black officer up an interior flight of stairs as a mob of people trails several steps behind. At several points, the officer says “get back,” to no avail.— Richard Barnett, an Arkansas man who was shown in a widely seen photo sitting in House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s office with his boots on a desk after the storming of the Capitol, was arrested Friday by the FBI. Barnett, 60, turned himself in to FBI agents at the Benton County Sheriff’s Office in Bentonville, Arkansas. He is jailed in the Washington County Detention Center in nearby Fayetteville, Arkansas, without bond pending an initial court appearance, FBI Little Rock spokesman Connor Hagan said. No attorney is listed in online jail records for the Gravette, Arkansas, man.— Derrick Evans, a West Virginia state lawmaker who posted videos online showing himself pushing his way inside the Capitol, was arrested Friday by the FBI at his home and charged with entering restricted federal property. Evans, who faced bipartisan calls for him to step down, submitted a letter of resignation Saturday to West Virginia Gov. Jim Justice and apologized for his actions. Evans faces charges that he entered a restricted area of the U.S. Capitol after he livestreamed himself rushing into the building with a horde of rampaging Trump supporters. In the videos, Evans is seen fist-bumping a police officer and then milling around the rotunda as he shouted, “Our house!”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/more-arrests-in-us-capitol-riot-as-more-video-reveals-brutality-101610237678024.html
10-01-2021||World||Pompeo lifts restrictions on interactions between Taiwanese and US diplomats||Secretary of State Mike Pompeo on Saturday said he was lifting restrictions on contacts between US officials and their Taiwanese counterparts, a move likely to anger China and increase tensions between Beijing and Washington in the waning days of President Donald Trump's presidency.China claims democratic and separately ruled Taiwan as its own territory, and regularly describes Taiwan as the most sensitive issue in its ties with the United States.While the United States, like most countries, has no official relations with Taiwan, the Trump administration has ramped up backing for the island country, with arms sales and laws to help Taiwan deal with pressure from China.In a statement, Pompeo said that for several decades the State Department had created complex internal restrictions on interactions with Taiwanese counterparts by American diplomats, service members and other officials."The United States government took these actions unilaterally, in an attempt to appease the Communist regime in Beijing," Pompeo said in a statement."Today I am announcing that I am lifting all of these self-imposed restrictions," he added.The move appeared to be another part of an effort by Pompeo and Trump's Republican administration to lock in a tough approach to China before Democratic President-elect Joe Biden takes office on Jan. 20.Bonnie Glaser, an Asia expert at Washington’s Center for Strategic and International Studies think tank, said examples of the restrictions included Taiwanese officials not being able to enter the State Department, but instead having to meet at hotels."The Biden administration will rightly be unhappy that a policy decision like this was made in the final days of the Trump administration," Glaser said.An official with Biden's transition said that once Biden was in office he would continue to support "a peaceful resolution of cross-strait issues consistent with the wishes and best interests of the people of Taiwan."The Taipei Economic and Cultural Representative Office in the United States in Washington, which serves as Taiwan's unofficial embassy, said the move showed the "strength and depth" of the United States' relationship with Taiwan.Pompeo, who has taken an increasingly hard-line stance toward China and identified it as the principal long-term threat faced by the United States, has repeatedly used the red-button Taiwan issue to push back against Beijing.In November, he appeared to call into question the long-standing US "one-China policy" by stating in a radio interview that Taiwan "has not been a part of China," causing Beijing to warn that behavior that undermined "China's core interests and interferes with China's domestic affairs will be met with a resolute counterattack."The US ambassador to the United Nations, Kelly Craft, will visit Taiwan next week for meetings with senior Taiwanese leaders, prompting China to warn on Thursday they were playing with fire.Chinese fighter jets approached the island in August and September during the last two visits: by US Secretary of Health and Human Services Alex Azar and US Under Secretary of State for Economic Growth, Energy, and the Environment Keith Krach, respectively.The United States is Taiwan's strongest international backer and arms supplier, and is obliged to help provide it with the means to defend itself under the 1979 Taiwan Relations Act."The United States government maintains relationships with unofficial partners around the world, and Taiwan is no exception. ... Today’s statement recognizes that the US-Taiwan relationship need not, and should not, be shackled by self-imposed restrictions of our permanent bureaucracy," Pompeo said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pompeo-lifts-restrictions-on-interactions-between-taiwanese-and-us-diplomats-101610236897245.html
10-01-2021||World||Squelched by Twitter, Trump seeks new online megaphone||One Twitter wag joked about lights flickering on and off at the White House being Donald Trump signaling to his followers in Morse code after Twitter and Facebook squelched the president for inciting rebellion.Though deprived of his big online megaphones, Trump does have alternative options of much smaller reach, led by the far right-friendly Parler — even if Google removed it from its app store Friday and Apple threatened the same.Trump may launch his own platform. But that won't happen overnight, and free speech experts anticipate growing pressure on all social media platforms to curb incendiary speech as Americans take stock of Wednesday’s violent takeover of the U.S. Capitol by a Trump-incited mob.Twitter ended Trump’s nearly 12-year run on Friday. In shuttering his account it cited a tweet to his 89 million followers that he planned to skip President-elect Joe Biden’s Jan. 20 inauguration that it said gave rioters license to converge on Washington once again.Facebook and Instagram have suspended Trump at least until Inauguration Day. Twitch and Snapchat also have disabled Trump’s accounts, while Shopify took down online stores affiliated with the president and Reddit removed a Trump subgroup. Twitter also banned Trump loyalists including former national security advisor Michael Flynn in a sweeping purge of accounts promoting the QAnon conspiracy theory and the Capitol insurrection. Some had hundreds of thousands of followers.In a statement Friday, Trump said: "We have been negotiating with various other sites, and will have a big announcement soon, while we also look at the possibilities of building out our own platform in the near future.”The “immense power that the social media platforms have as gatekeepers of public discourse” had been flexed as never before — a power that should be troubling even for supporters of the Trump ban, tweeted Jameel Jaffer, director of the Knight First Amendment Institute at Columbia University.Experts are betting Trump pops up on Parler, a 2-year-old magnet for the far right that claims more than 12 million users and where his sons Eric and Don Jr. are already active. Parler hit headwinds, though, on Friday as Google yanked its smartphone app from its app store for allowing postings that seek “to incite ongoing violence in the U.S.” and Apple threatened to do the same, giving Parler a 24-hour ultimatum.Apple told Parler executives in an email Friday it got complaints the app was being used to “plan and facilitate yet further illegal and dangerous activities.”Parler CEO John Matze complained on his site of being scapegoated. “Standards not applied to Twitter, Facebook or even Apple themselves, apply to Parler.” He said he “won’t cave to politically motivated companies and those authoritarians who hate free speech.”Losing access to the app stores of Google and Apple — whose operating systems power hundreds of millions of smartphones — severely limits Parler's reach, though it will continue to be accessible via web browser. Another potential landing spot for Trump is Gab — though both Google and Apple booted it from their app stores in 2017.Online speech experts expect social media companies led by Facebook, Twitter and Google's YouTube to more vigorously police hate speech and incitement in the wake of the Capitol rebellion, as Western democracies led by Nazism-haunted Germany already do.David Kaye, a University of California-Irvine law professor and former U.N. special rapporteur on free speech believes the Parlers of the world will also face pressure from the public and law enforcement as will little-known sites where further pre-inauguration disruption is now apparently being organized. They include MeWe, Wimkin, TheDonald.win and Stormfront, according to a report released Saturday by The Althea Group, which tracks disinformation.Kaye rejects arguments by U.S. conservatives including the president’s former U.N. ambassador, Nikki Haley, that the Trump ban savaged the First Amendment, which prohibits the government from restricting free expression. “Silencing people, not to mention the President of the US, is what happens in China not our country,” Haley tweeted.“It’s not like the platforms’ rules are draconian. People don’t get caught in violations unless they do something clearly against the rules,” said Kaye. And not just individual citizens have free speech rights. “The companies have their freedom of speech, too.”While initially arguing their need to be neutral on speech, Twitter and Facebook gradually yielded to public pressure drawing the line especially when the so-called Plandemic video emerged early in the Covid-19 pandemic urging people not to wear masks, noted civic media professor Ethan Zuckerman of the University of Massachusetts-Amherst.Zuckerman expects the Trump de-platforming may spur important online shifts. First, there may be an accelerated splintering of the social media world along ideological lines."Trump will pull a lot of audience wherever he goes,” he said. That could mean more platforms with smaller, more ideologically isolated audiences.A splintering could push people towards extremes — or make extremism less infectious, he said: Maybe people looking for a video about welding on YouTube will no longer find themselves being offered an unrelated QAnon video. Alternative media systems that are less top-down managed and more self-governing could also emerge.Zuckerman also expects major debate about online speech regulation, including in Congress.“I suspect you will see efforts from the right arguing that there shouldn’t be regulations on acceptable speech,” he said. “I think you will see arguments from the democratic side that speech is a public health issue.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/squelched-by-twitter-trump-seeks-new-online-megaphone-101610236811024.html
10-01-2021||World||National power grid breakdown plunges Pakistan into darkness: Officials||A breakdown in Pakistan's national power grid plunged the country into darkness on Saturday night, officials said."A countrywide blackout has been caused by a sudden plunge in the frequency in the power transmission system," Pakistan's Power Minister Omar Ayub Khan said on Twitter.He said efforts were underway to determine the reasons behind the situation, and asked people across the country to remain calm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/national-power-grid-breakdown-plunges-pakistan-into-darkness-officials-101610223157360.html
10-01-2021||World||China: WHO team’s Wuhan visit preparations underway||hina confirmed on Saturday that preparations were still ongoing for a World Health Organization (WHO) mission to Wuhan to investigate the origins of Covid-19, following a rare rebuke from the UN body over a delay to the long-planned trip.The comments came after WHO chief Tedros Adhanom said on Tuesday he was “very disappointed” that Beijing had yet to finalise permission as the team of experts had begun travelling to China to explore the beginnings of the coronavirus.On Saturday, National Health Commission vice minister Zeng Yixin said, “The specific time is being determined, we are ready here. As long as these experts complete the procedures and confirm their schedule, we will go to Wuhan together to carry out investigations,” he said.In the US, a new, more infectious strain of the coronavirus has spread to at least eight US states, official data showed on Friday. The B.1.1.7 strain, which emerged in Britain late last year, has been shown to be between 40% and 70% more contagious than variants which have spread previously. Data from the US CDC showed on Friday that the strain has been detected in eight states, with California and Florida the worst affected.The pandemic continued to rage across America as the country logged a record new daily virus caseload. Almost 290,000 new cases were reported in the United Status within 24 hours on Friday according to Johns Hopkins University, a day after the world’s worst-hit nation recorded a daily record of nearly 4,000 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-who-team-s-wuhan-visit-preparations-underway-101610221088485.html
10-01-2021||World||Man pictured sitting at Pelosi’s desk arrested||The Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) on Friday arrested an Arkansas man who was photographed sitting at a desk in House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s office following the storming of the US Capitol by a mob of President Donald Trump’s supporters, authorities announced.Richard Barnett turned himself in to FBI agents at the Benton County sheriff’s office in Bentonville, Arkansas, said FBI Little Rock spokesman Connor Hagan. Barnett is jailed in the Washington County detention centre in nearby Fayetteville, Arkansas, without bond pending an initial court appearance.Barnett is from Gravette in northwest Arkansas. He has identified himself on social media as a Trump supporter and gun rights advocate.Barnett, 60, was charged for entering Pelosi’s office, where he “left a note and removed some of the speaker’s mail”. He faces charges for knowingly entering restricted grounds without authority; violent entry and disorderly conduct; and theft of public property or records. If convicted, he faces up to a year in prison.Authorities were able to identify Barnett through photos taken by news media. They also used footage from inside the Capitol and a video interview Barnett gave to a reporter.Separately, a laptop was stolen from Pelosi’s office during the storming of the Capitol on Wednesday, one of her aides said on Friday. Drew Hammill, an aide to Democrat Pelosi, said on Twitter that the laptop was used for presentations.Late on Friday, a man photographed carrying Pelosi’s lectern from the House chambers was arrested. Adam Christian Johnson, 36, of Parrish, Florida, was arrested on a warrant and booked into the Pinellas County jail. No bond was allowed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/man-pictured-sitting-at-pelosi-s-desk-arrested-101610220774721.html
10-01-2021||India||Munawwar Rana takes swipe at UP govt, later deletes tweet||With the Uttar Pradesh government moving in the direction of bringing a law against "love jihad", noted Urdu poet Munawwar Rana took a dig at the BJP regime in the state on Monday, saying the new law should first be used against the leaders of the saffron party and their family members who have married outside the community.In a tweet in Hindi, Rana said, "We can extend support to a law being enacted against love jihad only on the condition that its beginning should be made from the two big love jihadis sitting in the central government so that two Muslim girls can then marry them and action should also be taken against all BJP leaders and their family members who have married outside their religion."In another tweet, he said, "Although love jihad is just a jumla used to spread hatred in the society, Muslim girls suffer the most from this because boys get married elsewhere."The Uttar Pradesh government has sent a proposal to the state's law ministry for a stringent law to deal with the alleged religious conversion of women in the name of marriage, which BJP leaders refer to as "love jihad".Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has also stated at recent election rallies that his government would come out with a strong law to deal with "love jihad".Earlier this month, an FIR was registered against Rana for his remarks in which he allegedly defended the recent killings in France over a caricature of Prophet Muhammad.He had made the controversial comments in an interview to a news channel after three people were killed in a knife attack at a church in the French city of Nice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/munawwar-rana-takes-swipe-at-up-govt-later-deletes-tweet-101610299950274.html
10-01-2021||India||Vijaya Gade, Indian-American who spearheaded suspension of Trump's Twitter account||A 45-year-old immigrant from India and Twitter's top lawyer, Vijaya Gadde, spearheaded the decision to permanently suspend US President Donald Trump's Twitter accounts.On Friday, the tech giant blocked Trump's Twitter handles for the first time, finally escalating its crackdown on the president's social media posts that they believe encouraged and supported rioters at the US Capitol.ALSO WATCH | Facebook, Instagram ban Donald Trump ‘indefinitely’ after US Capitol breachGadde, the company's head of Legal, Policy and Trust and Safety issues, took to Twitter and said "The account of @realDonaldTrump has been permanently suspended from Twitter due to the risk of further violence. We've also published our policy enforcement analysis--you can read more about our decision here."The account of @realDonaldTrump has been permanently suspended from Twitter due to the risk of further violence. We've also published our policy enforcement analysis - you can read more about our decision here: https://t.co/fhjXkxdEcwBorn in India, Gadde moved to the US as a child and grew up in Texas, where her father worked as a chemical engineer on oil refineries in the Gulf of Mexico. The Gadde family then moved to the east coast, where Vijaya completed her high school in New Jersey.A graduate of Cornell University and New York University Law School, Gadde spent almost a decade at a Bay Area-based law firm working with tech startups before she joined the social-media company in 2011.As a corporate lawyer, Gadde operates in the background herself mounding policies, but her influence has helped shape Twitter for most of the past decade. And with Twitter's role in global politics having increased, so has Gadde's visibility.As reported in Fortune, Vijaya was in the Oval Office when Twitter co-founder and chief executive officer Jack Dorsey met with US President Donald Trump last year and even joined Dorsey when he met Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi in November 2018.When Dorsey posted a photo with the Dalai Lama from the India trip, Gadde stood between the two men, holding the Dalai Lama's hand.Gadde has garnered a lot of attention and has been profiled by some of the leading US publications. The Politico described Vijaya as "the most powerful social media executive you've never heard of"Instyle magazine listed her in The Badass 50 2020: Meet the women who are changing the world.Apart from her stint at Twitter, Gadde is also a co-founder of Angels, an investment collective that backs start-ups and helps ensure that women receive equal compensation at successful companies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vijaya-gade-indian-american-who-spearheaded-suspension-of-trump-s-twitter-account-101610296617034.html
10-01-2021||India||Delhi's Sanjay Lake declared 'alert zone' after 17 more ducks found dead||Amid a bird flu scare in different parts of the country, 17 more ducks were found dead at Sanjay Lake here on Sunday, prompting authorities to declare it an "alert zone", officials said.This comes a day after the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) closed the famous water body-cum-park following the death of 10 ducks on the premises. The samples from the dead ducks have been sent for testing to ascertain whether bird flu was the cause of death.Besides, the officials said, 91 crows have been found dead in 14 DDA parks in the last few days."Deaths of 17 more ducks were reported today at Sanjay Lake. A total of 27 ducks have died now. The park has been declared an alert zone by the rapid response team as per the directions of the animal husbandry department of the Delhi government," a senior DDA official said."The rapid response team had visited the lake site on January 9 and 10, and samples were collected for suitable action. Meanwhile... requisite preventive measures are being taken," he said.Reports of the samples are awaited, he added.Three other recreational parks in Delhi -- Hauz Khas Park, Dwarka Sector 9 Park, Hastsal Park -- were also closed on Saturday.At least 24 crows have been found dead at a district park in south Delhi's Jasola over the past few days, according to officials."The crows have been buried deep in the ground and parks have been disinfected. All parks have been reopened other than Hastsal Park and Sanjay Lake," the DDA official said.The 14 parks where crows have died include Golden Jubilee Park, District Park, Vijay Mandal at Begumpur, and Central Nursery in Dwarka Sector 5, he said.The DDA owns about 800 parks including Coronation Park in Burari, Japanese Park in Rohini and various biodiversity parks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhis-sanjay-lake-declared-alert-zone-after-17-more-ducks-found-dead-101610293795611.html
10-01-2021||India||Puducherry: Cong, allies call off stir against Lt Governor day ahead of schedule||The ruling Congress-led Secular Democratic Alliance (SDA) in Puducherry on Sunday ended its three-day old agitation demanding the recall of Lt Governor Kiran Bedi, a day ahead of the original schedule, citing Pongal festivities.Chief Minister V Narayanasamy, who addressed the participants on Sunday, said as the Pongal festival was being celebrated in the union territory the number of days of the protest was reduced from four to three.The protest was launched on January 8 with the ruling party accusing Bedi of "impeding developmental plans and welfare measures of the elected government."Initially, the alliance had planned for an indefinite agitation but scaled it down to four daysHe, however, said the agitation against Bedi would be carried out in different modes, adding a signature campaign to urge the Lt Governor to leave Puducherry would be held on January 22 and a demonstration would be held on January 29.Read more: 'Go Back Bedi': Puducherry CM's agitation against Lt Governor enters third dayAlso, Narayanasamy said a day-long bandh between February 15 and 20 were among the other protests planned by the ruling SDA.He lashed out at Bedi who allegedly had been "impeding all developmental plans with the support of the Prime Minister Narendra Modi.""There is a clear plan on the part of the NDA government at the Centre to dismantle the separate status of Puducherry and to merge it with neighbouring Tamil Nadu," he alleged."We will not let this happen and we will do any sacrifice...to protect the separate identity of Puducherry," Narayanasamy said in an emotional address.Meanwhile on the third day of the stir, participants including the Chief Minister were seen holding placards with slogans urging Bedi "to go back".Read more: Opposition slams Puducherry govt for ‘failing’ to procure 50 per cent seats in private medical collegesMinisters and legislators of the ruling Congress and leaders and workers of the parties affiliated to the SDA (except the DMK) participated in the stir which began on Friday.For the second day, Narayanasamy and the other protestors slept at the venue on Saturday night.The opposition AIADMK and the BJP however, described the agitation by the SDA as "a politically motivated initiative and an attempt to cover up the Congress government's failure during the last four and half years to fulfill poll promises."The Centre has deployed Central Armed Police force and Central Industrial Security Force personnel to maintain law and order here.The SDA had planned to picket Raj Nivas, the office- cum-residence of the Lt Governor, as part of the protest against Bedi for her alleged failure to approve the proposals of the government for various welfare and developmental schemes.With the police denying permission to hold the protest in front of the Raj Nivas, the ruling SDA shifted the venue to Maraimalai Adigal Salai (more than one kilometre away).Read more: Puducherry CM pays homage to farmers who died protesting new farm lawsThis is the second time that the ruling Congress has embarked upon an "anti-Kiran Bedi agitation" as the party had held a similar stir in February 2019.Bedi, a former IPS officer, and Narayanasamy have been at loggerheads over various issues ever since she was appointed Lt Governor in May 2016, with the ruling Congress accusing her of going against decisions of the government.Meanwhile, Welfare Minister M Kandasamy commenced what he called an "indefinite dharna" on the premises of the Legislative Assembly, to urge the Lt Governor to approve around 15 schemes relating to the portfolios held by him including Welfare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/puducherry-cong-allies-call-off-stir-against-lt-governor-day-ahead-of-schedule-101610294190199.html
10-01-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: BJP calls out Mamata Banerjee over promise of free vaccine and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.'Bogus claim,' says BJP after Bengal CM announces free Covid-19 vaccine for allWest Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has announced free Covid-19 vaccine for all citizens of the state. In an open letter, which Banerjee wrote to all health workers of West Bengal, the chief minister said that the government was making arrangements to ensure that Covid-19 vaccine reaches every citizen free of cost. Read More'Today's incident gave a message': Haryana CM after meeting venue vandalisedHours after the venue of his Kisan Mahapanchayat was ransacked, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said on Sunday evening that it is not right to obstruct anyone who wants to speak. Read More'Despite internal problems with alliance partner...': Manjhi salutes NitishHindustani Awam Morcha (HAM) president and former Bihar chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi on Sunday posted an interesting tweet in which he talked about "internal problems and conspiracies". Read MorePune metro to sport light-weight, energy-saving coachesPUNE Pune Metro is to get light-weight and energy-saving coaches with advanced features, according to officials on Sunday, who added that the Kolkata-based Titagarh Firema Company will conduct its first trial run on the factory premises in May. Read MoreYour WhatsApp profile info, private groups are on Google search results right nowIn February this year, Google and WhatsApp gathered a whole lot of headlines as some public groups, along with chats and member information, started showing up on Google search results. Read MoreIndia vs Australia: Tim Paine fined for breaching ICC Code of ConductAustralian Test captain Tim Paine has been found guilty of breaching the Level-1 of the ICC Code of Conduct on Day 3 of ongoing third Test against India at the Sydney Cricket Ground. He has been fined 15 percent of his match fee for this offence. Read MoreCan you guess which city is shown in this picture taken from space?"It’s more than a feeling," reads the beginning of the text NASA shared on its Instagram profile alongside an image of a city taken from space. Read MoreSaif Ali Khan on allowing Tandav shoot inside Pataudi: 'I made an exception'Actor Saif Ali Khan shot for his upcoming show Tandav at his own ancestral palace in Pataudi. Saif said that while he never allows film crews to shoot inside the property, he made an exception for Tandav. Read MoreAustralia racism row: Virat Kohli, R. Ashwin react after Sydney Test controversyFollowing a complaint of racism raised by Indian cricketer Mohammed Siraj, senior teammates Virat Kohli and Ravichandran Ashwin spoke out. Siraj alleged that he faced racial abuses from some spectators. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-bjp-calls-mamata-s-free-vaccine-claim-bogus-101610289988936.html
10-01-2021||India||'Today's incident gave a message': Haryana CM after meeting venue vandalised||Hours after the venue of his Kisan Mahapanchayat was ransacked, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said on Sunday evening that it is not right to obstruct anyone who wants to speak. The incident took place at a village in Karnal, after the farmers protesting against the Centre's three farm laws broke chairs and tables, and damaged a helipad where Khattar's helipad was scheduled to land.WATCH | Farmer protest: Vandalism at Haryana CM's event venue, helipad demolished"It is not right to obstruct anyone who wants to speak. I don't think people will tolerate violation of provisions given by Dr BR Ambedkar. Congress had attempted to finish democracy in 1975. At that time people identified their disgusting work & threw them out of power," Khattar said at a press conference, targeting the Congress.“Our nation has a strong democracy where everyone has freedom of expression. We never stopped statements of these alleged farmers and leaders. Their agitation is going on. Despite Covid, we made arrangements for them,” he further said.Hinting at a political angle involved in the vandalisation incident, the Haryana chief minister reiterated that the agitating farmers were being influenced. “Today's incident gave a message to people, bigger than what I'd intended to give. These people have defamed the farmers because a farmer doesn't have such nature. A farmer can be less educated or simple but he's sensible,” Khattar said.Earlier in the day, a clash first broke out between the farmers marching towards the helipad and the police, which was trying to stop the protesters, according to eyewitnesses. However, the protesters outnumbered the cops and the pro-Kisan Panchayat organisers and ransacked the venue, sending cops scurrying for cover.The police used water cannons and tear gas in an attempt to contain the crowd. The protesting farmers assembled around the venue while police’s attempt to control the situation with the help of the locals failed.Following the chaos, Khattar’s mahapanchayat, which was aimed to drum up support for the three contentious agriculture laws enacted by the Centre in September last year, was called off.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/todays-incident-gave-a-message-haryana-cm-after-meeting-venue-vandalised-101610289186284.html
10-01-2021||India||'Despite internal problems with alliance partner...': Jitan Manjhi salutes Nitish Kumar||Hindustani Awam Morcha (HAM) president and former Bihar chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi on Sunday posted an interesting tweet in which he talked about "internal problems and conspiracies" in the state's ruling alliance. He also saluted chief minister Nitish Kumar for "cooperating with the alliance partner"."If one has to learn about how to fulfill coalition dharma, Nitish Kumar can teach that. Despite internal problems with the alliance partner and conspiracies, Nitishji's cooperation makes him politically great. I salute his passion," Manjhi tweeted in Hindi.राजनीति में गठबंधन धर्म को निभाना अगर सीखना है तो .@NitishKumar जी से सीखा जा सकता है,गठबंधन में शामिल दल के आंतरिक विरोध और साज़िशों के बावजूद भी उनका सहयोग करना नीतीश जी को राजनैतिक तौर पर और महान बनाता है।नीतीश कुमार के जज़्बे को माँझी का सलाम...He also called Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav the "future of Bihar"."Tejashwi Yadav, you are the future of Bihar, you should show restrain in your speeches. Why are you being so impatient with the cabinet expansion? Eveything will happen at right time, you just focus on positive politics," Manjhi said in another tweet..@yadavtejashwi जी आप बिहार के भविष्य हैं आपको अनर्गल बयान से बचना चाहिए।जब आप अपने दल के राजनैतिक कार्यक्रम खरवास के बाद आरंभ कर रहें हैं तो मंत्रिपरिषद का विस्तार पर इतना क्यों उतावले हो रहें हैं?सही वक्त पर सबकुछ हो जाएगा बस आप पॉज़िटिव राजनिति किजिए।A proposed ministerial expansion in Bihar is expected to take place on January 14 and the Legislative Council polls for two seats scheduled on January 28, people aware of the developments said. The seats had fallen vacant after election of Sushil Kumar Modi to Rajya Sabha and election of MLC Binod Narayan Jha to legislative assembly.A 14-member council of ministers of chief minister Nitish Kumar was sworn in by Governor Phagu Chauhan in November last year. Kumar had kept home, general administration, vigilance and three more departments for himself.Manjhi had said on Wednesday that he would seek one Legislative Council seat and a ministerial berth for his party from Kumar when he expands his Cabinet.Nitish Kumar had made an indirect attack at Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Saturday, saying that the seat distribution within the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) for last year's assembly elections should have been done five months before the polls and added that the Janata Dal (United) had to pay a price."The seat distribution within the NDA should have been done five months prior to the elections but that was not done and as a result, JDU had to pay a big price for it. I was not in favour of becoming the chief minister but because of the pressure of BJP and my party, I agreed to assume the post," Kumar said at the JD(U) state council meeting on Saturday.The Bihar chief minister further said that his party failed to anticipate as to who were their friends and who were not.The NDA won last year's Assembly elections in Bihar. The NDA, with JD(U) and Manjhi's HAM, emerged victorious by winning 125 seats; the RJD and Left parties, which are part of the grand alliance, were left short of 13 seats from simple majority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/despite-internal-problems-with-alliance-partner-manjhi-salutes-nitish-101610285480555.html
10-01-2021||India||People shouldn’t be made lab rats: Jharkhand minister on Covid vaccination drive||Expressing caution over the use of Covid-19 vaccines that were recently approved for restricted emergency use, Jharkhand’s health minister Banna Gupta on Saturday said the Centre must adjudge the authenticity, relevance and utility of any vaccine before its roll-out, according to news agency ANI.“Its proper exercise is essential. People of this country should not be made lab rats,” he was quoted as saying by ANI. However, the minister ruled out any political differences or political ambitions over the issue. “As far as public welfare an national welfare is concerned, we'll stand with the Centre as far as public welfare and national welfare are concerned,” he said.Gupta’s comments came a day after the central government announced that the Covid-19 vaccination drive in India will begin from January 16. The date for vaccination was decided at a meeting of a high-powered committee headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Several political leaders have expressed their concerns over the use of indigenously developed Covaxin — one of the two vaccines approved for emergency use — as its trial has not been completed yet. On Saturday, Chhattisgarh health minister TS Singh Deo said, “The third phase trial of Covaxin is under process. The vaccine has been approved for emergency use (by the Drug Controller General of India). Its use should be avoided until its complete results are out,” Deo told reporters.Meanwhile, the Centre on Sunday said it was proactively preparing for the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive and that the Co-WIN software forms the backbone of the last mile vaccine administration.The states have been told to ensure that the vaccination drive is citizen-centric and built on the approach that the vaccine shall be available anytime and anywhere, the health ministry said in a statement. They have also been advised to urge the beneficiaries to seed their current mobile number with Aadhar for registration and consequent communication through SMS as there cannot be any proxies for Aadhar authentication.Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with chief ministers of all states on Monday. This will be the first interaction between PM Modi and the CMs after the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) gave restricted, emergency-use approval to two vaccines — Oxford Astrazeneca's vaccine known as Covishield in India, locally manufactured by Pune's Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech's Covaxin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/people-shouldn-t-be-made-lab-rats-jharkhand-minister-on-covid-vaccination-drive-101610283183807.html
10-01-2021||India||OPD services at Rajiv Gandhi hospital to resume tomorrow||Doctors at Delhi government-run Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital (RGSSH) are slated to conduct a heart bypass surgery on Monday, which will be the first operation to be done there since it was declared a dedicated coronavirus facility nearly 10 months ago, officials said.The national capital had reported its first coronavirus case on March 1 when a businessman from east Delhi had tested positive for the infection.LNJP Hospital and RGSSH were among the facilities converted into dedicated Covid-19 hospitals soon after the cases began to rise."Our OPD is scheduled to resume from tomorrow, however, it will be only available on three days -- Monday, Wednesday and Friday," RGSSH spokesperson Dr Chhavi Gupta told PTI."But, as a super speciality hospital, tomorrow is an important day for us as after 10 months a surgery will be conducted at the facility which had been all closed as we had become a fully Covid facility," she added.The 650-bed RGSSH was a dedicated coronavirus facility till recently when it was converted into a partially Covid-19 hospital, along with six other Delhi government-run hospitals, including Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan (LNJP) Hospital.Read more: Ahead of Covid-19 vaccine rollout, how states have made preparationsThe OPD services resumed at the 2000-bed LNJP Hospital located in central Delhi, the largest facility under the city government, from January 4."The OPD services of five departments will function only partially in a week. So, cardiology and urology departments will run it on Monday and Wednesday, gastroenterology will run only on Monday, while pulmonology and CTVS will operate or on Wednesday and Friday," Gupta said."The COVID situation has improved in Delhi, so after being made a partially coronavirus facility, we have decided to resume the OPD too. It will start functioning again from Monday," a senior official had earlier said.The move will come as a big relief for people, especially the residents of east Delhi where the hospital is located.Delhi recorded 399 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday, the seventh time the daily incidences count stood below the 500-mark in January, even as the positivity rate dipped to 0.51 per cent.The infection tally in the city stood at 6.3 lakh and the death toll mounted to 10,678 with 12 new fatalities, they said."The OPDs of medicine, surgery, paediatric and gynaecology have resumed to serve the general public at the LNJP Hospital. But, the number of patients who can be seen, has been capped to 50 for each of the four departments," the official at the hospital had earlier said.Doctors, medical staff and other employees of LNJP Hospital and RGSSH have drawn praise from Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and Health Minister Satyendar Jain.Jain in December had said that the LNJP Hospital had successfully treated over 10,000 patients since it was declared a dedicated coronavirus facility, and hailed the team of the facility for the services rendered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opd-services-at-rajiv-gandhi-hospital-to-resume-tomorrow-101610281009203.html
10-01-2021||India||CoWIN shall form foundation of Covid-19 inoculation drive: Centre||The Centre on Sunday said Co-WIN, an online platform for monitoring Covid-19 vaccine delivery, shall form the foundation for the anti-coronavirus inoculation drive which shall be citizen-centric so that the vaccine is available anytime and anywhere.India will launch its Covid-19 vaccination drive from January 16 in what Prime Minister Narendra Modi has called the world's largest inoculation programme with priority to be given to nearly three crore healthcare and frontline workers.As part of preparations for the nationwide rollout of Covid-19 vaccine, the Health Ministry on Sunday held a video conference with officials from states and Union Territories to discuss feedback on the Co-WIN software and its operational use gathered from the vaccination dry runs.The meeting was chaired by Ram Sewak Sharma, the chairman of Empowered Group on Technology and Data Management to combat Covid-19 and member of National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration of Covid-19.Giving an overall view of the CoWIN software and the principles that shall underpin the technology backup for the vaccination exercise, he said robust, dependable and agile technology shall form both the foundation and the back-up for the country's Covid-19 vaccination drive."The process should be citizen-centric and built on an approach that the vaccine shall be available anytime and anywhere," Sharma was quoted as saying in a statement.He stressed on the need for flexibility without compromising on quality and reiterated that inclusivity, speed and scalability have been kept in mind while designing the digital platform with all its components being portable, synchronous without excessive and unnecessary dependencies.Underscoring the importance of capturing the vaccination data in real time, Sharma said, "This is non-negotiable."He also highlighted the caution one needs to exercise to ensure there was 'no proxy' at all, while reiterating that the beneficiaries of the vaccination drive need to be uniquely and undeniably identified.About the use of the Aadhaar platform, Sharma advised the states to urge the beneficiaries to seed their current mobile number with Aadhaar for registration and consequent communication through SMS.It is extremely important to clearly identify a person who is getting vaccinated and keep a digital record on who gets vaccinated by whom, when and which one, Sharma stressed.The meeting was attended by principal secretaries of states, National Health Mission Directors, state immunisation officers and senior officers of the Union Health Ministry.India had recently granted emergency use authorisation to two vaccines, Oxford's Covishield being manufactured by Serum Institute in India and Bharat Biotech's Covaxin. Both vaccines, the statement from the Health Ministry said, have established safety and immunogenicity.After vaccinating healthcare and frontline workers, priority will be given to those above 50 years of age and the under-50 population groups with co-morbidities, together numbering around 27 crore, a government statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cowin-shall-form-foundation-of-covid-19-inoculation-drive-centre-101610280600234.html
10-01-2021||India||Sri Lankan Navy apprehends 9 Indian fishermen||The Sri Lankan Navy has arrested nine Indian fishermen and seized one mechanised boat for allegedly fishing in that country's waters, besides damaging fishing nets in a separate incident, officials said here on Sunday. The fishermen were arrested near Neduntheevu on Saturday, Fisheries department officials said, adding that one boat was also seized by the Lankan navy. In a separate incident, the Lankan navy personnel allegedly damaged fishing nets in 20 mechanised boats near Katchatheevu on Saturday, the officials added. They also allegedly hurled stones and bottles on the the Indian fishermen, they said. Read more: Sri Lanka's Jaffna University war memorial removed, Tamil Nadu CM condemns moveFishermen's association representative Sesuraja rued the acts of the Sri Lankan Navy, saying damage to equipment caused distress to the fishermen.Meanwhile, the fishermen operating mechanised boats decided to strike work indefinitely from Monday, urging the Centre to expedite steps for the release of about 52 fishermen from Lankan custody at the earliest. About 800 boats and 5,000 fishermen would keep off the sea, representatives said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sri-lankan-navy-apprehends-9-indian-fishermen-101610280360143.html
10-01-2021||India||Bird flu scare reduces demand for chicken, increases demand for mutton||With bird flu reports making headlines across the country, chicken shop owners in Thiruvananthapuram said their business has been hit hard. The price of mutton has climbed up to ₹800 per kilogram.Alappuzha and Kottayam districts have reported cases of avian influenza.According to meat shop owner Sathish Kumar, the demand for mutton has increased a lot in the last few days."For two weeks after bird flu was reported, there has been brisk sales of mutton. People are not buying chicken out of fear. Chicken sales are usually higher on Sundays but today more than ten lambs were sold. The price of mutton has reached ₹800 per kg due to high demand," said Kumar who runs a meat shop at the Connemara market.Chicken shop owners said that sales were distressing. They had already suffered severe losses during the Covid-19 lockdown."Business has already been hit by the Covid-19 pandemic. For the last 2 weeks, since the bird flu was reported, people have been keeping away from buying chicken. This has affected our business badly," he said.The Kerala government has already declared bird-flu as a state-specific disaster and issued a high alert after the outbreak of bird flu was confirmed in various parts of Kottayam and Alappuzha districts.Animal husbandry minister K Raju had said on Wednesday that spread of bird flu in the state is due to migratory birds and 37,654 birds have been culled in Alappuzha and 7,229 birds in Kottayam districts so far."The government will provide ₹200 each to owners of birds older than 2 months that either died of the disease or were culled. For those birds less than one-month-old, ₹100 each will be provided to farmers. Further needs of the farmers will be considered later," he added.Other states that have reported the avian disease include Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, and Gujarat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bird-flu-scare-reduces-demand-for-chicken-increases-demand-for-mutton-101610279196013.html
10-01-2021||India||DRDO develops products to help Indian army battle extreme cold in Eastern Ladakh||With over 50,000 Indian troops are deployed in Eastern Ladakh to fight against China, the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) has developed multiple products such the Him-Taapak heating devices and snow melters to help the soldiers fight the enemy in form of the extremely low temperatures.The Him Tapak space heating device (Bukhari) has been developed for the Indian Army deployed in Eastern Ladakh, Siachen and high altitude areas and it has placed an order of more than ₹420 crores for these appliances, DRDO's Defence Institute for Physiology and Allied Sciences (DIPAS) Director Dr Rajeev Varshney told ANI. He said device will ensure that there are no deaths of jawans due to backblast and carbon monoxide poisoning.DIPAS, which conducts physiological and biomedical research to improve human performance in extreme and wartime environment has also developed 'Alocal cream' that helps in preventing frostbite chilblains and other cold injuries to soldiers deployed in extremely cold areas. It has also developed a 'flexible water bottle' and 'Solar Snow Melter' to address the issue of drinking water problems in freezing temperatures.Dr Varshney said that the Army has placed orders worth ₹420 crores to the manufacturers of 'Him Taapak'."The Indian Army has placed orders worth ₹420 crores to the manufacturers of this device and they would be deployed in all new habitats of Army and Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), where the temperature is low," Varshney said.He said the new heating device has three improvements from the earlier ones developed by DIPAS."We have developed one improved space heating device named Bukhari. It has three improvements. First is oil consumption in this device is almost half and as per our calculation, we will be able to save almost ₹3,650 crore in a year. Very soon it will be deployed all the deployment point of Army," he said."Second, at high altitude, the speed of the wind is also high. With that speed, there is a backblast. With this design, there is no backblast. Even if some air is coming to this, the device has three horizontal double-layered plates which can cut the air, so there be no blast. It is a blast-proof Bukhari. The third is that the device is 6 litres capacity device, and combustion is 100 per cent. So, there is no chance that it will produce carbon monoxide and other hazardous gas," he added.Commenting upon the 'Alocal cream', Dr Varshney said, "DRDO-developed 'Alocal cream' that helps in preventing frostbite, chilblains and other cold injuries to soldiers deployed in extremely cold areas. Every year, Indian Army orders 3 to 3.5 lakh jars of this cream for troops in Eastern Ladakh, Siachen and other areas. Recently we got order of 2 crore jars from Northern command."Varshney said the 'flexible water bottle' developed by DIPAS can withstand temperature from minus 50 to 100 degree and the water inside the bottle won't freeze due to cold, if it is stored in liquid form."We have developed a flexible water bottle which has integrated detachable water filter into this. This can withstand temperature from minus 50 to 100-degree. The water in it will not freeze. You can remove the filter and you can use the bottle simply. It would not freeze. We have received an order for 400 bottles from CRPF," he said.Satish Chouhan, a scientist at DRDO explained about the functioning of 'Solar Snow Melter'."To address the issue of drinking water problems in freezing temperatures in Eastern Ladakh and other similar areas, we provided Solar Snow Melter for trials at Siachen, Khardungla and Tawang areas. Equipment can provide 5-7 ltr of drinking water every hour," he said."It works on solar energy. The device tracking solar energy and use the energy to melt the snow and water is stored up to minus 40-degree centigrade in a five-litre water tank attached with the device. They can take water by using the tap attached in the tank. It is cost-effective," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drdo-develops-products-to-help-indian-army-battle-extreme-cold-in-eastern-ladakh-101610278861375.html
10-01-2021||India||'Go Back Bedi': Puducherry CM's agitation against Lt Governor enters third day||Puducherry chief minister V Narayanasamy, who is protesting against Lieutenant Governor Kiran Bedi, said that she is not letting elected government to function and demanded that the Centre should call her back. On Sunday Narayanasamy's protest entered third day."She is not allowing the elected government to function and is interfering in day-to-day administration," Narayanasamy was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Some protesters were seen holding a placard that read "BEDI You go! You go!!". Narayanasamy was himself seen carrying a placard that read 'Go Back Bedi'.Narayanasamy leads the Congress-led Secular Democratic Alliance (SDA) government in Puducherry. Apart from the chief minister, Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) president A V Subramanian, various ministers, Congress legislators and delegates of different wings of the CPI, CPI(M) and Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK) are participating in the four-day-long agitation. The protest began on Friday.Although the SDA had earlier decided to hold the agitation near Raj Nivas (office-cum-residence of the Lt Governor), the venue was shifted to Maraimalai Adigal Salai (more than a km away) as police did not give permission in view of an order in force restricting agitations within 500 metres of Raj Nivas and the Assembly.The Centre has deployed Central Armed Police Force and the Central Industrial Security Force personnel at vantage points to maintain law and order.This is the second time that such an agitation against Bedi is being held in Puducherry with the chief minister and his ministerial colleagues and leaders of the alliance parties taking part.The earlier stir was held in February 2019 to push for the demands of reopening the closed industries and public sector undertakings and also for smooth operation of the free rice scheme.The current agiation is, however, limited to the demand that Bedi be recalled.Bedi, a former IPS officer, and Narayanasamy have been at loggerheads over various issues ever since she was appointed Lt Governor in May 2016, with the ruling Congress accusing her of going against decisions of the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/go-back-bedi-puducherry-cm-s-agitation-against-lt-governor-enters-third-day-101610278327475.html
10-01-2021||India||Over 20,000 police officials transferred within 2 years of posting in 2019||Over 20,000 police officials across states and union territories (UTs) were transferred in 2019 within a period of two years of their posting, with more than 70 per cent of the shunting happening at the station house officer (SHO) level, according to official data.Altogether, there were 20,637 transfers of police officials during 2019 within two years of their field posting, the Bureau of Police Research & Development (BPR&D) stated in its latest data on police organisations updated till January 1, 2020.Officials included in the tally are SHOs, deputy superintendents of police (DySPs), assistant commissioners (ACPs), district SPs (SPs), deputy commissioners (DCPs), deputy inspector general (DIGs), inspector general of range (IG Range), additional CPs, and police commissioners who were transferred within a year or between one and two years of their posting.As per the BPR&D figures, 12 police commissioners were transferred within one year while another 12 transferred between one and two years of their posting. The maximum six such transfers took place in Tamil Nadu, it showed.Among the most transferred were SHOs across the country -- 8,540 within a year and 6,375 between and two years of posting, totaling 14,915 transfers (72.27 per cent) during the year, the data showed.Among the states and UTs, most SHOs -- 4,209 -- were transferred in Madhya Pradesh, according to the BPR&D, which functions under the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA).Deputy SPs and ACPs together accounted for 20.90 per cent of the transfers during 2019 -- 2,424 within a year of a posting and 1,891 between one and two years, totaling 4,315 such transfers, the data showed.Most DySPs and ACPs -- 525-- who were transferred within a year were posted in Tamil Nadu, while most transferred between one and two years were in Uttar Pradesh at 701, it revealed.The year also saw shunting of 1,118 (5.41 per cent) district SPs and DCPs within a year or between one and two years of their posting. A total of 602 such transfers took place within a year of their posting while 516 between one and two years, the data showed.The maximum district SPs and DCPs transferred within a year were in Tamil Nadu (134) while between one and two years were in Maharashtra (133), it showed.The year also witnessed shunting of 153 DIG/IG Range/Joint/Additional CP-rank officers within a year of their posting and 112 between one and two years, totaling 265 (1.28 per cent) of all such transfers, according to the BPR&D figures.A maximum of 15 of these shunting within a year took place in Uttar Pradesh, while 22 such transfers between one and two years of service happened in Maharashtra, it showed.Complete transfer figures were not available for Jharkhand, while they were partially unavailable for some UTs, the BPR&D stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-20-000-police-officials-transferred-within-2-years-of-posting-in-2019-101610276359457.html
10-01-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Puri says domestic flight ops move towards pre-Covid numbers and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Union minister Hardeep Puri shares stats, says domestic flight ops steadily move towards pre-Covid numbersUnion minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Sunday that the domestic aviation operations, which were badly hit by the coronavirus disease pandemic, are steadily moving towards the pre-Covid numbers. Read moreFarmers ransack Khattar's Kisan Panchayat venue, clash with pro-farm laws groupHaryana farmers, protesting against the three Central farm laws, ransacked the venue of chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar's Kisan Mahapanchayat, in a Karnal village on Sunday. Read moreProactively prepping for nationwide roll-out of Covid-19 vaccine: GovtThe Centre has been proactively preparing for the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive that begins on January 16, the Union ministry of health and family welfare said on Sunday. Read moreAhead of Covid-19 vaccine rollout, how states have made preparations: 10 pointsThe Centre has announced that it is going to launch the Covid-19 vaccination on January 16. Read moreIndia vs Australia: 'Absolute peak of rowdy behaviour,' Virat Kohli speaks out on racism incident in 3rd TestIndia pacer Mohammed Siraj was again subjected to racial slurs by fans in the crowd at the Sydney Cricket Ground on Sunday. Read moreTaapsee Pannu tweets about how insecure people are jealous, is it her response to Kangana Ranaut?Taapsee Pannu has shared a quote on Twitter about jealous people and their insecurities. Read more Gymnast performs breathtaking backflips in sarees, netizens love it. WatchA national-gold medalist named Parul Arora is winning netizens' hearts, one saree-clad backflip at a time. Read moreWatch: Railway cops save woman from rolling into platform gap in Thane||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-puri-shares-stats-says-domestic-flight-ops-steadily-move-towards-pre-covid-numbers-and-all-the-latest-news-101610276449361.html
10-01-2021||India||A book for cancer patients telling them how to eat right||While eating certain kinds of food increases one’s chances of getting cancer, there are certain other kinds of food items that can actually help fight this deadly condition.Talk to cancer specialists, and you will find most complaining about the high drop-out rate among cancer patients on chemotherapy. The reason largely is the same: that their body cannot take the harmful drugs that are powerful enough for both killing the cancer cells as well as harming the healthy cells. Talk to cancer patients on chemotherapy, and most would want to know if there was a solution that could make the therapy somewhat bearable.Dr Shubham Pant, oncologist at the MD Anderson Cancer Center, is here to help.In his new book, Food Matters: The Role Your Diet Plays in the Fight Against Cancer, Dr Pant guides cancer patients through the gruelling therapies with healthy recipes that can provide maximum benefit during and after cancer therapy.The book, however, is not one of your plain recipe books. Instead, it explains in great detail how eating wrong things can wreak havoc on our health, especially talking of things that could lead to diseases like cancer. Dr Pant has also painstakingly explained why cancer therapies such as chemo affect a patient’s sense of smell and taste, and how the side-effects can be minimized.“Cancer is a truly life-changing diagnosis… we normally take the simple things in life, like the ability to relish and taste our food, for granted… until it gets taken away from us… taste buds go for a toss and things that were appetizing become repulsive overnight…,” is how Pant broaches the topic of loss of appetite during cancer therapy.The introduction in the book clearly lays out the intent of writing the book, which is defining the link between diet and cancer.“The link between diet and cancer is complicated and most of the research points to an association... certain dietary choices and patterns can help in decreasing the risk..,” he writes in the book.The book is broadly divided in three sections: section 1 deals with diet and cancer prevention, second section is about eating healthy during cancer therapy, and third section is about surviving cancer.The first section deals with things that are wrong with Indian eating, and how influx of western food habits mean that the risk of developing cancer has only increased. What are the leading causes of cancer, including use of tobacco, alcohol, high fat and low in fibre food, and how prevention is always better than cure.He provides dos and don’ts of eating, and among don’ts the suggestion is to not eat red meat and processed meats, and in dos one will have to increase intake of fruits and vegetables in their daily diet. To motivate people, Dr Pant has shared experiences of his patients in the form of case studies, and what did they do right to mitigate the effects of cancer therapy.Towards the end of section 1, there is a list of healthy recipes shared for the purpose of making life somewhat easier for cancer patients on therapy. The recipes are tasty and the ingredients are simple that are easily available such as pearl millet, Amaranth with green vegetables, barley, chicken stew, chana with lime and date, figs, idlis etc.The third section that deals with surviving cancer through diet, and has a list of healthy and interesting salad recipes such as fig, yoghurt salad, cucumber and peanut salad, cottage cheese and grape salad, masala boiled egg salad etc. This book is a refreshing read; and a treasure trove for people with cancer who have trouble eating meals during therapy, and are always on a lookout for some tip that could make their life a bit easy. “We wish you the best of luck in your nutrition and health journey for the next phase of your life…,” Dr Pant writes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-book-for-cancer-patients-telling-them-how-to-eat-right-101610277869420.html
10-01-2021||India||Union minister Hardeep Puri shares stats, says domestic flight ops steadily move towards pre-Covid numbers||Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Sunday that the domestic aviation operations, which were badly hit by the coronavirus disease pandemic, are steadily moving towards the pre-Covid numbers.Puri also shared statistics about the number of people who took domestic flights to say that flying is the "preferred mode of travel".ALSO WATCH | ‘India’s economy will reach pre-Covid level in 2021’: NITI Aayog Vice Chairman"Domestic aviation operations steadily move towards pre-Covid numbers. 2,59,851 passengers on 2,151 domestic flights on 9 Jan 2021 reiterate passenger confidence in flying as the preferred mode of travel. The day also saw total footfalls of 5,16,404 & 4,306 total flight movements," the civil aviation minister tweeted.Domestic aviation operations steadily move towards pre-Covid numbers.2,59,851 passengers on 2,151 domestic flights on 9 Jan 2021 reiterate passenger confidence in flying as the preferred mode of travel. The day also saw total footfalls of 5,16,404 & 4,306 total flight movements. pic.twitter.com/FgBuSzhzb7The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) on Wednesday modified its order to extend the suspension on international flights till January 31.All scheduled commercial flight operations were suspended in India on March 25 after the central government imposed a lockdown to contain the further spread of Covid-19. While domestic flights resumed operations from May 25 in a gradual manner, some special international flights have been operating within air bubbles arrangements with other countries since July.Meanwhile, India's Covid-19 caseload rose to 1,04,50,284 on Sunday after 18,645 infections were reported in the last 24 hours, according to Union health ministry's update. The recoveries surged to 1,00,75,950.The death toll reached 1,50,999 with 201 more people succumbing to the disease in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed.The Covid-19 active caseload remained below three lakh for the 20th consecutive day.India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one crore-mark on December 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/domestic-flight-ops-steadily-move-towards-pre-covid-numbers-puri-101610276453451.html
10-01-2021||India||Delhi prison department asks 3600 staff to enrol for Covid-19 vaccine shot||The Delhi Prisons Department has asked around 3,600 staff members including security personnel to enrol themselves to receive coronavirus vaccine shots, officials said on Sunday, as the authorities gear up for the inoculation drive.According to a senior jails official, around 1,600 jail staff, 1,000 Tamil Nadu Special Police personnel who carry out security duty at Tihar Jail and 1,000 paramilitary personnel are being enrolled.The date, time and place of vaccination for each person will be intimated to him/her on their mobile number, they said, adding, however, that no inmate will get the shot in the first phase as it has been reserved for frontline workers."We appreciate the dedication and hard work done by jail officials and security forces who all were at a high risk for catching Covid-19 due to the nature of job. The vaccination will help boost their morale and to work fearlessly in this tough situation," Director General (Prisons) Sandeep Goel said.A total of 292 prisons staff have contracted the infection till Saturday, and 289 of them have recovered, while three are still under treatment, officials said.As for the inmates, 115 have tested positive for the virus so far of whom 113 have recovered while two died, the officials said.No inmate has tested positive for Covid-19 since December 10 last year though. The last inmate detected Covid-19 positive was on December 3 and he recovered on December 10, they said.Among the prisons, the first case of coronavirus was reported in Rohini Jail on May 13.Two Covid-19 positive inmates of Mandoli Jail died on June 15 and July 4. Both were senior citizens.The officials had said ever since the outbreak of the pandemic in March, the Prisons Department remained vigilant and instructed its staff to not only maintain hygiene and social distancing, but also spread awareness among the inmates in the three jail complexes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-prison-department-asks-3600-staff-to-enrol-for-covid-19-vaccine-shot-101610274758807.html
10-01-2021||India||New Covid-19 strain in India: No fresh case in last 24 hours, tally stands at 90||No fresh case of the new strain of coronavirus was reported in the last 24 hours in India, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) said on Sunday.The total number infected with the new strain of Covid-19 that was detected in the United Kingdom stands at 90.After the new strain of Covid-19 detected in the UK, the government had imposed a ban on flights coming to India from the UK with effect from December 22 last year.However, the flight operations between India and the United Kingdom resumed from January 8. Passengers will have to undergo an RT-PCR test both in the UK before boarding their flight and after arriving in India.Read more: Coronavirus: UK imposes mandatory Covid-19 tests for international travellersMeanwhile, India reported 18,645 new Covid-19 cases and 201 deaths in the last 24 hours, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) said on Sunday.With the addition of fresh infections, the overall cases in the country reached 1,04,50,284 including 2,23,335 active cases. After 19,299 discharges in the last 24 hours, the cumulative recoveries reached 1,00,75,950. The death toll climbed to 1,50,999. At present, there are 64,516 active cases in Kerala, the highest in the country, followed by Maharashtra with 54,129.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-covid-19-strain-in-india-no-fresh-case-in-last-24-hours-tally-stands-at-90-101610274923787.html
10-01-2021||India||Yediyurappa meets home minister Amit Shah to discuss state's political scenario||Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa Sunday met Home Minister Amit Shah in Delhi to discuss the state's political scenario and finalise the BJP's candidates for the upcoming by-polls in the state as he arrived in the national capital on a day-long visit.Before he left for Delhi earlier in the day, Yediyurappa had hinted the much-awaited cabinet rejig in the state might also come up for discussion during his meeting.After landing in Delhi, the CM told reporters, "I am going to discuss the political situation in Karnataka.""Recently, we won the gram panchayat elections in a very big way. Within a month, we are going to face two parliamentary and an assembly by-polls. We have to finalise the candidates. We will discuss all these issues with Amit Shah and other important leaders," he added.The BJP leader said while his appointment with the home minister is confirmed, he will also try to meet JP Nadda, the party's national president.Asked about the steps taken to check the spread of Covid-19 in the state, the chief minister said, "In Karnataka, the Covid-19 situation is under control. We are taking all precautions."Earlier before leaving the Bangalore Airport, he hinted that the cabinet expansion may also come up for discussion during his meeting with the party high command."I don't know. I will discuss all the issues," he told reporters at the airport when asked if a cabinet rejig is likely this week.The cabinet expansion in the state has been on the cards for over a year now, but it could not take place, giving some anxious moments to ministerial aspirants and also leading to dissatisfaction.Among those in the ministerial race are MLAs Umesh Katti, Munirathna, Basanagouda Patil Yatnal, M P Renukacharya, Aravind Limbavali and S R Vishwanath. Three MLCs -- C P Yogeshwar, MTB Nagaraj and R Shankar -- are too aspiring for a ministerial berth.Another MLC, A H Vishwanath, too was in the race but his hopes dashed when the Karnataka High Court on November 30 barred him from becoming a minister until at least May this year.The state can have a total of 34 ministers and it has 27 now.By-polls are scheduled for Maski and Basavakalyan assembly segments, and Belagavi Lok Sabha constituency.While Maski fell vacant due to the resignation of sitting Congress MLA Pratap Gouda Patil in 2019, the by-polls to Basavakalyan and Belagavi seats have been necessitated by the deaths of their representatives B Narayan Rao and Suresh Angadi, respectively, due to coronavirus."I will discuss all other issues with the party high command and wish to return in the night," the chief minister said before he departed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yediyurappa-meets-home-minister-amit-shah-to-discuss-state-s-political-scenario-101610274854773.html
10-01-2021||India||China calls for immediate return of PLA soldier held by Indian Army||China on Saturday called for the immediate return of one of its soldiers who "went astray” in the China-India border areas and was apprehended by the Indian Army.A Chinese soldier was apprehended by the Indian Army at the southern bank of Pangong Tso in eastern Ladakh on Friday after he transgressed across the Indian side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC), Indian officials said on Saturday.The capture of the soldier comes amid a massive deployment of troops by the Indian Army and the Chinese People's Liberation Army (PLA) in eastern Ladakh in view of the tense border standoff that erupted following a clash between the two sides in the Pangong lake area in early May.In Beijing, the Chinese military confirmed that one of its soldiers "went astray" along the China-India border areas."Due to darkness and complicated geography, a soldier of the Chinese People’s Liberation Army frontier defence force went astray in the China-India border early Friday morning," China military online, an official website of the PLA said.“The PLA frontier defence force notified the Indian side of the information the first time, hoping the Indian side could assist in search and rescue of the lost Chinese soldier,” it said.“Nearly two hours later, the response from the Indian side came, confirming that the missing soldier had been found and would be returned to the Chinese side after receiving instructions from the superior authority,” it said.“The Indian side should strictly adhere to relevant agreements reached by the two countries and waste no time to return the lost soldier to the Chinese side, so as to add positive factors for de-escalating the border tensions between the two countries and jointly maintaining peace and tranquillity in the China-India border areas,” it said.China and India are working on the situation of a Chinese soldier who lost his way in the China-India border area, state-run the Global Times quoted official sources as saying."The PLA soldier had transgressed across the LAC and was taken into custody by Indian troops deployed in this area. Troops from either side are deployed along the LAC since friction erupted last year due to unprecedented mobilisation and forward concentration by Chinese troops," the Indian Army said in a statement in New Delhi."The PLA soldier is being dealt with as per laid down procedures and circumstances under which he had crossed the LAC are being investigated," it said.On October 19 last year, Indian troops had captured a Chinese soldier after he "strayed" across the LAC in the Demchok sector of Ladakh.Corporal Wang Ya Long of the PLA was handed back to China at Chushul-Moldo border point in eastern Ladakh following laid down protocols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-calls-for-immediate-return-of-pla-soldier-held-by-indian-army-101610274601946.html
10-01-2021||India||When will Mumbai locals be open for all? Decision likely in coming week||The lifeline of Mumbai, local trains, was back on track since June last year after the nationwide lockdown imposed on March 25, but the initial services were only for essential workers. Now with the number of Covid-19 cases being contained, the authorities are in the talks to take the services to pre-Covid days, adhering to Covid-19 guidelines. The Maharashtra government has recently told the Bombay high court that the final decision regarding opening locals for all will be taken in the coming week.Timeline of Mumbai local reopening after lockdown> From October, Mumbai locals allowed women passengers between 11am to 3pm and after 7pm till the last train.> In October, the railway authorities also permitted lawyers to travel in local trains except during morning peak hours between 8am and 11am and from 4pm to 7pm in the evening.> In November, teachers, as well as non-teaching school staff, were allowed to board suburban trains.Also Read | Mumbai local trains for all: Railways, state prepare for services from early 2021> In December, practising lawyers and registered clerks of advocates were permitted to travel even during morning peak hours. Evening peak hours between 4pm and 7pm, however, remained restricted.> Now the authorities are mulling whether to allow passengers before 7am and after 10pm. But till January 5, there was night curfew in Maharashtra, which has not been extended so far.The Mumbai Suburban system has been transporting millions in the commercial capital of India for many years. Western Railways operate the local trains in Mumbai from Churchgate, the city's business centre to Dahanu Road covering a distance of 123 Kms and 36 stations. Central Railways operate local trains on Central line, Harbour line, Trans-Harbour line, Nerul–Uran line, Panvel-Karjat line and Panvel-Diva-Vasai line. The system is known to be commuting 35 lakh passengers every day round the clock.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/when-will-mumbai-locals-be-open-for-all-decision-likely-in-coming-week-101610274381529.html
10-01-2021||India||Poor should be given COVID-19 vaccine first: BSP||Poor people who do not have any resources should be given the COVID-19 vaccine first so that they can continue on with their lives, demanded the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) on Sunday.While speaking to ANI, BSP national spokesperson Sudhindra Bhadoria said that party supremo Mayawati had demanded that poor people be given the vaccine in the first phase and for free."People were troubled for a whole year because of the Covid-19 crisis, and many people lost their lives. Our party supremo Mayawati Ji has demanded that poor people, who are resourceless, be given the vaccine in the first phase free of cost. It should be given so that people can go on with their lives independently," Bhadoria told ANI.He further said that crores of Indians had put their hopes on the Covid-19 vaccine it would be tested by the people."All the tests for the vaccine should be completed. Why shouldn't they be completed? The departments of Health will vaccinate people keeping in mind all these things," he said.Speaking about the farmer's protest, he said that the government cannot escape from its responsibilities and should fulfill its promises to the people."Farmers have been protesting at the borders for a month and a half now at the borders of the capital city in the middle of the cold weather. Over 50 people have lost their lives in the cold. It is the government's responsibility, they cannot run from it. They have made promises and they should fulfil them," he said.He also condemned comments made by BJP leaders in Rajasthan that the farmers were enjoying dry fruits and chicken biriyani, saying, "Using such language is not right, especially since over 60 farmers have died. Farmers are very distressed with this situation and it is best if they don't say such things."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/poor-should-be-given-covid-19-vaccine-first-bsp-101610273960778.html
10-01-2021||India||Proactively prepping for nationwide roll-out of Covid-19 vaccine: Govt||The Centre has been proactively preparing for the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive that begins on January 16, the Union ministry of health and family welfare said on Sunday, following a virtual meeting with administrators from states and Union Territories on the Co-WIN software which forms the backbone of the last mile vaccine administration.Ram Sewak Sharma, who is the chairman of the Empowered Group on Technology and Data Management to combat Covid-19 and member of the National Expert Group on vaccine administration of Covid-19, talked about the Co-WIN software and the principles that shall underpin the technology back-up for the vaccination exercise, the health ministry said in a statement.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here“Robust, dependable and agile technology shall form both the foundation and the back-up for the country’s Covid-19 vaccination which shall be the world’s largest immunisation exercise,” Sharma said, adding that this was an unprecedented scale of immunisation.He told the participants of the meeting that the vaccination drive should be citizen-centric, and built on the approach that the vaccine shall be available anytime and anywhere. Sharma also stressed on the need to be flexible without compromising on quality. “The inclusivity, speed and scalability have been kept in mind while designing the unique digital platform with all components being portable, synchronous without excessive and unnecessary dependencies,” he reiterated.The Empowered Group chairperson emphasised on the critical importance of capturing the vaccination data in real time, stating that this was non-negotiable; while the posting of data on the portal may be online or offline in view of connectivity issues being highlighted by few states.He cautioned the members against proxies and asked them to ensure the beneficiaries were “uniquely and undeniably” identified.How to ensure ‘no proxies’?Sharma advised states to urge the beneficiaries to seed their current mobile number with Aadhar for registration and consequent communication through SMS as there cannot be any proxies for Aadhar authentication. He pointed out that it is extremely important to clearly identify the person who is getting vaccinated and keep a digital record on who gets vaccinated by whom, when and which vaccine. He also advised the states and UTs that the data collection should meet the purpose of facilitating work and that needs to be validated at the field levels.To ensure smooth flow if the vaccination drive, the group also discussed issues like session allocation/planning/time slotting, workflow allocation, vaccinator’s allocation, sending SMS to vaccinators and beneficiaries, and connectivity issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/proactively-prepping-for-nationwide-roll-out-of-covid-19-vaccine-govt-101610272605239.html
10-01-2021||India||Covid-19 negative report not required to enter Puri Jagannath temple from Jan 21||The Shree Jagannath Temple Administration (SJTA) on Sunday announced that devotees need not produce their Covid-19 negative report for getting entry into the 12th century shrine in Puri from January 21.The decision in this regard was taken at a meeting attended by SJTA chief Krishan Kumar, Puri district magistrate-cum collector Samarth Verma and Superintendent of Police K B Singh."The devotees can enter into the temple without having Covid-19 negative report from January 21. The decision will remain in force till February 21," the SJTA chief told reporters.Kumar said the SJTA has decided to relax the restriction which was imposed on temple entry for the general public. The temple opened for public from January 3 after remaining closed for nine months in the wake of the pandemic.Read more: Lingaraj Temple reopens for devotees after remaining closed for almost nine months due to Covid-19The Puri Collector said that special arrangements and queue system will soon be introduced for elderly/senior citizens coming to the temple.The temple was opened in a phased manner from December 23, 2020. While the servitors and their family members were allowed to enter the temple from December 23 to December 25 evening, the local residents of Puri got opportunity to have darshan of the deities between December 26 and 31.The temple was finally opened to the public for darshan of the sibling deities - Lord Balabhadra, Devi Subhadra and Lord Jagannath - from January 3, 2021 adhering to the Covid-19 guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-negative-report-not-required-to-enter-puri-jagannath-temple-from-jan-21-101610272027861.html
10-01-2021||India||Signal, Telegram downloads surge as people look for Whastapp alternatives amid privacy concerns||Days after Facebook-owned WhastApp revised its privacy policy, Signal, an encrypted messaging service is seeing a surge in downloads as people started looking for an alternative. In a series of tweets, the platform also acknowledged the surge and posted a picture showing the app ranking at number one on iOSapp store.Earlier this week, WhatsApp had started rolling out in-app notifications to users about an update in its Terms of Service and privacy policy regarding how it processes user data and partners with Facebook to offer integrations across the social media giant's products. WhastApp also stated that users will have to agree to the new terms and policy by February 8, 2021, in order to continue using WhatsApp's service which triggered a massive backlash by users globally.However, the company said that it does not retain messages after they are deleted from the servers.The surge in Signal downloads can also be attributed to the richest person on the planet and Tesla CEO, Elon Musk who also joined the conversation on Twitter and asked people to download the app. Since then the app gained overnight popularity.Signal was created by Signal Foundation which was set up by former WhatsApp co-founder Brien Acton who left the former in 2017.It is a free to use app and has similar features like WhatsApp. However, it does not allow to back up chats to Google Drive or iCloud. It also does not allow people to automatically add others in groups unless individuals give their assent.Users can also turn on disappearing messages feature for each chat and set a time limit ranging from five seconds to one week. After the set period, the messages in that chat will automatically be deleted.Meanwhile, Telegram, another instant messaging platform also said that it is seeing a surge in downloads as its ranking Telegram’s download ranking on Google Play also rose over the past few days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/signal-telegram-downloads-surge-as-people-look-for-whastapp-alternatives-amid-privacy-concerns-101610267756068.html
10-01-2021||India||Maharashtra govt slashes Fadnavis' security cover; BJP says vendetta||The Uddhav Thackeray-led Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress government in Maharashtra has scaled down the security of former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and a few other leaders in the state, an official said.The BJP reacted strongly to the development, with state unit chief spokesperson Keshav Upadhye terming the action unfortunate and a 'vendetta' of the ruling coalition against his party's leaders.The state government announced in a circular that it has decided to trim the security cover of Fadnavis, who is now the Leader of Opposition in the Legislative Assembly and of his family, and also that of former Uttar Pradesh governor Ram Naik and MNS chief Raj Thackeray.The government has also decided to withdraw the security cover of state BJP chief Chandrakant Patil and former minister Sudhir Mungantiwar, also of the BJP.The decision was taken after a review of the security cover provided to various persons the state, the government said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-govt-slashes-fadnavis-security-cover-bjp-says-vendetta-101610271688621.html
10-01-2021||India||Ahead of Covid-19 vaccine rollout, how states have made preparations: 10 points||The Centre has announced that it is going to launch the Covid-19 vaccination on January 16. Various state governments have announced their plans for the inoculation, which will first be given to health care and frontline workers.The date for vaccination was decided at a meeting of a high-powered committee headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday. Three rounds of nationwide dry runs have already taken place where health authorities have identified gaps and weak areas.ALSO WATCH | Explained: India announces Covid vaccination launch date; who's first in line?PM Modi will interact with chief ministers on Monday to take stock of the Covid-19 situation of the states. Here's how different state governments have prepared for the vaccination drive:(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-vaccine-rollout-here-s-how-states-have-made-preparations-10-points-101610270736845.html
10-01-2021||India||Vulture census in Bengal after 14 years, plans to conserve Asian King Vulture||The West Bengal forest department will conduct a state-wide census of vultures – a scavenging bird that is considered vital for a healthy ecosystem - in February 2021, after a gap of 14 years.The forest department, which is presently conserving three vulture species at a breeding centre in north Bengal, has also decided to conserve the critically endangered Asian King Vulture and breed them at the Vulture Conservation Breeding Centre (VCBC) in Rajabhatkhawa.“Even though we have been doing vulture census in some localities as per our requirements, this time we would conduct an organised, state-wide census in the first week of February 2021. The last national vulture census was conducted in 2006,” said a top official of the state forest department.The population of vultures crashed across the country, particularly due to the use of painkiller, Diclofenac, in cattle. The population of most common vultures, including the Oriental white-backed, Long-billed and Slender-billed, declined by more than 96% between 1993 and 2003.At present three vulture species – White-backed, Himalayan Griffon and Slender-billed – are being conserved at the VCBC. For the first time in December 2019, two Himalayan griffons fitted with transmitters were released in the wild from VCBC.On Saturday, two captive-bred White backed vultures fitted with satellite transmitters and six Himalayan Griffons with wing tags were released in the wild. Scientists would be monitoring them to know more about these birds.“The conservation and breeding program at VCBC has been running successfully since 2006. At present, there are 140 vultures. In the last 14 years 76 birds were born in captivity. We are now going to conserve the Asian King Vulture too and increase the number of aviaries so that more vultures could be protected,” said another senior official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vulture-census-in-bengal-after-14-years-plans-to-conserve-asian-king-vulture-101610270334807.html
10-01-2021||India||Farmers ransack Khattar's Kisan Panchayat venue, clash with pro-farm laws group||Haryana farmers, protesting against the three Central farm laws, ransacked the venue of chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar's Kisan Mahapanchayat, in a Karnal village on Sunday and clashed with the cops and the pro-farm laws congregation, despite huge police presence.Protesting farmers went past the barriers erected by the state police on the road to Kaimla village and arrived at the helipad where the CM was scheduled to land and ransacked the place. Farmers managed to reach the venue despite being stopped some 3km away by the police.ALSO WATCH | JP Nadda addresses farmers, defends farm laws during Bengal visitThe protestors, who easily outnumbered the police, vandalised the event venue which led to a major scuffle with the organisers of the Kisan Panchayat.According to eyewitnesses, a clash first broke out between the farmers marching towards the helipad and the police, which was trying to stop the protesters.When the protesters reached the venue of the Kisan Panchayat, the villagers in favour of the panchayat tried to stop the protesting farmers. However, the protesters outnumbered the cops and the pro-Kisan Panchayat organisers and ransacked the venue, sending cops scurrying for cover.The police used tear gas in an attempt to contain the crowd. The protesting farmers assembled around the venue while police’s attempt to control the situation with the help of the locals failed.The chief minister is yet to reach the venue. His mahapanchayat was aimed to drum up support for the three contentious agriculture laws that have triggered widespread protests in North India.All the roads leading to the village had been blocked by the police with the help of trucks laden with construction material, parked on the roads, to avoid the entry of farmers protesting against the laws. However, it didn’t work.Additional forces from the nearby districts had been called in and duty magistrates were appointed to monitor the law and order situation in Karnal.The farmer union leaders, protesting against the farm laws, first gathered at Karnal's Bastara toll plaza on national highway 44, better known as Delhi-Chandigarh highway.Jagdeep Singh Aulakh, a local leader of The Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) Charuni, accused the chief minister and BJP leadership of attempting to divide farmers by holding such meetings."What is the logic of holding such meetings in the favour of agriculture laws when the farmers’ stir at Delhi borders (against the laws) has entered its 45th day,” he questioned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-ransack-khattar-s-kisan-panchayat-venue-clash-with-pro-farm-laws-group-101610268828536.html
10-01-2021||India||India to get UN tag of international disaster response force for NDRF||India could soon be a part of the United Nations (UN) mandated international disaster rescue operations as its the country's federal contingency force, NDRF, is expected to obtain a globally recognised standardisation later this year, a top ranking official has said.The authorisation will be done by the Switzerland-headquartered INSARAG (or the International Search and Rescue Advisory Group) which is a network of more than 90 countries and organisations under the UN umbrella to deal with urban search and rescue related issues."Just like we have the Bureau of Indian Standards in the country, the UN agency INSARAG standardises disaster response teams across the world. It is an international gold standard," NDRF director general S N Pradhan told PTI in an interview."We are very much in thick of it and hopefully we will get the standardisation in 2021."He further explained the purpose of this categorisation that is possessed by some of India's neighbours like China and Pakistan."If there is a call from the UN to respond to some disaster you will be called upon...you will be an international response force," Pradhan said."It is not that we have not been doing that (going for international rescue operations) but when NDRF went to Japan and Nepal in the past it was a bilateral decision between two countries but with this standardisation it will be a UN mandated task," he said.It will be a matter of great prestige for India that its force is known as an international response force, the DG said.He said an INSARAG committee, comprising Australian and Singaporean experts, has conducted preliminary review of NDRF teams in September, 2019, but the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic put the process on a back burner for a while."Hopefully, in 2021 you will see at least two heavy teams of the NDRF notified as INSARAG teams," he said.The National Disaster Response Force was raised in 2006 to undertake specific tasks of relief and rescue during natural and manmade disasters or life threatening situations. It has 12 operational battalions comprising more than 15,000 personnel based across the country at present while four more battalions are taking shape.Pradhan said this UN standardisation could "trigger a long-term process where more and more of its teams can be certified"."It (INSARAG standardisation) will be a good thing as NDRF is second to none. This could lead to a cascading effect where NDRF can become a national accreditation agency for state disaster response forces and that also could be UN supported.""In Chile and China, the UN has certified their provincial teams so that state teams can also travel across the world for disaster response operations," he said.These are "very exciting developments" and it can add to the profile of India being a great disaster response oriented country where the protocols and standard operating procedures are of world standard, he said.The DG also spoke about reviewing the technology and rescue gadgets used by the force."We are reviewing our technology and changing specifications. It is not bad but authorised items in quality and quantity are 10 years old so it calls for a review.""The review has already been completed and submitted to the government," he said.Pradhan said the force was undertaking "simple but effective" technology changes like using battery-operated saw cutters as compared to those which run on petrol at present."We are reviewing the national emergency communication plan. It is going into phase 2 now. We are going to upgrade, have more in quantity and better equipment which is true to form so that we are able to negate any impact of total collapse of communication in a disaster-hit area," he said.The DG said the force will be upgrading its capacity and equipment in the next two financial years, which will be followed by training.Taining will be made effective in such a way that while NDRF will be the federal force there will be collaboration with other central paramilitary forces like the CRPF, BSF and ITBP and others so that they have their disaster response units ready to "shore up" NDRF when required, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-get-un-tag-of-international-disaster-response-force-for-ndrf-101610268656768.html
10-01-2021||India||'We stand with Indonesia': PM Modi's message after plane crash||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday offered condolences to the families of those who lost their lives in Indonesian plane crash which with 62 people on board crashed on Saturday afternoon. Parts of the wreckage of the Boeing 737-500 at a depth of 23 meters (75 feet) in the Java Sea were discovered by divers on Sunday.Deepest condolences to the families of those who lost their lives in the unfortunate plane crash in Indonesia. India stands with Indonesia in this hour of grief."Deepest condolences to the families of those who lost their lives in the unfortunate plane crash in Indonesia. India stands with Indonesia in this hour of grief," PM Modi tweeted.The plane crashed shortly after takeoff from Jakarta“We received reports from the diver team that the visibility in the water is good and clear, allowing the discovery of some parts of the plane," Air Chief Marshal Hadi Tjahjanto said in a statement. “We are sure that is the point where the plane crashed," it said though there has been no sign of any survivor.Objects like broken pieces of fuselage with aircraft registration parts, body parts, pieces of clothing and scraps of metal from the surface have been found so far.Fishermen in the area between Lancang and Laki islands, part of an archipelago around Thousand Islands north of Jakarta's coast, reported hearing an explosion around 2:30pm on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indonesia-plane-crash-pm-modi-offers-condolences-says-india-stands-with-indonesia-in-this-hour-of-grief-101610268222124.html
10-01-2021||India||US welcomes Lakhvi's conviction, tells Pakistan to prosecute him for 26/11||The US has welcomed the conviction of Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) operations commander Zakiur Rehman Lakhvi on charges of terror financing but called on Pakistan to prosecute him for his role in masterminding the 2008 Mumbai attacks.A Pakistani anti-terrorism court convicted and sentenced Lakhvi on Friday, though India dismissed the development as a “farcical” action made with an eye on the Financial Action Task Force (FATF).“We are encouraged by the recent conviction of Zakiur Rehman Lakhvi. However, his crimes go far beyond financing terrorism,” the US state department’s bureau of South and Central Asian affairs said on Twitter.“Pakistan should further hold him accountable for his involvement in terrorist attacks, including the Mumbai attacks,” it added.Lakhvi was arrested soon after the carnage in Mumbai in November 2008 on charges of planning, supporting and financing the attacks in India’s financial hub that killed 166 people, including six American nationals. There has been little progress in Pakistan’s efforts to prosecute Lakhvi and six other accused in the Mumbai attacks case despite evidence provided by dozens of witnesses.The LeT commander was freed on bail in the Mumbai attacks case in 2015 and reports had suggested that he had been playing an active role in guiding the UN-designated terror group’s operations even when he was in jail.The Pakistani anti-terrorism court found Lakhvi guilty under three sections of the Anti-Terrorism Act for running a dispensary to raise funds for terror financing. The judge gave Lakhvi separate five-year prison terms under each section, to be served concurrently.This was the first time that Lakhvi has been convicted of a terrorism-related offense. However, a spokesman for the Counter-Terrorism Department of Pakistan’s Punjab province told media he was arrested for terror financing and not for any “specific militant attack”.The external affairs ministry said after Lakhvi’s sentencing that Pakistan’s “farcical actions” appeared to be aimed at an upcoming review by the FATF of the country’s efforts to counter terror financing. It also called for “credible action” by Pakistan against all terror groups.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-welcomes-lakhvi-s-conviction-tells-pakistan-to-prosecute-him-for-2611-101610267543306.html
10-01-2021||India||Shiv Sena’s latest attack on PM Narendra Modi has reference to Ratan Tata||The Shiv Sena has once again condemned the Narendra Modi-led Central government for its alleged antipathy for the farmer’s agitation and called the existing situation, emergency-like.Sena MP Sanjay Raut, in his weekly column Rokthok, said it was regrettable that while the 83-year-old industrialist, Ratan Tata, could go to Pune to inquire about the health of his former employee, the government was being insensitive to the protesting farmers.“The farmers have been protesting in shivering cold at the Punjab border. 57 farmers have already lost their lives but there is not a single word of sympathy from the inhuman government. In contrast, Ratan Tata goes to Pune and meets the family of one of his former ailing employees in their small house,” he added.Raut alleged that PM Modi’s actions had reduced the significance of the Parliament and concentrated power in his hands. “In the last few years, we have witnessed many constitutional amendments but the government is not ready to repeal the farm laws despite the protests since the last 45 days. They are not even ready to discuss the issue in parliament. This is akin to the emergency,” he added.He alleged that the ruling party’s preparations for the 2024 Parliamentary elections have already begun with finishing off political opponents using central agencies.Recently, Raut’s wife Varsha appeared before the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in an alleged money laundering case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shiv-sena-s-latest-attack-on-pm-narendra-modi-has-reference-to-ratan-tata-101610266757214.html
10-01-2021||India||Delhi govt identifies 89 sites, health care workers to be vaccinated first: Satyendra Jain||As the country is all set to begin vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) from January 16, Delhi government has identified 89 sites which include 36 state-run hospitals and 53 private hospitals, health minister Satyendar Jain said on Sunday.Jain also said that only health workers will be administered shots against the Covid-19 in the first phase of the vaccination drive.The list of hospitals includes AIIMS, Safdarjung, Lok Nayak, GTB, and Hindu Rao, among others. The list of private hospitals includes Max, Fortis, Apollo, BL Kapur, and Gangaram, etc. Vaccines to all the centres will be supplied by the Delhi government and will be free for the beneficiaries.The Centre on Saturday said that Covid-19 vaccination drive would begin in the country on January 16, when nearly 30 million healthcare and frontline workers will be inoculated. In the second phase, priority will be given to those above 50 years of age and the under-50 population groups with co-morbidities, together numbering around 27 crores.As per the ministry, over 61,000 program managers, 200,00 vaccinators and 370,000 other vaccination team members have been trained so far as part of the training at the states, districts and block levels.India’s drugs controller on January 3 granted restricted emergency approval to two companies for their Covid-19 vaccines.The first vaccine to become available in Delhi will likely be the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, called Covishield in India, and manufactured by Pune’s Serum Institute of India. The other vaccine that has been granted approval for “restricted use in emergency situations” is Bharat Biotech’s Cavoxin.As of Sunday morning, the country has a total of 10,450,284 confirmed cases of Covid-19, according to the numbers published on the Union health ministry's website. The number of recoveries reached 10,075,950 after more than 19,200 patients recovered from the viral disease in the span of 24 hours. More than 1.5 lakh people have died so far.The spread of the virus has been majorly contained in the country as the daily number of new cases has dropped to less than 20,000 from a peak of almost 98,000 in September last year. However, it is still the second worst-hit country after the United States.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-govt-identifies-89-sites-health-care-workers-to-be-vaccinated-first-jain-101610263366848.html
10-01-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Puri wishes luck to AI women pilots and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Way to go, tweets Hardeep Puri as Air India flight, piloted by women, takes offCivil Aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Sunday conveyed his congratulations to Air India's all-women cockpit crew as the national carrier's first non-stop flight connecting San Francisco to Bengaluru took off. Read moreCBI arrests 2 for sale, purchase of child pornography over InstagramThe Central Bureau of Investigation has arrested two persons in a case related to alleged sale/purchase of child sexual abuse material (CSAM) over Instagram and other social media platforms, officials said on Sunday. Read moreCovid-19 vaccination: 23 government departments collaborate for smooth driveAll government departments are gearing up for the massive vaccination drive beginning from January 16, which as Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said will be the world's biggest Covid-19 vaccination drive Read moreWith EVs in focus, NHAI ties up with EESL to set up EV charging network in IndiaThe Ministry of Road Transport and Highways and Power have stepped up efforts to improve EV infrastructure across the country. Read moreRacial attack on India players again, a group of fans removed from SCG stands; CA issues apologyA group of spectators were asked to leave after Indian team complained of another incident of racial abuse on Day 4 in ongoing third Test at the Sydney Cricket Ground on Sunday. Read moreKangana Ranaut says Taapsee has ‘dedicated her whole existence to impersonate’ her, compares herself to Amitabh BachchanKangana Ranaut has once again reignited her battle with Taapsee Pannu. The Judgementall Hai Kya actor shared a fan post claiming Taapsee's latest magazine photoshoot a copy of Kangana's pose and called it "impressive". Read moreSonakshi Sinha does cardio at home by skipping rope, here are its benefitsIf you have no will to dress up in athleisure wear and hit the gym, Sonakshi Sinha is your knight in shining armour as she shows how to get your cardio done at home. Read moreStunning pics of trains passing through different parts of India will amaze youIndia is a country that is full of incredibly beautiful places. From beautiful mountain ranges to stunning deserts, the nation has it all. Read moreWatch | ‘There is a cartel in the cement and steel industry’: Nitin Gadkari||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-puri-wishes-luck-to-ai-women-pilots-and-all-the-latest-news-101610260908592.html
10-01-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccination: 23 government departments collaborate for smooth drive||All government departments are gearing up for the massive vaccination drive beginning from January 16, which as Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said will be the world's biggest Covid-19 vaccination drive. Though Union health ministry will be the guardian ministry of the exercise, at least 23 other departments have been roped in for smooth conduct.Here is how other departments are involved:Women and Child Development: The department is providing staff for vaccination. It has also shared data of its ICDS staff for the inclusion in Covid-19 vaccine beneficiary list.Also Watch | 'India ready to save humanity with 2 vaccines': PM Modi on Covid, self-reliancePanchayati Raj: This department has helped in the identification and planning for vaccine sites. It also helped in the registration of health care workers under panchayats.Rural Development: In engaging self-help groups.Also Read: Ahead of world's 'biggest vaccination programme', PM Modi to meet CMs tomorrowEducation: Support in the management of vaccination session site including proving staff if required.Ayush: Identifying health care workers in this department. This department is also providing vaccinators who are authorised to give injections.Urban development: Registration of health care workers and other front-line workers working in municipal corporation, municipality, etc.Corporation staff will also work as vaccine officers.Sports and Youth: Providing NYKS and NSS cadets for crowd management at vaccine sites.State police department: Identification and vaccination of beneficiaries from the police department. Support vaccine delivery in hard to reach and left-wing extremist (LWE)areas. The department will also provide security to the vaccine during storage, shipment and at session site. Police personnel will also be there for crowd management.Revenue, PWD, Public Health Engineering: Identification of land for session sites.Defence: Support in the registration of Armed forces beneficiaries and supply for vaccine delivery in hard to reach and security-sensitive areas.Food and civil supplies: Providing cold storage and facilitating biometric authentication at session sites.Social Welfare, Minority affairs, Tribal Affairs: Session site will be set up in institutions under these departments.Animal husbandry: Support in provision of dedicated cold storage equipment/facilities for vaccine storage, if requiredRailways: Identifying health care workers in railways hospitals. Sessions will be conducted at railway hospitals too. Railways will use Covid-19 vaccine branding on tickets.Labour and employment: Identification of healthcare workers in ESI hospitals and also facilitating sites at those hospitals.Information and Technology: Development of Co-WIN, village-level engagement of Common Service Centers for beneficiary registration, monitoring, the printing of beneficiary certification and other services where connectivity and web-based methods are required.State AIDS Control Society: Counsellors to address vaccine hesitancy, eagerness.Power department: Ensuring uninterrupted power supply at vaccine storage point and session sites.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-to-use-vaccine-branding-on-tickets-how-23-government-departments-are-collaborating-for-vaccination-drive-101610260817801.html
10-01-2021||India||Way to go, tweets Hardeep Puri as Air India flight, piloted by women, takes off||Civil Aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Sunday conveyed his congratulations to Air India's all-women cockpit crew as the national carrier's first non-stop flight connecting San Francisco to Bengaluru took off from the San Francisco International Airport (SFO) for Karnataka's capital city. Flight AI 176 will cruise over North Pole on its way to Bengaluru, in what is one of the world's longest air travel routes.Also Read | Air India’s all-women pilot team to fly over North Pole on world’s longest air route"Way to go girls! Professional, qualified and confident, the all women cockpit crew takes off from San Francisco and Bengaluru on @airindiain's flight to fly over North Pole. Our Nari Shakti achieves a historic first," Puri tweeted on Sunday.Way to go girls!Professional, qualified & confident, the all women cockpit crew takes off from San Francisco to Bengaluru on @airindiain's flight to fly over North Pole.Our Nari Shakti achieves a historic first. pic.twitter.com/X46cs73dQuThe flight will cover a distance of 15,154 km over 17 hours and will also be the longest one entering India, Air India informed in a tweet. "#FlyAI: Imagine this: All Women cockpit crew, longest flight into India, crossing the North Pole. It's here & happening! Records broken. History in the making by AI 176 from @flySFO to @BLRAirport. AI 176 is cruising at 30000 feet," the airline said on its official Twitter account.#FlyAI : Imagine this :-All Women Cockpit Crew.-Longest flight into India.-Crossing the North PoleIt’s here & happening!Records broken. History in the making by AI176 from @flySFO to @BLRAirport.AI 176 is cruising at 30000 feet pic.twitter.com/kZ66hqiatqEarlier, Captain Zoya Agarwal, who is commanding the flight, had said she and her team are very excited to create history on January 9. "Most people in the world will not see the North Pole or even its map in their lifetime. I feel truly privileged and humbled by by the trust posed in me by the civil aviation ministry and our flag carrier. It is a golden opportunity to command a Boeing 777 inaugural SFO-BLR, one of the world's longest flights over the North Pole," Captain Agarwal had told news agency ANI.Also Read | Air India's Zoya Aggarwal to command world's longest routeCaptain Thanmai Papagari, Captain Shivani Manhas and Captain Akanksha Sonawane are the other three members of the pilots' team. This also marks the first instance of an all-women pilots' team flying over the North Pole.Captain Agarwal is also the youngest pilot to have flown a Boeing 777, having done so in 2013.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/way-to-go-tweets-hardeep-puri-as-air-india-flight-piloted-by-women-takes-off-101610257799418.html
10-01-2021||India||‘Almighty took care of husband’ and SC rescued the stepson||It was the kind of bitterness between a man and his wife that only the ‘almighty’ could end, said the Supreme Court as it came across a case where the woman slapped cruelty charges against her husband 30 years after the marriage and 28 years of living separately. The court noted that the rancor of the Delhi's couple ended only after the man died in February last year.“The acrimony between appellant No.1 (man) and respondent No.2 (wife) has been taken care of by the Almighty, as the man passed away on 25.02.2020,” noted the SC bench, led by justice Sanjay K Kaul, as it declared that the man cannot be tried under penal charges once he is dead.But, at the same time, the bench regretted that while the husband’s problems are taken care of by God, the stepson is still in the soup even though he was just nine when his father remarried. The woman wanted the stepson to be tried under the criminal charges for harassing her.Despite death of the husband, the court lamented, there appears to be no end to the dispute in question “with which the son from the first marriage has little to do.”The bench, which also included justices Dinesh Maheshwari and Hrishikesh Roy, took note that the stepson was in class IV and aged about 9 when his father married for the second time with the complainant in 1983.The couple started living separately since 1984 while the stepson was in a boarding school in Maharashtra’s Panchgani between 1985and 1990. After his schooling, he was sent to Pune for higher studies. It was only after completing his college in Pune that the stepson came back to Delhi to stay with his father, who had since long been separated from the complainant.But in 2014, the woman had an FIR registered at a police station in Delhi, accusing the father-son of torturing her and subjecting her to cruelty. After the Delhi high court refused to exonerate the father-son duo and asked them to prove their innocence during the trial, they moved the apex court in appeal.Hearing the appeal earlier this week, the bench noted that the charges against the husband had to be dropped after his demise.Underscoring that this FIR was filed after 30 years of marriage, an amused bench said: “The angst and resentment against the husband is such that respondent No.2 (woman) has roped in his son in the aforesaid factual matrix. As to how and why the son should be roped into this FIR, one wonders!”It maintained that the FIR has nothing to do with the stepson, who is physically handicapped. When the proceedings against the husband cannot continue because of his death, the bench observed, it would be unjust to send the stepson for trial, especially, when there has been little interaction between him and the step-mother.The bench emphasised that “no meaningful purpose would be served by relegating the stepson for a trial,” and added that the criminal proceedings against him need to be brought to an end too.“We accordingly quash the criminal proceedings emanating from the FIR against the appellant no.2,” ordered the bench, coming to the rescue of the stepson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/almighty-took-care-of-husband-and-sc-rescued-the-stepson-101610260686114.html
10-01-2021||India||Farm laws: SC to hear plea seeking immediate removal of farmers from Delhi borders on Jan 11||The Supreme Court on Monday will hear a petition seeking immediate removal of farmers protesting against the contentious farm laws at several border points of Delhi for over a month now. As per Supreme Court website, a Bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde, Justice A S Bopanna and Justice V Ramasubramanian will hear the plea filed by law student Rishabh Sharma who said that commuters are facing hardships due to the road blockades. He also argued that the gatherings might lead to an increase in the number of Covid-19 cases.He also claimed that farmers were allowed to protest peacefully at Nirankari ground in Burari but they refused to accept the offer and are still blocking the borders. Sharma further mentioned in the petition that farmers can hold their demonstration peacefully after the pandemic is over as it still a major threat for the people.Also Watch | 'Want nothing but laws to be repealed': Farmers after 8th round of talksThousands of farmers have been camping in and around Delhi borders demanding the complete withdrawal of the legislation which sailed through Parliament in September. The farm laws are Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.While the government has offered to make amendments in the legislation, farmers have refused to accept the offer and are firm on the repeal of the laws. They are also demanding a legal guarantee for the Minimum Support Price (MSP) system for the procurement of their crops.The government has held several rounds of talks with the farmers to resolve the deadlock, without any positive result. The last round of talks was held on Friday, but it failed to make any headway. The next round of talks will be held on January 15.Meanwhile, Sharma also filed a memo on Saturday in the top court which sought to implead over 40 farmer unions including the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) which is spearheading the farmers' movement, as respondents in the matter.Some other farmers unions which are sought to be impleaded as respondents by the petitioner are – BKU-Sidhupur, BKU-Rajewal, BKU-Lakhowal, BKU-Dakaunda, BKU-Doaba, Jamhoori Kisan Sabha and Kul Hind Kisan Federation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-to-hear-plea-seeking-immediate-removal-of-farmers-from-delhi-borders-on-jan-11-101610259434110.html
10-01-2021||India||'Period room' set up for women in Maharashtra's Thane slum||In a bid to ease the woes during menstruation of women residing in congested slums and to provide them hygienic sanitary facilities, a 'period room' has been set up at a public toilet in Maharashtra's Thane city.Claimed to be the first-of-its-kind initiative at a public toilet, the facility in equipped with a urinal, jet spray, toilet roll holder, soap, running water and a dustbin, a civic official told PTI on Sunday.The much needed facility, set up by the Thane Municipal Corporation in collaboration with an NGO, was opened for women at a slum in Shanti Nagar locality of Wagle Estate area last Monday, he said.Painted on the outer wall of the toilet block are colourful pictures with messages advocating good hygiene, including during menstruation."This ₹45,000 low-cost facility will be replicated in all 120 community toilets in the city," the official said.He said women living in small houses, which do not have a separate bathing section, many a times find it difficult to change during periods.This facility will be a boon for such women and go a long way in promoting good hygiene, the official said.There are no public toilets for women in most of the localities and this facility will help provide them some relief, he said.The initiative indicates that slums are undergoing a revamp, with facilities like schools, health clinics and good toilets being set up there, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/period-room-set-up-for-women-in-maharashtra-s-thane-slum-101610258622711.html
10-01-2021||India||Khattar's kisan panchayat to support farm laws riles up protesting farmers||Heavy police deployment has been made around Karnal's Kaimla village ahead of Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s Kisan Mahapanchayat, aimed to drum up support for the three contentious agriculture laws that have triggered widespread protests in North India.All the roads leading to the village have been blocked by the police with the help of trucks laden with construction material parked on the roads to avoid entry of farmers protesting against the laws.Khattar has reportedly advanced his visit to the village to pre-afternoon.Additional forces from the nearby districts have been called in and duty magistrates have been appointed to monitor the law and order situation in the district.On the other hand, farmer union leaders, protesting against the laws, have also announced a meeting around 10 am at Karnal's Bastara toll plaza on national highway 44, better known as Delhi-Chandigarh highway.The Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) activists have already decided to oppose the Kisan Mahapanchayat and will decide their further strategy after a meeting. The farmer leaders have distributed black flags to activists and they are likely to take out a protest march towards the Kaimla village, around 8km from the toll plaza.Jagdeep Singh Aulakh, a local leader of BKU (Charuni), accused the chief minister and BJP leadership of attempting to divide farmers by holding such meetings."What is the logic of holding such meetings in the favour of agriculture laws when the farmers’ stir at Delhi borders (against the laws) has entered its 45th day,” he questioned."Even, the residents of the Kaimla village are against this programme and we are making efforts to ensure that the rally doesn’t take place but the protests will remain peaceful,” he added.Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Yadav has said that the union leaders have been told that strict action will be taken against them if they tried to disturb the programme. However, they are allowed to hold their protest peacefully at the Bastara toll plaza.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/khattars-kisan-panchayat-to-support-farm-laws-riles-up-protesting-farmers-101610258308756.html
10-01-2021||India||Labour ministry likely to give shape to National Employment Policy by December||The Ministry of Labour and Employment is likely to give a shape to the National Employment Policy (NEP) by December this year following the implementation of four labour codes and completion of four major surveys, including one one migrant workers.The NEP will draw a broad road map for improving job opportunities in the country, mainly by various initiatives like skill development, bringing investment in employment intensive segments and other policy interventions.Last year, Parliament passed three labour codes on Industrial Relations, Social Security and Occupational Health Safety & Working Conditions (OSH).The Code on Wages was approved by Parliament last year and its rules have been firmed up. But the implementation of the rules for Code on Wages was held back because the government wanted to implement all four labour codes in one go. These four codes are likely to be implemented from April 1 this year.The implementation of these four labour codes would provide a conducive legal framework for universalisation of social security and other safeguards for the entire workforce of over 50 crore in the country.But for job creation, a broad NEP would be required to exploit the potential of each segment of different sectors of the economy. This would require up-to-date data on employment across the sectors in the country. This gap would be bridged by the four employment surveys to be conducted by the Labour Bureau, a wing of the ministry.Talking to PTI, Director General, Labour Bureau, D S Negi told PTI that the bureau has begun spadework on the four surveys and field work would begin by March and the results would be out by October-end this year only.He said the NEP would take a shape based on the data inputs of these four surveys by December this year only.Thereafter, the NEP would be sent for the approval of the Union Cabinet.The document is expected to aid employment generation in the country to a great extent, especially when the government is grappling with the issue of job loss especially due to the pandemic.Earlier last month, Labour Minister Santosh Gangwar had also said that the four all India surveys on migrant workers, domestic workers, employment generated by professionals and transport sector which will be launched by early March, 2020 and the results of these will be available by October 2021.The minister had opined that for any evidence-based policy making for these workers, 'authentic data' on employment in organised and unorganised sector enterprises is highly called for.The minister had also informed that the bureau will soon launch an 'All India Quarterly Survey' on Employment of Enterprises' that will provide comprehensive data on the employment numbers in both the organized and unorganized sectors to address these data needs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/labour-ministry-likely-to-give-shape-to-national-employment-policy-by-december-101610257098223.html
10-01-2021||India||Mehbooba Mufti seeks L-G’s intervention in Waheed Parra re-arrest case||Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president and former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti has sought J&K Lt governor Manoj Sinha’s intervention after the Youth PDP president was rearrested after his release, in the winter capital of Jammu.Waheed Parra was granted bail by the special NIA (National Investigation Agency) court on Saturday, however, CIK, a counter-intelligence wing of J&K police, rearrested him.Special judge Sunit Gupta released Parra on a surety of ₹1 lakh. Parra was arrested by the NIA for his alleged involvement with the Hizbul Mujahideen, on November 25 last year, a few days after filing his nomination as a People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) candidate for the District Development Council (DDC) polls from Pulwama district."Despite NIA Court granting bail to @parawahid after thorough court proceedings, he has now been detained by CIK in Jammu. Under what law & for what crime has he been arrested? This is brazen contempt of court. Request @manojsinha," tweeted Mehbooba Mufti.Officials in the know of the developments said that Parra was rearrested since a powerful group of officials and politicians are opposed to his release and believe he may be popular among the youth in Kashmir.When in jail, Waheed won the DDC elections from Pulwama by defeating a BJP candidate.The Jammu and Kashmir government had recently started gathering details about the properties owned by the PDP youth president in Srinagar on the instructions of the NIA.The office of deputy commissioner of Srinagar had issued a communication to officials seeking details about the properties owned by Parra in the district.Parra was arrested by the NIA for allegedly seeking the terrorist group, Hizbul Mujahideen’s support for Mehbooba during the Parliamentary elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mehbooba-mufti-seeks-l-g-s-intervention-in-waheed-parra-re-arrest-case-101610256902456.html
10-01-2021||NA||Farmers' Protest LIVE| Sachin Pilot asks Centre to withdraw new farm laws||As the eight round of talks between the protesting farmers and Centre resulted in a stalemate on Friday the farmers said they are ready for a long haul. The farmers protesting on the border locations of Delhi against the three new agri laws passed by the Parliament in September want the laws to be repealed.The meeting between the Centre and the farmers concluded on a deadend as the government wanted the farmers to come up with some other alternative to resolve the issue while the farmers retained their demands for a total rollback of the 'black laws'. Farmers leaders have also planned to meet on Monday to discuss their future course of action. The next meeting with the Centre is scheduled for January 15. Also Read | Farmers’ protest: Free buses from Uttarakhand, digital chaupal among newly added facilities at UP GateA day after the inconclusive talks between the two parties, the Congress party announced on Saturday that it will stage protests outside governor houses across the country on January 15 in support of the farmer's agitation. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday had also alleged that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is anti-farmers while the Congress has always worked for the welfare of farmers.Farmers have been protesting for more than a month against the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.Follow all the updates here:Volunteers from Gurudwara Sis Ganj Sahib offer to polish shoes for protesting farmersDelhi: Volunteers from Gurudwara Sis Ganj Sahib offer free shoe polish service for protesting farmers at Ghazipur Border (Delhi-UP)"We saw how our farmer brothers have come so far, their shoes got dirty in rain. We are cleaning it here as part of our service," says a volunteer pic.twitter.com/KkynX1rci3Farmers protest at event organised by BJP in JalandharA group of farmers protesting the newly implemented farm laws in Punjab's Jalandhar carried black flags and raised slogans at an event organised by the BJP, reported PTI. Heavy police arrangements were made for the event but some protestors managed to get close to the main venue before being stopped by the police. Sachin Pilot asks Centre to withdraw new farm lawsSachin Pilot while addressing farmers in Rajasthan's Tonk asked Centre to withdraw the new farm laws since neither state governments nor farmers were consulted before promulgating it, reported news agency PTI.These people have defamed farmers: Haryana CM Khattar on Kisan Mahapanchayat disruptionToday's incident gave a message to people, bigger than what I'd intended to give. These people have defamed the farmers because a farmer doesn't have such nature. A farmer can be less educated or simple but he's sensible: Haryana CM on protest at his scheduled Kisan Mahapanchayat pic.twitter.com/2TUyg7X33aSome youth failed to keep promise of symbolic protest: Khattar on vandalisation at Kisan Panchayat venueAdmn had spoken to their (protesting farmers) people yesterday. They had agreed to hold a symbolic protest but no agitation. Trusting them, admn had made all preparations. Over 5000 people were present at the event today. But some youth failed to keep their promise: Haryana CM https://t.co/xDTHDqtFA2 pic.twitter.com/7ktlAow6qbRepealing new laws only relief to protesting farmers, says Cong leaderWithdrawal of the three new agriculture-related laws is the only way to provide relief to agitating farmers, an Uttar Pradesh Congress leader said on Sunday, reports PTI.Protesting farmers ransacked Haryana CM Khattar's Kisan panchayat venueDespite being stopped some 3km away from the venue of Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar's kisan panchayat, farmers in large number arrived at the helipad where CM Khatttar was scheduled to land and ransacked the venue.Haryana Police uses water cannon, teargas shells to stop farmers' marching to KarnalHaryana Police on Sunday used water cannons and lobbed teargas shells to prevent protesting farmers from marching towards Kaimla village in Haryana's Karnal district where Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar will address a 'kisan mahapanchayat', reports PTI.Chilla, Gazipur, Tikri, Dhansa borders closed amid farmers' stirThe Chilla and Gazipur Borders (Delhi-Uttar Pradesh) are closed for traffic coming from Noida and Ghaziabad to Delhi, in the wake of ongoing farmer protests, the Delhi Traffic Police informed on Sunday, asking people to take alternate routes via Anand Vihar, Delhi Noida Direct Flyway, Bhopra and Loni Borders, reports ANI.BJP MLA says farmers trying to spread bird flu by eating Chicken BiryaniProtesting farmers conspiring to spread bird flu by consuming chicken biryani: BJP MLARead @ANI Story | https://t.co/Yeu9GcIMIp pic.twitter.com/IlOrIfOr75Indian Youth Congress pays tribute to farmers died during the protestThe Indian Youth Congress on Saturday launched a nationwide program 'Ek Muthi Mitti Shaheedo Ke Naam' to pay tribute to farmers who died during the agitation against the three farm laws, reports ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-live-iyc-pays-tribute-to-farmers-died-during-protest-101610254325094.html
10-01-2021||India||Ahead of world's 'biggest vaccination programme', PM Modi to meet CMs tomorrow||Ahead of the roll-out of Covid-19 vaccines from January 16, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with chief ministers of all states on January 11, which will be the first interaction between PM Modi and the CMs after the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) gave restricted, emergency-use approval to two vaccines — Oxford Astrazeneca's vaccine known as Covishield in India, locally manufactured by Pune's Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech's Covaxin. Three rounds of the dry run have so far been conducted across the country and there is a week's time to improve on weak areas identified during these mock drills.What distinguishes India's vaccination drive from other countries that have already started are the number of people Indian aims to inoculate at free of cost on the first stage and the nature of the vaccines. After once crore health care workers and two crore front line workers, the Centre plans to vaccinate 27 crore people who are at a greater risk of contracting the disease.Also Watch | 'India ready to save humanity with 2 vaccines': PM Modi on Covid, self-relianceHere is all you need to know> Prime Minister Narendra Modi has reiterated that India has a global role in vaccination against Covid-19. "Being the pharmacy of the world, India has supplied important medicines to all those in need in the world in the past and is also doing so now. The world is not only waiting for Indian vaccines but is also watching how India runs the world's biggest vaccination programme," he said as he was speaking at Pravasi Bharatiya Divas on Saturday,> The date of January 16 has been chosen because of the festivals including Lohri, Makar Sankranti, Pongal, Magh Bihu etc.> India has also come up with an application for vaccination registration Co-WIN. During the dry run, states were asked to use the pre-product link of the application, which is not yet launched for public use (https://preprod.co-vin.in/home). Vaccine officials registered the name of health care workers who will be vaccinated at the beginning. The application is not yet available for downloading as the frontline workers do not need to register themselves for getting Covid-19 vaccine. Self-registration is only for people who are at a higher risk of contracting the disease.> The health ministry has also made it clear that though Co-WIN is an Indian app, the government will proactively consider if any other country wants to use the app for their vaccination drive.> To track people above 50 years, the latest electoral roll for Lok Sabha and Legislative Assembly elections will be used.> Beneficiaries will receive SMS informing them about the date and time of the vaccination. After one dose, they will be notified the date of the second dose. Only after both the doses, they will get their digital certificate.> Before the vaccination drive starts, PM will take stock of the Covid-19 situation of the states.> States have urging the Centre to make vaccine free for all people. The Centre has already said that vaccination of frontline workers will be free.> The PM-CARES ((Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations)Fund may be used for the purchase of the vaccines. The government had earlier allocated ₹100 crore from the fund for the development of vaccines.> In-depth training for vaccination has already been held in all states. Doctors, staff nurses, pharmacists who are legally authorised to give injections will vaccinate people.> There will be vaccine officers 1 who will check the registration status of the beneficiaries. Vaccine officers 2 will verify documents. Vaccine officers 3 and 4 will manage the crowd.> All vaccine booths will arrange for three large rooms: waiting room, vaccinating room, observation room.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-meet-cms-tomorrow-before-covid-19-vaccination-begins-from-january-16-what-to-expect-101610254914228.html
10-01-2021||India||CBI arrests 2 for sale, purchase of child pornography over Instagram||The Central Bureau of Investigation has arrested two persons - Neeraj Kumar Yadav and Kuljeet Singh Makan - in a case related to alleged sale/purchase of child sexual abuse material (CSAM) over Instagram and other social media platforms, officials said on Sunday.The agency registered a case under section 14 of POCSO (prevention of children from sexual offences) Act, 2012 and u/s 67-B of Information Technology Act, 2000 on the allegations that accused Neeraj Yadav, a B.Tech, was advertising over Instagram account for sale of objectionable material including child pornographic material.“It was further alleged that the said accused (Neeraj Yadav) had purchased large volume of data, from another accused person, stored over cloud-based websites, containing objectionable material including the child pornography material and made payment to him through PayTM for the same. Thereafter, the accused allegedly published an advertisement for sale of said material over Instagram,” said CBI Spokesperson R C Joshi.“On receipt of payments via Paytm or Google Pay etc from the customer(s)/seekers, the accused was allegedly sharing the said objectionable material with them through Whatsapp, Telegram, Instagram and other social media platforms. It was also alleged that he had gained monetary benefits and was indulging in these activities since 2019,” Joshi said.Yadav and Makan were produced in a court in Saket and have been remanded to judicial custody till January 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-arrests-2-for-sale-purchase-of-child-pornography-over-instagram-101610254688936.html
10-01-2021||India||India's Covid-19 tally rises to 10,450,284; death toll nears 151,000 mark||India recorded 18,645 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, the Union health ministry said on Sunday, adding that this latest rise in the country's Covid-19 cases has taken the national tally to 10,450,284. In its previous rise, India had recorded 18,222 new infections.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe country reported a total of 19,299 recoveries from the disease in the last 24 hours-more than new infections-taking the total number of recovered cases to 10,075,950, the ministry's dashboard showed. In the same duration, the dashboard showed, there were 201 fatalities, taking the death toll to 150,999. Active cases, meanwhile, slumped further to 223,335, the dashboard further showed. Recovered cases, active cases and deaths contribute 96.41%, 2.15% and 1.45% of the total cases respectively.India's latest rise in cases comes at a time the country is getting ready for a nationwide vaccination drive. Two vaccines, Oxford University-AstraZeneca's Covishield, and Bharat Biotech International Limited's Covaxin, were, earlier this month, granted emergency use authorisation (EUA) by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI). While Covishield will be manufactured here by Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII), Covaxin is the country's first indigenous vaccine against Covid-19. Another vaccine, Ahmedabaad-based Zydus Cadila's ZyCoV-D has been granted permission to initiate phase 3 trials.On Saturday, the government announced the nationwide vaccination drive will commence on January 16. Two pan-India vaccination dry runs have been carried out, on January 2 and 8, respectively. On December 28 and 29, the exercise was conducted in four states-Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Gujarat and Punjab.India has the second-highest caseload of Covid-19 in the world. The United States has the highest number of infections globally, with Brazil in third. The USA and India are the only two countries to have crossed the 10 million mark, with the former's tally currently exceeding 22 million, while Brazil has recorded more than 8 million cases thus far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-covid-19-tally-rises-to-10-450-284-death-toll-nears-151-000-mark-101610251137796.html
10-01-2021||India||With AAP help, farmers send defamation notice to Kangana Ranaut, Manoj Tiwari, Ravi Kisan||Farmers on Saturday sent legal notices for defamation to Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut, Union minister Raosaheb Danve and BJP MPs Ravi Kishan, Manoj Tiwari and Ramesh Bidhuri for defaming farmers agitating against the contentious farm laws in and around Delhi.The defamation notices were sent on the basis of the statements given about the farmers' agitation which is continuing for over a month now. With the help of the Aam Admi Party, a legal notice was sent to Kangana on behalf of Jeevan Jyoti Kaur. Notice on behalf of Sukhwinder Sukhi has been sent to BJP MP Manoj Tiwari. Gurinder Biring sent a notice to BJP MP Ravi Kishan.Important:As promised, AAP helps following farmers send legal notice to those discrediting the farmers’ protest-Jeevan Jyot Kaur to Kangana RanautNarinder Singh to Ramesh BidhuriSukhwinder Sukhi to Manoj TiwariGurinder Birring to Ravi KishanChetan Singh to Raosaheb DanveThe AAP has promised all kind of support to the protesting farmers. The party also offered legal assistance to farmers' groups willing to file court cases seeking action against the derogatory remarks made by several political leaders.AAP spokesperson Raghav Chadha said that the party will continue to provide legal help to the farmers in future.However, reports have pointed out that the "farmers" on whose behalf the notices have been sent are closely associated with the party. For example, Sukhwinder Sukhi is a famous Punjabi singer who reportedly joined the party in 2016.Thousands of farmers have been protesting at the borders of Delhi since November 26 last year against the newly enacted farm laws - Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance, and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.They have been demanding a complete withdrawal of the laws completely which has been refused by the government. Instead, it has offered to make amendments. The government has held several rounds of talks with the farmers to resolve the deadlock, without any positive result. The next round of talks will be held on January 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-aap-help-farmers-send-defamation-notice-to-kangana-ranaut-manoj-tiwari-ravi-kisan-101610251745347.html
10-01-2021||India||After West Bengal, Nadda to head to Assam and Tamil Nadu||After campaigning in West Bengal on Saturday, Bharatiya Janata Party president, JP Nadda will be travelling to election bound Assam and Tamil Nadu in the coming days, setting in motion the party’s electioneering juggernaut.Nadda, who launched the party‘s new campaign, Ek Mutthi Chawal in West Bengal and accused the Mamata Banerjee government of “institutionalising corruption”, is expected to be in Assam on Monday and in Tamil Nadu, where the BJP has announced an alliance with the AIADMK, on January 14.In Assam, where the BJP is in power, the party is riding high on its performance in the recent Bodoland Territorial Council elections, where it won nine seats as compared to just one in the last polls. In the Tiwa Autonomous Council (TAC) elections too, the BJP won 33 seats, up from the previous three, to come to power.The BJP believes that the result of Assam assembly elections will likely indicate if it has managed to consolidate in the state, considered the gateway to the northeast. Nadda is expected to hold meetings with party leaders to draw plans for elections and firm up alliances and seat sharing issues, said a party functionary.The party has already indicated that it will ally with the United People’s Party Liberal, instead of BPF this time. Nadda is also expected to address a rally.The BJP president, who has drawn up a 120 day scheduled for travelling across the country, will be in Tamil Nadu, coinciding with the Pongal celebrations on January 14.In Tamil Nadu, where the party has a new team at the helm, the BJP is banking on the central schemes to draw votes, said a functionary aware of the details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-west-bengal-nadda-to-head-to-assam-and-tamil-nadu-101610251836904.html
10-01-2021||India||Temperature starts dropping over NW India, cold wave conditions likely||Minimum temperature has started dropping over many parts of northwest India after the western disturbance that affected the western Himalayas on January 7 and 8, passed. Delhi recorded a minimum temperature of 7.8 degrees Celsius on Sunday compared to 10.8 degree C on Saturday.Due to dry north/north westerly winds over most parts of northwest India, minimum temperatures are likely to fall further gradually by 3 to 5 degree C during the next 3-4 days, causing cold wave conditions over Punjab, Haryana and north Rajasthan from January 11 to 13, as per the weather forecast.Under the influence of cyclonic circulation over southeast Arabian Sea and another cyclonic circulation over Sri Lanka and neighbourhood, scattered to fairly widespread rainfall with moderate thunderstorm and lightning is very likely over southern peninsular India during the next 3-4 days, according to the met department.Heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal during January 9 to 11 and isolated heavy rainfall is likely over Kerala and Mahe during the same period, the weather department forecast said.Due to a trough (area of low pressure) in low level easterlies from southeast Arabian Sea to northwest Madhya Pradesh, scattered rainfall with isolated thunderstorm and lightning is very likely over Maharashtra, Goa, Gujarat and West Madhya Pradesh during the next 12 hours, the forecast said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/temperature-starts-dropping-over-nw-india-cold-wave-conditions-likely-101610250064258.html
10-01-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: 2 red jungle fowls in Kanpur zoo test positive for bird flu and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Bird flu in UP: 2 red jungle fowls in Kanpur zoo test positiveBird flu has made its presence felt in Uttar Pradesh with the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal confirming that at least two samples of the 10 red jungle fowls, found dead in Kanpur zoo over the past three days, have tested positive for avian influenza, an official said. Read moreChhattisgarh health minister opposes use of CovaxinChhattisgarh health minister TS Singh Deo on Saturday said use of Covid-19 vaccine- Covaxin should not be allowed as its trial has not been completed yet and final results are awaited. Read moreThere is a cartel in cement, steel industry: GadkariUnion minister Nitin Gadkari on Saturday said cement and steel factories are exploiting people by levying higher rates and indicated that there is an active cartel in both industries. Read moreAgri-reforms must focus on women farmersThe ongoing farm protests have raised a host of issues that affect the sector, beyond the laws which are being sought to be rolled back. Read moreKangana slams Twitter CEO after ban on Trump, asks him to not preachSharing a 2015 tweet of Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey, Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut on Sunday slammed Jack accusing him of showing intolerance "for anything". Read moreIndia’s domestic seasons begins in bio-bubbles across 7 citiesOn Friday evening, Saurashtra skipper Jaydev Unadkat tweeted a picture of his team bonding over food on the ground following their first training session after quarantine. Read morePriyanka Chopra wraps up Text For You shoot after salon visit row, shares picActor Priyanka Chopra has wrapped up shoot of her romantic film, Text For You. Priyanka was shooting for the movie since the past couple of months in London. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-2-red-jungle-fowls-in-kanpur-zoo-test-positive-for-bird-flu-and-all-the-latest-news-101610248456747.html
10-01-2021||India||GoAir sacks senior pilot over derogatory comment on PM Narendra Modi||GoAir airline terminated the services of one of its senior pilots on Friday, a day after he allegedly used abusive language in his tweet about Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The pilot, however, locked his twitter profile and deleted the tweet later.The pilot in question is an Indian Air Force veteran and who served in the IAF for 25 years. He was previously also employed by Air Costa, which suspended operations in 2017. After leaving the IAF, he worked with Invision Air, an airline run by a Maharashtra based business group, as a captain between April 2010 and September 2015. After this, he served in Air Costa as a captain from October 2015 till December 2016 before joining GoAir in March 2017.The airline confirmed that it had terminated the services of the captain with immediate effect."GoAir has zero tolerance policy and it is mandatory for all GoAir employees to comply with the company’s employment rules, regulations and policies, including social media behaviour. The airline does not associate itself with personal views expressed by any individual or an employee," the airline spokesperson said.The alleged abusive tweet was however immediately deleted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goair-sacks-senior-pilot-over-derogatory-comment-on-pm-narendra-modi-101610249021069.html
10-01-2021||India||Covid-19: List of states where schools, colleges are set to open this month||As the country has been maintaining a steady decline in the infection cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) since the past month, many states are set to reopen schools in this month. While several including Karnataka, Bihar and Odisha have already begun classes, many states will reopen schools in the coming week of January in a graded manner, as per the Centre-mandated protocol.The Centre in Unlock 5 guidelines allowed schools to reopen from October 15. However, the decision was left to states/union territories to decide as to when they would resume physical classes after assessing Covid-19 situation.Schools and colleges have remained shut since March 2020 in the light of the Covid-19 pandemic which has claimed more than 150,798 lives so far, while the caseload stood at 10,431,639, as of Saturday morning.Here is a state-wise list where schools and colleges are set to reopen in the coming weeks:MaharashtraMaharashtra minister Uday Samant on Saturday said the state government will make a decision by January 20 about reopening colleges with 50 per cent capacity. Schools have already reopened in parts of Maharashtra since November 23.GujaratWith a decline in Covid-19 cases over the past few weeks, the Gujarat government announced the reopening of schools for students of classes 10th and 12th from January 11. The classes will reopen for 10 and 12 classes as well as for Graduation and Post Graduation final year with mandatory compliance of Covid-19 prevention standard operating procedures (SOPs) and consent of parents.RajasthanKeeping in view the falling Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan, the educational institutions including schools, colleges, universities and coaching centres will reopen in Rajasthan from January 18. Medical college, dental college, nursing college and paramedical college have been instructed to reopen from January 11 because of the vaccination process.KarnatakaRegular classes for first- and second-year college students in Karnataka would resume on January 14. Offline classes for the 10th class, second pre-university, final year degree and postgraduate students have already started.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-list-of-states-where-schools-colleges-are-set-to-open-this-month-101610247917661.html
10-01-2021||India||Kangana slams Twitter CEO after ban on Trump, asks him to not preach||Sharing a 2015 tweet of Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey, Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut on Sunday slammed Jack accusing him of showing intolerance "for anything". The tweet comes a day after the micro-blogging platform permanently banned US outgoing President Donald Trump's personal handle @realDonaldTrump and @TeamTrump and deleted some recent posts of @POTUS handle.Kangana quoted an old tweet of Jack where the CEO had said Twitter stands for freedom of expression and asked him to stop preaching. "We stand for speaking truth to power. And we stand for empowering dialogue," he had written on Twitter.Also Watch | Kangana Ranaut meets MP CM Shivraj Chouhan; backs anti-conversion lawNo you don’t,Islamists nation and Chinese propaganda has bought you completely, you only stand for your petty gains. You shamelessly show intolerance for anything other than what they want. U are nothing but a little slave of your own greeds. Don’t preach again its embarrassing. https://t.co/jDn97OVrHU"No you don’t, Islamists nation and Chinese propaganda has (sic) bought you completely, you only stand for your petty gains. You shamelessly show intolerance for anything other than what they want. U are nothing but a little slave of your own greeds. Don’t preach again its embarrassing," Kangana wrote.The ban on Donald Trump has opened a debate of freedom of expression as several Indian celebrities, politicians have voiced opinions against such "muscle flexing" of tech companies. BJP MP Tejasvi Surya on Saturday condemned the action and said it is a wake-up call for those who don't yet understand the threat to democracies by unregulated big tech companies. He also urged the Centre to review guidelines for intermediaries. Intermediaries can't interfere into social media content, he said.Shiv Sena leader Priyanka Chaturvedi also slammed Twitter for reaping benefits of Trump's "hate speeches" for long and then banning him when he is out of power.A Mumbai-based lawyer, Ali Kaashif Khan Deshmukh, had approached the Bombay High Court last year seeking blocking of Kangana Ranaut's Twitter account as he alleged the actor of hurting religious sentiments. The Bombay high court, however, said Kangana has the fundamental right to have an account to express her thoughts.The actor on Saturday met Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan as she was in Bhopal shooting for her upcoming spy thriller Dhakaad.Praising the Madhya Pradesh government for its Freedom of Religion Bill 2020, the actor said, "Many people may have problems with this law, but people should understand that laws are made only for those who have been cheated. This law will not apply to the inter-caste marriages that usually happen. It is applicable. This law will help those who get cheated in such cases."Talking about atrocities against women, the actor said, "In countries like Saudi Arabia, those who commit crimes against women are hanged to death at intersections. We need to set similar examples here."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/slave-of-your-own-greed-kangana-ranaut-s-salvo-at-twitter-ceo-jack-dorsey-101610245791865.html
10-01-2021||India||Chhattisgarh health minister opposes use of Covaxin||Chhattisgarh health minister TS Singh Deo on Saturday said use of Covid-19 vaccine- Covaxin should not be allowed as its trial has not been completed yet and final results are awaited.“The third phase trial of Covaxin is under process. The vaccine has been approved for emergency use (by the Drug Controller General of India). Its use should be avoided until its complete results are out,” Deo told reporters.When asked whether Covaxin would be administered to people if provided to the state, the minister said, “In my opinion, it should not be allowed in the state. As of now I am not confident to tell people to accept this vaccine.”Covaxin is indigenous Covid-19 vaccine being manufactured by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the National Institute of Virology (NIV).The vaccine received DCGI approval for phase I & II human clinical trials and the trials commenced across India from July, 2020.After successful completion of the interim analysis from the Phase 1 & 2 clinical trials, Bharat Biotech received DCGI approval for phase 3 clinical trials in 26,000 participants in over 25 centres across India, according to the company website.He, however, said, there is an indication that Covishield vaccine will be made available to the state which would be used at a large scale.Chhattisgarh has completed the mock drill for the distribution and administration of the Covid-19 vaccine in all its 28 districts and has made elaborate arrangements for the vaccination drive, which is expected soon, a health official said.2.53 lakh healthcare personnel will be administered the vaccine in the first phase of the drive in the state, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-health-minister-opposes-use-of-covaxin-101610244259487.html
10-01-2021||NA||LIVE: Britain records 54,940 new Covid-19 cases, 563 deaths||India's tally of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is at 10,450,284 after the Union health ministry on Sunday said the country had logged a total of 18,645 new infections in the previous 24 hours. On Saturday, the government announced that the country's mass vaccination drive will begin on January 16. India has thus far approved two vaccines against Covid-19: Oxford University-AstraZeneca's Covishield, which will be manufactured here by Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII), and Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech International Limited's Covaxin.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageMeanwhile, the number of those infected by the UK Covid-19 strain in India has reached 90, the health ministry said. The global tally of cases, according to the Johns Hopkins University coronavirus tracker, is at more than 89.5 million with a death toll exceeding 1.9 million. The United States is the world's worst-hit country and has crossed 22 million Covid-19 cases, followed by India and Brazil, which has crossed the 8 million mark.Follow all the updates here:Rajasthan records 3 Covid-19 deaths, 475 cases in a dayThree more people in Rajasthan succumbed to Covid-19 taking the death toll in the state to 2,734, while 475 more cases pushed the infection tally to 3,12,996 on Sunday, according to an official report. The fresh deaths were reported from Ajmer, Jaipur and Jodhpur. Jaipur recorded the maximum 81 fresh Covid-19 cases in the state. A total of 3,03,536 patients have recovered from the viral disease leaving 6,726 active cases at present.Chhattisgarh sees 661 Covid-19 cases, 6 deaths, 632 recoveriesWith 661 Covid-19 cases and six deaths reported on Sunday, Chhattisgarh's caseload rose to 2,89,231 and toll to 3,490, a health official said. The number of people who have recovered reached 2,76,774 after 90 people were discharged from hospitals and 542 completed home isolation during the day, leaving the state with 8,967 active cases, he said.Britain records 54,940 new Covid-19 cases and 563 deathsBritain reported 54,940 new cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, a slight drop from the number on Saturday, and 563 new deaths within 28 days of a positive test, government data showed. Deaths had been above 1,000 for four consecutive days before Sunday, although the numbers at the weekend are often lower due to delays in collecting the data.Italy reports 361 coronavirus deaths, 18,627 new casesItaly reported 361 coronavirus-related deaths on Sunday, down from 483 the day before, the health ministry said, while the daily tally of new infections fell to 18,627 from 19,978. Some 139,758 swab tests were carried out in the past day, the ministry said, against a previous 172,119. Italy has registered 78,755 Covid-19 deaths since its outbreak came to light on Feb. 21, the second-highest toll in Europe and the sixth-highest in the world. The country has reported 2.276 million cases to date, the health ministry said.Tamil Nadu clocks 724 new Covid-19 cases; 7 fatalitiesThe Covid-19 tally in Tamil Nadu touched 8,26,261 with the addition of 724 new cases while seven more deaths took the toll to 12,222 on Sunday, the Health Department said. Recoveries eclipsed new cases with 857 people getting discharged as the total number of those cured so far rose to 8,06,875. Active cases, which had been declining, touched 7,164 on Sunday, as the number of people under treatment fell by over 1,200 in the last ten days.Punjab records 304 fresh Covid-19 cases, 6 more deathsPunjab recorded 304 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday which took the state's tally to 1,69,033 while six more fatalities pushed the death toll to 5,445, according to a medical bulletin. There are 2,933 active Covid-19 cases in the state, it said.Of the fresh cases, 84 were reported from Mohali, 36 from Patiala and 34 from Jalandhar, among other districts. A total of 312 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection the previous day, taking the total number of cured persons to 1,60,655, the bulletin stated.Bihar reports 359 new Covid-19 cases, 4 fresh fatalitiesBihar's Covid-19 tally rose to 2,56,777 on Sunday as 359 more people tested positive for the infection, while four fresh fatalities pushed the state's coronavirus death toll to 1,434, a health bulletin said. As many as 408 more people were cured of the disease, taking the recovery rate among the coronavirus patients in the state to 97.85 per cent, it said.44 new Covid-19 cases recorded in ChandigarhA total of 44 new Covid-19 cases were reported in Chandigarh on Sunday, taking the infection count to 20,295 according to a medical bulletin.No death was reported on Sunday. The death toll stands at 327, as per bulletin.There are currently 241 active cases, it said. A total of 31 patients were discharged after they recovered from infection, taking the overall recoveries to 19,727, as per bulletin. A total of 1,92,376 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 1,71,141 have tested negative while reports of 52 samples were awaited, it added.Haryana records one more Covid-19 death, 234 new casesThe Covid-19 death toll in Haryana rose to 2,950 on Sunday with one more fatality, while 234 new cases pushed the infection tally to 2,64,955, a health department bulletin issued here said. The only fatality was reported from the state's Hisar district, it said. Among other districts to report new cases include Gurgaon (73) and Faridabad (36). The number of active cases in the state stands at 2,510 and 2,59,495 people have so far been discharged after recovery. The recovery rate is 97.94 per cent, it said.Philippines secures 30 million Novavax vaccine dosesThe Philippines has secured 30 million doses of a Covid-19 vaccine developed by US drug maker Novavax, officials said Sunday, as the country braces for a surge in infections after a huge religious event. This is only the second vaccine deal signed by the national government, which has faced growing criticism for its slowness in procuring jabs for the archipelago where nearly half a million infections have been recorded. It hopes to secure 148 million doses this year from seven companies -- enough for around 70 percent of its population. But the government has warned it will depend on global supply. In an agreement with the Serum Institute of India, the world's largest vaccine maker, the Philippines will buy 30 million doses of the jab developed by Novavax, the government's vaccine task force said in a statement.1 more dies of Covid-19 in Mizoram, toll rises to 9Mizoram reported one more Covid- 19 fatality on Sunday, pushing the death toll in the state to nine, a health department official said. The 57-year-old man succumbed to the virus at Zoram Medical College (ZMC) near Aizawl, he said.The state also registered 17 fresh cases, including four security personnel, taking the tally to 4,292. Mizoram now has 91 active cases, while 4,192 people have recovered from the disease so far, the official said. Meanwhile, the state government has extended the 'Covid-19 No Tolerance Drive' to contain the spread of the virus, another official said.Madhya Pradesh sees 620 Covid-19 cases, 10 deaths; 816 dischargedThe Covid-19 tally in Madhya Pradesh rose by 620 on Sunday to reach 2,48,597, while the death toll increased by 10 and the recovery count by 816, an official said. The toll in the state is 3,711 and the number of people discharged so far stands at 2,37,063, he added.Gujarat sees 671 new Covid-19 cases, 806 recoveriesGujarat on Sunday reported 671 fresh coronavirus positive cases, taking the total count of infections to 2,51,944, state health department said. With four more patients succumbing to the viral disease, the cumulative toll rose to 4,344, it said. A total of 806 patients were discharged during the day, taking the tally of recoveries in Gujarat to 2,39,771, the department said in a release. With this, the Covid-19 case recovery rate in Gujarat stands at 95.17 per cent, while the number of active cases is 7,829.Kerala clocks 4,545 fresh Covid-19 cases, 23 deaths push tollKerala reported 4,545 new Covid-19 cases and 23 related fatalities on Sunday taking the overall tally of infections in the state to 8,11,148 and the death toll to 3,302. State Health Minister K K Shailaja said the state government has tested 45,695 samples in the last 24 hours and the test positivity rate is 9.95 per cent. "Till now, 84,51,897 samples have been tested in the state. Three more persons who reached from the UK have been tested positive on Sunday taking the total number of affected persons from that country to 53," Minister said in a release. Earlier, six people from the UK have been tested positive for the new strain of virus.Africa's Covid-19 tally tops 3 million, deaths exceed 72,000The number of confirmed Covid-19 cases in Africa has topped 3 million on Sunday, according to the African Union's health agency. The Africa Centers for Disease Control and Prevention dashboard shows that the continent has logged 3,021,769 cases since the start of the pandemic. Over 2.4 million coronavirus patients have recovered and more than 72,000 have died. In the region, South Africa has the largest tally of 1.2 million cases, including over 950,000 recoveries and more than 32,000 fatalities.UP's Covid-19 caseload mounts to 5,93,171 with 699 fresh casesUttar Pradesh's Covid-19 tally climbed to 5,93,171 on Sunday with 699 fresh cases while the death toll mounted to 8,495 as 13 more people succumbed to the disease. As many as 769 Covid-19 patients recovered from the disease and were discharged the previous day. With this, the number of patients discharged so far stands at 5,73,542. There are 11,134 active Covid-19 cases in Uttar Pradesh, the statement said.Seychelles begins virus vaccination using Chinese drugThe Indian Ocean archipelago of the Seychelles began vaccinating its population against the coronavirus Sunday, the first African nation to do so.The country's president, Wavel Ramkalawan, was the first to receive the jab, an event broadcast on live television at a hospital in the capital Victoria. Several dozen other public figures joined him. "It's exactly as if I was getting any vaccine," he said, encouraging all the people of the island nation to get the injection. The country is using the Chinese vaccine developed by the Chinese pharma giant Sinopharm with its subsidiary the China National Biotec Group (CNBG). Health Minister Peggy Vidot said Thursday that the country had received a donation of 50,000 doses of the vaccine from the United Arab Emirates.Andhra Pradesh adds 227 new coronavirus cases as tests touch 1.23 crore markAndhra Pradesh reported 227 fresh Covid-19 cases, 289 recoveries and one death in 24 hours. The state completed 1.23 crore sample tests so far that turned out a gross 8,84,916 confirmed positives of coronavirus at the rate of 7.18 per cent, the latest bulletin said. The active cases fell to 2,544 after 8,75,243 recoveries and 7,129 deaths, it said.Maharashtra sees 3,558 new Covid-19 cases, 2,302 recoveries; 34 deathsMaharashtra's Covid-19 tally rose to 19,69,114 with the addition of 3,558 fresh cases on Sunday, the state health department said. With 34 more patients succumbing to the viral infection, the cumulative death toll in the state mounted to 50,061, it said. A total of 2,302 patients were discharged after treatment during the day, taking the total count of recoveries in Maharashtra to 18,63,702.Cuba tightens Covid-19 measures as visitors fuel record contagionCuba's top epidemiologist said on Saturday irresponsible partying over year-end, often with relatives from abroad, fueled a surge in coronavirus infections and he warned of a crackdown to prevent the spread of the disease. Authorities in the capital at the same time announced new containment measures including suspension of interprovincial transport, cultural activities and the use of public spaces such as the famous Malecon boulevard during night hours.France records 20,177 new confirmed Covid cases and 171 more deaths in 24 hoursFrance recorded 20,177 new, confirmed Covid-19 cases and 171 more deaths from the virus in the last 24 hours, according to data from the country's health ministry. The total number of confirmed Covid-19 cases in France stands at 2,767,312, while the total number of deaths stands at 67,599. France has the seventh-biggest Covid-19 death toll in the world.End in sight? Israel rolls out Covid booster shotsIsrael's coronavirus vaccination campaign, the world's fastest per capita, shifted to booster shots on Sunday in a bid to protect the most vulnerable citizens by next month and ease curbs on the economy. Israelis over the age of 60, those with health problems and medical personnel have been receiving first injections of Pfizer Inc. vaccines since Dec 19. As three weeks have passed, they are beginning to be due for follow-up, final doses. Read moreTokyo reports 1,494 new daily coronavirus infectionsTokyo reported 1,494 new coronavirus infections on Sunday, its government said, the lowest number of daily cases since Tuesday. Japan declared a limited state of emergency in Tokyo and three prefectures neighbouring the capital on Thursday to stem a surge in Covid-19 infections.Goa sees 61 Covid-19 cases, 1 death, 100 recoveriesThe number of Covid-19 cases in Goa reached 51,856 after 61 people were detected with the infection on Sunday, while the day also saw one death and 100 recoveries, an official said. The toll in the state is now 747 and the recovery count is 50,277, leaving it with 832 active cases, he added.11 lakh from 1.2 cr database to get vaccine on priority: Gujarat CMNearly 11 lakh people engaged in Covid-19 duties, including health care and frontline personnel, will be vaccinated for coronavirus on priority in Gujarat, Chief Minister Vijay Rupani said on Sunday, adding that 16,000 personnel have been trained for administering the shots. Read moreAhead of Covid-19 vaccine rollout, how states have made preparations: 10 pointsThe Centre has announced that it is going to launch the Covid-19 vaccination on January 16. Various state governments have announced their plans for the inoculation, which will first be given to health care and frontline workers. Read moreChina reports 380 Covid-19 cases south of BeijingMore than 380 people have tested positive in a growing Covid-19 outbreak south of Beijing in China's Hebei province. Hebei health authorities said that 40 new cases had been confirmed Sunday morning, bringing the total to 223. Another 161 people tested positive but showed no symptoms. China does not include such asymptomatic cases in its official tally.Belgium's coronavirus deaths hit 20,000, still among world's highest per capitaBelgium's death toll from coronavirus infections, one of the highest per capita in the world, has breached the 20,000 mark, according to official data published on Sunday. The country, home to the headquarters of the European Union and NATO, has played down comparisons that show it to be one of the world's worst hit by the pandemic, but virologists point to some missteps and systemic problems. A country divided by language, Belgium gives regions substantial autonomy and has nine health ministers.Delhi: 399 fresh cases, 12 more deaths; positivity rate dips to 0.51 pcDelhi recorded 399 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday, even as the positivity rate dipped to 0.51 per cent, authorities said. The case tally in the city has gone past 6.30 lakh and the death toll due to the viral disease has mounted to 10,678, they said.Pakistan's Covid-19 tally crosses 500,000 casesPakistan's coronavirus tally on Sunday crossed a half million cases after 2,899 new infections were detected in the last 24 hours, the health ministry said.Forty six people died due to the virus, taking the total number of Covid-19 fatalities to 10,644, while another 2,278 patients are in critical condition, the Ministry of National Health Services said. With detection of 2,899 new cases, the total number of infections in the country reached 502,416, it said.Karnataka ready to start Covid-19 vaccinations: State Health MinisterKarnataka is ready to start Covid-19 vaccinations, said State Health Minister K Sudhakar during his visit to a state storage facility for vaccines here on Sunday.Speaking to ANI, he said, "The storage facility in the state is well-managed. The state has two large storage facilities in Bengaluru and Belagavi. There are five other large regional storages also. All 30 districts in the state have storage facilities each."Iranian health minister confirms 4 cases of UK Covid-19 variantFour cases of the mutated coronavirus strain, which was discovered in the United Kingdom last month, have been registered in Iran, Health Minister Saeed Namaki said on Sunday. "Four new cases were confirmed yesterday," Namaki said, as cited on the country's government website.UK has vaccinated around 2 million people, says Health Secretary HancockBritain has now given around 2 million people a Covid-19 vaccination, Health Secretary Matt Hancock said on Sunday ahead of a ramp-up in the roll-out of the shots on Monday. "Over the last week we've vaccinated more people than in the entirety of December, so we're accelerating the roll-out," he told BBC TV.Vaccinating 200,000 people a day, says UK health secretaryUK health secretary Matt Hancock has said the govt is vaccinating 200,000 people daily against Covid-19 and is on course to ramping up immunisations to 2 million a week.Russia crosses 3.4 million Covid-19 casesRussia records 22,851 new Covid-19 cases and 456 deaths. National tally reaches 3,401,954 including 61,837 deaths.Philippines reports more than 1,900 new Covid-19 casesPhilippines reports 1,906 new Covid-19 cases as tally reaches 487,960.2,899 new Covid-19 cases take Pakistan's tally past 500,000Pakistan reports 2,899 new Covid-19 cases as national tally reaches 502,416.Belgium's Covid-19 deaths cross 20,000Deaths due to Covid-19 in Belgium have crosses 20,000, health officials have said. The country has thus far recorded 662,694 cases including 20,038 deaths.Puducherry records 30 new Covid-19 cases and two deathsPuducherry records 30 new Covid-19 cases and two deaths. Total tally reaches 38,455 including 638 deaths.No new case of UK Covid-19 strain in India, says govtTotal number infected with new strain of coronavirus from United Kingdom stands at 90; no addition in the last 24 hours: Ministry of health89 sites finalised for first phase of vaccination in Delhi: Satyendar JainIn Delhi, 89 sites have been finalised for the first phase of COVID-19 vaccination drive. Govt has identified 36 govt & 53 private hospitals for vaccination drive from January 16. In the first phase, only health workers will be vaccinated: Satyendra Jain, Delhi Health Minister pic.twitter.com/XA89y5B5siIn Delhi, 89 sites have been finalised for the first phase of Covid-19 vaccination drive, says Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain.Covid-19 cluster outbreak south of Beijing grows69 new Covid-19 cases have been detected in a cluster south of Chinese capital Beijing, taking total number of cases to more than 360.No new Covid-19 case in Andaman and NicobarAndaman and Nicobar Islands did not record a single new Covid-19 case in the last 24 hours, an official said on Sunday. Tally remains at 4,959.Germany's Covid-19 tally crosses 1.9 millionGermany logs 16,946 new Covid-19 cases as tally reaches 1,908,527. 465 fresh fatalities take death toll to 40,343.181,096,622 Covid-19 tests conducted thus far: ICMR181,096,622 samples tested for Covid-19 up to 9 January 2021. 843,307 tests on 9 January 2021: Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).Telangana's Covid-19 tally nears 290,000 markTelangana recorded 315 new Covid-19 cases, 415 recoveries and two deaths on Saturday. Tally rises to 289,784 including 283,463 recoveries, 4,756 active cases and 1,565 deaths.18,645 new Covid-19 cases in IndiaIndia records 18,645 new Covid-19 cases as tally reaches 10,450,284. Death toll at 150,999 with 201 new fatalities.Brazil's Covid-19 death toll crosses 202,000Brazil logs 1,171 new deaths due to Covid-19, as toll reaches 202,631. 62,290 new cases take total cases to 8,075,998.India crosses 18 crore Covid-19 tests: Health ministry#IndiaFightsCorona #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/lORHOEdmhZIndia crosses 18 crore Covid-19 tests: Union health ministryMexico records over 1,000 deaths for fifth straight dayMexico's health ministry has said the country reported a record 16,105 new Covid-19 cases and 1,135 deaths. Total cases at 1,524,036 including 133,204 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/live-coronavirus-india-world-latest-news-covid-19-death-toll-january-10-2021-101610242576762.html
10-01-2021||India||Bird flu scare: Uttar Pradesh 7th state, Delhi awaits results. Latest updates||Amid widespread bird flu scare across the country, Uttar Pradesh on Saturday became the seventh state to confirm the outbreak of the disease. Kanpur Zoological Park has been closed for visitors for 15 days as a suspected case of bird flu has been detected in the zoo.With both neighbouring Uttar Pradesh and Haryana reeling from avian influenza, Delhi is already at a vulnerable zone. The unusual number of death crows spotted at various places in Delhi for consecutive days has added to that.States where bird flu has been confirmedKerala, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh.Situation in Delhi> At least 35 dead crows have been spotted in the past few days in the national Capital. At least 24 crows have been found dead at a district park in Jasola and 10 ducks have died at Sanjay Lake.> Hauz Khas Park, Dwarka Sector 9 Park, Hastsal Park and Sanjay Lake have been closed.> The Delhi government on Saturday announced a ban on import of live birds and closure of the city's biggest poultry market at Ghazipur.> A 24-hour helpline — 23890318 — has been set up for the assistance of the people> Delhi Zoo has heightened intensive care of bird enclosures and water ponds areas with the application of disinfectants twice a day. Raptors and other carnivorous animals are also not being fed chicken anymore to reduce risk of infection.Bird flu in MaharashtraAs many as 900 hens have died at a poultry farm in Murumba village in Parbhani district of Maharashtra. Samples have been sent for testing. In 2006, H5N1 virus outbreak was reported in Nandurbar and Dhule districts in north Maharashtra.In Kerala, culling operations have been completed in both the affected districts and post-operational surveillance programme guidelines have been issued to the state.Can bird flu affect humans?Most of the strains of bird flu do not affect humans. However, the disease can be transmitted through infected bird feces, nasal, mouth or eye secretions. The Centre has asked all states to be vigilant and "avoid any chances of jumping of the disease into humans". Eating poultry or poultry products is safe once wholly cooked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bird-flu-scare-uttar-pradesh-7th-state-delhi-awaits-results-latest-updates-101610241944459.html
10-01-2021||India||India’s vaccine drive to kick off on Jan 16||India’s vaccination drive, the world’s largest immunisation exercise against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), will kick off on January 16 with priority to about 30 million health care and frontline workers, the government said on Saturday, as Prime Minister Narendra Modi called it a “a landmark step” in the fight against the pandemic.The Prime Minister chaired a high-level meet to review the status of the infectious disease along with the preparedness of states for the vaccination drive. “The roll-out of Covid-19 vaccine will provide priority to the health care workers and the frontline workers who are estimated to be around 3 cr (30 million), followed by those above 50 years of age and the under-50 population groups with co-morbidities numbering around 27 cr (270 million),” a statement released by the Union health ministry said.India plans to inoculate 300 million of its 1.3 billion people free of charge in the first six to eight months of this year. The Drug Controller General of India has approved two coronavirus vaccines for emergency use – Oxford-AstraZeneca’s Covishield, which is manufactured locally by the the Serum Institute of India, and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, which has been cleared for restricted use in emergency situations in “clinical trial mode”, leading to experts questioning the decision because of the shorter duration of human trials and relatively lower data published for the candidate. Both vaccines, the statement from the health ministry said, have established safety and immunogenicity.On Saturday, Modi was briefed about the preparedness of the Centre in collaboration with states for the roll-out of the vaccine. “On 16th January, India takes a landmark step forward in fighting COVID-19. Starting that day, India’s nation-wide vaccination drive begins. Priority will be given to our brave doctors, healthcare workers, frontline workers including Safai Karamcharis,” he tweeted after the meeting.The PM is scheduled to interact with chief ministers of all states on Monday via video conferencing, where they will discuss the Covid-19 situation and the vaccination roll-out.Three phases of dry runs have been conducted across the country ahead of the vaccination drive. The third round was conducted on Friday across 615 districts in 33 states and Union territories. More than 61,000 programme managers, 200,000 vaccinators and 370,000 other vaccination team members have been trained so far at state, district and block levels, according to the health ministry.“After the detailed review, it was decided that in view of the forthcoming festivals including Lohri, Makar Sankranti, Pongal, Magh Bihu etc., the Covid-19 vaccination will start from 16th January 2021,” the official statement said.“The vaccination exercise is underpinned by the principles of people’s participation (Jan Bhagidari); utilising experience of elections (booth strategy) and Universal Immunization Program (UIP); no compromise of existing healthcare services, especially national programs and primary health care; no compromise on scientific and regulatory norms, other SOPs; and an orderly and smooth implementation driven by technology,” it added.India is ready with two “Made in India” vaccines to protect humanity from Covid-19 even as the world is watching the roll-out of the world’s largest vaccination programme in the country, Modi said.Addressing the virtual inaugural session of the Pravasi Bharatiya Divas Convention, Modi said India continues to play its role as the “world’s pharmacy” by getting essential medicines to those most in need around the world. “Today, India is ready to protect humanity with not one but two ‘Made in India’ corona vaccines,” he said, speaking in Hindi. “Today, the world is not only waiting for India’s vaccine, but it is also eyeing how India runs the world’s largest vaccination programme.”The PM was also apprised about the Co-WIN vaccine delivery management system on Saturday. The digital platform will provide real-time information of vaccine stocks, their storage temperature and individualised tracking of beneficiaries of the Covid-19 vaccine, according to the government. The platform will assist programme managers across all levels through automated session allocation for pre-registered beneficiaries, their verification and for generating a digital certificate upon successful completion of the vaccine schedule. More than 7.9 million beneficiaries have been already registered on the platform, the health ministry said.“As the vaccinators and vaccine administrators comprise a crucial pillar of the vaccination exercise, their training process was detailed out. 2,360 participants were trained during national level Training of Trainers which comprised state immunization officers, cold chain officers, IEC officials, development partners, etc.,” it added.At least seven other vaccines are being developed in India, while some others can be imported from abroad, including the one developed by global pharma giant Pfizer, which has already applied for import and sale in India of its vaccine for emergency use authorisation.In December 2020, the UK became the first country to start vaccination, followed by several other nations, including the US, Belarus, Argentina, Belgium, Canada, Chile, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Israel, Italy, Kuwait, Malta, Mexico, Oman, Poland, Qatar, Romania, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Serbia, Slovakia, Spain, Switzerland and the UAE.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-vaccine-drive-to-kick-off-on-jan-16-101610224333258.html
10-01-2021||India||NIA court grants bail to PDP leader Parra in terror case||A special court of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) released People’s Democratic Party youth wing president Waheed ur Rehman Parra on bail on Saturday, an official familiar with the development said.Special judge Sunit Gupta released Parra on a surety of ₹1 lakh. Parra was arrested by the NIA for his alleged involvement with the Hizbul Mujahideen on November 25 last year, a few days after filing nomination papers as a People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) candidate. He won the district development council elections from south Kashmir’s Pulwama.The NIA has alleged that Parra had “closed links” with Irfan Shafi Mir, who was earlier arrested along with Naveed Babu and suspended deputy superintendent of police Davinder Singh.The agency has claimed that Parra conspired with the other accused to support Hizbul Mujahideen, a charge denied by the PDP which had termed his arrest as “politically motivated”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/niacourt-grants-bail-to-pdp-leader-parra-in-terror-case-101610224083841.html
10-01-2021||India||Vasundhara Raje ‘supporters’ form new front||People claiming to be supporters of former chief minister Vasundhara Raje have formed an outfit named Vasundhara Raje Samarthak Rajasthan Manch (VRSRM), saying that they want her to be the state’s chief minister for the third time.The outfit, formed by Jaipur-based lawyer and former state president of the BJP’s legal cell, Vijay Bhardwaj, is projecting Raje as the CM candidate for the 2023 state polls. “The manch is a non-political outfit formed to highlight the policies of Raje’s government and it is not a parallel organisation to BJP,” said Bhardwaj.BJP state president Satish Poonia said: “This front and its messages are being floated on social media and there is nothing on the ground. When asked whether there is patronage to the front by Raje, he said: “So far, there is no such thing but if something happens then we will discuss”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/raje-supporters-form-new-front-101610222533073.html
10-01-2021||India||AIADMK council endorses Palaniswami as CM candidate for TN elections||The All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) on Saturday endorsed incumbent state chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami as its candidate for the upcoming assembly elections in the state.The AIADMK general council, the party’s top decision-making body also authorised Palaniswami and deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam to devise the party’s strategy for the polls and endorsed the appointment of a steering committee, which is likely to play a key role in important matters.The party also thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for including Tamil Nadu among the six states under the central lighthouse project.The general council passed 16 resolutions, including urging the Centre to not allow dissolving the provincial councils in Sri Lanka that ensure devolution of powers to Lankan Tamils.“This general council authorises O Panneerselvam and Edapadi K Palaniswami to devise winning strategies to ensure a grand win in the 2021 polls, create an AIADMK-led victory alliance and decide seat-sharing with alliance parties,” the members resolved.The party has earned the public’s praise for “good governance,” it added.The AIADMK had earlier led the National Democratic Alliance (NDA), its constituents being the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), DMDK and PMK among others, in the state for the 2019 Lok Sabha polls and its two top leaders have already confirmed the party’s alliance with the BJP.More than 4,500 members were invited to the party meeting today which was held in Chennai’s suburbs. Participants had to submit a Covid-19 negative certificate to enter the meeting.The members said they “unanimously accept the announcement and will work hard to ensure victory” and bring Palaniswami back to the post after the elections.Targeting Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam president MK Stalin, the party alleged that he was unable to bear the growing public support for its government, as well as Palaniswami’s administrative acumen and was therefore indulging in “uncultured” criticism of the CM.It condemned Stalin and his DMK supporters for “personal attacks.” In an apparent reference to its arch rival, the party in another resolution said it would strive to “put an end to dynasty politics of one family”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiadmk-council-endorses-palaniswami-as-cm-candidate-for-tn-elections-101610222156723.html
10-01-2021||India||PLA soldier strays across LAC, detained in Ladakh||The Indian Army apprehended a Chinese soldier near the southern bank of Pangong Tso in eastern Ladakh on Friday after he strayed across the Line of Actual Control (LAC), an official familiar with the developments said on Saturday.“The People’s Liberation Army (PLA soldier) had transgressed across the LAC and was taken into custody by Indian troops deployed in this area (south of Pangong Tso). Troops from either side are deployed along the LAC since friction erupted last year due to unprecedented mobilisation and forward concentration by Chinese troops,” the army said in a statement.This is the second time a Chinese soldier has been held by the Indian Army after straying into Indian territory amid the border standoff between the two sides since May last year.Heights on both banks of the Pangong Tso have been at the centre of the border row between the two countries.The PLA soldier is being dealt with according to procedures, and circumstances under which he crossed the LAC are being investigated, the statement added. The soldier is likely to be returned after completion of formalities, the official said.In October 2020, the Indian Army had apprehended a Chinese soldier in the Demchok sector after he strayed across the LAC. The army identified the soldier as Corporal Wang Ya Long. It then said it had received a request from the PLA about the whereabouts of the missing soldier.Corporal Wang was provided medical assistance including oxygen, food and warm clothes. The soldier was returned to the Chinese side after the investigations and formalities were completed.While India has consistently pushed for comprehensive disengagement at all flashpoints and restoration of status quo ante of early April during the ongoing military talks, the Chinese side wants the Indian Army to first pull back troops deployed on strategic heights on the southern bank of Pangong Tso.The two armies have held eight rounds of military talks so far, with dates yet to be announced for the delayed ninth round of dialogue between corps commander-ranked officers.The Indian Army swiftly moved and occupied a series of key heights to prevent the PLA from grabbing Indian territory on the southern bank in a stealthy midnight move on August 29.The Indian Army now controls ridgeline positions on the southern bank of Pangong Tso that allow it to completely dominate the sector and keep an eye on Chinese military activity. The Indian Army has also taken control of key heights overlooking the PLA’s deployments on the Finger 4 ridgeline on the northern bank of Pangong Tso, where soldiers from the two sides are deployed barely a few hundred metres from each other.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pla-soldier-strays-across-lac-detained-in-ladakh-101610218633345.html
10-01-2021||India||Monitoring real estate projects not our job: Apex court on plea under Article 32||Day-to-day monitoring of construction projects is not the job of the courts and homebuyers should seek remedy against unscrupulous builders from the consumer court, the Real Estate Regulatory Authority or under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, the Supreme Court has said.The order passed on Thursday by the top court, which in previous orders had come to the rescue of homebuyers left in the lurch by major real estate firms, is set to deal a blow to several homebuyers contemplating to file a direct petition in the top court under Article 32 for completion of stalled projects or securing refunds.Article 32 guarantees citizens right to move the Supreme Court for enforcement of fundamental rights.The bench of Justices DY Chandrachud, Indira Banerjee and Sanjiv Khanna said, “Managing a construction project is not within the jurisdiction of the court... This will inevitably draw the court into the day-to-day supervision of the project, including financing, permissions and execution, something which lies beyond the ken of judicial review and the competence of the court.”Purchasers of a commercial real estate project in Noida Sector 62 had approached the court against builders Premia Structures Limited who promised to construct office spaces for petitioners and allegedly collected ₹49 crore for the purpose. The commercial spaces were booked in 2014 with the possession to be handed over by 2018-19, the petitioners said. “Neither the construction took place nor the developer returned the invested sums,” said advocate Shikhil Suri who represented the petitioners. A criminal case was lodged against the developers but the key director has remained absconding till date, the petition stated.Disposing their plea under Article 32, the bench allowed petitioners to avail their remedies under the Consumer Protection Act, Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act or the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC).“It’s a huge burden on the court. We are an adjudicating body. Should the Supreme Court begin monitoring, there will be hundreds of projects of this nature spread across the country. We will be bogged down by these cases. Let’s not get into policy matters and start running industries. Just because the real estate industry is not running, should Article 32 be the remedy?” observed the court during the hearing.This was in contrast to the top court entertaining writ petitions under Article 32 filed by aggrieved homebuyers led by Chitra Sharma against Jaypee group in August 2017 and another set of homebuyers led by Bikram Chatterji against the Amrapali group in September 2017. In case of Unitech, the Court took up the petitions which came in appeal from the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission (NCDRC) in October 2016.Incidentally, Justice Chandrachud is heading the bench which is monitoring the Unitech case where close to 25,000 homebuyers are awaiting the court’s nod on a resolution plan offered by Unitech’s reconstituted board to complete the pending housing projects within fixed timelines. Even the Jaypee projects involving nearly 18,000 homebuyers are stuck as no construction has begun on the pending residential projects. The Supreme Court last year reserved orders on a resolution plan submitted by National Building Construction Corporation (NBCC) for beginning construction of these projects.The Amrapali projects, involving nearly 47,000 homebuyers, are being monitored by a two-judge bench of the Supreme Court which holds a special sitting every week to know the progress of construction and availability of funds. These projects too are being executed by NBCC after the Supreme Court cancelled the registration of Amrapali under the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016. This judgment came in July 2019 after a forensic audit ordered by the top court found siphoning of huge amounts of homebuyers’ funds by Amrapali directors.The court acknowledged the pain of the present petitioners but clarified that the Parliament has enacted a statutory regime to protect the rights of purchasers of real estate. These include the Consumer Protection Act 1986, the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act 2016 and the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code 2016, the bench added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monitoring-real-estate-projects-not-our-job-apex-court-on-plea-under-article-32-101610218647467.html
10-01-2021||India||Madhavsinh Solanki: A seasoned politician who had an eye for art||Four-time Gujarat chief minister Madhavsinh Solanki, who died in his sleep at the age of 93 on Saturday, will be remembered as the architect of the KHAM theory that helped the Congress win 149 of 182 assembly seats in 1985, a record that even the subsequent ascendancy of the Hindutva movement failed to break.Much before the Mandal commission report on the status of socially and educationally other backward classes (OBCs), the Solanki government introduced 10% reservation in jobs and educational institutions for OBCs in 1981. Solanki is also remembered as the first CM to introduce a midday meal for schoolchildren.His KHAM (Kshatriya (OBC), Harijan, Adivasi, Muslim) theory of giving a larger share in power positions to members from these communities helped the Congress win elections and retain power in Gujarat for more than a decade and a half.Solanki was the CM of Gujarat four times between 1976 and 1990 and was the country’s external affairs minister under PM PV Narasimha Rao.Solanki’s move to introduce reservations for OBCs resulted in an anti-reservation agitation across the state which led to riots between Hindus and Muslims and between the upper castes and Dalits, resulting in deaths of over a hundred people. Solanki resigned in 1985 only to return to power by winning a record 149 seats.Solanki, after resigning as India’s external affairs minister, withdrew from all political activity and remained confined to his home, spending time on reading books, listening to music and watching movies. As a bibliophile, Solanki was the most widely read politician in Gujarat.As the chief minister, he took a special interest in promoting art, literature, theatre and cinema in Gujarat. It was during his tenure that three film studios came up in the state and the government exempted Gujarati movies from entertainment tax.His friends included eminent lawyers, artists, theatre and movie actors, directors and writers. Solanki was a connoisseur of art, literature and movies. He had a rich library of books and movies. A journalist before he joined politics, Solanki was a member of the legislative assembly of the Bombay state in 1957-60 and then of the Gujarat legislative assembly from 1960-68.Solanki’s cabinet was known to have many highly educated and multifaceted ministers who had done well in various fields – finance, engineering, social work, law and trade union movement. Outside of his cabinet too, Solanki picked up eminent personalities from varied fields to head various state boards and corporations.(The writer is a journalist based in Ahmedabad)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhavsinh-solanki-a-seasoned-politician-who-had-an-eye-for-art-101610218606213.html
10-01-2021||India||Correction||This story, ‘300 casualties in Balakot airstrike by India, admits former Pak diplomat: Report’ by news agency Asian News International (ANI) has been withdrawn due to factual inaccuracies. The error is regretted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/300-casualties-in-balakot-airstrike-by-india-admits-former-pakistan-diplomat-101610201780958.html
10-01-2021||India||On Rafale and deadly Panther choppers, India gets a huge offer from France||India and France have decided to intensify defence cooperation with Paris offering to shift 100 per cent assembly line for Panther medium utility helicopters as well as 70 per cent of the assembly line for Rafale fighters under “Make in India” rubric with full transfer of technology, people familiar with the matter said on Saturday.The offers were made in the course of conversations between Indian leaders and Emmanuel Bonne, Diplomatic Advisor to French President Emmanuel Macron who was in the country for the 34th India-France strategic dialogue this week.Also Watch | French President’s advisor meets PM Modi, discusses bilateral & global issuesOfficials said there was a real possibility that India, which has a contract for 36 omni-role fighters, could buy more Rafale jets in light of the French offer to bring 70 per cent of the assembly line including local vendor development. This would reduce the cost of subsequent acquisition of the fighter jets.The French offer to make the Panther choppers in India also works well with the government which has been looking to buy medium helicopters for the Indian Navy. The Airbus’ AS565 MBe is an all-weather, multi-role medium helicopter designed for operation from ship decks, offshore locations and land-based sites.According to South Block sources, the India-France strategic dialogue this week has led to forward movement over 9,900 MW Jaitapur nuclear power plant over reactor pricing issues with state-run Electricite de France (EDF) and Nuclear Power Corporation of India (NPCIL). The strategic dialogue was headed by National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and Emmanuel Bonne, Diplomatic Advisor to French President Emmanuel Macron.According to senior officials, India has decided to consider the French offer of six Airbus 330 multi-role transport tankers on lease while making it clear that French defence technologies shared with Indian military should not be given to its adversaries. To this, the French have informed India that their relationship particularly in the defence sector has reached a new low with Pakistan after Prime Minister Imran Khan attacked President Macron personally over a terrorist incident.It is understood that France will no longer either supply or upgrade French weapon platforms or ammunition with Pakistan. This includes repairs of Mirage III/V fighters as well as Augusta submarines. The same thumb rule will apply to Turkey too, whose authoritarian leader R Erdogan had gone out of his way to launch vitriolic attacks on President Macron.While India and France discussed China and its role in the Indo-Pacific and Indian Ocean, Paris has invited Indian Navy to participate in European Maritime Awareness in the Straits of Hormuz (EMSOH) as well as use facilities at the French base in Djibouti on the Horn of Africa. On China, the two sides have decided to build maritime capabilities to ensure that international maritime law is followed in both Indo-Pacific and Indian Ocean through joint surveillance and sharing of intelligence. France’s Chief Military Advisor also accompanied envoy Bonne. France has also offered India to join in trilateral naval exercises with UAE, Singapore, Malaysia, Indonesia and Australia.Although Doval and Bonne had restricted conversation on India-France strategic issues, Paris has offered help in development of engine for twin engine LCA or AMCA with the Defence Research and Development Organization (DRDO) as well as making Rafale fighter engines (M-88) under the “Make in India” initiative.At a political level, the French envoy made it clear that it would support India in the UN Security Council and ensure that Beijing’s move to put India in a dock either on cooked up charges of terrorism or Kashmir are stymied. This assurance Bonne made before Prime Minister Narendra Modi as India joins the UNSC for two years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/france-offers-to-shift-panther-chopper-assembly-line-to-india-rafale-too-101610181121676.html
10-01-2021||NA||Highlights: RT-PCR test mandatory for UK returnees: Karnataka Health Minister||The number of infection due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) reached 88,810,289, as per the numbers published on John Hopkins University. The number of people succumbing to the disease was at 1,911,586.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageThe United States which still reporting the highest number of daily cases of infection, confirmed nearly 290,000 Covid cases in 24 hours in a new record spike. The country also recorded 3,676 virus deaths in the same day. On Thursday, President-elect Joe Biden says he’ll distribute more of the available doses of coronavirus vaccines. Meanwhile, New York prepared to begin to expand eligibility for the vaccine beyond front-line health-care workers to include people over 75, police officers, firefighters and others.In the United Kingdom, London’s mayor declared an emergency after record fatalities. Germany also reported the most daily deaths since the start of the pandemic. Iran banned US and UK vaccinations.Follow all the live updates here:Follow all the updates here:Noida: 28 new Covid-19 cases, recovery rate 98.56 pcUttar Pradesh's Gautam Buddh Nagar recorded 28 new cases of Covid-19 that pushed the district's infection tally to 25,169 on Saturday, official data showed.The active cases in the district came down to 271 from 277 the previous day, while its recovery rate reached 98.56 per cent, according to the data released by the UP Health Department for a 24-hour period.3,581 new coronavirus cases in Maharashtra, 57 deathsMaharashtra's Covid-19 tally on Saturday rose to 19,65,556 as it recorded 3,581 fresh cases, a health official said. The state also reported 57 fatalities, taking the death toll to 50,027, he said. As many as 2,401 patients were discharged after treatment, pushing the tally of recovered people to 18,61,400.Goa sees 81 Covid-19 cases, 2 deaths, 89 recoveriesGoa's coronavirus caseload went up by 81 and reached 51,790 on Saturday, while the toll touched 746 with two people succumbing to the infection, an official said. The number of people who have recovered rose to 50,177 with 89 getting discharged on Saturday, leaving the state with 867 active cases, he added.Tamil Nadu clocks 761 new Covid-19 cases, 7 fatalitiesTamil Nadu on Saturday recorded 761 new Covid-19 infections, pushing the tally to 8,25,537, while the toll mounted to 12,215 with 7 more fatalities. Recoveries eclipsed the new cases with 882 people getting discharged, totalling to 8,06,018 so far, a bulletin said.Surat sees 123 Covid-19 cases, 1 death, 159 recoveriesThe number of Covid-19 cases in Surat rose to 50,375 after 123 people were detected with the virus on Saturday, while one death and 159 recoveries were also reported during the day, an official said. The toll in the district is now 1,143, he added. "Surat city accounted for 101 of the new cases and 134 of the people discharged. The rest came from rural areas. So far, 36,394 people have been discharged in Surat city, giving it a recovery rate of 96.13 per cent," he said.675 new coronavirus cases in Gujarat, five deathsGujarat reported 675 new coronavirus positive cases on Saturday, increasing the tally of cases in the state to 2,51,273, state health department said. With five deaths, the Covid-19 fatality count in the state rose to 4,340, it said. As many as 851 patients were discharged, taking the total of recovered persons in the state to 2,38,965, the department said in its release. With this, the state's recovery rate went up to 95.10 per cent.6 deaths, 287 fresh virus cases in UttarakhandSix more people died from coronavirus in Uttarakhand on Saturday as 287 fresh cases surfaced, taking the state’s infection count to 93,398, a health department bulletin said. So far, the infection has claimed 1,568 in the state, it said.Kerala reports 5,528 new cases, caseload over 8.06 lakhKerala's Covid-19 caseload soared to over 8.06 lakh on Saturday with 5,528 new cases being reported, while 5,424 people have recuperated from the disease. The toll has gone up to 3,279 with 22 more recent deaths being confirmed due to the virus.Jammu and Kashmir records 122 fresh Covid cases, 2 deathsJammu and Kashmir recorded 122 fresh coronavirus cases and two more deaths on Saturday taking the total case count in the UT to 1,22,425 and death toll to 1,909. Officials said 58 people tested positive in Kashmir and 64 in Jammu. Two persons lost their lives in Jammu due to the viral infection. They added that 1, 18,422 people have recovered in the UT so far after 267 patients were discharged, taking the recovery rate to 96.73%. There are 2,094 active cases while the total number of tests conducted in the UT has crossed 40.59 lakh.Japan reports 7,109 new Covid-19 cases, 281,992 in totalThe confirmed Covid-19 cases in Japan increased by 7,109 to reach 281,992 as of Saturday evening, according to the latest figures from the health ministry and local authorities. The death toll in Japan from the pneumonia-causing virus stands at 4,020, with 44 new fatalities announced Saturday.199 new Covid-19 cases reported in Andhra Pradesh in last 24 hoursA total of 199 new Covid-19 cases and 1 death were reported in Andhra Pradesh in last 24 hours, the state's health department said. "In the last 24 hours; 50445 samples are tested in Andhra Pradesh. 199 of them are detected Covid positive. With this, the total number of cases in AP increased to 8,84,689. Of them 2607 are active," it informed in a statement.Covid-19 vaccination drive to kick off in India on Jan 16India will launch its Covid-19 vaccination drive on January 16 and priority will be given to nearly three crore healthcare and frontline workers, the government said on Saturday. The decision was taken after Prime Minister Narendra Modi reviewed the status of Covid-19 situation and vaccine preparedness. "After the detailed review, it was decided that in view of the forthcoming festivals including Lohri, Makar Sankranti, Pongal, Magh Bihu, etc, the Covid-19 vaccination will start from January 16, 2021," a government statement said.Saudi Arabia's King Salman receives first dose of coronavirus vaccineSaudi Arabia's King Salman bin Abdulaziz on Saturday received the first dose of Pfizer Covid-19 vaccine in Neom city. Salman, 85, "received the first dose of the coronavirus vaccine," the Arab News reported citing Saudi Press Agency (SPA).Ministry of Health Tawfiq Al-Rabiah thanked the king "who provided all types of support in the interest of citizens and residents since the beginning of the pandemic until this day."Delhi reports 519 fresh cases, 12 deaths; positivity rate 0.65 pcDelhi recorded 519 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday, the third time the daily incidences count stood above the 500-mark in January, even as the positivity rate remained much below one per cent. The infection tally in the city stood at 6.29 lakh and the death toll mounted to 10,666, they said.Odisha reports 206 new Covid-19 cases, 1 more deathOdisha on Saturday reported 206 new Covid-19 cases, a health department official said. The state's Covid-19 tally rose to 3,31,602 with the detection of the fresh cases, he said.Philippines logs 1,952 new Covid-19 cases, works to obtain the vaccineThe Department of Health (DOH) of the Philippines on Saturday reported 1,952 new Covid-19 cases, bringing the total in the country to 485,797.The death toll climbed to 9,398 after 34 more patients died from the viral disease, the DOH said. It added 291 more patients recovered, raising the total number of recoveries to 449,615.36 new Covid-19 cases in Puducherry in 24 hoursPuducherry recorded 36 new Covid-19 cases and 51 recovered cases in the 24-hours. The total number of cases 38,425. The number of active cases is at 328 and the death toll reached 636.Most hospitalised Covid-19 patients have at least one symptom 6 months after falling ill: StudyMore than three quarters of Covid-19 patients hospitalised for treatment have at least one ongoing symptom six months after initially becoming unwell, according to a study published in The Lancet journal.Odisha records 206 new Covid-19 casesOdisha recorded 206 new Covid-19 cases and 244 recoveries in Odisha on January 8. The number of active cases in the state is 2124, informs state health department.90 people infected with new Covid-19 strainNumber of persons infected with the UK mutant strain of Covid-19 in India stands at 90, says Union Health MinistryHebei capital suspends public transport as China reports 33 new Covid-19 casesChinese authorities halted public transport in a provincial capital near Beijing on Saturday in an effort to stamp out a new cluster of coronavirus infections.China to provide Covid-19 vaccines free of charge: OfficialChina will provide Covid-19 vaccines free of charge once they become available to the general public, government authorities said on Saturday.India to continue export of medicines, including vaccines: PM ModiPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said the nation would continue to export medicines including vaccines.World waiting for Indian vaccines for Covid-19: PM Modi"World not only waiting for Indian vaccines for Covid-19 but also looking at how it rolls out largest vaccination programme in world," said PM Modi.Statewise status of Covid-19 in IndiaIndia's Covid-19 tally reaches 10,431,639India's Covid-19 tally reached 10,431,639 after it reported 18,222 cases of infection in the last 24 hours. The death toll was at 150,798.China ramps up vaccination rolloutChina ramped up its vaccination rollout as the government warned about a possible winter spike in infections as people travel and gather for holidays.US sets new record with nearly 290,000 Covid cases in 24 hoursThe United States hit a new record for coronavirus cases Friday, notching nearly 290,000 in a span of 24 hours, according to a real-time tally by Johns Hopkins University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-india-world-latest-news-covid-19-death-toll-january-9-101610155948886.html
10-01-2021||Today's||The diaspora dilemma | HT Editorial||Over the weekend, India marked its 16th annual Pravasi Bharatiya Divas — an occasion to reach out to India’s vast diaspora (which includes both Indian-origin foreign citizens as well as non-resident Indians), celebrate their achievements, connect them to their roots, and provide a framework for the diaspora’s engagement with India’s development story back home. The diaspora’s ability to spread Indian soft power, lobby for India’s national interests, and contribute economically to India’s rise is now well-recognised. But diaspora diplomacy has its own sensitivities.The first issue is the role of diaspora in Indian democracy. The Indian State, under Prime Minister Narendra Modi, has stepped up its engagement with Indians and those of Indian-origin abroad. But various other Indian political formations and social groups have done so too. This means that the narrative on India is not homogeneous. The role of the liberal, Kashmiri and Muslim diaspora in articulating apprehensions about the government’s measures in 2019 — the effective nullification of Article 370 in Kashmir, the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, the National Register of Citizens (NRC) exercise in Assam — and of the Sikh diaspora in spreading a particular view about the agricultural reforms and farm protests is clear. This generates a political dynamic within their countries of residence which in turn generates pressure on India. How New Delhi uses the diaspora — while also respecting their distinct views on India which may vary with the official version — will remain a delicate issue.The second issue is the role of the diaspora in the politics of their home countries. In the last election in the United Kingdom, the Bharatiya Janata Party’s affiliates sent a clear message that a vote for Labour, given its position on Kashmir under Jeremy Corbyn, would undermine Indian interests — Boris Johnson’s win came as a relief. In the US, one of the reasons both Donald Trump and Joe Biden adopted a positive approach to Indian interests was because of the Indian-American vote — while there was an earlier impression that Delhi would prefer Mr Trump because of the Houston rally, it stayed away from any messaging. But this issue — of whether to intervene in the electoral processes through the diaspora — will remain sensitive too because they are, at the end of the day, foreign citizens. India must leverage its diaspora but not have blanket expectations from it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-diaspora-dilemma-hteditorial-101610294070862.html
10-01-2021||Today's||At stake, the future of democracy||The first chapter in the plot that culminated with the siege of the United States (US) Capitol by Donald Trump‘s supporters on January 6, 2021 was written over four years ago when, on December 4, 2016, a young man armed with an assault rifle walked into a pizza joint in Washington DC. He was led to believe that the basement was home to a paedophilia ring, run by Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton and her campaign chief.This was the first time the US had come face to face in real life with a virtual cult of conspiracy theorists who believed that Trump was secretly waging a war against elite Satan-worshipping paedophiles in government, business and the media. This would later evolve into what is known as QAnon. The followers of QAnon now believe that the 2020 election was rigged to stop Trump. In almost every media and social media video from the Capitol building, it is clear that the mob was made up of people who shared this conviction, and that they, ultimately, thought they were being patriotic.What unfolded then was the manifestation of an epistemic crisis. In a November 2017 piece in the Vox, journalist David Roberts described this problem as “a split not just in what we value or want, but in who we trust, how we come to know things, and what we believe we know — what we believe exists, is true, has happened and is happening”.This dangerous split in the perception of facts has continued to spread and grow through the digital veins and nodes of not just the underground internet but mainstream social media. None of the networks are untouched, whether it is Facebook, Twitter or YouTube, and their interventions have — as evidenced by the scenes that played out during the congressional confirmation of the election result — achieved nothing.Many studies have shown that Trump’s rise to popularity has in part fuelled, as well as having been fuelled by, a rise in white nationalism. Racial fault lines have historically run deep within the US. But they appear to have widened during the closing years of the country’s first black President’s term. It was during this time — roughly 2008 to 2014 — when most of the social media platforms crossed the inflexion point in user base to be able to influence physical world conversation. Facebook crossed 200 million users in 2009 and the same year, YouTube reported the billionth time a video was watched on its website. This was not just an American phenomenon — the world went through a digital revolution, with computers being collapsed into smartphones and internet becoming cheaper and faster.On the face of it, this digital revolution has been free of cost for the individual, while becoming one of the most profitable businesses in the history of mankind. Behind this success is the wonder of the algorithm — computer code that is designed to make sure you spend more time on a service, helping maximise advertising revenue. Algorithms do this by exposing users to people and content that they are most likely to engage with, invariably creating echo chambers of thought. A notable example of this is YouTube’s now-abandoned recommendations feature that, the company admitted, could have directed people to “videos promoting a phony miracle cure for a serious illness, claiming the earth is flat or making blatantly false claims about historic events like 9/11”.These echo chambers have grown, trapping more and more people in a perpetual state of misinformation that often instead makes them feel empowered by reinforcing their biases. Once again, this is not new. The 2016 US election and the Brexit referendum revealed how ideological and political divisions were becoming harder to bridge. But what is now coming into view is the threat that selective perception of knowledge and belief may pose for the world.Today, Holocaust deniers defy a past that unarguably took place, anti-vaxxers threaten a present consumed by a pandemic, and groups such as QAnon jeopardise the future of democracy. Common among the them is the diminishing of knowledge, institutional disciplines and experience — of history, which has chronicled the Holocaust in painful detail; of science, which has stopped diseases with vaccines that today require painstaking safeguards; and of democratic theory, that has evolved over centuries to find a delicate balance between the State and the people. The erosion of epistemic authority extends also to the press, the law and the legal profession and academia.Conspiracy theories are, to be sure, a part of what motivated the mob at the US Capitol. But it was a large part and, while belief in conspiracy theories is not new and has existed for centuries, technology has helped bridge the distance between the fringe and the centre-stage. This has now triggered previously unseen interventions by tech companies. Trump has now been banned from Twitter and Facebook services. Amazon Web Services has kicked off conspiracy theory hotbed and QAnon den Parler from its cloud servers. These steps are likely to have a noticeable impact in the immediate. But whether they will help stem the larger spread of alternate facts as reality is uncertain. At stake is the nature of modern democracy, which, at the very least, requires a shared perception of facts.binayak.dasgupta@hindustantimes.comThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/at-stake-the-future-of-democracy-101610294069371.html
10-01-2021||Today's||Pay attention to the needs of the elderly | HT Editorial||About 75 million elderly people in India suffer from chronic diseases, shows the first part of The Longitudinal Ageing Study in India (LASI), released last Wednesday. About 45 million have cardiovascular diseases and hypertension; about 20 million suffer from diabetes; and 24% of the elderly have difficulty in performing daily functions. With the demographic transition underway, from 9% in 2011, the 60-plus population is likely to go up to 20% in 2050.The LASI study is a pressing reminder that India needs to invest substantial financial and human resources in geriatric care. Traditional support systems have weakened over the years due to fewer children in each family, increased employment opportunities for women, and the rise of nuclear families. According to another study by Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, there is no specialised training in geriatrics in most medical schools. And whatever little geriatric care is available, it is restricted to tertiary hospitals in urban areas and is prohibitively expensive.The Centre’s National Programme for the Health Care of Elderly in 2011 promises preventive, curative and rehabilitative care, specialised training of health professionals, and aims to ensure full participation of the elderly in society. To meet this objective, geriatric health care services must be made part of the primary health care services. Importantly, as the PGIMER report says, the Centre must come up with a comprehensive preventive package, which provides awareness regarding common geriatric problems with a focus on nutrition, exercise, and the promotion of mental well-being.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/pay-attention-to-the-needs-of-the-elderly-hteditorial-101610294069749.html
10-01-2021||Today's||A new vision for legal education in India||Legal education and law schools are the foundation whose quality, workmanship and solidity determine the beauty, longevity and functional utility of the superstructure of law. But, in India, only a few dynamic and outstanding law schools remain islands of excellence amid a sea of institutionalised mediocrity.A lawyer is to be a harmoniser, a reconciler, a legal architect, indeed an inventor. The character of law schools determines the character of the Bar and Bench. We must focus on tying up the existing corpus of rich data on legal education into a national legal education plan. The democratisation of legal education is vital. We have to spread distributive equity over inclusive legal education. And the fact that no Indian law school — barring two — finds a place in the top 300 global law schools adds to the urgency of designing a road map to transform legal education.First, our legal curricula must be made multidisciplinary, creative and flexible. We must integrate topics such as reforms in the justice delivery system, clinical legal education, practitioner’s workshops, legal writing and alternative dispute resolution into a national course module.Second, there is the serious problem of law teachers, or the lack of them. Law teaching can attract young minds only by shortening the substantial financial gap between leaders of the Bar and teachers. Reciprocally, those under special remunerative schemes have to be bound by valid legal instruments to teach for a minimum duration. A pilot programme must create an alternative remuneration scheme with more public-private partnerships, greater autonomy and special financial terms.Third, our law libraries are too few and poorly stocked. The latest technological tools of research must link each law school with the best sources of knowledge globally. A library cess levied only on senior advocates across the country must be operationalised for law libraries for maximum ground impact in rurban and rural India.Fourth, internships and post-degree placements have to be sewn up into a national scheme — today placements are ad hoc with no institutionalised system of matching applicants and hosts. Some students, especially with contacts, have the luxury of plenty, while several of their more talented but less influential colleagues fall by the wayside.Fifth, a national scheme must ensure that senior practitioners, with expertise in particular areas, compulsorily take a minimum number of classes in lesser-endowed law schools. The legal educational sector, the Bar, the Bench, the corporate legal sector and law firms continue to function in silos of isolated splendour when the need is for the exact opposite— close, continuous, coordinated alignment qua legal education.Sixth, even experienced and established lawyers, judges and other law persons must submit to periodic and continuing legal education programmes. Judges and lawyers alike should be ready for such short, structured, continuing legal education capsules.Seventh, our National Law Schools shone because of three important innovations; academic autonomy by making each a stand-alone university; entrance through a strictly merit-based admission system based on a written test; and an integrated, professional five-year law programme plus curricula innovation. Why we don’t have this, even partially, in other Indian law schools, remains a mystery.Eighth, the 2009 Bar Council resolution that all law schools should establish a legal aid centre to provide inexpensive and efficient advice to needy sections of society has been observed mostly in the breach.Ninth, the negative impact of stratification of colleges has to be remedied. Central Universities set up by Parliament have their law faculty as the university’s law school. State universities are mostly affiliating universities for private law colleges. There is an institutionalised mediocrity and dilution of academic standards in most of these affiliated colleges. Many do not have adequate and qualified faculty or law libraries with e-resources and no regular conduct of classes and examinations.Tenth, phasing out of many existing colleges must be completed swiftly. The Madras High Court said in 2017 that 85% of law colleges must be closed, an irony since the number has jumped from 800 in 2000 to 1,500 in 2019. The closure of at least 500 mediocre profit shops would minimise the sale of fake law degrees.Eleventh, our starry-eyed view of five-year courses must not be at the cost of strengthening the three-year programme which must be made more rigorous and full-time.Twelfth, the unique aspect of legal education in the United States (US) with its engagement between law firms, corporations, non–governmental organisations, legal aid centres, think tanks, government agencies and intergovernmental organisations, must be replicated in India.Last, the elephant in the room must be addressed. The Bar Council has too many functions — law reform, disciplining lawyers, setting standards — to do justice to a full-time job like legal education. Electoral politics compromises its independence. An empowered committee of academicians, chief justices and eminent lawyers should be set up or an independent, autonomous National Council for Legal Education and Research must be created to bring objectivity into the system.Abhishek Singhvi is a third-term MP; jurist; former chairman, Parliamentary Standing Committee on Law & Justice; former Additional Solicitor General; and senior national spokesperson, CongressThis is based on a speech delivered at a global conference organised by Jindal Global Law SchoolThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/a-new-vision-for-legal-education-in-india-101610294011115.html
10-01-2021||Today's||The time has come for all democrats across the world to unite||It is an image that will haunt anyone invested in democracy for a long time to come. A miscreant sitting in the chair of the speaker of the United States (US) House of Representatives, his foot on the desk, mocking the institution. During the revolutions in France and Russia, palaces were looted and monarchs, along with the aristocracy, were overthrown. In Afghanistan, after president Mohammed Najibullah was publicly hanged, fundamentalists were seen dancing. In Iraq, American soldiers demolished fallen dictator Saddam Hussein’s palaces. But the difference in the US is that the violence was instigated by the President himself.The problem with many politicians is that they think that power, once won, is a fundamental entitlement. Donald Trump came to power by challenging existing traditions. His slogans such as America First and Make America Great Again, with the accompanying exclusionary rhetoric, went against the liberal grain of the US. He chose to overlook, and often demonise, those who came from different places, including native Americans, African Americans and Hispanics. Most people in the US recognise that it is diversity which makes the country a beacon of hope. This is why a deep sense of regret has now set in among many sections. A number of Trump’s colleagues have resigned. But there are some difficult questions that need to be answered. Now, at the end of his tenure, there is pressure on Trump to resign. Even his own party leaders are upset with his behaviour. Much of social media has banned him. Many are wondering about what further havoc he would wreak before he steps down. There is a demand, and rightfully so, that he should be kept away from the nuclear button. And Trump has no one to blame for all this but himself.Trump will leave the White House, but Trumpism will not go away quite so quickly. It is something that the nation will have to grapple with for a long time to come.The US is not alone in facing a crisis of democracy. On the same day that the Capitol incident took place, in faraway Istanbul, thousands of unemployed and disheartened students took to the streets. They were dispersed by the police using disproportionate force. January 7 was the sixth anniversary of the attack on the office of the satirical weekly, Charlie Hebdo, in Paris. That marked the beginning of sweeping changes in the liberal ethos of modern France.One of the biggest contributory factors to all this is the misuse of social media. When Trump chalked out his election strategy back in 2016, he used professionals to map the predilections of people through Facebook and Twitter. This enabled him to formulate misleading slogans and promises for his campaign. Great leaders in the past were able to gauge the popular pulse through their own instincts and their movements were constructive and peaceful. Today, many politicians want instant gratification, instant results. For this, they have armed themselves with the often false information generated on social media.There are some examples such as the Arab Spring where social media was not used to spread hatred. On the other hand, a planned conspiracy was executed to create distrust among the citizens of many pluralistic countries. This destructive trend has to be reversed both in the US and elsewhere. Those in charge must be held accountable.Politicians across the world need to realise that the genie released by false social media information is out of the bottle. The US must lead by example given the resilience of its democratic institutions in battling this scourge. Karl Marx once called for workers of the world to unite. The time has now come for all those who espouse democracy across the world to unite. Democratic systems are only as good as the people who uphold them.Shashi Shekhar is editor-in-chief, HindustanThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-time-has-come-for-all-democrats-across-the-world-to-unite-101610294009920.html
