12-01-2021||Other||17-year-old missing Ludhiana girl found dead in her school||A 17-year-old girl, who had gone missing on Monday evening, was found dead in the biology laboratory of Government Senior Secondary School for Girls, Gill village, on Tuesday. Some students had spotted her lifeless body hanging from the fan and raised the alarm. Police have initiated inquest proceedings and sent the body to the civil hospital for post-mortem. The cops claim to have recovered a suicide note, in which the girl, who is a Class-12 commerce student, had written that she was taking the extreme step as her parents were planning to marry her off after her final exams. The girl’s parents, however, denied the claim. They stated that she had gone to school as usual on Monday but did not return home. After waiting for some time, they had started a search for her but to no avail. They later filed a police complaint. On Tuesday morning, school authorities informed them about her suicide, they claimed. The girl is survived by her parents and two siblings.As per sources, footage of the closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras installed in the school had revealed that the girl had been wandering in the school building throughout the night. A CCTV grab showed her moving from Room Number 12 to another room.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Harnek Singh, who is investigating the case, said the girl’s life could have been saved if the guard had checked all the rooms properly before locking the school.Taking note of the incident, district education officer (DEO), elementary-cum- secondary Rajinder Kaur visited the school and marked an inquiry. A two-member committee, comprising the principal of GSSS, Basti Jodhewal, and principal of GSSS, Ayali Khurd, was formed to look into the matter. The DEO said, “It was necessary to mark an inquiry as this is a sensitive matter. The school authorities should have checked the classrooms before closing the school. This shows negligence on the part of the school authorities.” School principal Smriti Bhargav said she was on leave and had learnt of the incident from some teachers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/17yearold-missing-ludhiana-girl-found-dead-in-her-school-101610475917790.html
12-01-2021||Other||Man wanted for murder of gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari’s aide arrested||The Delhi Police on Tuesday said they had arrested a 40-year-old alleged gangster from Uttar Pradesh (UP), who along with five of his accomplices, had shot dead a close associate of gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari in Lucknow’s Gomti Nagar on January 6.The suspect, Girdhari alias Kanhaiya Vishwakarma, 40, was nabbed on Monday from outer Delhi’s Shahabad Dairy, where he had come to find a safe hideout. A sophisticated pistol, with one cartridge, was recovered from Vishwakarma, who has been involved in at least 22 crimes, including seven murder cases, in Uttar Pradesh. He belongs to Dhruv Kumar Singh alias Kuntoo Singh’s gang that has a rivalry with Mukhtar Ansari’s group, said additional deputy commissioner of police (outer-north) Ghanshyam Bansal.On January 6, Vishwakarma along with associates Ravi, Ankur, Bandhan and two others had gunned down Ansari’s alleged henchman, Ajit Singh, near Kathauta crossing, under Vibhuti Khand police station limits in Lucknow’s Gomti Nagar. Singh was in a sports utility vehicle (SUV) with his associate Mohar Singh when bike-borne assailants opened indiscriminate fire on the vehicle on January 6. Singh was killed while Mohar and a passerby were critically injured, the police said.Ajit Singh, apart from being Ansari’s close associate, was also a key witness in the murder of UP’s former legislator Sharvesh Singh alias Simpu in July 2013, the police said. Ansari is presently lodged in a jail in Punjab’s Ropar.Additional DCP Bansal said that on January 11 (Monday), the outer-north district’s special staff team received information regarding the movement of a man with an illegal firearm in Shahabad Dairy area. The team processed the information and caught the man, whose identity was established as Girdhari alias Kanhaiya Vishwakarma, a suspect wanted by the Uttar Pradesh Police.“Vishwakarma’s interrogation revealed that apart from Ajit Singh’s murder, he was also involved in the murder case of a bus conductor, Ritesh Singh, who was also believed to be associated with Mukhtar Ansari. Ritesh was murdered in 2019 in Varanasi. The UP Police had declared R1 lakh reward on Ajit Singh’s arrest in that case,” said additional DCP Bansal.Police said that Vishwakarma entered the crime world in 2001 by committing a robbery. In 2005, he joined Kuntoo Singh’s gang, became his hitman and began committing murder, they said.“Vishwakarma last came out of jail in 2016. He was also booked in UP under the Gangsters Act,” said Bansal, adding that the UP Police have been informed about the arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-wanted-for-murder-of-gangster-turned-politician-mukhtar-ansari-s-aide-arrested-101610475858910.html
12-01-2021||Other||At JNU’s first Swami Vivekananda lecture, Doval asks youth to focus on nation building||Addressing students of Jawaharlal Nehru University during its first Swami Vivekananda Memorial lecture on Tuesday, national security advisor Ajit Doval said the “revolutionary monk” had given the country “specific guidelines particularly relevant to the youth of India.”In his video address, Doval said Vivekananda exhorted the youth “to focus their individual and collective energies to build a strong and powerful India”. The lecture was organised on the 158th birth anniversary of Vivekananda.“He [Vivekananda] particularly talked about unity of society and lamented that one of the causes of India’s degradation was its social fragmentation, caste system and self-centric narrow vision. He said and I quote “The solution to the caste problem in India is not to degrade the higher caste but to raise the lower up to the level of the higher”,” Doval saidThe national security advisor also said the country was on the “threshold of a great leap forward” and the youth showed “a new surge to carry the nation forward with a new passion of patriotism”.“If they [youth] work with the single goal of nation building, your generation can play a seminal role not only in transforming India at a pace and in a way as never before but also the world at large,” Doval said.He also said JNU has played “seminal role in academics, research, and public affairs” and said the country was “proud” of the contributions of cabinet ministers Nirmala Sitharaman and S Jaishankar, who are the alumni of the university.JNU Rector III RP Singh said the week-long celebration of Swami Vivekananda festival included a series of lectures, sports, mini marathons, badminton, table tennis and other activities. The awards will be given to students on January 26 during the Republic Day celebrations, Singh said.In November, JNU had also announced that it will organise week-long “Swami Vivekananda Youth Festival” every year. On November 12, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had also digitally unveiled the statue of Swami Vivekananda on JNU campus.“This would immortalise the messages, thoughts and visions of this great son of India and spread the teachings of Swami ji among the JNU community, especially among the students,” JNU vice-chancellor M Jagadesh Kumar had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/at-jnu-s-first-swami-vivekananda-lecture-doval-asks-youth-to-focus-on-nation-building-101610475678226.html
12-01-2021||Other||Delhi govt to set up panels to examine fee hike proposals by pvt schools||New Delhi:The Delhi cabinet last week approved setting up panels with reputed chartered accountants to examine fee hike proposals by private recognised unaided schools in Delhi. Proposals sent by many private schools are pending government’s nod.“The cabinet approved two NICSI [National Informatics Centre Services Inc] empanelled firms to set up PMU [Project Monitoring Units] with reputed Chartered Accountants to examine fee hike proposals of private recognised unaided schools on government land in Delhi. This will enable faster disposal of the proposal for fee hike submitted by the schools for the session 2018-19 and 2019-20,” the government said in a statement on Tuesday.Under the land lease agreements, private schools built on government land in Delhi cannot increase fees without approval from the Directorate of Education (DOE). Once a proposal is sent, the DoE will audit their finances and allow the schools to increase fees only if they are found to be struggling to manage expenses. Schools operating on private land are not required to take DoE’s approval to increase fees but they have to submit their statement of fees and other financial details with the department every year.The Delhi cabinet also approved ₹64.37 crore for incurring expenditure towards the annual disbursement of cash subsidy for the students of government and aided schools. Every year, DoE provides textbooks and cash through direct benefit transfer to students of government and aided schools studying in classes 1 to 8 and cash subsidy to students of classes 9 to 12.An additional recurring expenditure of Rs.30.05 crore has been allocated under the Delhi government’s scheme ‘free supply of textbook supplies and material 2020-2021’, the government said. Under this provision, supply of allied material, workbooks, mental maths material, teacher diaries including nursery and KG textbooks to the government and aided schools will be done by Delhi Bureau of Text books (DBTB).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-govt-to-set-up-panels-to-examine-fee-hike-proposals-by-pvt-schools-101610475618837.html
12-01-2021||Other||Young and healthy to be given the shot first||New Delhi: Younger healthcare workers without co-morbidities will be the first to receive the shots against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on January 16, when the nationwide roll-out of the inoculation drive begins, several officials from Delhi involved in the process confirmed on Tuesday, requesting anonymity. Those between 20 and 49 years without co-morbidities have to be selected in the list of 100 beneficiaries for each of the 89 centres that will kick-start the vaccination drive in Delhi, according to a communication from the state team to the districts. The districts have also been asked to focus on vaccinating safai karmacharis, ambulance staff, and ward boys in addition to the doctors and nurses, the district officials said. “This will help us monitor and better manage adverse reactions, if any. We have to put our best foot forward and instill confidence among people in the vaccines,” said a senior official from the South-West district. A senior official from New Delhi district said: “As a matter of utmost precaution, we will be selecting young and healthy volunteers for the first few days of the vaccination drive.” This was confirmed by senior officials from North and West districts as well. “All districts are currently conducting a sort of internal dry run to see everything runs smooth on the CoWIN platform on Saturday. The list of beneficiaries who will be vaccinated on that day will be finalised tomorrow,” said a senior official from Central district, refrying to the app that will facilitate the drive. The Delhi government did not respond to queries.Delhi has nearly 300,000 health care workers– doctors, nurses, paramedics, safai karmacharis, security personnel, and administrative personnel in health care facilities – who will receive the vaccine first. An estimated 600,000 frontline workers and 4.2 million people above the age of 50 will follow. The government is yet to prepare a list of those below the age of 50 with co-morbidities who will be eligible for the vaccine under the government programme. So far, the city has received 264,000 doses of Covishield -- Indian variation of Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine manufactured by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India. Dr Suneela Garg, professor of community medicine at Maulana Azad Medical College and a part of the state task force on Covid-19 vaccination, said: “The hospitals will focus on staff other than the doctors and nurses, with many ward boys and other staff receiving the shot on the first day. The beneficiary list is yet to be finalised, but the decision to select young and healthy people is in line with the Centre’s mandate that those with co-morbidities receive the vaccine a little later.” She added: “The compliance is likely to be better among the younger people. Also, it is the young doctors, nurses and staff – those below the age of 50 – who have been working in the Covid-19 wards and it is important to protect them first.” She said a vaccination rate – those who actually get the vaccine among those identified as beneficiaries -- of 75% to 80% would be considered a success. Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the department of epidemiology and infectious diseases at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said: “The chances of any adverse event happening or the adverse event being dangerous is lower among the young and healthy people for vaccines in general. This could be the rationale behind selecting such beneficiaries early on.” He added: “In case of this vaccine, the decision could also have been based on the safety data that has been provided by the companies to the drug controller. The current analysis of safety is based on those between the ages of 18 and 50 and even though older volunteers have been included in the phase III trials, the sub-group analysis of the data is awaited.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/young-and-healthy-to-be-given-the-shot-first-101610475498284.html
12-01-2021||Other||Delhi receives first vaccine consignment, drive to be launched at 89 centres||New Delhi: Delhi’s Rajiv Gandhi Superspeciality hospital in east Delhi’s Tahirpur received 264,000 doses of Covishield -- the Indian variation of the Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine manufactured by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) – as India on Tuesday began the massive task of transporting the Covid-19 vaccine to all parts of the country ahead of the January 16 start of the immunisation drive against the coronavirus disease.In Delhi, the vaccination drive will be launched at 89 centres – which are part of the 5,000 sites approved by the Centre across the country – with healthcare workers being the first ones to get the jab. In Delhi, the drive is scheduled to be formally launched by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal at Lok Nayak hospital, a senior government official said.“Delhi is fully prepared and all preparations are in place,” said Delhi’s health minister Satyendar Jain.The 89 locations approved so far include – 49 private hospitals and 40 public healthcare facilities. They include hospitals such as Lok Nayak, AIIMS, BLK Super Speciality Hospital, Sir Gangaram Hospital, Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital, Fortis, Indraprastha Apollo, Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality (Cancer), Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality (Tahirpur), ILBS, Venkateshwar Hospital (Dwarka), Madan Mohan Malviya (Malviya Nagar), Moolchand Hospital and St Stephen’s Hospital.Preparations at the 89 selected vaccination locations were on a full swing on Tuesday, with district officials taking note of any last-minute requirements. “We, the district officials, are just going to the sites and taking note of any last-minute additions or logistics that needs to be taken care of,” said a second government official.On the first day, one booth or vaccination site each will be there at 89 centres. However, over the next week, the government has planned to increase the total number of booths to at least 225, by setting up multiple vaccination sites in some of the locations, said a senior government official.The official added, “We have set up teams that have assessed the 89 vaccination locations. Several of them are capable of accommodating more than one vaccination site.”The teams have so far identified several hospitals that include Lok Nayak and AIIMS as locations that can have three or more vaccination sites, said the official. “At each site, there has to be space not only for vaccination but also for verification of candidates, and rooms where they can rest while being monitored for at least 30 minutes after taking the shot,” he said.Each booth will administer a maximum of 100 vaccine shots a day and run by six to eight staff.A health department official said, “There are 621 functional cold chain points. Each cold chain point will be connected to four to five vaccination sites. This means, most of the big hospitals will have more than one vaccination sites as they would need to quickly vaccinate all their own staff, before moving on to others from smaller centres,” said a health department official.With time, the government aims to increase both vaccination locations and vaccination sites. “We had sent a list of more than 600 locations, of which 89 have been approved by the central government so far. In the coming days, more locations are likely to get approved. Eventually, we have plans to increase vaccinations sites to 1,000 in several phases,” the official added.On Tuesday morning, 22 boxes containing 1,200 vials each of the vaccine was brought to Rajiv Gandhi Superspeciality hospital’s utility block that has been retrofitted with 90 deep freezers which can store 4.1 million doses of the vaccine. “Each of the vials contains ten doses of the vaccine. So far, Delhi has received 264,000 vaccine doses that will be almost enough for the healthcare workers in the city,” said another senior government official.“There are three levels of security that will be in place – first there are CCTV cameras installed within and outside the building, second there are hospital guards stationed at the vaccine store round the clock, and police personnel deployed outside the store,” said Dr Chavvi Gupta, spokesperson for the hospital.The Delhi has pegged the number of healthcare workers at 300,000, of which around 225,000 have already been registered. The government has planned to finish giving them the vaccine shots by the end of this month, said another official.Next in line would be frontline workers – a wide range of people including police, teachers, sanitation, and civil defence volunteers. Their total number has been estimated at 600,000 and registration process for them is underway.The third category that would include people aged over 50 years and those with serious comorbidities irrespective of age. The government has roughly pegged the number at 4.2 million for these categories taken together but, senior officials said, it is likely to witness increase. Registration for this category is yet to begin. While the government has prepared a draft list of people over 50 years through electoral data, those with comorbidities are yet to be identified, the official said.“We are committed to ensuring that the vaccination goes smoothly for people who are vaccinated as well as officials and workers involved in the process,” said Dr Suneela Garg, professor of community medicine at Maulana Azad Medical College and advisor to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-receives-first-vaccine-consignment-drive-to-be-launched-at-89-centres-101610475377831.html
12-01-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn receives 12,000 doses of Covishield||The Chandigarh administration on Tuesday afternoon received the first batch of 12,000 Covishield doses, which are to be administered to the front-line health workers from January 16. The doses will be sufficient to inoculate around 5,500-6,000 people. The consignment, which reached Chandigarh International Airport on an Indigo flight from Pune, was received by Dr VK Nagpal, joint director, UT health department. It was further transported and stored at Government Multi Specialty Hospital in Sector 16.“The vaccines have been stored at a desirable temperature in the cold chain with round-the-clock security measures in place. The vaccination process will start on January 16,” said Arun Gupta, UT health secretary. “The beneficiaries will be selected through a computerised process. They will receive text messages on their registered phone numbers.” Chandigarh has successfully conducted the dry runs and the online network system has also been tested, he said. Dr Nagpal said healthcare workers are excited to receive the dose of vaccine. “Everyone at GMSH wants to get the first jab. It is kind of a festival here,” he said.Nine health facilities have been earmarked as sites for the vaccination drive. The city is expected to receive a total of 21,000 doses in the first phase. A total of 8,830 healthcare workers, both government and private, have been registered for vaccination. The UT health department will also be giving the vaccine to front-line workers from police and municipal corporation, for which around 300 vaccinators have been trained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-admn-receives-12-000-doses-of-covishield-101610475318563.html
12-01-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees coldest January day in 5 years||With a maximum temperature of 11.1 degrees, 10 degrees below normal, Tuesday was the coldest January day in five years as per India Meteorological Department (IMD) since 2016 when the maximum temperature had fallen down to 11 degrees.With minimum temperature at 7.8 degrees, it was a severe cold day as per the IMD. This happens when the maximum temperature goes over 6.5 degrees below normal and minimum temperature falls below 10 degrees. This is the second such severe cold day of the year and the IMD officials are warning that more are coming.Speaking about it, IMD scientist Shivinder Singh said, “There was a layer of fog over the city which didn’t clear throughout the day, due to which day temperature was affected. On Monday, the sun had come out in the afternoon so maximum temperature had gone up to 1.8 degrees, however, due to similar conditions on Sunday the maximum temperature had remained at 12 degrees.”Singh added that cold day conditions, when the maximum temperature remains 4.5 to 6.4 degrees below normal and the minimum temperature goes below 10 degrees, are likely on Wednesday and Thursday, and some relief is likely from Friday morning onwards.Visibility between 50 to 250 metresA fog belt was present across Southern parts of Punjab and Northern parts of Haryana throughout the day. In the city, visibility was between 50 to 250 metres at 5.30am and stayed under 1,000 metres till noon.Minimum temperature also took a dip from 9.8 degrees on Monday to 7.8 degrees on Tuesday, however, it still remained three degrees above normal due to the cloud cover and fog. In the next three days, the maximum temperature will remain between 14 degrees and 16 degrees while the minimum temperature will remain between 6 and 9 degrees. Dry weather will continue and moderate to dense fog can be expected along isolated pockets especially in the mornings and evenings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-sees-coldest-january-day-in-5-years-101610474958426.html
12-01-2021||Other||Fake liquor racket busted with arrest of six in Chandigarh and Zirakpur||The Punjab excise department has busted a fake liquor racket operating in the region with the arrest of its kingpin based in Zirakpur, a Chandigarh contractor and four others.The accused used to fill liquor of cheap brands in bottles of expensive brands and supply them in and around Chandigarh, said Rajat Agarwal, excise commissioner, and Moneesh Chawla, inspector general (crime), Punjab, during a press conference on Tuesday. The kingpin has been identified as Jatinder Pal Singh, alias JP, of Zirakpur. He used to procure cheap brands from Ashu Goel, a liquor contractor based in Sector 29, Chandigarh, and empty bottles, caps and packaging of expensive brands from Delhi.Police have arrested the two besides their four aides: Gurpreet Singh Sidhu, Vijay Kumar and Karan Goswami of Zirakpur and Jatinder Singh (JP’s namesake) of Kurukshetra. Sidhu was allegedly posing as an inspector general of police.It was deputy commissioner, excise, Patiala zone, Rajpal Singh who received a tip-off that JP would be receiving a consignment of empty bottles, mono cartons and caps of expensive liquor brands on the intervening night of January 4 and 5.Teams of the Mohali excise and police officials raided the spot and caught JP and his accomplices red-handed while unloading some cartons from a bus with a Haryana number at Zirakpur. They all were arrested.The seizuresThe team found 80 empty bottles and 55 mono cartons of Johnnie Walker Black Label, 10 empty bottles of Red Label, and 35 lid caps, 30 labels, and 100 unused caps of Chivas Regal in the consignment. The team also seized six cases of Red Label and two cases of Black Label from JP’s car at the spot. JP allegedly confessed that he stores liquor of cheap brands procured from Ashu Goel at his house in Motia Royal Citi, Zirakpur, and empty bottles, caps and other material at a godown in Jamuna Enclave, also in Zirakpur.During a raid at JP’s house, 11 filled bottles of Black Label, 12 empty bottles of All Seasons and 12 bottles of 555 Gold were recovered. It was followed by a raid at the house and godown of JP’s aides Jatinder Singh and Vijay Kumar at Jamuna Enclave. It led to seizure of 54 bottles of Black Label, 12 of Red Label, seven of Royal Salute, 60 of Naina, 12 of Blue Label besides 60 empty bottles of Red Label, 32 of Absolut Vodka, 90 of Glenfiddich with mono cartons, 136 of Black Dog with mono cartons, 20 mono cartons of Blue Label, 136 mono cartons of Red Label, 80 unused caps and 80 empty tin packings of Red Label, and 300 neck lables and 500 unused caps of Chivas Regal. Twenty-five litres of extra neutral alcohol (ENA), the primary raw material for making alcoholic beverages, was also seized. Meanwhile, teams also raided Ashu Goel’s godown in Sector 29, Chandigarh, where around 1,966 cases of liquor of various brands were found without holograms. The godown was sealed in the presence of the Chandigarh excise and police officials for further investigation. Punjab officials said that JP used to supply fake liquor in Chandigarh and nearby areas in his car. He also admitted that some smugglers from other states used to come to his house to take deliveries. A case has been registered under Sections 420 (cheating), 419 (cheating by personation), 170 (personating a public servant), 171 (wearing garb or carrying token used by public servant with fraudulent intent), 328 (causing hurt by means of poison, etc) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code besides under relevant sections of the Punjab Excise Act and Arms Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fake-liquor-racket-busted-with-arrest-of-six-in-chandigarh-and-zirakpur-101610474838411.html
12-01-2021||Other||UP-Rera discusses draft on AOA, RWA formation with homebuyers||The Uttar Pradesh real estate regulatory authority (UP-Rera) on Tuesday sought suggestions from home buyers associations in the national capital region on its draft guidelines on formation of residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) and Association of Allottees.“We met with homebuyers today and they sought a single Association of Allottees and has raised the interest-free maintenance security (IFMS) issue. We have given them time till Friday to give us suggestions in writing and then meet promoters. Thereafter, the final draft will be prepared and sent to state government for approval,” Balvinder Kumar, member UP-Rera said.Col TPTyagi chairman Flat Owners Federation Ghaziabad said, “As per law, maintenance has to be transferred to the association by promoter and the development authority has to ensure its compliance. However, the development authority is not taking matters seriously.”“We suggested that there should be just one apartment owners’ association (AOA) for a project. At the moment, there are block wise or even phase wise AOAs or RWAs. This has been creating many problems especially with regard to common areas and facilities,” said Tyagi.On IFMS, Tyagi said, “Promoters charge IFMS money from allottees, which is around ₹25 to ₹30 per square feet. It has been seen that this IFMS amount is not transferred to the homebuyers’ association. I have suggested that UP-Rera ensure its transfer.” Tarun Bhagat of Crossings Republik Owners Association too suggested formation of single association. “One AOA is formed and as new towers are completed those allottees too should become member of registered AOA,” said Bhagat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/uprera-discusses-draft-on-aoa-rwa-formation-with-homebuyers-101610474777735.html
12-01-2021||Other||Noida looks to revive bridge with Greater Noida||NOIDA: The Noida Authority on Tuesday said it will revive the Noida-Greater Noida bridge across the Hindon river that had been left unfinished a year ago due to unavailability of land for an approach road.“We have begun talking to farmers in the area to procure their land for the approach road and work to finish the bridge,” said Rajeev Tyagi, chief general manager of Noida Authority.Construction for the bridge began in January 2019, and expected to be finished in two to three years’s time, but could not acquire land for a 1.5-km section in Noida’s Mubrakpur and Badauli Bangar villages.The Greater Noida authority had already acquired its share of land and started work.“We started the work in May, 2020 soon after restrictions due to the Covid-19 pandemic were relaxed,” said a Greater Noida authority official who was not authorised to speak to media.The bridge will connect Greater Noida’s Knowledge Park-III and Noida’s sectors 146/147. It was estimated to cost ₹65 crore and will have eight lanes. The the bridge, officials said, will ease traffic congestion at Noida’s busiest traffic intersection Pari Chowk. Commuters can then use the LG traffic intersection road to reach Knowledge Park-III to reach Noida’s Sector 147.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/noida-looks-to-revive-bridge-with-greater-noida-101610474659297.html
12-01-2021||Chandigarh||Supreme Court clears decks for power privatisation in Chandigarh||The Supreme Court on Tuesday put on hold the stay given by the Punjab and Haryana high court for privatisation of the Chandigarh electricity department, thus clearing the decks for the administration to go ahead with the process.Confirming the development, UT adviser Manoj Parida said: “Power privatisation will be put on fast track now.” The bench of justices S Abdul Nazeer and Ajay Rastogi was hearing the Chandigarh administration’s plea against the stay. The detailed order is awaited. The next date of hearing is February 5.The high court bench of justices Jitendra Chauhan and Vivek Puri had stayed the process on December 1 on the plea of UT Powermen Union, a worker’s collective that had challenged the move to privatise 100% distribution and supply functions of the electricity wing of UT’s engineering department. The decision to privatise the department was taken on May 12 after directions from the Centre. An empowered committee was constituted to oversee and implement the process, and the administration had assured the Centre that it would be completed by the end of 2020.As many as 17 firms, including Adani Transmission Limited, Tata Power Company Limited, GMR Generation Asset Limited, NTPC Electricity Supply Limited and Sterlite Power, have also expressed interest after the administration on November 9 invited bids. The union had sought quashing of the decision to privatise the department and subsequent process of tendering initiated by the administration. What were powermen’s objectionsThe HC was told that the administration is selling 100% stake of the government in the absence of such a provision under Section 131 of the Electricity Act, 2003. As per Section 131 (2), the power department cannot be transferred to a totally private entity with no stake or control of the government at all, the court was informed. The department is running into profits and its revenue has been surplus for the past three years, the high court was told, adding that the current system is economically efficient with transmission and distribution losses less than the target of 15% fixed by the power ministry. It was pointed out that the transfer scheme has been prepared without calling for objections from all stakeholders — neither employees nor consumers. “In the absence of an advise from the advisory committee to the Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission (JERC) and without there being any recommendation of the JERC to that effect, privatisation of electricity wing of UT is not sustainable in the eyes of law,” it has been argued in the high court. How will it affect youA senior UT official said that the electricity department caters to a city with relatively low demand of around 400MW. As there are only 2.3 lakh consumers, if privatised, the efficiency is expected to improve, specifically of the distribution of power, he said. On the fears of privatisation leading to power tariff hike, UT adviser Manoj Parida said: “Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission will ensure reasonable tariff.” In fact, JERC will continue to fix the tariff for the private sector operator as being done for the power department||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/supreme-court-clears-decks-for-power-privatisation-in-chandigarh-101610474658413.html
12-01-2021||Other||UP-Rera suggests separate maintenance account for builders||GREATER NOIDA: The Uttar Pradesh Real Estate Regulatory Authority (UP-Rera) has suggested that promoters should keep separate bank accounts for maintenance as they have to transfer the balance amount to association of allottees (AoA).In a draft document of UP-Rera for formation of resident welfare associations (RWAs) and AoAs, the regulator has sought opinion and given suggestion on whether a separate account be maintained by promoter for all incomes and expenditures on maintenance till handing over to AoA.“It is desirable to have a separate account by the promoter for income and expenditure on maintenance, including interest of deposits. According to the rules, the promoter has to transfer the balance amount available with him against the maintenance charge to association of allottees once it is formed,” Rajive Kumar, chairman of UP-Rera, said on Tuesday.“Some projects are completed in phases with a time gap in construction. Since each phase is an independent area, AoA has to be formed for each phase as per Section 14 of Apartment Act. Hence, phase-wise formation of AoA is a legal and practical requirement,” said Kumar.“Regarding what should be the shape of AoA after the completion of all the phases, there is no much clarity on this issue, and this has to be discussed with the various stakeholders and a decision legally tenable may be arrived at,” said Kumar.However, Pankaj Goyal, a realtor and member of Credai-NCR (western UP zone), said, “Separate maintenance account is not going to solve the problem. Income and expenditure details of maintenance are made separately and AoA can verify the details. However, if UP-Rera feels there is a need for a separate maintenance account, we will take suggestions from promoters and send them to the regulator when it meets with promoters on the issue.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/uprera-suggests-separate-maintenance-account-for-builders-101610474658784.html
12-01-2021||Other||After SC directions, farmers at UP Gate to continue sit-in protest||Farmer leaders at the UP Gate protest site on Tuesday afternoon reiterated that they would continue with the their protest till the three contentious central government farm laws were repealed. On Tuesday, the Supreme Court on Tuesday stayed the implementation of the three laws till further orders and directed the formation of a four-member committee to resolve the deadlock between farmers and the government. Thousands of farmers have been protesting at UP Gate border with Delhi since November 28 and have also blocked the Ghaziabad-Delhi carriageway of the Delhi Meerut Expressway since December 3. Rakesh Tikait, farmer leaders and national spokesperson of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) said on Tuesday: “Andolan jaari rahega ... koi galatfahmi me naa rahe ... January 26 ka tractor march hoga Dilli mein (The protests will continue... no one should be under any misunderstanding... the tractor march will be held in Delhi on January 26),” Tikait said at UP Gate. “We will also go to our legal committee and dissuasions will be held (about court’s directions) in our core committee. We will also speak to the government on January 15.” The BKU later issued a statement in which they thanked the Supreme Court for showing a positive stand towards the farmers. “The core committee will examine the court order and will decide on future course of action,” the statement said. Among the protesters were the elderly, women and children who were staying in temporary camps, tractor-trolleys while others also visit the site on daily basis. “The women are farmers and have come here with their children without any force. So, we cannot force them to leave. We have not decided whether we will shift base from here to any other site. In all, we want to say that we will stay here till laws are repealed. The exercise for the tractor march on January 26 will also continue and 11 farmers who are on 24 hours relay fast will continue their fast,” said Jagtar Singh Bajwa, farmer leader from Uttarakhand and part of the farmers’ committee at UP-Gate. On Tuesday, 70-year-old Mohammad Naseem, a protesting farmer and native of Muazffarnagar, had to be rushed to a hospital in Vaishali. “He almost fainted at the protest site. He is now recovering at the hospital and under medical supervision,” said Gyanendra Singh, superintendent of police (city 2). A 57-year-old farmer from Baghpat died at UP-Gate on January 1 after he complained of breathlessness. A day later, 70-year-old farmer from Rampur in UP allegedly killed self. Eight rounds of talks between the farmers’ union leaders and government representatives have failed to break the deadlock over the farm laws. The next round of talks is scheduled for January 15. After a hearing on Monday, the farmers union had issued a statement that they do not want to go before the proposed committee. In its affidavit before the court, the government has maintained that the laws will not be repealed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/after-sc-directions-farmers-at-up-gate-to-continue-sit-in-protest-101610474598686.html
12-01-2021||Other||Farmers welcome SC order, will continue protest at Chilla border||Noida: The farmers camped at the Chilla border and the Dalit Prerna Sthal have welcomed the Supreme Court’s verdict staying implementation of the new farm laws, but said they will continue their protest.A group of farmers from Bharatiya Kisan Union’s Bhanu faction are protesting at the Chilla border while another group from the Lokshakti faction has been at a sit-in at the Dalit Prerna Sthal since December 1.The Supreme Court on Tuesday stayed the implementation of the three laws till further orders and directed the formation of a four-member committee to resolve the deadlock between farmers and the government. “We welcome the court’s order, but it will be beneficial to us only if the committee acts in a fair and unbiased manner. Also, the issues will continue to prevail unless MSP is implemented through a law,” said Dr Shailesh Kumar Giri, national spokesperson, BKU (Lokshakti).He said that despite the court orders, the protest will continue until all issues are permanently resolved.The BKU (Bhanu) said that the court’s order has come as a relief. “But some of the members of the new committee are already in favour of the new laws. If they feel that this gesture will placate us, they are wrong. The protest will remain unaffected. At this point, we are not looking for false assurances but for action in our favour,” said KP Singh, president of IT cell, BKU (Bhanu).The protesters also said that their plans to carry out a tractor parade in Delhi on Republic Day haven’t changed despite the SC’s orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farmers-welcome-sc-order-will-continue-protest-at-chilla-border-101610474598249.html
12-01-2021||Other||Greater Noida: 52 societies participate in Swachhta competition||GREATER NOIDA: Fifty-two societies participated in the Greater Noida authority’s competition to encourage waste management rules.“The authority will scrutinize the data provided by the societies and finalise the winners,” said Deep Chandar additional chief executive officer of the Greater Noida authority. The Authority is yet to finalise the date of announcement.The winner will get ₹2 lakh prize money, the first runner-up ₹1.5 lakh and the second runner-up ₹1 lakh.The scrutiny will involve a team from the health department verifying the apartment owners’ association claims on waste management..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/greater-noida-52-societies-participate-in-swachhta-competition-101610474597758.html
12-01-2021||Noida||Cold wave likely in Noida as mercury falls||Both maximum and minimum temperatures fell in Noida and adjoining areas on Tuesday and the weather department said a cold wave was imminent.On Tuesday, the mercury fell by an average 3 degrees Celsius (°C) in the national capital region (NCR). Noida’s fall was slightly lower -- by 1°C-- but this is predicted to fall even further till Friday. Parts of NCR and Western Uttar Pradesh also saw cold waves on Wednesday even as the maximum temperatures too remained well below the season’s average. A cold wave occurs in plains when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and/or is 4.5 notches lesser than the season’s normal for two consecutive days. Cold wave is also declared when the minimum temperature is less than 4 degree Celsius in the plains.“The mercury is on drop due to the passage of western disturbance that has caused fresh snowing on the Himalayan states. The icy cold winds towards Delhi-NCR regions are coming directly from the region that had received fresh snowfall thus the mercury will drop for next two days. Due to this there is high possibility of cold-wave for next three days across NCR including Noida and adjoining area,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD. According to the weather analysts, the wind chill factor will continue the nip in the air with lesser difference between the minimum and maximum temperatures. “The icy cold north-westerly winds will maintain the wind chill factor, which means that in spite of sunshine, the day time temperatures remain low due to the cold winds from northern Himalayas,” said Mahesh Palawat, director, private weather forecasting agency, Skymet. On Tuesday, Noida saw a minimum temperature of 7.5 degrees Celsius against 8.7 degrees Celsius a day earlier. The maximum temperature on Tuesday for Noida was recorded at 16.4 degrees Celsius same as a day earlier. Meanwhile, the average minimum for NCR, based on the Safdarjung observatory was recorded at 4.3 degrees Celsius – three degrees below the season’s average, while the maximum was recorded at 17.6 degrees Celsius, two notches below the season’s average.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/cold-wave-likely-in-noida-as-mercury-falls-101610474537701.html
12-01-2021||Noida||Air quality falls, Ghaziabad and Greater Noida now in ‘very poor’ category||Unfavourable weather pushed air quality further down in the three cities of Noida, Ghaziabad and Greater Noida on Tuesday.Under the central pollution control board (CPCB) air quality index (AQI), Noida fell deeper into the ‘poor’ category, while Greater Noida and Ghaziabad slipped was back in the middle of ‘very-poor’ air over past 24 hours. The air quality index (AQI) for Greater Noida and Ghaziabad had been under ‘very-poor’ category since last week, however stronger winds gave the city better air on Monday, although it was “poor”. According to the weather analysts, the weather conditions are likely to be same till Wednesday. “The wind speed on Tuesday dropped slightly and reached around 10-15 kmph and around 5 kmph towards the evening. Over next two days the mercury may further drop and the wind speed would also be slight low,” said Mahesh Palawat, director, private weather forecasting agency Skymet, The AQI of Noida, on a scale of 0 to 500 on Tuesday was 278 against 264 a day earlier, both ‘poor’. The AQI of Greater Noida was 312 against 283 a day earlier. The AQI of Ghaziabad was 324 against 283 a day earlier. The AQI between 101 to 200 is considered ‘moderate’, between 201 and 300 is ‘poor’, between 301 and 400 is considered ‘very-poor’ and above 400 is considered ‘severe’. The major pollutant or PM2.5 in the region also spiked from about three times the safe limit. The average PM2.5 for Tuesday for Noida was 150.90 microgrammes per cubic metres (µg/m³), against 119.18 µg/m³ a day earlier. The average PM2.5 for Greater Noida was 153.94 µg/m³ against 124.77 µg/m³ a day earlier. The PM2.5 levels for Ghaziabad against 161.34µg/m³ against 135.36 µg/m³ a day earlier. The safe limit for PM2.5 is 60µg/m³. According to the System of air quality and weather forecasting and research (SAFAR), the AQI is likely to deteriorate further due to calmer winds. “Surface winds are westerly and moderate, the minimum temperature is likely to fall, and however, the better ventilation condition is likely to stop the fast deterioration of AQI for today and tomorrow. The AQI is likely to slip to Poor to the low end of Very Poor tomorrow. Lower to Middle end of the Very Poor category is forecasted for 14th Jan AQI is likely to further deteriorate on 15th Jan to the higher end of the Very Poor category due to cam winds and extremely low ventilation condition,” said SAFAR on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/air-quality-falls-ghaziabad-and-greater-noida-now-in-very-poor-category-101610474477688.html
12-01-2021||Other||Noida: Police arrest prime suspect in murder of man attacked with knife while defending sister||Noida: The police have arrested a 22-year-old man who is the prime suspect in a murder case that pertains to the death of a youth in Sector 8 four days ago. The police have also recovered the weapon used in the murder.On the night of January 8, Rambabu, 22, was attacked with a knife by two drunk men when he, along with his teenage sister were returning from finishing work at a sports factory in Sector 8. According to the police, the two drunk men had crashed with the sister who slapped one of them and asked them to move away. They tried to attack her when Rambabu intervened and was hit with a knife in his thigh. He had died due to extreme loss of blood while on the way to a Delhi hospital, the police said.A case of murder was registered at sector 20 police station. The police had denied claims of harassment.One of the suspects, Sarvesh Kumar, 24, was nabbed on the same day but the prime suspect, Sunny Singh, had been at large since then. Sunny, a native of Firozabad, was arrested on Monday from his house in Jhundpura village where he was currently living, said the police.Both the suspects worked as sanitation workers for a private company, the police said.“During questioning, Sunny revealed that he and Kumar were so inebriated that they didn’t even realize what they were doing,” said Rakesh Kumar Singh, station house officer, sector 20 police station.Sunny had used a vegetable knife to attack the victim, the police said, adding that he was produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/noida-police-arrest-prime-suspect-in-murder-of-man-attacked-with-knife-while-defending-sister-101610474117718.html
12-01-2021||Other||Noida: Man found dead in Botanical Garden metro station washroom||Noida: A 30-year-old man was found dead inside the washroom at the Botanical Garden metro station on Tuesday morning. The body was sent for an autopsy and a probe is underway, the police said.The deceased was identified as Radhey Chauhan, a resident of Noida’s sector 12-22. Police officials said that the man had probably died during the night. The discovery of a body had created a stir at the station in the morning, the police said, adding that his family has been informed.“He had separated from his wife nearly four years ago and his daughter was living with his sister in Sikandrabad. His parents had passed away a few years ago,” said Rajesh S, deputy commissioner of police, zone 1.The officials said that the victim had a head injury. “The injury on his head is the only one on his body, but the exact cause of death will be ascertained only after the autopsy,” said the DCP.The police officials said that prima facie it appeared to be a murder and a case was being registered at the sector 39 police station. The police have launched a probe into the matter. A senior police official said that the deceased’s wife is being questioned and there are a few angles, including debts and personal enmity, that are being looked at.Chauhan was not employed and was an alcoholic which had led to his separation from his wife, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/noida-man-found-dead-in-botanical-garden-metro-station-washroom-101610474057629.html
12-01-2021||Other||Man’s body found outside collectorate in Surajpur||Greater Noida: A 25-year-old man’s body was found outside the district collectorate in Surajpur on Tuesday morning. He had a gunshot injury in his head, the police said.The deceased, identified as Nirdesh, was a native of Kasganj district in western Uttar Pradesh, the police said. Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Central, said that a police team reached the spot after getting information from some passersby. “A forensic team also visited the spot to gather evidence. Police have found a countrymade gun from the spot. Primary investigation suggests that the man may have shot himself dead,” he said. The police said that the victim lived in a rented accommodation in Surajpur. “Primary investigation has revealed that he was debt-ridden. His family members revealed that he had approached some people for loan and he was unable to manage expenses,” the DCP added.The body has been sent for post mortem and the report is awaited, the police said, adding that the family has not filed any complaint in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mans-body-found-outside-collectorate-in-surajpur-101610474058106.html
12-01-2021||Other||Random act of murder: Teenagers kill man, steal his car, say cops||Ecotech I police on Tuesday detained two minor boys -- aged 17 and 16-- in connection with the murder of a 35-year-old man on January 6. The murder, police said, appeared random.Vishal Pandey, additional DCP, Greater Noida, said that the victim Hemchand was a contractor in Atai village. “On January 6, he had left his home in his car to meet someone and did not return. His body was found near Murshadpur underpass and his car and mobile phone were missing,” he said.Hemchand’s brother Mahesh Kumar filed a complaint with Ecotech police station and suspected his brother’s business partner. The police questioned the partner but did not get concrete evidence of his involvement.Pandey said the police launched an extensive investigation and scanned CCTV footage from nearby areas.“We found the same car at the Jewar toll plaza and at Mathura toll plaza. We believed the suspects were locals since they were moving in the neighbourhood,” he said.Police then set up check posts and on Tuesday, the car was spotted at the Ecotech area. The minors offered no resistance when caught, said police.“The police recovered the car, a countrymade gun used in the crime, victim’s mobile phone, and suspect’s blood stained jacket from their possession,” said Pandey.Police said that both the juveniles were residents of Kasna area.“When questioned, the older boy said that he had a dispute with a person named Praveen and planned to kill him with his friend and rob his car. That day, the duo had called Praveen over to a spot but he did not turn up,” Pandey said.The two boys then roamed around the area on a motorcycle when they came across the victim. “Hemchand was talking to someone on his phone in his parked car Child Roundabout near Chuharpur village. They knocked his window on the pretext of asking directions. As soon as Hemchand rolled down the window, the older boy shot him in the head,” said Rameshwar Kumar, SHO Ecotech I police station. They then shifted his body and drove the car to the the Mursahdpur area and fled with the vehicles.Police said a case has been registered against them under Section 302 (murder), Section 394 (murder for robbery) of IPC. The two suspects were produced before child welfare committee and sent to juvenile home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/random-act-of-murder-teenagers-kill-man-steal-his-car-say-cops-101610473877657.html
12-01-2021||Noida||Noida transport department starts booking of fancy numbers||The transport department has started taking booking for new series of fancy registration numbers from Tuesday. This series start from UP 16 CU and followed by four digit numerics. There are 347 such numbers available, said transport department officials.AK Pandey, assistant regional transport officer, (ARTO – administration) Gautam Budh Nagar, said, “People need to visit the website www.parivahan.gov.in and create a log in ID and password. They then need to click on the option for the fancy number to see the numbers and the prices.” There are four categories of numbers based on their likely demand and their own base prices. The first category will have a base price of ₹1 lakh for four-wheelers and ₹20,000 for two wheelers, the second category will cost ₹50,000 for four-wheelers and ₹10,000 for two wheelers, the third category will cost ₹25,000 for four-wheeler and ₹5000 for two wheelers and the last category will cost ₹15,000 for four-wheelers and ₹3,000 for two-wheelers. “If a number is booked by more than one person, the transport department will hold an online auction and sell it to the person who makes the highest bid. Otherwise, the number will be offered on a first-come-first-serve basis,” Pandey said. People need to buy the vehicle within one month of booking the fancy registration number. Pandey said that the dealers’ will process the sale and dispatch the file to the ARTO. The transport department will verify the documentation and then allot the registration numbers to the customers. According to the transport department, about 60,000 vehicles were registered in 2020, as compared to 90,000 in 2019. Pandey said the reason behind this is the lockdown imposed to curb the spread of the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease. There are around 7.34 lakh vehicles registered in Gautam Buddha Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-transport-department-starts-booking-of-fancy-numbers-101610473817605.html
12-01-2021||Lucknow||Owaisi visits Varanasi, says 'will put up a tough fight in UP polls'||All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) chief Asaduddin Owaisi on Tuesday said that the Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha, a coalition of small parties including the AIMIM and Omprakash Rajbhar’s SBSP, would contest the 2022 Uttar Pradesh polls and put up a strong fight.Rajbhar, on his part, said, “The SBSP and the AIMIM will also contest the panchayat polls together in Uttar Pradesh. Preparations for contesting the polls are underway.”The AIMIM chief arrived in Varanasi on Tuesday morning.Owaisi and Rajbhar later visited Azamgarh via Jaunpur. On way, SBSP and AIMIM workers gave a rousing welcome to the two leaders. They stopped at various locations, including Deedarganj, and interacted with the workers.In Phoolpur of Azamgarh district, Owaisi held a meeting with several prominent people.The Suheldev Bhartiya Samaj Party (SBSP) chief said, “The Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha has further strengthened with the visit of Owaisi. A huge crowd of people, especially youths, joined the first joint yatra of the SBSP and the AIMIM from Varanasi to Azamgarh. It clearly shows that the youth are dissatisfied with the BJP government, which has failed to provide employment to them.”Also read: Trump slams impeachment move as Democrats press aheadHe demanded that the government provide free education up to post-graduation and employment to educated youths.Owaisi said the previous Samajwadi Party government had stopped him 12 times from visiting eastern UP.“But today I have reached eastern Uttar Pradesh to nourish the friendship with SBSP chief Omprakash Rajbhar,” he said.Interacting with media persons, he said, “When the Akhilesh Yadav-led SP government was in power in UP, I was stopped 12 times from visiting Purvanchal. I have come now. I have allied with SBSP chief Omprakash Rajbhar. I have come to nurture this friendship.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/owaisi-visits-varanasi-says-will-put-up-a-tough-fight-in-up-polls-101610472861698.html
12-01-2021||Gurugram||Farmers bond over cups of hot tea||As a cold wave sweeps across the Delhi-NCR and intermittent showers lash the makeshift tents of farmers protesting at the Haryana-Rajasthan border, a teeming crowd of men hovers around a particular camp at the site—the Mewat camp. On getting closer, one is able to spot the crowd-puller— a cuppa of hot tea, which has gained immense popularity among the protesting farmers. The tea langar is being run by a team of people from the Meo community of Rajasthan and Haryana for the past one month. Spread across the once contiguous belt of eastern Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana, the Meos or Mewati (as the community identifies itself) often rally around common causes. This time, the Mewatis from the two states have united to extend support to the ongoing farmers’ agitation. Mohammad Shakir, a resident of Nuh in Haryana, said that farmers from the region were against the three farm laws and have joined the agitation to strengthen it. “Beyond the borders of states, we see ourselves as a common unit, as Mewatis. We are farmers too and stand against these laws and in support of our fellow brothers,” said Shakir, while serving hot tea to a serpentine queue of protesting farmers. The tea langar runs from five in the morning till 11 at night, with people taking turns at making and serving tea. A team of 25-30 people, consisting of Mewatis from both Rajasthan and Haryana handle the operations of the langar. The supplies needed for making tea and other snacks are contributed by people from different villages. “People from different houses in the village contribute milk, sugar and biscuits depending on their capacity. We send out a word in the village or make announcements from the mosque so that people are able to contribute,” said Shakir. Most of the men handling the cooking at the camp only learned to make tea recently. Maulana Umar, a 27-year-old from Punhana, said that he and others were not well-versed with cooking until now. “I did not know how to make tea initially. I learned it here and made tea for the first time,” said Umar, who teaches at a Madarsa. “While others are busy in the fields, we were relatively free since the madarsa is closed due to the pandemic. Our elders asked us to serve people here and we came here for khidmat (help),” said Umar. It took the men the first few days to get the taste right but both the tea and the snacks served here gained quick popularity. “They don’t put much water in the tea. It’s very different and we call it the special Mewat chai. Everyone loves the tea here,” said Rakesh Phagodiya, a farmer from Rajasthan. He said that the government had unintentionally united people by bringing the three laws. “Everyone has come together to defeat the three laws here. There are no differences among us,” said Phagodiya. Mohd Shakir, a Mewati from Alwar in Rajasthan, said that people walked for kilometres to have tea at the Mewat stall. “Farmers are spread across kilometres but they still prefer to come here for tea. Their appreciation motivates us,” said Shakir, adding that police officials stationed at the border also enjoyed the tea prepared by the Mewat camp.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/farmers-bond-over-cups-of-hot-tea-101610473097524.html
12-01-2021||Gurugram||Plot owners call for 10% cut in proposed circle rates||Plot owners, builders and homebuyers in the city have asked the district administration to reduce the circle rates by at least 10% as the real estate industry is facing a sustained slowdown due to the lockdown caused by the Covid-19 pandemic.The district administration has already proposed the new circle rates in the last week of December 2020 and are likely to be implemented from April. Objections to the same can be submitted till January 15.Gurugram Home Developers and Plot Owners Association, in a letter to the district administration on January 9, said that there is a need to reduce the rates by almost 10% to make real estate competitive in the district. The association has also demanded that circle rate for builder floors, which is the only segment witnessing sales, not be being increased by almost ₹1,000 per square yard. “The proposal to increase the circle rate from ₹5,500 to ₹6,600 per sq yd will badly hit the segment. Small developers and contractors engaged in building such floors will lose business and the government will lose revenue if the rates are increased,” said Ramesh Singla, a senior functionary of the association. The association has also asked the district administration to review the circle rates for sale of basement, saying that the current rates are exorbitant. “There is no right of land for basement. So, circle rate should be charged only on construction,” said Singla. Property dealers also said that registration of property at revenue offices should be further streamlined so that the buyers and sellers don’t suffer. “The process of obtaining no-objection certificate (NOC) for carrying out property registration has become very difficult. Earlier, it was easier to get permission, but now, the process has become cumbersome,” said Imran Khan, a property owner. Basti Ram, the district revenue officer, said that all affected stakeholders, including property developers, can submit their objections and concerns to the district administration by January 15. “We will look into the objections and same will considered positively. The new rates will be applicable from April,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/plot-owners-call-for-10-cut-in-proposed-circle-rates-101610472737503.html
12-01-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram to get 40K doses of vaccine by Thursday||The district is set to receive almost 40,000 doses of Covishield coronavirus vaccine by Wednesday night or Thursday morning, from the first batch of over 241,000 doses assigned for Haryana. Senior health department officials said on Tuesday that the vaccine is likely to arrive at the Kurukshetra vaccine storage facility on Wednesday.Of the total consignment to be received by the state, there are at least 241,000 doses of Covishield from the Serum Institute of India and 20,000 doses of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, which would arrive later. On Tuesday, the Covishield vaccine reached New Delhi through a flight from Pune airport. “The vaccine has arrived at the Central government’s warehouse in Karnal for supply to the northern region. On Wednesday, the stock allocated for Haryana will arrive at the state warehouse in Kurukshetra. From there, it will be transported to all 22 districts through vaccine vans and is likely to reach all districts by January 14,” said Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary, health department. Covishield has been developed by the Serum Institute of India, a Pune-based pharmaceutical company. It is a local version of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine that is being used in the UK. The safety and efficacy data of the vaccine generated on over 23, 745 participants above 18 years of age in different countries, showed vaccine efficiency to be around 70.42%. The results from the Serum Institute’s Phase II and III clinical trials on 1,600 participants was found comparable with the data from the overseas clinical studies. On January 3, the Subject Expert Committee of Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation gave approval to Covishield for restricted use in emergency situation in India. Covishield is one of the two vaccines to get emergency approval for controlling the transmission of SARS-CoV-2 virus, with the other being Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin.Gurugram will get the maximum number of doses in the initial phase due to the highest number of healthcare workers, over 36,000, registered on the Co-WIN platform, said officials. Across the state, the count goes up to 250,000 healthcare workers. “The first batch of vaccine is sufficient to cover all the health workers, both government and private, as the state is getting almost 261,000 doses. Gurugram will also get sufficient doses of Covishield to cover all its health workers,” said Arora. According to officials privy to the matter, the exact district-wise allocation of doses has to be approved by the central government. “Covishield will be provided to Gurugram. It is likely the district will get almost 40,000 doses, considering there will be 1% wastage of vaccine at every session site,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer. Arora said that the inoculation drive starting from January 16 the state will have only limited session sites, as per the guidelines issued by the Central government. As reported on Tuesday, throughout the state at least 113 sites have been identified for the vaccine launch on January 16, of which six sites are in Gurugram, for the inoculation of at least 600 healthcare workers on the first day. Yadav said, “The vaccine will not be administered on January 17 since it is a Sunday. It will start from January 18 onwards again. However, the clarity on the vaccination strategy is awaited.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-to-get-40k-doses-of-vaccine-by-thursday-101610472679015.html
12-01-2021||Gurugram||Dedicated cold storage unit set up at Pataudi hospital for Covid-19 vaccines||A dedicated cold storage unit has been set up at the Civil Hospital in Pataudi to store the Covid-19 vaccine, which is likely to arrive in the city on Wednesday night. The facility has a walk-in cooler and deep freezers equipped with constant temperature checks to maintain the potency of the vaccine, said officials.Located almost 30 kilometres from the main city, the facility has the capacity to facilitate storage of over 300,000 Covid-19 vaccine doses. It is a regional reserve that will supply vials to other nearby districts of Faridabad, Palwal, Nuh and Rewari, said health officials. In Gurugram alone, vaccine vials will be transported to at least 36 public healthcare centres and further to vaccination sites through small vaccine carriers. Dr Neelu Yadav, senior medical officer, Civil Hospital, Pataudi, said, “The storage facility is equipped to store vaccine whenever it arrives. Earlier this month, the district vaccine storage unit had to be shifted from the old Civil Hospital due to construction of the new hospital building. Therefore, for Covid-19, a separate cold storage unit has been prepared to stock vaccine at the optimal temperature.”The store has a walk-in cooler, which is like a modular cold room to put vaccines and the temperature of the cooler is maintained at 5 degrees Celsius. Two temperature measurement devices and a small temperature printer are affixed outside the walk-in cooler to monitor and record the temperature, and check any fluctuation between checks.“Over 2.5 lakh (250,000) doses can be stored inside the walk-in cooler. To maintain the temperature, walk-in coolers are opened only when necessary. Opening it every now and then can lead to fluctuations in temperature, affecting the vaccine’s potency,” said Sushil Sewak, a district cold chain technician, who has been working with the Gurugram health department for the last 33 years. “Covid-19 vaccination is a major exercise and has to be handled cautiously. Thereby, all arrangements are being done to properly store the vaccine,” he said, displaying another small cooler, shaped like a refrigerator, which can stock over 40,000 vials.The unit also has four ice-line refrigerators or deep freezers to refrigerate ice packs for transportation of the vaccine. These are in addition to the four deep freezers used in the vaccines for routine immunisation programmes. “Presently, the temperature of the ice pack is -25 degrees Celsius. These ice packs will be conditioned at the required vaccine temperature of 2 degrees Celsius to 8 degrees Celsius before the Covid-19 vials are placed in the round sockets. It is also called temperature conditioning before vials are put inside the vaccine carriers for distribution to community healthcare centres and primary healthcare centres and further to vaccination sites,” said Sewak.Each refrigerator has Electronic Vaccine Intelligence Network (eVIN) to monitor the temperature of the cold chain and vaccine stock. The details can be accessed through a mobile phone. In addition, almost 285,000 auto-disable syringes of 0.5 ml, for the vaccination, have also been stored at the facility. On Tuesday, two policemen were seen deployed on 24-hour duty outside the storage unit.Balbir, a policeman deployed at the site, said, “We have to prevent unnecessary gatherings and movements near the storage facility for a few days, until the vaccination is launched. There will be restricted entry; only health department and senior government officials will be allowed. Extra vigil will be kept during night hours.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/dedicated-cold-storage-unit-set-up-at-pataudi-hospital-for-covid-19-vaccines-101610472678459.html
12-01-2021||Gurugram||Gangster Akash Yadav arrested after chase from Shimla||Chasing a wanted man from his hideout in Shimla, the Gurugram police finally arrested 26-year-old gangster Akash Yadav, alias Ashu, on Sunday night from the Dwarka Expressway. Teams have been on his trail over the last week to arrest him in connection with an attack on a household in Bhamrauli village on November 15, 2020.The police had announced a reward of ₹25,000 for information on Yadav’s whereabouts. He is involved in several murders — most notably that of a classmate in a private school in 2007 when he was a juvenile — besides cases of attempt to murder, extortion, snatching, kidnapping, loot, carjacking and robbery, said officials.The police said he had been living at a friend’s residence in Shimla since November 20 last year. He was spotted on the Mall Road last week, following which the police swung into action.Preet Pal Sangwan, the assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that teams were sent to Shimla last week. “We had identified the house and had surrounded him on Sunday. Being a tourist place, police teams did not use any weapon and asked him to surrender, but he escaped from another route and fled in his SUV to Delhi. Teams chased him and arrested him, along with his close aide, from village Garhi Harsaru on Dwarka Expressway late Sunday,” he said.Five close aides of Yadav were arrested from different locations in Gururgam last Friday, said police.Yadav is a resident of Bhamrauli village in Sector 10 and on November 15, 2020, he had allegedly attacked three members of a family over a parking issue and fired a countrymade gun during the attack, the police said. He was accompanied by over 30 goons, his younger brother, father and mother during the incident and they had fired around 30 rounds, the police said. His family members were arrested last December.Sangwan said the firing incident in the village was recorded by a local on his mobile phone and was also picked up by four CCTV cameras in the vicinity. “Yadav was holding a pistol and he, along with other men, his brother, father and mother, shot around 30 rounds, of which three hit two of the victims, who were discharged after a week from the hospital,” he said.Manoj Yadav (21) suffered a bullet injury, while Shamsher Singh, a former sarpanch, and his family members Sanesh Yadav, Parveen Yadav, and Sumit had suffered head injuries.On November 18, around 100 villagers had met the police commissioner, seeking Yadav’s immediate arrest, expressing a fear for their lives. Upon the villagers’ request, the police had provided security to the victims’ family over fears of another attack.The police said that Yadav also runs an illegal water business in developing sectors. After spending three years in a juvenile observation home when he was a minor, for the murder of a classmate, Yadav is out on bail and maintains a gang of more than 200 members, said police.KK Rao, the commissioner of police, said that residents of nearby villagers have been complaining against his notorious activities. “His gang members live in his house and they often misbehave with the villagers, threaten them and extort money from them. He is involved in illegal arms business and often provides weapons to other gang members. He is already out on bail in a few cases and was acquitted for the murder of his friend in March 2015 in Palam Vihar,” he said.Yadav was produced before the court on Tuesday and was taken on a two-day police remand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gangster-akash-yadav-arrested-after-chase-from-shimla-101610472677484.html
12-01-2021||Gurugram||Departments to prepare for possible bird flu outbreak||The department of animal husbandry on Tuesday has called a meeting of 11 departments in the district on January 14 to discuss their roles and responsibilities in containing a possible outbreak of avian influenza. While lab reports of two bird samples sent to Jalandhar are awaited, officials said they are operating under the assumption that they will test positive for bird flu, in which case culling of poultry may be required.Thursday’s meeting, to be presided over by Dr Punita Gahlot, the deputy director of animal husbandry, is likely to be attended by the police, public health, forests and wildlife, revenue and land reform, public works, panchayat administration, and the disaster management cell officials, in addition to the deputy commissioner and municipal commissioner. “So far, we have been focussing on conducting clinical surveillance at poultry farms and training our veterinarians. But containing an outbreak requires a lot of coordination among various line departments. For example, the police will be required to provide manpower to field teams when they visit poultry farms. Then, the revenue department is responsible for disbursing monetary compensation to affected farmers whose birds are being culled, and for drawing up epidemic maps and identifying safe burial sites,” said a senior veterinary officer with the district animal husbandry department, seeking anonymity.Similarly, the deputy commissioner will be the nodal authority for ordering a ban, if required, on sale and transport of poultry products, either from the district or from containment zones. The deputy commissioner will also be responsible for coordinating all financial and logistical support for the containment operation, should one be required. The department of public health, meanwhile, will be responsible for monitoring the health of all veterinarians, livestock handlers and safai karmacharis involved in culling of birds, and will also provide them with antiviral drugs as a precaution. The public works department will supply disinfection and fogging machines, and any other heavy infrastructure (such as earthmovers), which may be required for culling and burying carcasses.Department officials, not authorised to speak on the record, also said that they have reached out to the Regional Disease Diagnostic Lab in Jalandhar, requesting them to expedite the test results of two carcasses. “We may receive the sample results in a day or two. If they test positive, we may not begin culling immediately since there is no excess mortality of poultry in Gurugram till today. We may send chicken samples for tests first,” said the veterinary officer cited above.Dr Gahlot declined to comment but confirmed that a meeting to apprise other arms of the district administration has been convened at 11am on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/departments-to-prepare-for-possible-bird-flu-outbreak-101610472677946.html
12-01-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka cabinet to get 7-8 new ministers on Wednesday||After months of delay, the BS Yediyurappa-led BJP government in Karnataka is likely to get 7-8 new ministers with the oath-taking ceremony slated for 4 pm on Wednesday.Governor Vajubhai Vala is expected to administer the oath of office during a simple ceremony at the Raj Bhavan due to the Covid-19 restrictions. Chief minister Yediyurappa said that the names of the ministers are being finalised and would be submitted to the Raj Bhavan later on Tuesday night.With only seven vacancies available, Yediyurapp's comment on 7-8 new inductees raised eyebrows. When asked about it, the CM said, "Yes there is a possibility (that one sitting minister might be dropped). All will be known shortly."According to BJP sources, three defectors from the Congress who helped the party form the government by resigning their legislative seats are sure to be inducted. They are Raja Rajeshwari Nagar MLA Munirathhna who won a by-poll. The other two ar MTB Nagaraju and R Shankar, both Vidhana Parishat members.Also read: Trump slams impeachment move as Democrats press aheadShankar had won the 2018 poll as an independent and had switched sides several times earning the nickname 'pendulum' for his yo-yo act before joining as an associate member of the Congress only to finally resign his legislative seat and help BJP topple the coalition government.Shankar did not contest the ensuing by-poll choosing to be elected to the upper house as a BJP member. Nagaraju, one of the richest politicians in the state and has declared assets to the tune of ₹1,220 crore, was defeated in the by-polls but was elected to the upper house on a BJP ticket.Amongst the 'original' BJP legislators - Umesh Katti, the six-term legislator from Hukkeri in Northern Karnataka; S Angara, the five-term legislator from Sullia constituency; and Hiryur MLA Poornima Srinivas - are said to be the front-runners for a cabinet berth.Katti, while speaking to reporters at Belagavi airport, claimed that he had been summoned by the CM to be present in the state capital, presumably to take oath as a minister. Angara too made a similar claim in Sullia.Of the other one or two berths left, intense lobbying is on by party's senior Dalit leader Arvind Limbavalli and BJP's key actor in the old Mysuru belt CP Yogeshwar who is a member of the upper house. If the CM decides to go ahead with inducting 8 new faces, he will have to drop at least one as the maximum cabinet size including the CM is 34 in Karnataka and there are only seven vacancies at present.Excise minister H Nagesh another independent who helped BJP form the government but is facing corruption allegations or Shasikala Jolle the minister for women and child development are likely to face the axe, according to BJP sources.Political analyst Aravind said that irrespective of who gets the nod, the exercise is likely to kickstart another round of dissidence. "There are simply too many claimants for too few posts. It will definitely create heartburn amongst those who have been denied a berth. It remains to be seen how he will handle the aftermath of the cabinet expansion exercise".BJP national general secretary in-charge of Karnataka Arun Singh will be present at the ceremony according to party sources.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-cabinet-to-get-7-8-new-ministers-on-wednesday-101610470798651.html
12-01-2021||Noida||Air quality very poor in Ghaziabad, Greater Noida, poor in Faridabad, Gurgaon||The average air quality was recorded in the "poor" category in Noida, Gurgaon and Faridabad, while it was "very poor" in Greater Noida and Ghaziabad, according to the data issued by a government agency on Tuesday.The air quality Index (AQI) maintained by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) showed the presence of high levels of pollutants PM2.5 and PM10 in the air of the five immediate neighbours of Delhi.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe".The average 24-hour AQI at 4 pm on Tuesday was 324 in Ghaziabad, 312 in Greater Noida, 278 in Noida, 260 in Faridabad and 213 in Gurgaon, according to the CPCB's Sameer mobile application.On Monday, it was 283 in Ghaziabad and Greater Noida, 264 in Noida, 235 in Faridabad and 200 in Gurgaon.The CPCB states that a "poor" AQI causes breathing discomfort to most people on a prolonged exposure, while a "very poor" AQI may cause respiratory illnesses on a prolonged exposure.The AQI for each city is based on the average of the readings recorded by the air quality monitoring stations there. Ghaziabad and Gurgaon have three such stations while Noida, Greater Noida and Faridabad have two each, according to the app.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/air-quality-very-poor-in-ghaziabad-greater-noida-poor-in-faridabad-gurgaon-101610468882147.html
12-01-2021||Pune||Two businessmen running illegal gutkha factory in Silvassa arrested||In a major breakthrough, crime branch officials attached to unit IV have arrested two businessmen who ran an illegal gutkha manufacturing facility in Silvassa, in connection with the ₹15 crore illegal Gutkha seizure case. The arrested have been identified as Abhishekh Surendra Chhajed (31), and Sharan Surendra Chhajed (26), both residents of Green acres in Lokhandwala complex in Mumbai. The duo was produced before a Pune court which remanded them to judicial custody. According to the crime branch officials, the duo had taken up land owned by another Gutkha manufacturer on a lease basis and were running their operations from the said spot located in Silvassa. PSI Jaideep Patil said “The duo has been arrested, remanded in magisterial custody and the investigation is on.” The police members comprising of Rajas Shaikh, Sachin Dhavale, Kaustubh Jadhav and Shital Shinde participated in the crackdown. The crime branch sleuths raided a private company engaged in the illegal manufacturing of gutka in Silvassa in Dadra and Nagar Haveli union territory and seized stocks worth ₹15 crore during a cross-border raid conducted on January 7. Earlier, the crime branch raided some places in Wanowrie and Hadapsar where they got leads about illegal gutka being manufactured in Vapi (Gujarat) and Silvassa (Dadra and Nagar Haveli ) being sold in the city market through their front men, four of whom have been arrested by the crime branch during earlier raids. The crime branch officials had detected a “hawala transaction ring” while it was probing the seizure of a gutka stash wherein nine persons, including hawala operators, were arrested by the team. The investigation revealed a network of gutka suppliers, transporters and distributors, with links to hawala remittance rings for money transfer operations from other states of the country. The crime branch was assisted by the local police and Food and Drug Administration (FDA) authorities of the union territory during the raid. As of January 8, the city police have raided 28 places in connection with storing gutka illegally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-businessmen-running-illegal-gutkha-factory-in-silvassa-arrested-101610468176820.html
12-01-2021||Pune||SPPU reprinting and selling rare, old books||The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) is now reprinting its old and rare books related to history, mythology and autobiographies and making it available online for sale. All the listed books can be purchased online through the official SPPU website. In addition to the old rare books, some newly printed books by the SPPU publication are also available for sale. “The details of all these books and its list along with the book price is given on SPPU official website – www.unipune.ac.in. Those who want to buy the books can choose it and through the QR code can make a payment and accordingly the books will be sent to them,” said SPPU registrar Prafulla Pawar. Ashwin Nagpure a post-graduate history student said, “There are some books which are published in the past by SPPU publications but are not available in the market. It was our demand that the SPPU should reprint it, finally, they have done it and certainly, it will benefit all the students.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sppu-reprinting-and-selling-rare-old-books-101610468117298.html
12-01-2021||Pune||25-year old arrested for assaulting traffic constable||The Mundhwa police have arrested a 25-year old man on charges of physically assaulting a traffic constable on duty who stopped him for not wearing a seat belt during driving. The accused arrested has been identified as Sunny Tanaji Shinde (25), a resident of Wadgaonsheri while the victim who lodged the FIR has been identified as Dayanand Gaikwad, a police naik attached to the Mundhwa traffic division. According to the complaint, Gaikwad was on duty and had stopped Shinde’s car as he was not wearing the safety seat belt. During the interaction, Shinde abused, threatened and assaulted Gaikwad in a fit of rage. The police arrested him under IPC 353 ( assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty ) , 352 ( assault or criminal force otherwise than on grave provocation ) ,332 (voluntarily causes hurt to any person being a public servant in the discharge of his duty as such public servant ) , 504 (Causing death by negligence ) and 506 (criminal intimidation ) and further investigation is on in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/25year-old-arrested-for-assaulting-traffic-constable-101610468116802.html
12-01-2021||Pune||As vaccine trucks leave Serum campus, India starts fight to end Covid in country||Early on Tuesday morning, a runner out for his morning run stopped in his tracks after seeing a group of people, including many with cameras outside the gates of Serum Institute of India’s (SII) Hadapsar campus in the city. There was a nip in the air, but those waiting didn’t seem to mind it.The crowd outside the gates heard the hum of the engines of the temperature controlled truck that would carry the first Oxford University-AstraZeneca Covishield vaccines to be produced by the company.Traces of anxiety from the five days leading upto Tuesday morning was tangible as Pune police officers along with employees of the SII performed a traditional puja (prayer) of the first truck and decked it with a garland shortly before it moved out of the sprawling campus of the vaccine manufacturer.At the stroke of 4:53 am, the gates opened, a police escort van remerged; it was followed by three trucks, with boxes carrying 5.65 million doses of the vaccine meant for Delhi, Chennai in Tamil Nadu, Ahmedabad in Gujarat, Hyderabad in Telangana, Chandigarh, Kolkata in West Bengal, Patna in Bihar, Bengaluru in Karnataka, and Lucknow in Uttar Pradesh. They were headed for Lohegaon airport, around 15 kilometres from the factory.The gravity of the moment dawned upon the drivers of the trucks as the crowd present at the gates erupted in spontaneous applause that pierced the silence of the morning. At least six armed guards were seen outside the SII gates along with a team of police officials who had been on standby since Monday morning as the uncertain departure timings were set and cancelled multiple times.The vaccines, produced under licence by SII , and developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford will form the new vanguard of India’s fight against the coronavirus disease. Vaccinations are to start on January 16, with 30 million health care and front line workers forming the first cohort that will be vaccinated.Adar Poonawalla, chief executive officer of SII, spoke to the media hours after the flights had taken off. SII executives’ absence at the gates had promoted deputy police commissioner Namrata Patil to take lead and perform the puja.“Our trucks left the SII facility early morning and now the vaccine is being distributed across the entire country. This is a proud and historic moment as scientists, experts and all other stakeholders took great efforts while making this vaccine in less than a year,” Poonawala said.Soon, the trucks entered the cargo-loading section of the Pune International Airport. Packed in boxes covered in styrofoam, the vaccines were scanned by four different machines of four different airlines - SpiceJet, IndiGo, GoAir, and Air India before taking to the air..The SpiceJet flight was the first to take off at 8.05 am with 56 boxes of vaccine vials . Soon eight other flights took off from Pune airport for various destinations. The endgame of India’s fight against Covid-19 had begun.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/as-vaccine-trucks-leave-serum-campus-india-starts-fight-to-end-covid-in-country-101610468057329.html
12-01-2021||Pune||Nine flights to 12 cities leave Pune with Covid vaccine doses||Pune Tuesday morning saw an otherwise quiet Lohegaon airport in Pune witness high drama as the country’s first batch of Covishield vaccine doses left for 12 different cities on nine passenger and freight flights. After the vaccine doses were packed in ice boxes at the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII), the airport authorities played a pivotal role in ensuring that the vaccines reached the rest of the country in time. Three domestic airlines transported close to 5.6 million doses on the first day to kick-start the massive pan-India inoculation drive against Covid-19 infection.After a year of fighting through the pandemic, the first consignment of Covishield consisting of 2,64,000 doses was transported from Pune to Delhi on SpiceJet flight SG 8937. The flight took off from the Lohegaon International Airport at 8.05am and landed at the Indira Gandhi International Airport, Delhi, at 10.15am. Along with Delhi, Spicejet also transported multiple vaccines to Guwahati, Kolkata, Hyderabad, Bhubaneshwar, Bengaluru, Patna and Vijayawada. In addition to Spicejet, GoAir and Indigo also sent doses to Chennai, Chandigarh and Lucknow respectively. For Mumbai, GoAir in its statement said starting from January 13, the vaccines will be transported from Mumbai to other cities on the basis of the allocation. A spokesperson from the Serum Institute added that a truck would leave via road to the Mumbai airport and from there to other cities. The spokesperson added that, “Two trucks would leave for the Mumbai airport via road from our Pune institute and from there it would go to other cities.” Union aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri tweeted on Tuesday morning, “Together nine flights will leave Pune through four carriers - Air India, SpiceJet, GoAir & Indigo - with 56.5 lakh doses to Delhi, Chennai, Kolkata, Guwahati, Shillong, Ahmedabad, Hyderabad, Vijayawada, Bhubaneswar, Patna, Bengaluru, Lucknow & Chandigarh.” The first aeroplane took flight with the Covid-19 vaccine ‘Covishield’ from the Serum Institute of India at around 8am with the first consignment. Three trucks left the institute at around 4:55am. A total of nine flights carried vials of the vaccine from Pune’s Lohegaon airport with 477 boxes, including three chartered freight flights which had close to 5.6 million doses. Each box contained about 1,200 vials of Covishield and each of the dose is priced for the Indian government at ₹210, including GST of ₹10. Each vial has about 10 doses which were packed in ice boxes. As per earlier statements from the Oxford University and Serum Institute, each person would need to get two doses for maximum protection against the virus. Each dose is about 5ml and the second dose needs to be taken 28 days after the first dose. The vaccine needs to be stored between +2-+8 degrees Celsius which led to a speedy movement of all the boxes within the first two hours since the airport started operating at 8am. The last flight for the day left was to leave at 4pm to Lucknow according to airport officials. Pune airport director Kuldeep Singh, said, “Earlier 14 flights were to leave from Pune’s Lohegaon airport with the Covid-19 vaccine in 456 boxes, however, plans were changed last night. A total of nine flights left from the airport of which three were chartered flights. Pune airport has always been prepared for vaccine transportation. As of yet, we do not have any plans for vaccine transportation on Wednesday.” The vaccines transported were packed with ice packs in thermocol boxes. As per the details on the box being transported, the vials were manufactured in October 2020 and have an expiry date of March 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/nine-flights-to-nine-cities-leave-pune-with-covid-vaccine-doses-101610467996858.html
12-01-2021||Bangalore||Bengaluru drug case: Aditya Alva arrested, remanded to 7-day police custody||One of the key accused in the Bengaluru drug case Aditya Alva who was absconding for the last five months was finally arrested by the Central Crime Branch unit of Bengaluru police in Chennai late on Monday night and brought to the city on Tuesday. His arrest was confirmed by Joint Commissioner of Police (Crime) Sandip Patil.Alva, son of yesteryear Janata Party stalwart and former minister Jeeveraj Alva, was accused of hosting parties at which drugs were allegedly consumed by Sandalwood and other celebrities at 'House of Life' residence which is part of a resort owned by his family in North Bengaluru.Alva, brother-in-law of Bollywood actor Vivek Oberoi, is the sixth accused in the charge sheet filed in the case at Cottonpet Police station in the city. CCB police had even raided Oberoi's residence in search of Alva.Also read: Move to impeach continuation of greatest witch hunt in political history - TrumpAditya was produced later in front of a JMFC court which remanded him to seven-day police custody as requested by the authorities. CCB sources told HT that Alva, who was on the run continuously shifting cities as the police spread a nationwide dragnet for him, was finally caught at a friend's residence in Chennai based on a tip-off. "We intend to find out what all activities took place, if and what all drugs were consumed at his place, as well as who all participated."Meanwhile the Supreme Court today adjourned its hearing to next week on a special leave petition (SLP) filed by Ragini Dwivedi, a Sandalwood actress who is also one of the accused in the Bengaluru drugs case. Ragini and another actress Sanjana Galrani had been arrested in the case. Galrani is out on bail but Ragini's bail plea was rejected by the Karnataka HC in November. Ragini is accused of both consuming and supplying drugs. Her SLP will now be taken up for hearing by the SC on 19 January. At present, she is lodged in the Parapanna Agrahara prison located on the outskirts of Bengaluru.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bengaluru-drug-case-aditya-alva-arrested-remanded-to-7-day-police-custody-101610465991998.html
12-01-2021||Other||PMC plans to provide financial compensation to staff who died after Sept 30||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) standing committee plans to extend the time period of providing financial assistance to the kin of employees who lost their lives due to Covid-19. The civic body covered only those who passed away till September 30. It plans to provide Rs25 lakh financial assistance to those who died after this period. Standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne said, “PMC had approved financial aid to the kin of those who died due to Covid-19 till September 30. A proposal for extension has been forwarded for the general body’s approval.” Rasne said, “The standing committee has given one month extension to Swach (Solid waste collection and handling) who handle door-to-door garbage collection.” The Swach with PMC had ended on December 31, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-plans-to-provide-financial-compensation-to-staff-who-died-after-sept-30-101610466436610.html
12-01-2021||Other||ICCR centre to come up at DU for overseas students||New Delhi: Delhi University on Tuesday signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Indian Council for Cultural Research (ICCR), under the ministry of external affairs. According to the MoU, an ICCR centre will be established in partnership for catering to the needs of the overseas students who come on the ICCR scholarship.“This is a big step towards the government’s commitment to make India a hub for international students,” said acting vice-chancellor PC Joshi. The university, in a statement, said that DU has already started benefitting with having received three times more than the earlier number of the ICCR-sponsored students. The ICCR brings in students from over 120 countries to India for study. “ICCR will also have its north India zonal office in DU. The MoU will facilitate admission of more students from foreign countries under ICCR fellowship. This will also help foreign students since if there are offices here, they won’t have to go here and there,” he said, adding that it will “transform relations” with students and teachers outside India in “a dynamic way.”In a statement released Tuesday, the university said ICCR has also “pledged to conduct various academic, cultural and extra-curricular programmes to enhance the academic environment and cultural exchange in the University.” The academic exchange will also include DU professors visiting foreign universities and as well as foreign professors coming to the central varsity with ICCR support.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/iccr-centre-to-come-up-at-du-for-overseas-students-101610464036175.html
12-01-2021||Ranchi||Bird flu scare in Jharkhand after crows, mynas found dead; samples sent for examination||Around 2,500 samples, including 20 dead wild birds, have been sent to a lab for a bird flu test, Jharkhand Animal Husbandry Department Director (AHD) informed on Tuesday.Director of the AHD Nancy Sahay said that no death of poultry birds has been reported in the state so far. Moreover, Rapid Response Teams have been formed which are monitoring the situation across the state."Animal Husbandry department is taking all the necessary steps. Rapid Response Teams across the state have been formed which are monitoring the situation around the clock. Besides, special teams for poultry farms have also been put into action. All other required arrangements have been put into ready to active mode", said Sahai.Meanwhile, panic gripped a Jharkhand village after a large number of mynas, crows and herons were found dead in Shikaripara of Dumka district.Samples have been collected and sent for examination, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/bird-flu-scare-in-jharkhand-after-crows-mynas-found-dead-101610463746375.html
12-01-2021||Other||Farmers reject SC committee, demand repeal of farm laws||New Delhi: Farmer unions protesting at Delhi’s borders on Tuesday rejected the committee formed by the Supreme Court to resolve the stand-off over the three farm laws and termed it as a “proxy committee” of the government. The apex court on Tuesday stayed the implementation of three new contentious farm laws and constituted a four-member committee to hear all objections and report to the court. The farmer unions said they will not hold any discussion with the committee and alleged that all the four-members of the committee are pro-reforms. Addressing a press conference at the Singhu border on Tuesday evening, Balbir Singh Rajewal, president of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) Rajewal, said, “All the four members of the committee have been openly justifying the three new farm laws. How can we expect them to take a rational stand on the matter? We had been saying that the farm unions will not accept any committee, forget about a committee like this… We never went to the Supreme Court demanding a committee. It’s the government who was trying to form a committee through the court.”Jagmohan Singh, secretary of BKU (Dakaunda), said farmers will reject any committee even if its members are changed. “The idea behind setting up committees is to divert the attention of people from the real issues. The government is trying to end our movement. We want to tell the government that this is an indefinite movement and we will not go anywhere till the three new farm laws are repealed.”“The committee has been constituted to find out the drawbacks in the three laws. We don’t want to know that. We want to complete the revocation of these laws. The Supreme Court can help us by taking suo moto cognisance and repealing these laws. We do not want any committee. We want to negotiate with the government,” said another farmer leader Raminder Singh Patiala.Farmer leaders also said that their ongoing agitation is not going to conclude on Republic Day. “There are many rumours about our January 26 plan. There have been attempts to propagate false propaganda that farmers will gherao Parliament or take over the Red Fort on Republic Day. Our programme will be very peaceful. We will announce the complete plan after January 15. We want to request farmers coming from parts of the country to participate in the January 26 plan to remain peaceful. We will never tolerate violence and any irresponsible behaviour,” Rajewal said. The agitation at Delhi’s four key borders – Singhu, Tikri, UP Gate, and Chilla – entered 48th day on Tuesday. On Tuesday, farmers protesting at Delhi borders were seen preparing for festival of Lohri, which will be celebrated on Wednesday. “Lohri marks the beginning of the new harvest season. We pray for the good harvest by burning bonfires and singing songs and dancing around it. This year, we will be singing the songs of resistance by burning copies of the three new laws.” said Gurpreet Kaur, 58, a farmer from Tarn Taran, protesting at the Singhu border.Several farmers said their family members are also travelling to Delhi on Wednesday to celebrate Lohri with them. Devinder Singh, a member of the main stage committee at Singhu, said, “My parents asked me if I was coming home for Lohri. When I told them that I can’t come in the middle of the agitation, they decided to join me here. Parents and family members of many other protesters are arriving in Delhi on Wednesday to celebrate the festival.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farmers-reject-sc-committee-demand-repeal-of-farm-laws-101610463856179.html
12-01-2021||Mumbai||Will ensure unorganised poultry players get insurance: Maharashtra minister||Mumbai, Jan 12 (PTI) Amid the poultry sector facing bird flu threat, Maharashtra Animal Husbandry Minister Sunil Kedar on Tuesday said the government will soon take steps to ensure that unorganised players engaged in poultry farming get insurance cover.Talking to reporters here, the minister also said that a mention will be made in this regard in the forthcoming budget of the state government."What I have noticed as the minister of the department is that insurance companies entertain organised players from the poultry business, but not the unorganised ones."The state government will soon take a step to take insurance schemes to the last common man (unorganised players doing poultry business)," Kedar said.He said the issue had come up for discussion during a review meeting chaired by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on the bird flu situation on Monday.Avian influenza has been confirmed as the cause of the death of different birds in Parbhani, Mumbai, Thane, Beed and Dapoli (Ratnagiri district) in Maharashtra, as per test reports of a Bhopal-based lab, a senior state government official said on Monday.Kedar on Monday said that around 70,000 to 80,000 birds are expected to be culled in a village near Parbhani, where hundreds of hens had died at a poultry farm.State animal husbandry department secretary Anoop Kumar had said they would be increasing bio-safety measures in poultry farms so that there is no interface with wild birds.Besides Maharashtra, Kerala, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi are among the states where bird flu outbreak has been confirmed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/will-ensure-unorganised-poultry-players-get-insurance-maharashtra-minister-101610462355590.html
12-01-2021||Pune||Pune district sees 496 fresh Covid-19 cases, 0 deaths in 24 hours||Pune district on Tuesday reported a total of 496 new cases of Covid-19 with no deaths in the last 24 hours. As per the state health department, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has so far reported 1,94,443 Covid-19 cases and 4,439 deaths till Tuesday. The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has reported 94,069 cases so far and a total of 1,291 deaths due to Covid-19 infection.Pune rural has reported 89,868 total cases so far and 2,099 deaths due to Covid-19 infecton. In Pune district, there are a total of 3,79,380 lakh Covid-19 cases. Of this, 3,56,536 patients have recovered. There have been a total of 7,829 deaths due to the coronavirus infection in the district. And at present, there are 14,978 active cases in Pune district. As per the state health department, 3,282 patients were discharged on Tuesday in Maharashtra taking the total to 18,71,270 in the state. The recovery rate in the state is 94.77%.Across Maharashtra, 2,936 new cases of Covid-19 were diagnosed on Tuesday and 50 Covid-19 deaths were reported on Tuesday. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.54%.The state health department stated that of 1,35,00,734 laboratory samples, 19,74,488 have tested positive for Covid-19 till Tuesday. That is 14.63% patients till Tuesday.Currently 2,27,876 people are in home quarantine and 2,388 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-sees-496-fresh-covid-19-cases-0-deaths-in-24-hours-101610463376196.html
12-01-2021||Pune||97 samples from 17 districts tested for bird flu in Pune, 18 positive||With the cases of Avian influenza, popularly known as “bird flu” on the rise across India, sample testing for the virus has begun in Pune at the animal husbandry commissionerate. Earlier, the samples were directly transported to the National Institute of High-Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD), Bhopal, however, to reduce the workload in Madhya Pradesh, a test is conducted in Pune. “With the rise in the number of unusual deaths of birds, we asked the state government to conduct a test in Pune and if a trace is detected it will be sent to Bhopal. This will reduce the workload at Bhopal,” said Sachindra Pratap Singh, state animal husbandry commissioner. So far, 97 samples from 17 districts of Maharashtra have been brought for testing in Pune. The tests on 78 samples have been completed of which 18 samples are infected with the bird flu virus. The 17 districts from where a positive sample has been found include Mumbai, Parbhani, Latur, Beed, Thane, Ratnagiri, Akola, Gondia, Chandrapur, Nagpur, Amravati, Nashik, Yavatmal, Nanded Satara, Gondia and Ahmednagar. In Pune, RT-PCR tests are conducted on samples which give results in 48 to 72 hours. The test is conducted to check whether there is a presence of H5 (Hemagglutinin type five) in a sample which confirms the bird flu virus. Once it is confirmed, samples are transported to Bhopal to check the subtype N1 or N8. N stands for Neuraminidase which has nine subtypes. The traces of H5N1 are highly pathogenic Avian influenza while H5N8 is low pathogenic Avian influenza. As of Tuesday, a total of 1,839 deaths of various birds have been recorded in the state since January 8. The samples from Mumbai, Ghodbander (Thane district) and Dapoli (for crows and herons) and samples of poultry farm from Muramba, Parbhani have found H5N1 strain while the samples from Beed district have been found positive for the H5N8 strain. “These areas have been declared as infected areas and all the poultry farms within a one-kilometre radius of the infected poultry farms will be culled. At Murumba, Parbhani approximately 5,500 birds will be culled and another 1,000 birds in Latur will be culled. In Ghodbander, Thane, Dapoli and Beed only surveillance will continue,” said the release from the state Animal Husbandry department. The department is appealing to people who run poultry farms to compulsorily wear hand gloves and mask. Box: “Virus H5N1 is transmitted to humans” The virus H5N1 type is transmitted to human beings while the H5N8 type is not transmitted to human beings. The virus can spread from chicken or birds while the virus cannot be transmitted from eggs. Dr Avinash Bhondwe, president, Indian Medical Association (IMA) Maharashtra “Cook food above 70 degrees Celsius” One needs to make sure that the boiling temperature or cooking temperature is above 70 degrees Celsius and during the cooking process, no part of the meat should be left uncooked, half-cooked or raw. People who have a habit of eating raw meat or eggs should strictly avoid. Dr Mahendra Dadke, consultant physician, Jupiter hospital||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/97-samples-from-17-districts-tested-for-bird-flu-in-pune-18-positive-101610463316134.html
12-01-2021||Pune||Pre-Covid buzz to return in city as classes, coaching centres reopen||After the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) decided to reopen coaching classes, the movement of students across the city is set to increase after a break of nine months. In addition to the classes, the schedule of the Maharashtra Public Service Commission (MPSC) examination was also declared. The city is known for both, MPSC exam preparations and coaching classes, as students from across the country, come to study in Pune. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the education ecosystem in the city was hit, and online education took over as the new academic year began. Since the unlock process, students are returning to the city and now looking to start afresh with coaching classes, study circle libraries and the preparation for competitive exams. “As the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) issued orders related to starting of private coaching classes in Pune, we immediately started getting calls from parents and students. All of them were eagerly asking about when we are going to restart offline classes. Class 10 and 12 exams have been postponed this year, but students want to prepare for it well. So, we are now making necessary safety arrangements at all our class branches in Pune city, and restart offline classes in batches from next weekend,” said Kedar Takalkar, founder-director of Takalkar Classes. In Pune city, there are different types of private coaching classes, right from school level, for board exams, entrance exams and competitive exam classes. With students in the city, an entire financial eco-system is dependent on them, like PG rooms, mess, small businesses, grocery shops. Similarly, study circles in Pune especially in the peth areas have again started gaining momentum, as day by day the number of students coming back to Pune and taking admissions are increasing. Rajesh Pandit, owner of Valmiki study circle said, “During the lockdown period, all the study circle centres were closed in Pune. However, in the last couple of months, we have all reopened measuring responses by students. Now, as the MPSC exam dates are declared, we hope that the number of students coming to study circles will increase. We are following all the Covid related protocols given by the government, also social distancing is maintained inside the centres. Also, the medical history of students is taken before admissions.” On January 11, the MPSC announced its revised dates for state civil service prelims examination. This exam which was earlier scheduled on October 11, 2020, is now rescheduled for March 14, 2021. Archana Solanki a parent said, “My daughter is in CBSE board class 10 and she hardly studies during the online classes. We are worried about her marks, as her entire career is dependent on getting good marks in the board exams. It has given us relief that private coaching classes are restarting back soon. We have already contacted the class management where she used to go last year and will join the classes once it starts.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/precovid-buzz-to-return-in-city-as-classes-coaching-centres-reopen-101610463136143.html
12-01-2021||Kolkata||'They'll be removed from Bengal!' Adhikari on father's removal as DSDA chief||The Mamata Banerjee government on Tuesday afternoon removed Sisir Adhikari, father of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Suvendu Adhikari, from the post of chairman of Digha Shankharpur Development Authority (DSDA) in East Midnapore district.Suvendu Adhikari reacted sharply to his father's removal, saying those who removed him "will be removed from West Bengal in May," he told the local media on the sidelines of a BJP rally at Asansol in West Burdwan district.Digha and Shankharpur are the most important among Bengal’s beach towns and both play a key role in the state’s tourism industry.Sisir Adhikari is the eldest among Trinamool Congress (TMC) Lok Sabha members and has been Mamata Banerjee’s close associate since the birth of the party in 1998. Suvendu, his second son, used to represents East Midnapore’s Nandigram seat till he resigned from the legislative assembly and the TMC to join the BJP in presence of Union home minister Amit Shah on December 19 along with six sitting MLAs, the Burdwan South Lok Sabha MP and more than a dozen ruling party leaders from the districts.Also read: Farmers say SC panel members pro-govt; minister calls them impartialDays later, Suvendu’s younger brother Soumendu was replaced as the head of the Kanthi civic body. He has moved the Calcutta High Court, challenging the order.While Sisir Adhikari represents the Kanthi Lok Sabha seat, his eldest son Dibyendu is the TMC Lok Sabha member from Tamluk.Sisir Adhikari said he did not receive any order from the government regarding the reshuffle in the DSDA, Akhil Giri, the TMNC lawmaker from Ramnagar, who was the vice-chairman, confirmed that he would be heading the DSDA.“Sisir Adhikari is a senior leader and we all respect him but he is not keeping well these days and hence unable to give time to the DSDA,” said Giri, who is a known detractor of Suvendu Adhikari.“Sisir Adhikari is a respected and senior leader in the TMC. His removal from the DSDA is not surprising because the party is run by a family,” said BJP national vice-president Mukul Roy who left the TMC in 2017.Ever since Suvendu and Soumendu Adhikari joined the BJP there were speculations in political circles that Sisir Adhikari might be removed from the post of president of the TMC's East Midnapore district unit. Till Tuesday evening, however, no such announcements were made.Incidentally, BJP leaders have confirmed that Suvendu Adhikari is tipped to be the next chairman of Jute Corporation of India, which plays an important role in the state’s jute industry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-govt-removes-suvendu-adhikari-s-father-from-post-of-development-authority-101610462372391.html
12-01-2021||Lucknow||Packed in boxes and weighing around 400 kilos, Covid-19 vaccines reach Lucknow||The first consignment of Covid-19 vaccine arrived at Lucknow airport at 4 pm on Tuesday from Pune by an Indigo flight.As many as 1.6 lakh vials of Serum Institute of India (SII) Covid-19 vaccine, weighing about 400 kilograms, arrived in 11 boxes amid strict security at the airport.Minister of health Jai Pratap Singh was present at the airport to receive the vaccine.Speaking on the occasion, he said, “Today is a historic day in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic as its vaccine has landed in the state capital. The vaccine will be stored in safe places after being transported by special refrigerated vehicles.”He said the effort is to vaccinate all health workers in he the first phase.Visibly happy, chief airport officer, Adani Airports Limited's SC Hota said, “History has been created with the landing of the vaccine at Lucknow airport. The fight against coronavirus has entered its final phase. We are happy to have played our part.”Also read: SC asks committee it formed on farm laws to hold first sitting within 10 daysHe said, “All airport employees are proud to assist in the transportation of the vaccine in the state capital. It’s nice to be part of a fight against the pandemic.”At the airport, officials from the Airport Authority of India (AAI), local police, ministry of civil aviation, health ministry, Adani Airports Limited and Central Industrial Security Force received the vaccine that was transported to designated warehouses and hospitals in special GPS-enabled trucks.An AAI, Lucknow official, on condition of anonymity, said, “Our staff is prepared for the safe unloading of the vaccines on a short notice. The area was cordoned off immediately when the arrival of the vaccines was informed to us. Police was present in a sizeable number to ensure safe movement of the vaccine.”The local police had made special arrangements for safe transportation of the vaccines from the airport to the storage points. CISF officials guarded the gates from where the vaccine transport vehicles entered and left.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/packed-in-boxes-and-weighing-around-400-kilos-covid-19-vaccines-reach-lucknow-101610460820498.html
12-01-2021||Other||Live-in partner held for murder of woman in Bhalswa Dairy||A week after the body of a 35-year-old widow with head injuries and cloth stuffed in her mouth was found at her home in outer Delhi’s Bhalswa Dairy, the police on Tuesday said they had solved the case and arrested a 27-year-old man who had been living with her. Additional deputy commissioner of police (outer-north) Ghanshyam Bansal said that on January 4, the police had received a call regarding a woman lying dead at her home. A police team reached the spot and found the woman’s body on the floor,bleeding from the head.A piece of cloth was found stuffed in her mouth. A blunt wooden object with bloodstains was found near the body, suggesting that it was used to kill the woman, whose two children were also found at home. The crime scene inspection suggested that the killer had first attacked the woman with the blunt object and then stuffed the cloth in her mouth to gag her and stop her from screaming for help, the police said.“The woman’s body was sent to a government hospital mortuary for autopsy and a case of murder was registered. Teams were formed to identify and nab the suspect,” said additional DCP Bansal.During the probe, a police officer associated with the case said, on the condition of anonymity, the statements of the woman’s two children, aged 13 and 11 years, and her neighbours were recorded.“It was learnt that the woman’s husband had died around six years ago. For the past six months, a man from Bihar, identified as Mukesh alias Bucchu, had been living with her. The woman ran a roadside eatery and Mukesh had been working there for the past three years,” the officer said.Since Mukesh’s was also missing since the woman’s murder, he became the prime suspect and the police launched a manhunt to nab him. The police put his cellphone on surveillance and found its location to be outer Delhi.“We collected details about Mukesh’s relatives and friends and searched his possible hideouts in outer Delhi. He was caught on Sunday from Mukundpur area,” the officer added.During the interrogation, the officer said Mukesh confessed to the crime and said he attacked the woman following an altercation they had over getting married. “The woman wanted to marry Mukesh but he was not ready for it,” the officer said, quoting Mukesh’s disclosure statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/livein-partner-held-for-murder-of-woman-in-bhalswa-dairy-101610461035961.html
12-01-2021||Other||Civic chief proposes 11% hike in property tax||PUNE Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar has proposed a 11 per cent hike in property tax for the financial year 2021-22.Kumar is going to present the corporation’s annual budget at the end of this month and will seek the administration’s permission to increase the property tax before that.Standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne said, “The municipal commissioner submitted the tax hike proposal. We have decided to call special meeting and the committee will take appropriate decision on it.”Sources from the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), said, “We will not accept the hike in property tax proposed. Already citizens have suffered lot due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Many citizens lost jobs and businesses. Increasing property tax would be an injustice. This is an election year, and we cannot risk a tax hike this year.”Along with property tax, the municipal commissioner also proposed a hike in water tax. It has been already decided that the corporation increase the water tax every year by 5 per cent to execute the 24x7 water scheme.Rs130 crore windfallPune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is expecting additional Rs130 crore from property tax if elected members approved the hike. This includes an additional Rs110 crore from the recently merged 23 villages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/civic-chief-proposes-11-hike-in-property-tax-101610460315631.html
12-01-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand to get first consignment of Covid-19 vaccines on Wednesday||By Suparna RoyAs Uttarakhand completed its third dry-run of the Covid-19 vaccination process on Tuesday, officials said that the state will receive its first consignment of vaccines by Wednesday evening. The state would be getting 1,13,000 doses of vaccine in the first phase.Kuldeep Singh Martoliya, nodal officer of state's extended programme for immunization (nodal officer for Covid-19 vaccination) said that Uttarakhand government is expecting to receive vaccines from the Central government by Wednesday.“On Tuesday, we were informed that the first consignment of vaccines will arrive in Uttarakhand by Wednesday evening but the number of vials of the vaccine has not been informed. We are waiting for further information from the Centre,” said Martoliya.The state health department, through a statement released on Tuesday evening, informed that Uttarakhand will be getting 1,13,000 doses of vaccine from the Serum Institute of India.Sonika, director for the National Health Mission in the state, who uses her first name, said, "In the third dry-run, 350 vaccination sessions were targeted compared to which 343 sessions were successfully conducted. A total of 6,650 health care workers participated in the third dry-run compared to the target of 7,964, which makes the vaccination rate 84 per cent. Offline vaccination process was followed at three sites and 243 mock cases were reported where candidates faced reactions after vaccination."Also read: SC asks committee it formed on farm laws to hold first sitting within 10 daysDr Saroj Naithani, director in-charge of National health programmes in the state said, "With the 1,13,000 doses that the state government will be receiving in the first phase, only 50 per cent of the health care workers will be vaccinated as two doses are to be given. For the remaining 50 per cent, the state government will get vaccines from the Centre later."Speaking about challenges during the dry-run, Martoliya said, "Along with vaccination, we also conducted a dry-run of the webcast that will take place on the day of the launch of the vaccine with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. During the webcast, certain districts faced some technical issues, but apart from that, the dry-run was successful,” added Martoliya.The state health department has already informed that a total of 87,588 health care workers will be vaccinated in the first phase of the Covid-19 vaccine drive in Uttarakhand starting January 16.Dr Amita Upreti, director-general of health in the state said, “On the day of the launch of the vaccine, the process will first start at 41 sites across the state where the Prime Minister will be holding a two-way communication with the beneficiaries. This will be conducted at Government Doon Medical College Hospital and Susheela Tiwari Government Hospital.” The state has a total of 309 vaccination sites.Speaking on preparations for Maha Kumbh fair, which is scheduled to start from next week in Haridwar district, Dr Upreti said, “We have requested the Central government to give us extra vaccines for Kumbh also, however, the number has not been confirmed to us yet. A special health department team will be deployed during Maha Kumbh fair and all health care workers in the district have been trained on how to handle the situation.”Dr Naithani further added that in view of Mahakumbh, "all health care workers deployed at the fair will be vaccinated in the initial stages itself."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-to-get-first-consignment-of-covid-19-vaccines-on-wednesday-101610458684916.html
12-01-2021||Other||‘Other civic bodies should follow PMC and allow private coaching classes to start’||PUNE As the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has given permission to private coaching classes to start in the city, HT spoke to Bandopant Bhuyar, state president of the Coaching Classes Teachers Federation and Social Forum of Maharashtra State, about the opening up of private classes in Pune. Do you believe the PMC’s decision to allow private coaching classes to start was timely? Our organisation welcomes this decision of PMC and we are glad students will now benefit from coaching classes. At the same time I think the decision was a bit delayed, as for last three months we have been demanding that the state government allow private coaching classes to open. All other works and businesses have started in the state, only private coaching classes were not yet allowed. Schools were allowed to open, and so far, news about students getting infected in schools is not there. Other civic bodies should allow private coaching classes to open. Any instructions to members about safety measures to be taken while opening up? For us the safety of students is our top priority, so along with state and central government-guidelines related to Covid, we have also given several instructions to all our members in Pune and across the state. Right from sanitising the class premises, face mask compulsion, thermal checking of students and most importantly, consent from parents needs to be taken before joining the class. If a student shows any symptoms related to Covid, then s/he should be sent back to home and parents needs to be informed. Class owners in Pune are gearing up their preparations to start offline classes from this week. Any appeal to students and parents? Parents can freely send children to coaching classes, with all necessary safety precautions and following Covid guidelines. As the board exams are coming and also students have started preparing for entrance exams, coaching classes play a major role. Students want to join classes as they want to score marks in the exams, we are already to take care of their further academic studies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/other-civic-bodies-should-follow-pmc-and-allow-private-coaching-classes-to-start-101610458007527.html
12-01-2021||Other||Want to venture into restricted forests in Junnar? Get department’s permission first||Pune: The Junnar forest division under the Pune circle has made it mandatory for tourists and trekkers to seek its prior permission to explore the reserved forests not approved by the authorities. The rule also applies to those who want to rappel, valley cross or camp in forests or forts located in the division. The decision taken on January 10 has been to ensure the safety of tourists and protect the forest ecosystem, said forests officials. The Pune circle includes Pune and Solapur districts. Pune district has two divisions, Pune and Junnar, and one sub-division, Bhor. Junnar division has 5,826 sq km geographical area with 591.89 sq km under forest cover. “Tourists and trekking enthusiasts need to inform the taluka forest officer about their planned trip to forts or forests. Those who visit regular places using approved routes do not need to do this,” said Jayaramegowda R, deputy conservator of forests (territorial), Junnar division, Pune circle. “Some visitors take dangerous paths for trekking or to reach forts. There have been a few unfortunate incidents. Also, some tourists are not sensible towards environment. They dump plastic waste in reserved forests. There have been incidents of fire because of carelessness by visitors. The rule will help check such incidents,” said Jayaramegowda. Junnar division has four talukas under its jurisdiction and seven forts, including the popular Shivneri, Hadsar and Chavand. “How will the authorities enforce the rule? How will they monitor people in ranges?” said Vinayak Wadekar, trekker and member of rescue groups. For visitors’ sake Forest officials have been instructed to make catalogues of routes where rappelling, valley crossing and camps can be set up. The department will use Google images of these routes and places. Tourists and trekkers will need to submit application to forest officials at the taluka level with details of their planned routes. It will have to be approved by the forest officials. Follow precautions during jungle visits Exploring the woods can be a refreshing activity. Experts though cite some precautions to be followed by visitors to preserve the nature as reckless behaviour, like littering, badly impacts the forest environment. “Though many who love nature tends to take care of it, there are some who visit the greens just to have fun at a cost that damages the forests. I have seen people bursting crackers from the hilltops in Sahyadri ranges. It is reckless. Everyone must follow some protocols to preserve the nature,” said veteran mountaineer Umesh Zirpe. Zirpe listed Do’s and Don’ts to be followed during forest visits. Do’s Study the local culture before visiting the forests Respect local people and do not disturb their lives Study the spot’s capacity to accommodate people. Avoid overcrowding. Respect nature. Don’ts Do not “leave a trace” like dumping waste especially plastics Do not lit a fire while camping. It may cause wildfires Do not smoke Do not consume alcohol. Do not bring anything back from nature except memories. Do not harm the ecosystem||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/want-to-venture-into-restricted-forests-get-department-s-permission-first-101610457587462.html
12-01-2021||Dehradun||Mahakumbh: RT PCR report mandatory for incoming pilgrims for Makar Sankranti dip||By Sandeep RawatClearing doubts over Makar Sankranti festive bath on January 14, Haridwar district administration has stated that an RT PCR (Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction) negative test report will be mandatory for pilgrims arriving from other states.Thermal screening has also been made compulsory for hotels, dharamshalas, ashrams, guest houses and lodges before they check in pilgrims and tourists.District magistrate Haridwar C Ravi Shankar said that violation of the guidelines and standard operating procedures will lead to strict action under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, Epidemic Disease Act, 1897 and Covid Regulations, 2020. The RT PCR should be conducted within five days before the Makar Sankranti festive bathe.Meanwhile, elaborate arrangements are being put in place for Makar Sankranti bath which normally in previous Kumbh fairs used to be the first festive dip of the Kumbh. This time around, keeping the pandemic situation in mind, the Uttarakhand government has decided not to allow festive baths before Maha Shivratri (March 11).The entire Mela zone has been bifurcated into seven zones and twenty sectors with 1,500-odd security personnel to be deployed for the year’s first major holy dip.Also read: SC asks committee it formed on farm laws to hold first sitting within 10 days“Jal Police, State Disaster Response Force, mounted cavalry squad, sniffer dog squad, intelligence personnel, bomb disposal squad along with one company each of Border Security Force, Sashastra Seema Bal, Indo Tibetan Border Police, Central Reserve Police Force, Central Industrial Security Force and two units of Provincial Armed Constabulary will be deployed for the Makar Sankranti festive bath,” said Sanjay Gunjiyal, Inspector General, Mela Force.The mela zone will also be covered through Closed Circuit Television Cameras set up with 96 police controlled cameras and one thousand-odd private-institutional cameras footage.Traffic plan and diversion routes have has also been envisaged for Makar Sankranti festive bath with heavy vehicles entry to remain prohibited from the morning of January 13 till January 14 midnight.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/mahakumbh-rt-pcr-report-mandatory-for-incoming-pilgrims-for-makar-sankranti-dip-101610456994911.html
12-01-2021||Other||4-month-old male leopard cub rescued from road-side, treated, released back into wild in Junnar||PUNE A leopard cub lying in a semi-conscious state on the side of the road in Ghulepat the village, Otur, was rescued by a village rescue team, has been released into its natural habitat on Monday, after treatment by the Leopard Rescue Centre in Junnar.“It was a four-month-old male cub that was rescued by the forest department and a village the rescue team from Ghulepat village. The villagers found him in a semi-conscious state on the side of the road,” said Yogesh Ghodake, range forest officer, Otur.“He had an internal infection and he was wobbling while walking. By using plastic carrots using as bait, they captured him brought him to the centre in a cage. The leopard was under medical surveillance and treatment for four to five days and we released him on Monday near a location where he was found,” said Ghodake. Wildlife SOS veterinary officer Dr Nikhil Bangar said, “We were administering antibiotics and fluid therapy to ensure a safe recuperation after we found that he was dehydrating. The leopard showed signs of improvement over the next few days and a final examination deemed him fit for release. It is essential for the cubs in the wild to be reared by the mother for the initial few years of its life, in order to ensure they learn the skills of survival.”The forest officials said that initially, the villagers were apprehensive of the cub being released in the area. “However, they were more understanding of the situation on realising that this would further agitate the mother in search of her missing cub,” added Ghodake.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/4monthold-male-leopard-cub-rescued-from-road-side-treated-released-back-into-wild-in-junnar-101610456687458.html
12-01-2021||Kolkata||Tata Steel Kolkata Literary Meet 2021 put off due to Covid-19 pandemic||The 2021 edition of the Tata Steel Kolkata Literary Meet has been put off due to the Covid-19 pandemic.The literary meet management on Tuesday said that keeping in view the health and safety of all concerned during the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, the 2021 edition of the Tata Steel Kolkata Literary Meet, that is held every year in Kolkata in association with Victoria Memorial Hall, has been put off for now.However, as a gesture to mark the year and the iconic festival, a set of five webinars across the three evenings of January 29-31, 2021 will be organised, they said.This literary meet had hosted eminent writers such as Ruskin Bond, Vikram Seth, Paul Beatty, Alessandro Baricco, Valerio Massimo Manfredi, Thomas Keneally, Amitava Ghosh, Gloria Steinem, Jhumpa Lahiri, Dr Venky Ramakrishnan, Joanne Harris, Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee and Javed Akhtar, among several others in their past editions."The Tata Steel Kolkata Literary Meet will not be keeping its January appointment with the city and Victoria Memorial this year in view of the pandemic. The beating heart of the festival is the congregation of writers from the city and overseas. And the crucial impact of large audiences thronging the festival. Since neither is possible, we will take a pause," director of the Tata Steel Kolkata Literary Meet, Malavika Banerjee said."Unfortunately, the Lit Meet - arguably the city's most-anticipated annual cultural event - can't happen on-site this year. But we can't let a virus take away our love of reading, so we will be back bigger and better," Victoria Memorial Hall, Curator, Jayanta Sengupta said in his reaction.The lead sponsor Tata Steel had also expressed disappointment."We are indeed disappointed to not be able to host the Tata Steel Kolkata Literary Meet this year owing to the COVID-19 pandemic... We hope to be back with the next edition of the premier literary meet with increased participation of all our stakeholders," Tata Steel Vice President, corporate services Chanakya Chaudhary said. PTI BSM RG RG||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/tata-steel-kolkata-literary-meet-2021-put-off-due-to-covid-19-pandemic-101610456186884.html
12-01-2021||Chandigarh||BJP govt in Haryana let party's central leadership down on farm stir: Birendra Singh||With the farmers' agitation continuing for over six weeks, senior BJP leader and former Union minister Birender Singh on Tuesday said the party's government in Haryana and its leadership in Punjab didn't handle the issue properly and let the central brass down.However, Singh, who was Union Minister in the NDA government from 2014-19, said the intent of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the central government behind these farm bills was overall welfare of farmers."The intent of the Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the central government behind these three farm laws was to improve the quality of life of farmers and their overall welfare," Singh told PTI.Sounding critical of his party's own government in Haryana and its leadership in Punjab, Singh said the issue would have been resolved much earlier had the they addressed the farmers' apprehensions effectively in initial days of the protest."The BJP's government in Haryana and its leadership in Punjab let the party down by not addressing the farmers' apprehensions effectively against the three farm bills, when they were yet to be passed by Parliament and the protest was just beginning," he said.Hoping for an early resolution of the issue, the veteran leader from Haryana said, "If this issue is not resolved early, then it could have serious repercussions for the BJP-JJP government in Haryana in the long run."Singh said he may have opted out of electoral politics but will continue to remain active in politics and will now focus only on farmer issues.He said a think-tank in the name of his maternal grandfather and great farmer leader Sir Chhotu Ram has already been working in this direction.A Kisan Chamber of Commerce has also been formed under that think-tank, he said.Singh, who was a Rajya Sabha member from Haryana, had resigned from the upper house after his son Brijendra Singh got a BJP ticket from Hisar in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls.Brijender Singh, had defeated JJP leader Dushyant Chautala, in 2019 Lok Sabha polls, who later defeated Brijendra's mother Premlata in assembly polls in the same year and became deputy chief minister of Haryana in the BJP-JJP alliance government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjp-govt-in-haryana-let-party-s-central-leadership-down-on-stir-birendra-singh-101610454179734.html
12-01-2021||Dehradun||Mahakumbh 2021: Uttarakhand HC tells state govt to share SOP on crowd management||Concerned about the crowd management during the upcoming Haridwar Mahakumbh amid the raging pandemic, Uttarakhand High Court on Monday directed the state government to apprise it about steps taken to manage crores of pilgrims and check the possible spread of Covid-19.The HC also directed the assistant solicitor general of India to “take steps for issuance of Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) dealing with Kumbh Mela 2021”.The court gave these directions while hearing a bunch of PILs on Monday. The PILs have been filed by Sachdanand Dabral, Dushyant Mainali, and Rajendra Arya related to various issues regarding the fight against the Covid-19 epidemic in the state.Mainali said the HC has directed secretary health, district magistrate Haridwar and in-charge Kumbh Mela administration to hold a meeting on January 12, 2020, and apprise the court about the same on January 13.Also read: US planned to back India in addressing issues like border dispute with China“The court has also directed the chief secretary, secretary health department, district magistrate Haridwar and in-charge Mela administration to remain present in the hearing on January 13 through video conferencing,” he said.Before the epidemic, over 12 crore pilgrims were expected to participate in the four-month-long Mahakumbh. However, now, given the epidemic, it is not clear yet how many pilgrims would turn up. The first Shahi Snaan (royal dip) of Mahakumbh will be held on March 11 (Shivratri), second on April 12 (Somwati Amavasya) and the third on April 14 (Baisakhi Mesh Poornima).On November 24, the Uttarakhand government had stated that it was planning to allow pilgrims to attend Mahakumbh only after undergoing a Covid-19 test. Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, while reviewing the Mahakumbh preparations, said, "It is our responsibility to ensure that pilgrims can take holy bath safely amid this pandemic. For that, a mechanism should be put in place to allow only those pilgrims who have undergone a Covid-19 test and have tested negative," he said.On September 23, the HC had directed the state government to appoint monitoring committees across all 13 districts of the state to check the condition of treatment facilities for Covid-19 patients across hospitals, quarantine centres and Covid care centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/mahakumbh-2021-uttarakhand-hc-tells-state-govt-to-share-sop-on-crowd-management-101610453860383.html
12-01-2021||Delhi||First batch of Covishield vials reaches Delhi's central storage facility||The first batch of Covishield vaccine vials reached Delhi's central storage facility at the Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital (RGSSH) Tuesday afternoon, officials said.RGSSH Medical Director B L Sherwal said around 2.50 lakh doses of the Oxford University Covid-19 vaccine were delivered to the hospital.A SpiceJet flight carrying the vials landed at the Delhi airport around 10 am on Tuesday, four days ahead of the launch of a nationwide drive against the coronavirus. Thereafter, the Delhi Police formed a "green corridor" to safely transport the vaccine to the hospital, the Delhi government's largest Covid-19 facility."The truck carrying the vaccine arrived at the hospital around 3:10 pm," a source said.A special cold storage facility has been created at RGSSH to store the vials.Deputy Commissioner of Police (IGI Airport) Rajeev Ranjan said adequate security arrangements have been made at the storage site, and PCR vans will also cover them in their patrolling plans.Deputy Commissioner of Police (Shahadra) Amit Sharma said, "We have deployed the personnel at the storage area of the Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital."From RGSSH, the vaccine will be transported in a special vehicle under heavy security to the vaccination centres.The Delhi government has identified 89 sites in the national capital, including government and private hospitals, for the first phase of the immunisation drive meant for about three lakh healthcare workers.The All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Sadarjung Hospital, LNJP Hospital, GTB Hospital, Apollo Hospitals and Max Hospital will be among the vaccination centres here.The vaccination roll-out is expected to be kicked off from the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan (LNJP) Hospital On January 16 with a simple ceremony in the presence of Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and Health Minister Satyendar Jain, sources said.India's drugs regulator has approved Oxford COVID-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country.Covishield vaccine doses will be initially shipped to 60 consignee points from where those would be distributed to various vaccination centres across India, official sources said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/first-batch-of-covishield-vials-reaches-delhi-s-central-storage-facility-101610448828930.html
12-01-2021||Other||Haryana’s flagship Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao on track despite pandemic||Haryana registered 922 female births per 1,000 male in 2020 despite the Covid-19 pandemic posing challenges to keep the flagship Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao programme and the sex ratio at birth (SRB) on track. In 2019, Haryana’s annual SRB was 923, the highest so far. While the annual SRB of the state in 2011 was 833, it rose to 876 in 2015, and further improved to 900 in 2016. The annual SRB remained static at 914 in 2017 and 2018, and jumped to 923 in 2019. A top official said the SRB reaching 922 in a pandemic year was the result of numerous raids that the health department teams conducted to trap touts offering sex selection facilities. According to the latest data of the Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao programme, which chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar himself monitors, the cumulative SRB in 2020 rose to 922 even as the SRB registered a negative trend during the lockdown last year when the SRB had dipped to 914 in July. SIRSA MAINTAINS LEAD, KARNAL SLIPS Sirsa district led the state with an SRB of 949, while Karnal slipped to 900. In 2016 and 2018 also, the SRB of Sirsa district was the best in the state. The home district of chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar slipped to the 20th position even as in 2018 the SRB of Karnal was 934 when it secured the second spot. In 2020, Panchkula and Nuh were tied at second spot with an SRB of 939, Kurukshetra and Fatehabad both recorded 938, Panipat 935, Sonepat 932, Ambala 931, Yamunanagar 928, Kaithal and Hisar 922, Gurugram and Rewari 921, Bhiwani 920, Faridabad 915, Rohtak 912, Palwal 910, Jind 904, Mahendragarh 902, Karnal 900, Jhajjar 892 and Charkhi Dadri 891. HEALTH DEPT RAIDS KEPT TOUTS IN CHECK Top official sources said in spite of the coronavirus pandemic and the mounting pressure on the health staff, the touts didn’t have a free run. Last year, 100 first information reports (FIRs) were registered under the PNDT (Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques) and MTP (Medical Termination of Pregnancy) Acts. Of the total 100 raids conducted last year, 40 were inter-state raids of which 22 were conducted in Uttar Pradesh, including 11 in Ghaziabad. According to experts involved in this campaign, more than 31,000 girls have been saved in the wombs ever since the campaign was launched in 2014. According to official data, 47 FIRs were registered under the PNDT and MTP Acts between June and October 2020. In the first 10 months of 2020, 65 FIRs were registered against 61 during the corresponding period in 2019. In October, 11 FIRs were registered, while in September, the number was 17. In August, there were 10 FIRs, six in July and three in June. More than 2,000 accused have been arrested during this period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/haryanas-flagship-beti-bachao-beti-padhao-on-track-despite-pandemic-101610447507650.html
12-01-2021||Other||Fire fighting facility not functional in PMC schools||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation-run (PMC) claims their hospitals are well equipped with fire fighting equipment, but the civic body-run schools are yet to activate the facility.According to Right to Information (RTI) activist Pramod Dengale, only three schools and 12 PMC-run hospitals have completed fire audits till date.After the Bandara fire incident, installation of fire fighting systems in PMC hospitals and schools has come to the limelight.Shivaji Lanke, superintendent engineer, building department, PMC, said, “The municipal corporation has installed fire fighting system in maximum schools. However, we are waiting to get a three-phase electrical connection.”“We have written a letter to the PMC electrical department to provide a connection. We have installed overhead water tanks and pumps to lift water. It will take at least two months to activate the system in schools,” he said.PMC runs a total number of 309 schools, out of which 225 are Marathi medium, 50 English medium, 34 Urdu medium and two Kannada medium schools.At least 3,500 staff is engaged in PMC schools. Out of that, 2,500 are teaching staff and 1,000 are the non-teaching staff.Prashant Ranpise, chief, fire department, PMC, said, “PMC building department has installed fire fighting system at schools four years back. The school board had called us to check the fire extinguishers.”Shivaji Duandkar, who is handling the additional charge of the secondary school department, said, “We have installed only fire extinguishers in maximum schools, but we have to check their status.”During July 16, 2004, Kumbakonam, Tamil Nadu fire incident, 94 children aged between eight and ten years were charred to death, 20 of them beyond recognition. As per a Supreme Court order issued in 2004, it is mandatory for all schools to take up fire-safety measures such as installing extinguishers, smoke alarms, sprinklers, adequate fire exits and evacuation training for staff and studentsPMC, meanwhile, has fitted fire fighting systems at the two new e-learning schools-- one at Rajiv Gandhi Academy of E-Learning school & Science Junior college in Parvati Darshan and other KLVS e- learning PMC schools, Yerawada.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fire-fighting-facility-not-functional-in-pmc-schools-101610445166409.html
12-01-2021||Dehradun||Bird flu: High alert issued in Uttarakhand||A high alert has been sounded across Uttarakhand with the samples of two dead crows testing positive for bird flu in the stateSamples of two dead crows sent to a lab in Bhopal tested positive for avian influenza on Monday, forest officials here confirmed.With the confirmation of bird flu in Uttarakhand a high alert has been sounded across the state, State Animal Husbandry Minister Rekha Arya said.Officials have been asked to remain vigilant and keep a tab on import of chicken and eggs from neighbouring states like Haryana, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh, she said."However, so far bird flu has been confirmed only in wild birds in Uttarakhand. The poultry sector is by far free from the virus," Arya said."Still all precautions are being taken. People have been asked not to touch a dead bird and report the death to the authorities concerned," she said.Forest personnel engaged in collecting samples of dead birds or burying their carcasses have been asked not to do it without wearing PPE kits, the minister said.Nearly 300 birds mostly crows have been found dead in different parts of Uttarakhand including Dehradun, Rishikesh and Kotdwar over the past few days.While a majority of the carcasses have been safely buried, some of them have been sent for testing to the National Institute of High Security Animal Disease in Bhopal and Indian Veterinary Research Institute Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh.State level and district level committees were also set up on Tuesday to check the spread of avian influenza as per the guidelines and SOPs issued by the Centre, Animal Husbandry Secretary R Meenakshi Sundaram said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/bird-flu-high-alert-issued-in-uttarakhand-101610442894976.html
12-01-2021||Other||Punjab receives first consignment of 2.04 lakh doses of Covishield vaccine||With all set for the Covid-19 vaccination in the country from January 16, Punjab on Tuesday got its first consignment of 2.04 lakh doses of Covishield vaccine. The doses arrived at Chandigarh airport by a routine Indigo flight and were received by a team of the health and family welfare department led by state Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rajeev Bhaskar. The doses were taken to the vaccination store of the Punjab government in Sector 24, Chandigarh. “These doses will be sent to the district headquarters on Wednesday in special vans,” the nodal officer said. In the first phase, the government plans to vaccinate 1.5 lakh health workers and 3 lakh frontline workers, including police and security personnel and sanitation workers. The state has already conducted two dry runs for the vaccination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-receives-first-consignment-of-2-04-lakh-doses-of-covishield-vaccine-101610442286735.html
12-01-2021||Pune||Culling of hens begins in Parbhani after Avian influenza outbreak||Following the outbreak of Avian influenza, commonly-known as bird flu in the Parbhani district of Maharashtra, the state animal husbandry department has issued instructions for the culling of 6,000 birds. The culling will be completed in two days and all the birds in one-kilometre radius of the farm where the hens were found dead on Saturday will be destroyed, according to an official.Additional commissioner of Maharashtra animal husbandry department DD Parkale said, “The bird culling has started in Parbhani. It was a small poultry owned by a farmer where the hens were found dead. The birds in the one-kilometre radius of this poultry will also be destroyed. Orders have also been issued to seize that farm immediately to stop the spread of bird flu.” Following the deaths of hens, district collector Deepak Mugalikar had declared Murumba village in Parbhani as a prohibitory zone, banning the sale of poultry product in a five-kilometre radius. The teams from the animal husbandry department then collected samples of the dead birds and sent them to a laboratory in Bhopal and Pune to ascertain the cause of death. Parkale said, “As per the recent census, Maharashtra has a total of 7.42 crore hens. The commercial poultry has around 5 crore birds and the rest are either in small poultry or with farmers.” The bird flu outbreak has already been confirmed in Kerala, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh. Earlier, the bird flu was only found in crows, parrots in Mumbai and parts of Konkan region. However, in recent years hens have contracted it, which according to officials is more worrying as the birds are consumed by people, said an official from the animal husbandry department.Parkale said, “We have started the surveillance in Mumbai and Konkan region and instructed all the departments, mainly from irrigation and forest, to report the deaths of birds they found in their premises.” Venky’s general manager PG Pedgaonkar said, “It is natural that whenever there is news about bird flu, it creates panic among poultry farmers affecting the demand and pricing. However, the poultry farmers take enough care of their farms and do not allow outsiders to enter in to avoid contact.”Maharashtra animal husbandry department officials said, “An appeal has been made to avoid visiting the poultry farm where the bird flu was found, other farmers and some poultry owners visit such farms and become a source to spread bird flu among birds.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/culling-of-hens-begins-in-parbhani-after-avian-influenza-outbreak-101610442226023.html
12-01-2021||Pune||Pune dist has no cases of bird flu; admin forms 13 rapid response teams||Following the detection of bird flu cases in Parbhani district of Marathwada, the state animal husbandry department has formed 13 rapid response teams in Pune district. These teams, according to officials, are placed at block level with each team having four members who are coordinating with veterinary officials at the ground level. Till now, no case has been detected in Pune district, said the animal husbandry department on Monday. Bird flu outbreak in Maharashtra was confirmed on Sunday with the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD), Bhopal, confirming the cause of death of 800 poultry birds (chicken) in Parbhani due to avian influenza, also known as bird flu. “In Pune district, no unusual deaths of birds have been found till now. Since the past five days we have been on alert and we have created rapid response squads all over Pune district at the block level and they are in constant touch with veterinary officials who are monitoring the situation at the ground level,” said Dr Shitalkumar Mukane, Pune district deputy commissioner, animal husbandry department. Mukane is heading the rapid response teams at the district level. “No samples of birds have been so far brought to Pune. In fact till now all the samples which have been found in Pune district have been directly transported to NIHSAD,” added Mukane. The animal husbandry officials are also in touch with the forest department, water department and Zilla Parishad. “If any unusual death is noticed within Pune district, we will be bringing samples to the Department of Investigation Section (DIS), Pune and if the traces of H5N1 virus is found they will be transported to National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD), Bhopal, for further testing,” added Mukane. Pune district has 325 veterinary hospitals. Officials from these hospitals are keeping track of poultry farms and also conducting surveillance of any deaths of birds and chicken in nearby places. The job of all these officials at the end of the day is to give daily update to the rapid response team. “In Pune city as well, our officials are keeping a watch on all the poultry farms,” added Mukane. BOX Rapid response teams are placed at Haveli, Shirur, Bhor, Khed, Baramati, Indapur, Ambegaon, Purandar, Junnar, Mulshi, Maval, Daund and Velhe.Unusual deaths The unusual deaths of births have been reported at various places including Aurangabad, Solapur, Beed and Latur along with Mumbai and Nagpur. Taking serious note of stray incidents where birds were found dead, the forest department has increased its watch on Jayakwadi bird sanctuary where migratory birds visit in large numbers. Divisional forest officer Vijay Satpute said surveillance teams have been formed to keep an eye on migratory birds at the sanctuary. Meanwhile, Ahmednagar district’s Pathardi village also reported unusual deaths of poultry birds, promoting local administration to collect samples and send it to Pune and Bhopal labs. Around 50 backyard poultry birds on Monday were found dead at Pathardi’s a poultry farm following which district collector RB Bhosale confirmed the deaths saying that he has ordered an investigation to ascertain the cause of death. “50 backyard poultry birds in Ahmednagar district’s Pathardi village have also reported unusual deaths. Samples will be brought to Department of Investigation Section (DIS), Pune and it will be transported to National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD), Bhopal. No tests will be conducted in Pune,” said Dr DD Parkale additional commissioner of animal husbandry department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-dist-has-no-cases-of-bird-flu-admin-forms-13-rapid-response-teams-101610442167149.html
12-01-2021||Pune||Pulse polio vaccination postponed indefinitely||In view of the upcoming large-scale Covid-19 vaccination drive, the central government has postponed the National Pulse Polio vaccination drive indefinitely. The pulse polio vaccination drive covers all children under the age of five years. Every year, the pulse polio vaccination begins on January 17, however this year the first phase of Covid-19 vaccination will begin on January 16 and so the polio drive has been postponed. Dr Bhagwan Pawar, district health officer for Pune district said, “We have got a letter that the pulse polio vaccination drive has been postponed indefinitely as no replacement date has been mentioned. The pulse polio vaccination was to start from January 17.” Dr Archana Patil, director of health services, Maharashtra said, “We vaccinate close to two crore kids in the state alone every year in these five days from January 17 to January 22.” Earlier, the PMC had stated that with two major vaccination drives beginning around the same time, the civic body would face a shortage of manpower as schools and colleges are shut. The Covid-19 vaccination would go on for almost six months as close to 44 lakh people will be administered the dose twice. In order of priority, the health care workers, frontline workers, those with comorbidity and senior citizens will be given first preference. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) had earlier planned the polio drive wherein about 3.08 lakh kids were to be vaccinated in these six days. Despite no cases of wild polio reported since 2009, India has not yet been officially declared as polio-free by the World Health Organisation (WHO).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pulse-polio-vaccination-postponed-indefinitely-101610442165960.html
12-01-2021||Pune||Centre signs purchase order for 11 mn Covishield doses, transportation begins today||After days of speculation, Pune based Serum Institute of India (SII) finally received the official purchase order on Monday from the government of India for Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, named Covishield. According to a senior SII official who requested not to be named, the order placed by the Central government is of 11 million doses for the initial period of vaccination. With the purchase order in place, the first consignment of vaccine doses will leave Serum’s Manjari campus to the state government-owned National Cold Chain Resource Centre at Raja Bahadur Mill road in the city as well as to other cities on Tuesday. The first truck carrying the vials is set to depart from the institute at 4:30am in the morning, according to Serum institute spokesperson. The transportation of vaccines will be carried out by air as well as road in the trucks owned by private logistics firm Koolex Integrated Cold Chain Solutions with two-tier security by Pune police. The vaccine was recently approved for restricted emergency use by the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI). The first phase of the Covid-19 vaccination will kick start in the country from January 16 for healthcare workers. “The government purchase order is for 11 million doses and we currently have close to 100 million doses. Also, the cost has been finalised at ₹210 including the GST of ₹10 per dose. Mainly, the four locations where depots are located include Delhi, Mumbai, Karnal in Haryana and one in the south where vaccine doses will be taken initially. Also, the government has given us an indication that vaccine doses will be taken to 54 different locations apart from these four main locations,” said the SII official. The transport will be done through road and by flights, according to Koolex executives. The road transport would probably be for locations which could be covered within 12-15 hours, and for cities with longer distance, air mode will be used. But we will wait yet as the government has also made some arrangements with the transporter in Mumbai. “We will try to send it directly from here to where flights are available but where it is not possible, we will send it through cold vans. The purchase order was finalized at 3pm on Monday and so the transportation will probably begin to other cities on Tuesday morning. With the purchase order in place, we have started distribution of vaccines and we already have our own office at the Pune airport for regular vaccine movement. These vaccines will be sent both by commercial cargo flights or even passenger flights if they have space. We will pack the boxes with cold ice packs which can keep the vaccines safe for a few hours,” said the SII official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/centre-signs-purchase-order-for-11-mn-covishield-doses-transportation-begins-today-101610442106909.html
12-01-2021||Pune||PMC finalises 16 vaccination centres in Pune||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has finalised 16 vaccination centres at government and private hospitals in the city for the administration of the Covid-19 vaccine. The civic body will clarify if it plans on increasing the number of centres in the future if required. The vaccination will be administered beginning January 16, 2021. However, the central and state government are yet to clarify the details of the arrival of the vaccine and the mode of transportation. Rubal Agrawal, PMC additional commissioner said, “We have finalised and sorted out 16 centres where the Covid-19 vaccine will be administered. Until date, we’ve sent information of around 34,000 health workers to the state government which are mainly working in government as well as private hospitals.” According to Agarwal, the jumbo hospital on the COEP ground has been included in the list but it might close down soon. “We have planned to extend the number of vaccination centres from 16 to 99 in the coming days as per requirement,” she said. In the first phase, the PMC will administer the double-dose vaccine to 52,707 health workers. Therefore, the number of vaccine doses that will be required are 1, 15,825. A total of 11,074 health workers working in government hospitals, urban health centres and maternity homes and 41,628 health workers working in private hospitals will be prioritised for the doses. The PMC has organised a training session on Wednesday. As per the guidelines, a single vaccination centre can administer the vaccine to a total of 100 people in a day. The civic body will set up 99 booths at these 16 centres, and 402 employees will be tasked with completing the job. Four private hospitals, including the Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital, Noble Hospital and Joshi Hospital will have vaccination centres. According to the PMC health officials, the priority order for the vaccination has been fixed. Around 1.5 lakh citizens are to be vaccinated on a priority basis. The doctors, paramedical staff, nurses and frontline workers will be vaccinated first. The PMC does not have information about the number of vaccines; however, as per the state government directives, the civic body has sent details of health workers to the state. According to top state government health department officials, the central government will purchase vaccine from companies and a quota will be allocated to each state. Subsequently, the state will decide the priority city and disburse vaccine to cities or local bodies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-finalises-16-vaccination-centres-in-pune-101610442106163.html
12-01-2021||Pune||Ga Di Ma cultural festival moves to GD Madgulkar’s hometown||The Maharashtra Kamgar Sahitya Parishad, Gadima Sahitya Kala Akademi, Maharashtra Sahitya Parishad and Madgul villagers have organised the Ga Di Ma cultural festival to celebrate the 101st birth anniversary of Gajanan Digambar Madgulkar (October 1).This is the first time that the festival will be held in GD Madgulkar’s native village called Madgul, near Sangli. For the past 27 years, it has being held in Pune. There is also a special poetry programme based on Mandesh poetry.Marathi literary stalwarts and brothers GD Madgulkar and Venkatesh Madgulkar spent their childhood in the Madgul village in Mandesh. The book ‘Mandeshi Manase’ written by Venkatesh Madgulkar contains the personalities of the people of this area.‘Mandesh’ is a place in Maharashtra, which got its name from river Maan that flows through the region. The river Maan is called Maanganga. It is a tributary river flowing through Satara district of Maharashtra,” said Madgulkar.The three generations of Madgulkars will be attending the programme including grandson Sumitra, granddaughter-in-law Prajakta, and great granddaughter Paloma. All of them will be seen in attendance along with other Madgulkars from the village.“This year is special for the festival since various awards in the field of poetry, literature and culture will be announced. The festival will be attended by member of Parliament from Satara Shrinivas Patil and Dr Shripal Sabnis, chairman, Akhil Bharatiya Sahitya Sammelan,” said Sumitra Sridhar Madgulkar.Ulhas Pawar will be honoured with the Gadima Jeevan Gaurav while Pune Sahitya Parishad acting chairman Milind Joshi will be honoured with the Mrityunjaya Sahitya Puraskar, and Dr PD Patil, educationist and chancellor of the Dr DY Patil University will be awarded the birth centenary award.Exhibition centre in Kothrud In the next week or two, Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol will be finalising the date for the bhoomi pujan for the Ga Di Ma Smarak and exhibition centre planned at survey no 70, Kothrud in Pune. While the decision to build a memorial was taken by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) three years back, Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol has taken the lead and it will be built at Kothrud. The followers of GaDiMa had staged an agitation for delay in setting up a memorial at Balgandharva Rangmandir in 2018. The poet’s relatives are also seeking a smarak for the past 40 years. The chosen site is behind Wonder Society in Kothrud. It will be built on 6.27 acre. The proposed four-storey building will have an independent auditorium with seating capacity of 300 people, GaDiMa Smarak, exhibition centre and an aquarium. At the ground floor, the corporation will develop a cafeteria, besides separate parking area for two-wheelers and cars.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ga-di-ma-cultural-festival-moves-to-gd-madgulkar-s-hometown-101610441985843.html
12-01-2021||Pune||Class 11 admissions FCFS round to start from January 13||After completing three regular rounds and two special rounds of the first year junior college (FYJC) admission process, the deputy director of education (DYDE), Pune, on Monday released the timetable for the first-come-first-served (FCFS) round one starting from January 13. At least 36,000 seats are still vacant in the Pune division and all the remaining students who have still not completed their admission procedure will be considered in this round. “Part-1 of all application forms of students which have been verified with the following criteria are eligible for FCFS. Students who are not admitted to any college, in any round conducted so far or students who have cancelled their admission or rejected their admission till now and pass students of SSC Supplementary Exam – December 2020, also students who have got ATKT in March / December 2020 examination will be eligible for this round,” said Dattatray Jagtap, director of secondary and higher secondary education department. There are seven categories in the FCFS admission process, under the first category students with more than 90 per cent marks will be considered, then 80 per cent marks, accordingly 70, 60, 50 per cent or more will be considered in the following categories of the FYJC admissions. While in the last category, students with 35 per cent or above will also be considered for this round along with the earlier categories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/class-11-admissions-fcfs-round-to-start-from-january-13-101610441925908.html
12-01-2021||Pune||PMC chief seeks permission to call for water scheme tenders for newly-merged villages||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has planned to execute the water supply scheme in the newly merged 34 villages and sought permission from the standing committee to float tenders for the same.Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar submitted the proposal to the standing committee, and said, “As these 34 villages, previous 11 and newly merged 23 villages, have been added to the PMC limits, we need to execute the water supply scheme for these extended areas. For old city limit, 24x7 water scheme is going on. PMC had already given nod to appoint a consultant for the water supply scheme for the newly merged areas. The consultant will prepare the tender document for the water scheme.”The civic body has already appointed a consultant recently to prepare the water supply scheme for newly merged areas. Now, the consultant can prepare the proposal for the same.The water scheme will be available be for the old 11 merged villages including Lohegaon, Shivane, Mundhwa, Hadapsar, Sade Satra Nali, Ambegaon Khurda, Undri, Yeolewadi, Dhayari, Ambegaon Budruk, Uruli Devachi, Fursungi and newly merged 23 villages.Official from the water department who were aware of the developments said on condition of anonymity, “Around 20 per cent water works of the 24x7 water supply scheme has been executed till date. If the PMC prepares a scheme for the newly merged areas and start its execution early, both schemes can be executed simultaneously.”Along with the water supply scheme, all the other departments of the PMC have started surveying the merged villages to check existing infrastructure including drainage lines, garbage processing and street lights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-chief-seeks-permission-to-call-for-water-scheme-tenders-for-newly-merged-villages-101610441926310.html
12-01-2021||Pune||Digital map leads man to drive car into dam waters; 2 swim to safety, 1 drowns||Travellers commuting into unknown areas using digital maps will have to be cautious next times as their ride could turn fatal. Three Pimpri Chinchwad-based residents who had gone to visit Kalsubai peak in Akole tehsil of Ahmednagar district, drove straight into Pimpalgaon –Khand dam waters during the wee hours on January 9. Two of them swam to safety while the businessman, Satish Suresh Ghule (34), who was driving and had been navigating the way through a digital map application got stuck in the car. Ghule drowned as his car door did not open, when the vehicle sunk into the dam waters.According to the police,the deceased and his two other friends -Guru Satyaraj Shekhar (42) and Sameer Rajurkar (44), were on their way to Kalsubai Hill station for trekking as part of their weekend activity when the tragedy struck. Ghule relied on the shortest route shown on the digital map between Kotul and Akole. The trio did not know the area well and were dependent on the digital map application for directions and proceeded accordingly. Their car ventured onto the Kotul-Akole road as per the right directions of the digital map, but the trio did not know that the said road for closed for vehicular traffic as the area was inundated with dam backwaters following monsoon. The car reached the bridge which was 20 feet submerged in water and since it was dark with no warning signs, the car sped ahead directly into the water, police said.According to the police, before the trio could sense anything, the car drove straight into the dam waters. All three friends tried to save their lives by opening the doors of the car and swimming out of the water. Guru and Sameer managed to come out of the car, however, Ghule could not. The friends who survived, swam to safety and raised an alarm and alerted the villagers.Local residents came to know about the accident at 8am and rushed to the spot. Relatives of the three friends also reached the spot. The car and dead body of Ghule has been recovered. The locals went in to search for the car and fished out Ghule’s body, including the car with the help of an earth mover. Meanwhile, Ghule’s post-mortem was completed at Kotul rural hospital where the body was handed over to family members who also reached the spot upon hearing the news.Police inspector Abhay Parmar, incharge Akole police station, said, “The trio navigated through a digital map on GPS and it was around 1.30am. They did not realise that the road was closed. The public works department (PWD) should have shut the road permanently and there were no safety sign boards at the accident spot. We have lodged an accidental death related case in connection with the incident.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/digital-map-leads-man-to-drive-car-into-dam-waters-2-swim-to-safety-1-drowns-101610441866844.html
12-01-2021||Pune||Attempted murder by drunk man in Lohegaon||A 50-year-old man has been arrested by the Pune police on Sunday for attempted murder of another man who worked in a cardboard company in Lohegaon area.The arrested man has been identified as Ashok Kaluram Pathe (50) while the injured man has been identified as Ganesh Chaudhury (32), both residents of Khandvenagar in Lohegaon.Pathe was inebriated when he attacked Chaudhury - first with fists and kicks and then with a sharp knife.The man allegedly stabbed and slashed him on the neck, multiple times on the stomach, and on his right palm, according to his complaint.A case under Sections 307 (attempted murder), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), and 504 (insult with an intention of provoking breach of peace) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at the Vimantal police station. Assistant police inspector Shivpal Lahane of Vimantal police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/attempted-murder-by-drunk-man-in-lohegaon-101610441865887.html
12-01-2021||Pune||Three killed, at least 16 injured in four accidents in Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad||In four separate early morning collisions of heavy vehicles, three people were killed while at least 16 people have been reported as injured on Monday in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad areas.In one incident, a passenger bus collided with a truck near a petrol pump in Tathawade in Pimpri-Chinchwad, killing one person instantly, while in another collision between two trucks atop Navale bridge in Pune city, three people were killed, according to fire brigade officials of the respective areas.As the two trucks collided in Narhe, another truck fell off the Bhumkar bridge on top of a two-wheeler rider, injuring him.In yet another incident, a police car was among the three vehicles hit by a speeding truck in Narhe.WAKAD ACCIDENTIn the first accident which happened along the old Mumbai-Pune highway passing through Tathawade area of Pimpri-Chinchwad in the early morning hours of Monday, one man was killed.The deceased has been identified as Bajrang Gaikwad, the driver of the private passenger bus which collided with a truck.“The deceased man has been identified as the driver who had handed over the driving to another driver only a few minutes before the accident in Wakad and he was sleeping in the passenger seat beside the driver. When the collision happened, the sleeping man was thrown out of the glass window and killed. At least seven-eight people sustained minor injuries,” said assistant commissioner of police Shrikant Disale of Pimpri-Chinchwad police.The injured are being administered first aid at a local hospital before being discharged.NARHE AREATwo were killed and one was seriously injured after two trucks collided on the Mumbai lane of Mumbai-Bengaluru highway near a graveyard in Narhe.The deceased have been identified as Raju Bhagwan Mujalde (32) and Ajay Raju Bhagwan Mujalde (28), both residents of Badwani in Madhya Pradesh while the injured man has been identified as Ganesh KAilwas Bhadole (30) also a resident of MP and a driver of one of the two trucks, according to senior police inspector Devidas Gheware of Sinhgad road police station.“There were three people, including the drivers and a cleaner of the two trucks. This happened along the patch of Navale bridge that connects to Jambhulwadi in the early morning hours. All three bodies were mangled in the collision. The local police extracted one body while our team pulled out two others. There were no injured in the accident. Around 100 metres away from the spot, another truck had turned turtle but there were no injuries or casualties there. The driver and cleaner of that truck escaped,” said Prabhakar Umratkar, station officer, Sinhgad road fire station.The bridge forms a part of Mumbai-Bengaluru highway passing through Pune city limits.CONTAINER FALLS OFF BHUMKAR BRIDGEA container truck fell off the Bhumkar bridge in Narhe close to and around the same time when the two trucks collided.The truck fell on top of a two-wheeler rider identified as Manjunath Maruti Jalalegkar (45), a resident of Patil Heritage in Dattanagar area of Ambegaon.He suffered a fracture in one of his arms as the truck fell on his bike which he was riding.POLICE VEHICLE HIT: POLICEMAN, INFANT AMONG FOUR INJUREDFour people, including an 11-month-old baby and a policeman, were injured after a speeding truck hit an autorickshaw, a police van, and a private car at 8:30am. The collision happened at a road near the spot called ‘selfie spot’ due to a ‘ I Love Narhe’ sign board installed there.The injured police man has been identified as Krushna Ramchandra Kadam (52), an assistant sub-inspector, Yash Jadhav (11 month), his mother Sonali Jadhav (25) and the infant’s father Rajendra Jadhav (32) who was driving the rickshaw. The people in the car escaped uninjured.They were rushed to a nearby hospital for treatment while the police vehicle and the rickshaw were mangled in the accident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/three-killed-at-least-16-injured-in-four-accidents-in-pune-pimprichinchwad-101610441805827.html
12-01-2021||Other||Kerala: Opposition stages walk-out from assembly over 'backdoor appointments'||The Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) opposition staged a walk-out from Kerala Assembly on Tuesday over the alleged backdoor appointments by the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government.Congress MLA Shafi Paramapil gave a notice to move an adjournment motion against the alleged backdoor appointments conducted by the government instead of recruiting candidates from the public service commission (PSC) rank list.Raising the appointment issue, the Congres leader highlighted how a candidate, Anu, in Thiruvananthapuram committed suicide over the denial of a job. She had got her name in the PSC rank list.Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan replied by terming the incident as "unfortunate". It is the government's policy to recruit maximum people from the PSC rank list. The government has given employment to 1,51,513 people registered through employment exchange in the last four years," he said.Before staging the walkout, Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala alleged that maximum illegal appointments were carried out in the IT department, a portfolio handled by the Chief Minister himself.He also questioned the status of the probe by an inquiry committee kept to look into the appointments made by former IT secretary M Sivasankar.Assembly Speaker P Sreeramakrishnan denied 'leave for the motion' after the Chief Minister gave his explanations. In turn, the Opposition walked out in protest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kerala-opposition-stages-walk-out-from-assembly-over-backdoor-appointments-101610435952962.html
12-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi's minimum temperature dips to 4.3 degree Celsius||Delhi's minimum temperature dropped to 4.3 degrees Celsius on Tuesday, and is likely to dip further in the coming days, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.  The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded a minimum of 4.3 degrees Celsius, three notches below normal, an IMD official said.  Delhi had been registering above normal minimum temperatures till Monday, as a cloud cover persisted over the city under the influence of successive Western Disturbances.Delhi's minimum had settled at 7 degrees on Monday, 7.8 degrees Celsius on Sunday, 10.8 degrees Celsius on Saturday, 9.6 degrees Celsius on Friday and 14.4 degrees Celsius on Thursday, the highest in January in four years, according to IMD.The cloud cover over the national capital has prevented a steep decline in the minimum temperature so far, the IMD official said. Clouds trap some of the outgoing infrared radiation and radiate it back downward, warming the ground.However, the minimum temperature has started declining with the commencement of northwesterly winds from snow-capped mountains towards the plains starting Saturday, the official said.The mercury is set to drop further. Moderate to dense fog is also predicted over the capital on Thursday and Friday, the IMD official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-minimum-temperature-dips-to-4-3-degree-celsius-101610429089943.html
12-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s air quality poor, could improve later today: IMD||The air quality of Delhi remained in the “poor” category on Tuesday, with India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecasting an increase in wind speeds during the day, which is expected to bring relief to the city.The hourly average air quality index (AQI) at 7am on Tuesday was 249. Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recordings show that on Monday the overall AQI of Delhi was 243, also in the “poor” zone.Also Read: Better air quality, drop in minimum temp likely over parts of northwest IndiaMeanwhile, the IMD also forecasted that the maximum temperature during the day time is expected to be lower, as icy cold winds from the snow clad states of Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh is expected to blow over Delhi in the coming days. IMD said that on Tuesday, Delhi’s minimum temperature was expected to be around 6 degrees Celsius, while the maximum temperature is likely to be around 18 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-air-quality-poor-could-improve-later-today-imd-101610420371647.html
12-01-2021||Delhi||Damages sought for property confiscated during Emergency||The Delhi high court on Monday sought to know the Centre’s stand on a plea which has claimed damages from the government related to a property on Central Delhi’s Kasturba Gandhi Marg that was confiscated during the national emergency in 1975.Justice Manoj Ohri issued summons on the plea filed by the children of 94-year-old Veera Sarin, who had recently moved the Supreme Court seeking to declare the national emergency “unconstitutional”.The court issued summons to the directorate of estate (DoE), ministry of labour and employment, and the competent authority under Smugglers and Foreign Exchange Manipulators (Forfeiture of property) Act (SAFEMA) in the suit asking them to file their statements.In their plea, Sarin’s three children — Rajiv, Deepak and Radhika — have said they are the owners of the property of Ansal Bhawan on KG Marg that was forfeited from their father by the authorities under the SAFEMA Act in 1998 and it was leased out to DoE prior to its confiscation. The DoE stopped paying rent to them from May 1, 1999.The suit said in July 1975, a preventive detention order was passed by the Delhi government against plaintiffs’ father under the provisions of Conservation of Foreign Exchange and Prevention of Smuggling Activities Act and show cause notices were also issued to him.The suit has sought damages of ₹2.20 crore, ₹9.89 lakh, ₹43.5 lakh as loss of market rent, outstanding maintenance charges and outstanding property tax from May 1999 to July 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/damages-sought-for-property-confiscated-during-emergency-101610405349554.html
12-01-2021||Delhi||Amenities at Army vets plots: HC tells DJB to act||The Delhi high court on Monday asked the Centre to take a decision within four months on the regularisation of land allotted to 53 war veterans, residing in the Sainik Farms area while hearing their plea seeking basic facilities like water and sewerage.The plea stated that the 65-acre land allotted in 1961 by an order of defence ministry for residential purpose is authorised and duly registered under the records.The court, however, noted that the land allotted to the petitioners was an agricultural land and cannot be used for residential purposes.Justice Jayant Nath asked the secretary, ministry of defence, to convene a meeting of functionaries and said that secretary, ministry of urban development and Delhi’s chief secretary may also be a part of the committee to take an expeditious decision.The court also directed the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) to provide potable drinking water to the petitioners, adding that they cannot be deprived of a right to access to drinking water merely on the ground that it is an unauthorised colony.“Merely because the petitioners were allotted the plots cannot be a ground to insist that the area is for residential purposes. The contention of the petitioners to the contrary claiming that the area is a residential area is a misplaced..,” the judge said.The petition had claimed that currently water is being supplied for drinking purposes through four tube wells as an interim arrangement which is being maintained by the Residents Welfare Association (RWA).The petitioners contended that the despite paying all taxes and having their property duly registered, they have been denied basic amenities. It has said their land has been declared as unauthorised and hence the MCD is not permitting any repair work or granting sanctions for building plans.In 2019, the Centre had notified the National Capital Territory of Delhi (Recognition of Property Rights of Residents in Unauthorised Colonies) Regulations, 2019 — to regularise 1,700 unauthorised colonies. The notification, however, stated that ownership rights will not be conferred on affluent unauthorised colonies. The Union ministry of housing and urban affairs has identified 69 such affluent colonies, which includes Freedom Fighters Enclave, Neb Sarai Extension area, Chattarpur Enclave, Sainik Farms, Mahendru Enclave and Anant Ram Dairy, among others.The court noted that the “peculiar” circumstances of the case and said that it cannot be denied that the land was given for the residential purposes to the veterans. “Keeping in view the above facts and circumstances, in my opinion, the respondents are duty bound to take an appropriate decision based on the cogent facts regarding the status of the said area known as ‘Defence Services Enclave’,” the court said in a 21-page judgment.There was no response to the court judgment from the Delhi Jal Board, the ministry of housing and urban affairs, South Delhi Municipal Corporation and Delhi Development Authority (DDA).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/amenities-at-army-vets-plots-hc-tells-djb-to-act-101610403663287.html
12-01-2021||Lucknow||AAP MLA Bharti held in Rae Bareli||Aam Aadmi Party MLA Somnath Bharti was arrested in Uttar Pradesh’s Rae Bareli on Monday for allegedly making derogatory remarks against the state’s chief minister Yogi Adityanath, shortly after a man threw ink at the AAP leader as he was leaving a guest house.The events were slammed by the Aam Aadmi Party, which alleged that Bharti was first attacked and then framed.Bharti had reached Rae Bareli on Sunday night to inspect its state-run primary schools, and was stopped by the police when he was leaving the guest house on Monday morningAccording to a purported video clip from Saturday, Bharti, while talking about medical facilities in Uttar Pradesh, said in Hindi, “Children are being delivered in hospitals, but of dogs”.Shortly after ink was thrown on him on Monday, Bharti, in another video clip, was apparently seen arguing with the policemen around him, saying he would strip them of their uniforms. He was also apparently heard telling the policemen to let CM Yogi Adityanath know his “death is imminent.”People around Bharti were heard asking police officers to ensure the arrest of the man who hurled ink at him.Amethi police on Monday travelled to Rae Bareli to arrest Bharti, a former Delhi cabinet minister, after Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) worker Somnath Sahu registered a police complaint on Sunday over his alleged remarks on the state’s medical facilities day earlier.According to Rae Bareli additional superintendent of police, Daya Ram, a case was registered under sections 507 (criminal intimidation by an anonymous communication) and 153A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony) of the Indian Penal Code.Later on Monday, Bharti was remanded to judicial custody in the Sultanpur district jail. His bail plea will be heard on Wednesday. In a tweet in Hindi, the MLA said: “You have ink thrown at us, got goons to attack us, registered false cases and then pressured court to put us in jail. Yogi-ji, we will fight.”Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal also tweeted at Adityanath on Monday. “Yogiji, our MLA Somnath Bharti ji was going to inspect your government schools. Ink was thrown at him? Are your schools so bad? If someone goes to check your schools, why do you get so scared? Fix the schools. If you do not know how to fix them, you should ask Manish Sisodia.”UP finance minister Suresh Khanna said Kejriwal should apologise for Bharti’s comments.“AAP wants to exercise Naxal politics in UP. But it (AAP) will not succeed,” he said, referring to AAP’s announcement that it would contest the 2022 polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/aap-mla-bharti-held-in-rae-bareli-101610403252326.html
12-01-2021||Delhi||Four parks shut, govt says bird flu cases limited to a few areas||With bird flu confirmed in the national capital, the Delhi government’s animal husbandry department has advised government agencies to take precautionary measures at parks and water bodies in their jurisdictions. While more dead birds were found on Monday and samples were taken from various parts of the city for testing, no decision has been taken on the closure of parks as yet.As on Monday evening, four parks — Sanjay Lake, Hastsal district park, Dwarka Sector 9 park (all maintained by the DDA) and the Central Park in Mayur Vihar Phase 2 (maintained by the East civic body) — were closed to the public.Ten of the over 110 samples sent to various laboratories have tested positive for avian influenza on Monday morning. While eight came positive in the morning, two more positive reports reached by Monday evening.A senior animal husbandry official said, “So far, the infection has been restricted to a few pockets. Therefore, there is no need to close all parks. We have asked agencies to close parks where samples have tested positive for bird flu.”The eight samples that tested positive were the ones of dead crows and ducks picked up from Sanjay Lake park in Mayur Vihar Phase 2, Dwarka Sector 9 and Mayur Vihar Phase 3.Government agencies such as the Delhi Development Authority (DDA), New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC), the three municipal corporations, and the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), which are in charge of major parks and water bodies in the city said a majority of parks continue to remain open to public and they are closely monitoring the situation. As on Monday, only Sanjay Lake and Hastsal district park have been closed to the public.After the government confirmed bird flu in the Capital, culling of live birds was initiated from 8am on Monday in Sanjay Lake Park in Mayur Vihar Phase 2. Culling in more areas will follow soon, one of the officials said.The NDMC has restricted the entry of visitors near the duck corner at Lodhi Gardens, while at the seven biodiversity parks under the DDA, people have been advised to avoid going near the water body and birds.“We are yet to decide whether to close parks. As of now, we have only restricted entry of visitors near the enclosed duck corner at the Lodhi Gardens and our veterinary doctor is monitoring the situation. The duck corner has been cordoned off and we have sprayed a lime solution in and around the enclosure to reduce chances of the virus infection. Nehru Park is open; however, public have been advised not to go near birds,” a senior NDMC official said, requesting anonymity.The central public works department (CPWD), which maintains a few parks such as the Buddha Jayanti Park, said that it has not closed any of the parks as yet.“The DDA district park in Dwarka’s Sector 9 was closed to the public after samples of two dead crows tested positive for avian influenza,” a senior DDA official said. With this, three DDA parks were shut, as on Monday evening.Scientists at the DDA biodiversity parks said they are monitoring the health of migratory birds since December 28 and no carcass has been found so far. Teams have been formed in each biodiversity park to monitor the situation. “We have put up advisories near water bodies asking people to stay away, though no flu case or dead bird has been found in any of the parks,” said Faiyaz Khudsar, a scientist at the biodiversity parks.He added, “We have a functional ecosystem which is very complex. Pathogens usually don’t survive in such a complex ecosystem. We have a lot of migratory birds and the situation is under control.”The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) also maintains green spaces near heritage sites. On Sunday, six birds were found dead at the Red Fort and two at Jantar Mantar. A senior ASI official said, “We have not got any advisory from the Centre or the Delhi government on closing parks. The samples from Red Fort and Jantar Mantar have been sent for testing.”Sunder Nursery, one of Delhi’s popular heritage parks, continues to remain open as no case has been found there. Ratish Nanda, CEO of the Aga Khan Trust for Culture that maintains the park, said, “We are actively monitoring birds in Nizamuddin-Sunder Nursery area on a real-time basis. At the slightest sign of trouble, we will take all required steps to safeguard visitors.”At Naini lake in Model Town, a popular boating destination, the North Delhi Municipal Corporation has asked visitors to not go near the duck enclosure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/four-parks-shut-govt-says-bird-flu-cases-limited-to-a-few-areas-101610402855269.html
12-01-2021||Delhi||Govt amps up action as bird flu cases confirmed in Delhi||Delhi on Monday became one of the 10 states in the country with confirmed cases of avian influenza, or bird flu, even as authorities announced a ban on the sale of processed and packaged poultry brought from outside the city as a precautionary measure aimed at stopping the spread of the disease.At least 10 samples from three locations of the over 120 samples sent to Bhopal’s National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD) of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research have returned positive, government officials said, launching a drive to either cull or isolate birds in east Delhi’s Sanjay Lake Park that has already been shut.Carcasses of 17 ducks were found on Sunday, triggering a scare and prompting authorities to declare it an “alert zone”. Officials said the culling of live birds at Sanjay Lake Park began at 8am on Monday. They said large-scale culling might not be required in Delhi immediately.In an online press briefing in the afternoon, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said the Delhi government was making all efforts to check the spread of bird flu and that chief minister Arvind Kejriwal was monitoring the situation.“...there is a ban on selling packaged chicken or processed chicken from outside in Delhi to prevent infection from one state to another,” he said, asking people not to panic. “Those who consume chicken and eggs...if you cook your chicken and boil eggs properly, there is no risk..,” Sisodia added.A senior government official, who did not want to be named, explained that date and place of packaging will be considered before imposing the ban.“For example, if a company sources its poultry from Haryana, which has reported cases of bird flu, authorities will check manufacturing dates on packages in the storage unit of the company in Delhi, or at its retail outlets. If the manufacturing date is after the outbreak in Haryana, it will have to be trashed immediately. If it is pre-outbreak, then it will be approved for sale. Similarly, if a company has already brought its stock from a state which is not yet affected, sale of those packages will be allowed,” the official said.“We will also issue advisories to people asking them to check the manufacturing dates of packaged chicken and eggs. People are advised to check from which states the product is coming before purchasing and the manufacturing date of the same. However, bringing fresh stock into the city will not be allowed as of now,” he added.Later in the evening, state animal husbandry unit issued an order, saying the “entry and sale of dressed/processed/canned poultry products is also required to be restricted as a measure of abundant precaution in view of public health and safety”.On Saturday, Delhi announced the closure of the Ghazipur wholesale poultry market for 10 days and banned the entry of live birds from outside Delhi. Over the past four days, about 150 birds have been found dead across the city.Though Sisodia said in his briefing samples of ducks from Sanjay Lake area were the only ones in Delhi that tested “positive so far”, officials clarified later that 10 samples from three locations in the city were found with bird flu virus.In the morning, officials said three of the positive samples were from Sanjay Lake Park in Mayur Vihar Phase 2, four from Mayur Vihar Phase 3, and one from Dwarka Sector 9.By evening, two more samples — from a district park in Dwarka Sector 9 — tested positive, prompting authorities to immediately shut the facility for public.Apart from the Sanjay Lake Park and the one in Dwarka Sector 9, the Delhi Development Authority (DDA), which maintains most of the big parks in the city, has shut down at least two parks — in Hauz Khaz and Hastsal — until further orders. Agencies such as DDA, the New Delhi Municipal Council and the three civic bodies issued separate advisories on Monday, asking people not to go near water bodies in parks and monuments.“Doctors of all 48 veterinary hospitals of the Animal Husbandry Unit are continuously monitoring bird flu across Delhi. Also, 11 rapid response teams have been set up which are continuously collecting samples,” a Delhi government statement said.Delhi lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, too, reviewed the situation in the Capital.On Twitter, he said officials have been advised to enhance surveillance and undertake requisite measures for control and containment. “Citizens are advised to maintain caution and reach out to help line # 011-23890318, in case of need of any assistance,” he tweeted.As of Monday, nine other Indian states have reported the outbreak: Kerala, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, and Maharashtra. No case among the human population has been reported.“We have seen a slight reduction in the sale of raw chicken. This has been compensated by the increase in sales of fish and seafood, mutton and pork products,” Siddhant Wangdi, chief executive officer at meatigo.com (an online marketplace selling seafood and meat products), said.“We source our poultry products from certified and licensed supply partners who have their own network farms. There has not been any report of the outbreak of avian influenza or any other disease from any of our supply partners in the past 30 days....Further, when we receive the birds, each of them undergoes a safety and quality check and is vacuum packed to curb any kind of contamination,” he said.The current outbreak — migratory birds are believed to be behind it — began in December-end, barely a few months after India declared the country free from the disease on September 30, 2020.While the risk to humans from the disease is considered low, past outbreaks among farm birds have needed extensive slaughtering programmes to contain the outbreak.Only those coming in close contact with infected (alive or dead) birds for a long time can contract the H5N1 (strain of) bird flu virus, which does not usually spread from person to person, according to the World Health Organization (WHO).Most other strains of bird flu cannot be transmitted to humans. Experts say well-cooked chicken or poultry products such as eggs (heated over 70 degrees Celsius) kill the virus and are, therefore, safe to consume.“The receptor used by the virus that causes the bird flu is very different from the receptors needed for human flu. So it is very unlikely for the infection to pass on to humans unless there is some recombination or mutation that allows the virus to enter human cells. Second, it does not pass from humans to humans. It is not a respiratory infection like Covid-19 and can happen to humans only if they are handling the dead infected birds or poultry that has been infected,” said Dr Shobha Broor, former head of the department of microbiology at Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS).“However, once a person is infected, the disease tends to be severe. The bird flu virus usually attaches with the lower respiratory tract and causes pneumonia,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/govt-amps-up-action-as-bird-flu-cases-confirmed-in-delhi-101610398461749.html
12-01-2021||Delhi||Petition in HC seeks to nullify all child marriages performed in Delhi||The Delhi high court on Monday sought the response of the Delhi government on a plea to declare all child marriages in the national capital as “invalid”.A bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh issued notice to the Delhi government and sought its stand on the petition by a woman who has also sought to nullify her wedding which was allegedly performed when she was a minor.The woman has also sought a declaration from the court that every child marriage performed in the state should be null and void right from the onset.The court issued notices to her father, brother and husband seeking their response to the plea before February 12, the next date of hearing.According to the woman, represented by advocate Tanveer Ahmed Mir, when her wedding was performed in April 2010, she had no option but to give her consent as at that time, she was awaiting her class 10 results and could not go against her parents’ wishes.The woman, who claims to be born on December 10, 1993, said she was residing peacefully with her parents till November 19, 2020, when the person to whom she was married as a child came with his parents to take her to Gujarat with them.When she objected, she was allegedly beaten up by her brother at the behest of the husband. Subsequently, she escaped from her home on November 20, 2020, and has remained in hiding since then, the petitioner claimed. She also sought protection from the husband and her family.Advocate Mir told the bench that his client was staying at an undisclosed location as she feared that her family would force her to agree to the live with a marriage that was performed when she was a minor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/petition-in-hc-seeks-to-nullify-all-child-marriages-performed-in-delhi-101610397335900.html
12-01-2021||Delhi||No admission in Sindhi language this year in only DU college offering subject||With no student opting for the Sindhi language as a subject in undergraduate programmes this year, the only Delhi University (DU) college offering the subject at that level is struggling to sustain the department, officials said. Administration members at Deshbandhu College said the University’s decision to not provide any additional cut-off relaxations this year has led to such a situation.Of DU’s 63 colleges, only Deshbandhu College offers Sindhi as a subject to BA (programme) students. Officials at the college said the only sanctioned teacher post for the subject has been lying vacant for the last two years. While the college managed to enrol five students in the programme in 2019, none opted for it this in 2020 even as the admission process concluded on December 31.Chotu Ram Meena, admission convenor for BA (programme) courses at Deshbandhu College said, “We have been managing to get a few admissions in the language every year by providing some concessions in the cut-off. However, the University [last year] asked us not to make an exception for any Modern Indian Language (MIL) as a subject. Therefore, we have not got any admission in Sindhi this year.”Colleges across DU offer cutoff relaxations if a candidates choose MILs as a subject while enrolling in the BA/B Com (programme). However, in 2020, the university did not allow any additional criteria in the admission process.DU dean of admissions Shobha Bagai said, “The admission committee had decided that colleges would not be allowed to have any additional admission criteria in order to avoid any confusion among students as the admission process was shifted online. Giving relaxations in cut-off for opting MIL is also an additional criterion being used by several colleges. But the administration later had allowed colleges to give relaxation and fill the seats under the two special cut-offs.Principal Rajiv Agarwal said the college has identified two first-year BA (programme) students, who belong to Sindhi families and counselling them to opt for Sindhi as a language subject. “Only a few students opt for Sindhi language every year, because of which it has become difficult for the college to sustain the department. We had been seeking permission from the university to allow us to provide Sindhi as a language option to students enrolled in courses other than BA (Programme) as well. It’s not necessary that the students from Sindhi backgrounds will enrol in that course. But there has been no response [from the university] so far.”When asked why the sanctioned Sindhi teacher post has been vacant, Agarwal said, “The post has to be filled by a Schedule Caste (SC) candidate and we have not been able to find one of as of now. The DU department of MIL takes the classes of our present students.”Rajiv Tekchandani, an associate professor of Sindhi at DU’s department of Modern Indian Languages (MIL), said that there has been a similar situation there as well. Tekchandani, who is the only teacher across DU for the language — said that the department offers certificates and diploma courses in several courses. “Till last year we had only two students in Sindhi language, one in each course. Besides, there are currently only two MPhil and three PhD scholars enrolled in the language. The National Education Policy (NEP), 2020, talks about promoting Indian languages. Sindhi is one of the 22 languages recognised in the Constitution. The University needs to make Sindhi available for students of other courses as well so that it doesn’t die a slow death here. The University should also set up a board to promote the language just like it has for Hindi,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-admission-in-sindhi-language-this-year-in-only-du-college-offering-subject-101610397143920.html
12-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra targets 50,000 shots on first day of vaccination drive||The Maharashtra government expects around 50,000 of its health workers to be inoculated on the first day of the world’s biggest Covid-19 vaccination drive, starting from January 16 across India, with around 100 people set to be vaccinated at each of the 511 centres in the state. Mumbai has the most vaccination centres at 72, while Pune has 55.Although the Centre, during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s video conference, did not clarify on the number of vaccine doses the state will get in the first round, the state expects 1.6 million doses for 800,000 workers over the next two months.State health minister Rajesh Tope said, “The state has set a target of 50,000 health workers to be vaccinated on the first day itself. Each of the 511 centres will have a batch of 100 health workers enrolled for vaccination. Some of the health workers may opt out of the vaccination. But the health workers are expected to set an example before the common people by getting vaccinated. There is no need be afraid of it as it is a safe vaccine.”Meanwhile, the state reported 2,438 new Covid-19 cases and added 40 deaths on Monday. The daily caseload slumped below 2,500 after two weeks. The case tally has thus touched 1,971,552, while the toll has reached 50,101. Mumbai reported 434 cases and seven deaths, taking the tally to 299,326 and toll to 11,193. After the video conference with Modi, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray held a meeting with health department officials. “The transportation, storage of the vaccine and the vaccination drive should be implemented with due diligence. The cooperation among various state machineries is important. The authorities should also ensure that the people do not lower the guard and continue with Covid-19 appropriate behaviour,” he said.There was no word from the Centre over the bearing of the cost of the vaccine doses meant for people in the third phase and beyond. “We have been told that the Centre is going to bear the cost for the vaccine to health and frontline workers in first two phases. These two phases will take at least 4-5 months to complete, after which the vaccination of the people above 50 years of age and with comorbidities will begin in third phase. The Centre expects more vaccines to throng the market by then, making the decision over the cost easier. The prime minister is expected to hold another meeting with chief ministers after 60% of the vaccination is completed in the first two phases (health and frontline workers),” said a health department official, requesting anonymity.Rajesh Bhushan, secretary, ministry of health and family welfare, made a presentation in the meeting, giving information about the procedure to follow for the vaccination.“We have vaccination centres at 511 locations across the state and they are all set to roll out the drive from the first day. We have highest, 72, centres in Mumbai, 55 in Pune and the allotment of the centre to the districts and cities are based on the number of enrolments of beneficiaries. We expect the first phase of vaccination of 800,000 health workers to be finished in less than two months. Though there is no clarity on the stock of the doses we are getting from the Serum Institute of India, in Pune, we do not see any problem in rolling it out smoothly,” said Dr Ramaswami N, commissioner, family welfare, and director, National Health Mission.He said the number of centres would be increased, gradually based on the need.DN Patil, state immunisation officer said, “We will augment our capacity to 1,000 booths in coming days from 511 after gauging the demand and availability of vaccine doses. In first phase, 800,000 health workers will be vaccinated. Of them, 780,000 have been registered on the Co-WIN app. We have to implement the drive without allowing our routine works to be hampered.”Meanwhile, the state’s case fatality rate (CFR) dropped to 2.54%, while the number of active cases slightly rose to 52,288. The highest number of active cases are in Pune (14,779), followed by Thane (10,142) and Mumbai (7,370). State’s recovery rate has touched 94.75% as 1,867,988 people have recovered from the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-targets-50-000-shots-on-first-day-of-vaccination-drive-101610393920372.html
12-01-2021||Mumbai||11 months on, two arrested for killing 75-year-old woman in Versova, Mumbai||After 11 months, DN Nagar police arrested two persons responsible for the murder of 75-year-old Gulabi Narayan Shetty. Police officers scanned through footages of 250 CCTV cameras between Andheri and Bandra. The arrested accused, Rashedul Johad Sheikh, 21, and Noorali Abdul Sattar, 23, have several cases of house break-ins registered against them, said police. On February 23, 2020, Shetty’s daughter and another relative found her dead in her home. Shetty, who owned Chaitanya Hotel in Versova and lived alone in a house above the hotel, also owned two shops and a room, all of which she had rented out. According to Shetty’s daughter Manorama, her husband had gone to visit Shetty at 4pm on the day of the incident but she did not respond to his knocks, hence he left. Later, around 8pm, Manorama and their relative Ramni visited the house and knocked at the door, and got no response. They then found that the door was open and found Shetty’s body in the washroom with her legs, hands, throat and face tied with a yellow sari. Following a complaint, DN Nagar police registered a case of murder and began investigation by scanning CCTV footages from nearby areas and narrowed down on two suspects from Bandra (West) with a criminal history. Police officers said that in one of the CCTV footage they saw two men entering Shetty’s house and leaving with a bag after some time. “But we could not identify them as they had covered their faces after noticing the CCTV camera present outside Versova police station. We tracked the two men till Infinity Mall, and then saw them entering a by-lane in Bandra, after which we could not trace them,” said a police officer. Later, police officers found that the two accused stayed in the locality and kept a watch for them. “The accused did not return to their house for 11 months. But when they returned to their house late last night, we arrested them,” said deputy commissioner of police, zone 9, Abhishek Trimukhe. Manorama said “We deserve justice. The two killers should get maximum punishment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/11-months-on-two-arrested-for-killing-75-year-old-woman-in-versova-mumbai-101610393378034.html
12-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai school bars students from writing exams citing pending fees||Parents of some students studying at Somaiya School in Vidyavihar alleged their children were not allowed to write exams scheduled on Monday citing pending fee payments. Virendra Singh, parent of a Class 5 student, said when his daughter tried to open the link for the Mathematics paper scheduled at 8am, she could not access it. “Even the zoom link meant for proctoring wasn’t working. First, we thought that it must be a technical glitch from our end. But soon, more parents began writing on the parents’ group. When we called the teachers, we were told that the children were not being allowed due to pending fee payments. Teachers asked us to speak to the school but no one from the school was ready to speak to us,” said Singh. Singh said that he had paid one instalment of the fees but the school had asked him to clear all the remaining due, to the tune of over ₹1 lakh. “There has been some financial pressure and we promised the school that we will pay one more instalment now and others soon. But they asked for the whole amount at once,” he added. A spokesperson from the school said, “The management had made available various options for payment of fees including that of paying in four quarterly instalments, monthly instalments, and deferred payment on a case to case basis, should conditions not permit a parent to pay at the stipulated time. Despite all our efforts to ease the burden on parents, some have not even paid first/second instalments even though we are now approaching the end of the current academic year. Thus with a heavy heart, we have had to restrict the defaulting students from appearing for internal tests which can be retaken at any point in time. None of the defaulting students scheduled to appear in the CBSE board exam this year have been barred from appearing in the ongoing pre-board exams.”Another parent from the school said the school had been making calls to make payments over the past few days. “We have been receiving calls and emails and some of us ended up paying in pressure. But some others who are unable to pay are facing a tough time,” said a parent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-school-bars-students-from-writing-exams-citing-pending-fees-101610393198245.html
12-01-2021||Other||Mother, brother among 3 held for murdering 24-year-old man, dumping body at Kasara Ghat near Mumbai||A 24-year-old Thane resident was allegedly murdered by his mother and elder brother in Thane as they were upset with him over his alcohol addiction. The victim’s mother and brother had, along with their relative, slit the man’s throat and dumped it at Kasara Ghat on January 7. Kasara police said they have arrested all the three accused on Monday. On January 9, Kasara police received a call from the victim’s 28-year-old brother Shivaji Agale, stating that he had got a call from an unknown person who told him that the body of his younger brother Satish was found at Kasara Ghat. “We found the body at the spot. We had taken the victim’s family along with us for identification of the body and began investigating the case. The call data revealed that the victim’s brother had not received any call from an unknown caller. So we became suspicious and began interrogating him and his mother. The victim’s mother then confessed to the crime,” said a police officer. The police refused to reveal the mother’s name. The family said they took the step because Satish was unemployed and used to assault his mother and Agale under the influence of alcohol. He used to always ask his mother and Agale for money to buy alcohol and when they would not give him money, he would pick up fights with them. “The mother and the brother in their statement said they were going through financial crisis during the lockdown. Agale had lost his job and used to do odd jobs to make their ends meet. When they could no longer bear the daily assaults, Agale, his mother and one of their relatives Amrut Birare, slit Satish’s throat when he was asleep. They packed the body in a gunny bag and dumped it at Kasara Ghat. His mother wanted perform his last rites, and thus made up the story of getting a call from an unknown caller, so that they could claim the body. We have arrested all three accused,” said senior inspector Suresh Manore from Kasara police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mother-brother-among-3-held-for-murdering-24-year-old-man-dumping-body-at-kasara-ghat-near-mumbai-101610392961527.html
12-01-2021||Mumbai||SM Chitre, Mumbai astrophysicist and Stephen Hawking’s friend, dies at 84||City’s renowned astrophysicist and mathematician Sashikumar Madhusudan Chitre, who was among very few Indian scientists to have called British physicist Stephen Hawking a friend, passed away on Monday. Chitre, 84, was undergoing treatment at Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani Hospital for age-related liver ailments. Considered a stalwart in the Indian astronomy community, he was the recipient of the Padma Bhushan award in 2012. After retiring as a senior professor from Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR), Mumbai, in 2001, Chitre went on to aid the establishment of the Centre for Excellence in Basic Sciences (CEBS), a collaboration between the University of Mumbai and department of atomic energy. He was the academic chairperson and professor emeritus of CEBS.Chitre is survived by wife Suvarna, and sons Yohan and Yatin who are based in the United States.“Professor Chitre’s passing is a grievous loss to the scientific community. He was one of the stalwarts of the astronomy community but there was hardly any sector in academics that was untouched by him, be it nuclear energy, space energy, education or technology,” said Mayank Vahia, Chitre’s former colleague and professor at department of astronomy and astrophysics, TIFR. A student at the University of Cambridge since 1959, Chitre did his PhD at the varsity’s department of applied mathematics and theoretical physics between 1962 and 1963, when Hawking too did his PhD at the department. In an earlier interview to HT, Chitre had described Hawking as his ‘office mate’ who taught him to play croquet.Chitre had also served as president of the Astronomical Society of India (ASI), chairman of the Indian National Committee for Astronomy, chairman of the Bombay Association for Science Education. His passion for science education is well-remembered among colleagues. “What professor Chitre will be most remembered for is his passion for getting people excited to take up science. More than his contributions as an astrophysicist, his teachings marked important turning points in the lives of his students who decided to pursue a career in science,” said Divya Oberoi, secretary, ASI, and associate professor at the Pune-based National Centre for Radio Astrophysics affiliated to TIFR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sm-chitre-mumbai-astrophysicist-and-stephen-hawking-s-friend-dies-at-84-101610392960235.html
12-01-2021||Mumbai||No new strain of Covid-19 in Mumbai Metropolitan Region: Tata Memorial Centre||A section of media had reported that researchers from Tata Memorial Centre (TMC) in Kharghar found three mutations of the Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, till September 2020 and that one of the three was linked to the new strain found in South Africa. However, the hospital refuted the report on Monday. According to the report, TMC’s Kharghar unit called ACTREC found three mutations — K417N, E484K and N501Y — in three patients in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region out of the 700 Covid-19 samples it put through gene sequencing. Of these, E484K mutation is similar to the strain found in South Africa. The hospital refuted the claim and ssaid, “It is hereby clarified that no sample in the set sequenced in ACTREC, TMC had either the UK or the South African variant of this virus. The South African variant is characterised by the presence of all three mutations, ie K417N, E484K and N501Y, which was seen in none of our patients.”A media report had stated that E484K strain is less susceptible to the antibodies produced in the body against Sars-CoV-2. In response to that, Dr RA Badwe, director of TMC, said, “These claims are uncertain and speculative at this point of time. All the studies which claim this are under peer review,” he said.TMC carries out genetic sequencing for cancer patients, most of them from Navi Mumbai, Panvel and Raigad. During the ongoing pandemic, the hospital also started testing and sequencing of Sars-CoV-2. Dr Badwe also said that viruses undergo modification when they remain in the environment for a long time. “But so far, the presence of any genetic mutations in the virus has not yet had an adverse impact at the population level in India,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-new-strain-of-covid-19-in-mumbai-metropolitan-region-tata-memorial-centre-101610392718433.html
12-01-2021||Other||Kalyan civic body shortlisted for the final round of Covid-19 innovation award||The Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) is the only municipal corporation in Maharashtra to be shortlisted for the final round of Covid-19 innovation award under the smart city mission of the Central government. The Covid-19 innovation award selection, one of the many smart city awards, was held in August wherein the Smart Kalyan Dombivli Corporation Limited (SKDCL) did a presentation on all the innovative works undertaken by KDMC to fight the pandemic. The civic body, which once reported more than 600 Covid-19 cases daily in September, has now reduced the number to below 100. It has also achieved zero deaths last week. On Monday, the civic body recorded 65 cases while the number of progressive cases was 62,573. “The civic body is the only one from the state to be shortlisted for this award. One major reason for the selection is the collaborative approach by the civic body in fighting the Covid-19 cases in its vicinity. The civic body has roped in many residential groups, doctors and other authorities to curb the cases,” said a representative of SKDCL who did not wish to be named. Dr Pratibha Panpatil, epidemic officer, KDMC, said, “This comes as a great motivation to us as we have been working round the clock to make sure cases are reduced. Once KDMC had the highest per day cases, but we have managed to bring down. One idea that we introduced is the concept of family doctors where doctors were asked to help patients. The Indian Medical Association had collaborated with the civic body from day one as well.” The final round of the award is to be held this week online.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kalyan-civic-body-shortlisted-for-the-final-round-of-covid-19-innovation-award-101610392298136.html
12-01-2021||Mumbai||At ₹54,714 crore, Maharashtra topped in inviting fresh investment in October-December 2020: Study||With investment worth ₹54,714 crore, Maharashtra has emerged as the top state to attract fresh investments between October and December 2020, according to a study released on Monday.Projects Today, a pan-India project monitoring organisation based in Mumbai, in its study released on Monday, stated that Maharashtra accounted for one-fifth of the total investment brought in via new projects in the country. The state is followed by Andhra Pradesh, which attracted investments worth ₹29,784 crore and Gujarat, which attracted investments worth ₹26,530 crore. The other states in the top 10 list include Tamil Nadu, Orissa, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Telangana, Punjab, Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan. With 2,085 new projects, India attracted investment worth ₹276,482.7 crore.The report also states that the top two projects in the country between October and December 2020 are also from Maharashtra. The biggest deal worth ₹20,000 crore is JSW Steel’s plan to expand its existing plant at Dolvi in Raigad district to the country’s largest steel plant with a capacity of 14 MPTA (million tonne per annum). This is followed by a ₹7,500-crore deal with K Raheja Corp to build at IT (information technology) park in Thane.“The memorandums of understanding (MoUs) signed by the Maharashtra government helped the state in topping the fresh projex table in Q3/FY21. The MoUs inked were for setting up mega data centres, steel projects and industrial parks in the state,” the report states. In December 2020, Maharashtra signed MoUs with 25 firms, managing to bring in overall investment over ₹1 lakh crore last year, state industries minister Subhash Desai said at a recent event. In November, the state government signed MoUs worth ₹34,850 crore with 15 national and international firms.In June it had signed MoUs worth ₹16,300 crore with 12 major companies while inaugurating Magnetic Maharashtra 2.0 – the second instalment of the global investors’ summit.Shashikant Hegde, chief executive officer, Projects Today, said, “Maharashtra is a preferred location for many industrialists, but we must remember that these are announcements. How much of it bears fruit on ground will be seen in the coming months.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/at-54-714-crore-maharashtra-topped-in-inviting-fresh-investment-in-october-december-2020-study-101610392178485.html
12-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra wants reservation cases of other states to be clubbed with Maratha quota petition||After seeking the intervention by the Centre in the ongoing hearing on Maratha reservation in the Supreme Court, the Maharashtra government has now decided to approach other states to club all the petitions regarding reservation for a collective decision. Chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray is expected to write to CMs of other states, which are facing legal battle on reservation, to join hands for early redressal.Maharashtra government convened a meeting on Monday of the senior counsel representing defendants including Maratha community organisations to chalk out the strategy ahead of hearing in the Apex court from January 25. During the meeting held at Maharashtra Sadan in Delhi, the senior counsels discussed the role of the Central government about reservation cases from various states.Public works department (PWD) minister Ashok Chavan after the meeting said that the government has already decided to write a letter to the Prime Minister for intervention. “Besides the Central government, if the states whose reservation cases are pending in the Apex court should demand to club these cases for collective hearing. It will expedite the legal process,” he said.According to legal experts, who attended the meeting on Monday, said that the Central government’s intervention will help in resolving contentious issues related to the 50% cap on reservation, state government’s authority to award reservation in exceptional and extraordinary circumstances. The experts also suggested to the Maharashtra government that in the wake of the 102th amendment of the Constitution, state rights have come under doubts and that the inclusion of the reservation in the 9th schedule too needs to be discussed. “We had a detailed discussion on various aspects including the provisions in articles 15 and 16, provisions of schedule 9 of the Constitution, constitutional validity of the reservation and effect of the reservation given to economically weaker sections. We will chalk out a procedural and substantive strategy within a week for the hearing in the Apex court,” said Abhishek Manu Singhvi, senior counsel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-wants-reservation-cases-of-other-states-to-be-clubbed-with-maratha-quota-petition-101610392117905.html
12-01-2021||Mumbai||At 23.5° C, Mumbai records highest minimum temp in January since 2011||Following a spell of cloudy weather, the city recorded its hottest January day in a decade on Monday as minimum temperature rose to a record high. A minimum temperature of 23.5 degrees Celsius, 4.1 degrees above normal, was recorded at Colaba weather station, representative of south Mumbai. At Santacruz weather station, representative of Mumbai and suburbs, the minimum temperature was 23 degrees Celsius, 5.7 degrees above normal. This is the highest minimum temperature recorded in the month of January since 2011 and has surpassed the earlier highest minimum temperature of 22.3 degrees Celsius recorded on January 28, 2014. The maximum temperature at Santacruz was recorded at 34.5 degrees Celsius, 3.6 degrees above normal. This is at par with last year’s highest maximum temperature for the month of January recorded for two consecutive days (25 and 26). At Colaba, the maximum temperature was 31.4 degrees Celsius, which was 1.3 degrees above normal. “After a spell of cloudy days, temperatures in Mumbai soared on Monday. This is because of the clear skies and warm easterly winds,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general of western region, India Meteorological Department (IMD).Meanwhile, increased temperatures provided respite from pollution as air quality improved slightly. Though an overall air quality index (AQI)—a pollutant measuring indicator— of 256, which falls in the poor category, was measured on Monday, it improved from Sunday’s 301 (very poor).The AQI was calculated by the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) as the average of indices recorded at 10 locations in the city and suburbs. SAFAR categorises AQI levels for PM2.5 in the 0-50 range as good; 51-100 as satisfactory; 101-200 as moderate; 201-300 as poor; 301-400 as very poor and above 400 as severe. At Colaba, the air quality was the worst with an AQI of 337 (very poor), followed by Bandra-Kurla Complex at 332. “Although AQI has improved slightly, colder temperature and low ventilation is still prevailing and will keep Mumbai’s AQI in the brink of poor to very poor for next two days,” said a spokesperson of SAFAR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/at-23-5-c-mumbai-records-highest-minimum-temp-in-january-since-2011-101610391878274.html
12-01-2021||Mumbai||TRP fraud: Mumbai Police file 3,400-page supplementary charge sheet||The Mumbai Police on Monday filed a 3,400-page supplementary charge sheet in connection with the television rating point (TRP) case against Vikas Khanchandani, CEO of Republic TV; Romil Ramgarhia and Partho Dasgupta, CCO and CEO of Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC), respectively.“We have filed supplementary charge sheet in the TRP case with around 3,400 pages. There are statements from 59 witnesses including 15 experts including forensic experts. Further inquiry will continue in the case,” said Sachin Vaze, assistant inspector, who is heading the criminal intelligence unit (CIU) that is probing the case. The agency has also named Republic TV’s COO Priya Mukherjee as accused in the charge sheet. The agency in the charge sheet claimed that Ramgarhia manipulated TRP rating of rival channels of Republic TV to show increase in TRP of Republic TV, around 40 weeks since its launch.The police alleged that Dasgupta was also involved and communicated with office-bearers of Republic TV through official email id and WhatsApp chats. The police claimed this was done by the two for their personal gain.Meanwhile, Dasgupta, who is still in judicial custody, has approached the sessions court for bail after the magistrate court refused to grant bail to him. The plea will be heard on January 15.BARC had filed a complaint through Hansa Research Group alleging that certain television channels were rigging TRP numbers. Hansa is one of BARC’s vendors on engagement with panel homes or people’s meters.TRP, which is measured by recording viewership data at sample households, is crucial for attracting advertisers. According to police, some of these households were bribed to tune into Republic TV and a few other channels. Republic TV had, in the past, denied any wrongdoing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/trp-fraud-mumbai-police-file-3-400-page-supplementary-charge-sheet-101610391578087.html
12-01-2021||Other||Bird flu: TMC sets up control room to tackle complaints of dead birds in Thane||After test reports from ICAR-National Institute of High-Security Animal Diseases (ICAR-NIHSAD), Bhopal confirmed that the dead birds found in Thane were infected with bird flu; the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has set up a control room to tackle complaints of dead birds in the city. The corporation has appealed to residents to contact officials concerned on the helpline numbers if they come across any dead birds. “We have formed a special cell to handle any bird death-related complaints; this has been done to ensure these complaints are considered on priority. With the current bird flu scare, it is essential that people do not come in contact with any infected birds, and hence we have to respond immediately. This cell will take stock of any bird flu instances within the Thane Municipal Corporation,” said Sandeep Malvi, deputy commissioner, TMC. The regional disaster management cell’s toll-free number 1800 222 108 or 022 -25371010 can be used to submit complaints related to bird deaths. Last week, TMC received complaints of 15 pond herons and two crows having died in Vijay Nagri in Thane. These birds were taken for tests, which revealed the presence of avian influenza.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bird-flu-tmc-sets-up-control-room-to-tackle-complaints-of-dead-birds-in-thane-101610391521934.html
12-01-2021||Mumbai||Car designer Dilip Chhabria faces arrest for cheating comedian Kapil Sharma||The crime intelligence unit (CIU) of Mumbai Police’s crime branch produced car designer Dilip Chhabria in court on Monday to seek permission to arrest him in the cheating case registered by actor and comedian Kapil Sharma for allegedly taking ₹5.7 crore for a vanity van and not delivering it. The court has granted CIU permission to arrest Chhabria. He will be produced before a court on Tuesday where CIU will seek his police custody. Defence lawyer Vagish Mishra, who was representing Chhabria, argued, “It is a civil dispute which is being coloured into a criminal case.” “The vehicle was 90% complete and the complainant did not come to finalise the colour of the vehicle as well as minor compliance, due to which it was not delivered.” Sharma approached CIU on January 7 and his statement was recorded. In his statement, Sharma said he had approached Chhabria to design a vanity van in 2017 and paid ₹5.3 crore to him between May 2017 and May 2018. Later, when he found that there was no progress on his order, he approached Chhabria in July 2018. Chhabria then allegedly demanded ₹40 lakh more as GST (goods and service tax), which Sharma paid in July 2018. However, after a few months, there was still no development on the van. Sharma then asked for his money back, said a police officer. Chhabria then said he would deliver the van but asked for an additional ₹60 lakh. Sharma then approached the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) in 2019, following which NCLT froze Chhabria’s account. Chhabria then sent Sharma a bill of around ₹12 lakh for parking the vehicle and keeping spare parts in factory premises. After receiving the bill, Sharma approached Mumbai Police’s economic offences wing (EOW) and registered a complaint. Now CIU is registering a separate case against Chhabria and will investigate the case. Chhabria was arrested by CIU on December 28, 2020, after police found that he and his firm, Dilip Chhabria (DC) Designs Pvt Ltd, had allegedly availed loans from some non-banking financial companies (NBFC) by posing as customers looking to buy DC sports cars. Police raided his factory in Pune and seized 14 cars and 40 engines. After his police remand ended on January 7, Chhabria was produced in court again and was granted judicial custody for 14 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/car-designer-dilip-chhabria-faces-arrest-for-cheating-comedian-kapil-sharma-101610391457862.html
12-01-2021||Mumbai||Bird flu threat in Mumbai: Byculla zoo on high alert for its 200-plus aquatic, exotic birds||Following confirmed reports of bird flu infections in the city and state, authorities at Veer Mata Jijabai Bhosale Udyan And Zoo (Byculla zoo) have been put on high alert to ensure none of the birds inside the premises get infected.According to zoo authorities, there are over 200 aquatic and exotic birds inside the zoo, and amid the outbreak of bird flu, authorities have started ensuring increased hygiene monitoring while serving food and the general atmosphere in which the birds are kept.“In the case of Byculla zoo, we do not have a scenario where there is mixing or mingling of exotic and aquatic birds with migratory birds, and hence, the chances of infection are less. However, we have to be on alert due to which we have increased our surveillance,” said Dr Sanjay Tripathi, director of Byculla zoo.“We would have had to worry of infection spreading if say we had ponds at which the zoo birds and migratory birds drank water. However, at Byculla zoo, our over 200 birds are caged,” he added.According to zoo authorities, they have increased surveillance by ensuring the staffers wash their hands before serving the birds’ food or medicines and keeping general hygiene at its maximum level to ensure zero chance of the zoo’s birds getting infected.Byculla zoo authorities said that as of Monday, there are no plans to conduct screening of the exotic and aquatic birds at the zoo. “There are no plans to screen any birds yet. But if such guidelines are issued, we will act accordingly,” said Dr Tripathi.Byculla zoo has been shut since March 2020 owing to the outbreak of Covid-19 and there has been no announcement regarding its reopening.On Sunday, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) had reported complaints of 11 dead birds in Chembur. Of the 11 birds, samples of two were sent by the state’s animal husbandry department for testing on Sunday. On Monday, it was learnt that the two birds had tested positive for bird flu.Before this, 13 birds were reported dead in Thane. On Monday, the district authorities in Parbhani had also confirmed that 800 chickens in a village died due to bird flu.According to BMC officials, the state government is expected to issue directives in the form of measures to be taken in Mumbai when it comes to poultry retailers and shops in the city.Ajit Narawade, assistant municipal commissioner of M-East ward that covers Chembur, said, “We have not got any directions in regards to poultry retailers and shops in the city, but at the ward level we will carry out inspections after receiving instructions from the commissioner and state government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bird-flu-threat-in-mumbai-byculla-zoo-on-high-alert-for-its-200-plus-aquatic-exotic-birds-101610391339395.html
12-01-2021||Mumbai||Masks, not stopping breath, best way to prevent Covid-19 infection: IIT-Madras study||A study by the Indian Institute of Technology Madras (IITM) has found that the process of transporting Sars-CoV-2-laden saliva droplets deep inside the lungs of an individual increases if they hold their breath. The Sars-Cov-2 virus causes Covid-19. Led by professor Mahesh Panchagnula from IITM’s department of applied mechanics and consisting of research scholars Arnab Kumar Mallik and Soumalya Mukherjee, the research team modelled breathing frequency in a laboratory. Their findings show that low breathing frequency increases virus’s time of residence therefore increases the chances of deposition and consequently infection in an exposed individual. The results of the study were published in November 2020, in the reputed peer-reviewed journal, Physics of Fluids.The researchers said the study shows how different dimensions of lungs effect an individual’s susceptibility to Covid-19. “Covid-19 has opened a gap in our understanding of deep pulmonological systemic diseases. Our study unravels the mystery behind how particles are transported and deposited in the deep lung. The study demonstrates the physical process by which aerosol particles are transported into the deep generations of the lung,” said Panchagnula.Explaining their laboratory model, Panchagnula said, “We have been consistently studying and understanding the mechanics of breathing lungs. Infections like Covid-19 spread through sneezing and coughing as they instantly release droplets. Our team simulated the droplet dynamics in the phantom model of a lung by studying the movement of droplets in the small capillaries, which were of a diameter similar to the bronchioles.” Water was mixed with fluorescent particles and aerosols generated from this liquid were used with the help of a nebulizer for the experiments. “These fluorescent aerosols were used to track the movement and deposition of particles in the capillaries,” he said. Panchagnula said the science shows wearing masks in public spaces is advantageous as a protection against infection. “Use of masks not only contains the infection-laden droplets from an infected person, but also ensures others don’t come in contact with these droplets,” he said.Apart from focus on the effect of diseases like Covid-19 on lungs, the IITM study also paves the way to develop better therapies and drugs for respiratory infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/masks-not-stopping-breath-best-way-to-prevent-covid-19-infection-iit-madras-study-101610391338313.html
12-01-2021||Mumbai||FCFS round for FYJC admissions to be held across Maharashtra from January 14 to 31||The Maharashtra education department on Monday announced that the first-come, first-served (FCFS) admission round for first-year junior college (FYJC) students would be conducted between January 14 and 30. Students who are yet to receive a college seat or have not taken admission and those who wish to cancel their current admissions can take part in these rounds. In all, seven admission rounds will be conducted in phases for students, depending on the score brackets under which they fall – above 90%, 80%, 70%, 60%, 50%, all passed students and ATKT (allowed to keep terms) students, respectively. Under the FCFS round, students can claim seats against vacancies shown in the portal on the designated date. Once students claim a seat and proceed for admission, they can confirm their seat in the given college. All quota admissions and surrender of quota seats will continue throughout the FCFS round. Students who wish to cancel their admissions to a college can do so, and participate in the phase that follows the cancellation process. The department said that the FCFS round would be the last round of admissions for FYJC this year. Currently, over 1.24 lakh seats are vacant in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) after five admission rounds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fcfs-round-for-fyjc-admissions-to-be-held-across-maharashtra-from-january-14-to-31-101610391157856.html
12-01-2021||Chandigarh||After senate and syndicate, fate of Panjab University deans uncertain too||With the senate and the syndicate gone, there are fresh concerns over the future of deans of various faculties of Panjab University whose terms are set to end on January 31.After the last elections of deans in December 2019, chances are less they will be held now before the tenures end, which means the varsity will be left without deans from February 1.The varsity is already functioning without any governing body as the elections for senate and syndicate were not conducted last year.Deans are usually elected by the senators, added members, professors and heads of the departments. According to the PU Calendar, each faculty elects its dean before January 31 every year and both the dean and the secretary, thus elected, hold office from February 1 to January 31 of the year following.Deans preside over faculty meetingsThe PU Calendar also lays down that every faculty shall consider recommendations of the board of studies/board of control in regard to the matters related to syllabi and the courses, minimum qualifications required for admission to various courses and other matters. They forward the same to the academic council and/or the syndicate.Chaman Lal, who is dean faculty of languages, said, “As the governing body is already gone, the democratic structure will crumble after the term of deans and the Board of Finance (BoF) ends. After that, it will only be the V-C without any democratic body.”The deans are also members of committees for CAS promotion and direct recruitment of teachers and there is uncertainty as to how the process will go on after January 31.Moreover, the research degree committee (RDC) that approves synopsis of students is also chaired by the dean of the respective faculties.PU registrar Vikram Nayyar said, “Given the present situation, the varsity will see how to address the matter according to PU Act and regulations.”Allow deans to continue: PUTAThe executive body of the Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) on Monday held a meeting in which they resolved that deans should be allowed to continue till the new deans take over.Meanwhile, the teachers’ body continued the protest for the 53rd day in a row over pending teacher promotions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/after-senate-and-syndicate-fate-of-panjab-university-deans-uncertain-too-101610391097784.html
12-01-2021||Mumbai||Bird flu cases in Maharashtra: Be vigilant, but don’t panic, urges CM Uddhav Thackeray||A day after the first case in Parbhani district, Maharashtra on Monday reported cases of bird flu or avian influenza in five places in the state – Mumbai, Thane, Ratnagiri, Beed and Latur. The ICAR-National Institute of High-Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD), Bhopal, a nodal body for testing, confirmed bird flu cases at Mumbai, Thane, Ratnagiri and Beed districts. The central laboratory has found H5N1 avian influenza virus as cause of death in birds in the first three areas, except Beed, where mortalities were a result of the H5N8 avian influenza virus, states their report. Also, the Western Regional Disease Diagnostic laboratory (WRDDL), Pune, has found ‘H’ variant of the avian influenza in samples collected from Latur in central Maharashtra, following which preventive measures such as culling of poultry birds are going to be started in one-km radius of the infected area from Tuesday, confirmed state animal husbandry commissioner Sachindra Pratap Singh. HT had reported on January 10 how over 843 poultry birds (chicken) died in a poultry farm in Parbhani district due to H5N1 avian influenza virus. Singh said they have directed the local bodies to be on alert and start surveillance, especially in cities like Mumbai and Thane, where only crows have died. “Poultry birds in Mumbai and Thane haven’t died of bird flu. Local civic bodies have been directed to start surveillance of markets. Shops and those in business have been asked to report to the authorities concerned if they find any unusual deaths,” the commissioner said. Chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray on Monday urged people not to panic, as Mumbai, Thane, Ratnagiri, Beed and Latur, too, reported cases of bird flu, after Parbhani. Thackeray held meetings with senior officials and district collectors to discuss measures to contain bird flu outbreak. He directed the local administration to be vigilant and implement all precautionary measures without any negligence. Thackeray also said in areas where there are no cases of bird flu, people can consume eggs and chicken after cooking or boiling them a 70°C for 30 minutes. He also directed the development of a laboratory in the state that will help in early detection of the virus in future. The chief minister also urged people not to share misinformation or rumours about bird flu. State animal husbandry minister Sunil Kedar said they have not banned sale of chicken and eggs, except in the surveillance zone of 10-km radius where an infection was found in Parbhani district. Also, those found spreading rumors will be punished. From January 8 till Monday, 1700 birds have died across the state. On Thursday, 15 pond egrets and two parrots were found dead in Thane and three crows in Mumbai. On Friday, six crows were found dead in Dapoli in Ratnagiri and 11 crows in Beed. Their samples were sent to the nodal testing body, ICAR-National Institute of High-Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD), Bhopal, to ascertain the cause of deaths. On Saturday, around 200 poultry birds in Latur district, one crow in Akola, two crows each in Gondia and Chandrapur, one heron in Thane and three crows in Dapoli at Ratnagiri district were found dead. On Sunday, 160 more birds were found dead in several districts of the state. Of them, 43 and 40 poultry birds were found dead in Parbhani and Latur districts, respectively. Their reports from ICAR-NIHSAD are still awaited. Deepak Muglikar, collector, Parbhani district, said they have ordered culling of 6,000 poultry birds. The village has also been declared as a prohibited area. “The culling has started within one-km radius of the poultry farm where bird deaths were reported. We have created a surveillance zone within a periphery of 10-km, which means no birds will be allowed to sell or purchase in that area. Murumba village, where that poultry farm is situated, has also been declared a prohibited area, which means no one can enter inside and no one can come out. A medical team has been set up to examine people,” Muglikar told HT. Moreover, 426 pet chickens raised by farmers were found dead in another village of Kupta in Parbhani district. The district collector said they have sent their samples to ICAR-NIHSAD. Dr NM Markandeya, associate dean, college of veterinary and animal sciences, Parbhani, said, “No virus can survive the way we cook chicken or non-vegetarian food.” Dr VV Limaye, joint commissioner (disease investigation), animal husbandry department, said both H5N1 and H5N8 are pathogenic for poultry birds but for human beings the difference between both the viruses is that there is no possibility of transmission of H5N8 into human beings, whereas H5N1 virus can transmit to human bodies only in case of major mutation. “No case such has been reported in the country as of now,” he said. To monitor the situation, the animal husbandry department has set up a control room in Pune and has requested the people to report any such incident on toll free number 18002330418.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bird-flu-cases-in-maharashtra-be-vigilant-but-don-t-panic-urges-cm-uddhav-thackeray-101610390977929.html
12-01-2021||Other||Drugs found from warehouse of Mumbai’s famous paan vendor||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Monday summoned paan vendor, Jaishankar Tiwari, owner of the famous paan shop Muchchad Panwala, in connection with a 200-kg marijuana seizure, in which a British national and two sisters from Bandra were arrested on January 9. NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede confirmed the development. Till the time of going to the press, NCB had not concluded Tiwari’s questioning. He has not been arrested.Late on Monday evening, the agency said it has found some quantities of drug stored in a warehouse owned by Tiwari. The drug has been sent for testing. NCB officers are probing the case further and are conducting more raids. Muchchad Panwala is located at an upscale Kemps Corner locality and has several famous clients. Tiwari’s family has been running the business for more than six decades. Tiwari was summoned for questioning after NCB discovered that the drug seized from British national Karan Sejnani’s home was supplied to Tiwari, said officers. NCB had arrested Sejnani following a specific input, after the agency seized around 340 grams of marijuana stored in three parcels from the office of a courier service company in Bandra. They raided Sejnani’s flat at Khar and found 194.6kg of imported strains of marijuana. After his interrogation, officers raided the home of Rahila and Shaista Furniturewala in Bandra and found a small quantity of drugs. They were arrested under various sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/drugs-found-from-warehouse-of-mumbai-s-famous-paan-vendor-101610390858133.html
12-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai constable assaulted by 3 men at Powai; BJP MLA denies asking police to drop the case||A constable who tried to intervene in a case of road rage at Powai on Monday was beaten up by three alleged Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) workers. The constable, identified as Nitin Khairmode, attached to Powai police station, has been admitted to hospital with severe injuries. Maheshwar Reddy, deputy commissioner of police, zone 10, confirmed the incident but refused to identify if the accused belonged to any political party. According to Powai police, the three men, identified as Sachin Tiwari, Deepu Tiwari and Ayush Rajbhar, all residents of Vikhroli, were riding together on a motorcycle and crashed into a car being driven by a woman doctor around 3pm outside Galleria Mall. The doctor confronted the trio, following which an argument ensued. Khairmode, who was on patrolling duty, noticed the altercation and intervened. When the constable was about to handcuff one of the accused, they started assaulting him and hit him with the handcuffs. Khairmode, who was injured, managed to call for reinforcements from the police station. A team of police officers rushed to the spot and arrested Sachin but Deepu and Rajbhar managed to escape. Khairmode was rushed to a hospital where his condition is critical.Following the incident, an audio clip of a phone call between BJP MLA Ram Kadam and a Powai police officer was leaked online. In the call, Kadam is heard telling the officer to be considerate about the accused as it would ruin their lives. “I would request you to consider the repercussions they will have to face as such cases lead to the conviction of five years of imprisonment. I would request you to be considerate and help them,” Kadam said to the police constable over the phone.Kadam later clarified that he was not asking the officer to withdraw the case against the three men. He instead claimed that two of the accused were minors and needed to be treated as such. “Two of the accused in the case are minors at 12 and 16 years of age, while the third one is 22. Since they are from my constituency, I thought it appropriate to learn what happened, so I called the police personnel. I told him that I would not support the action of the accused, and would have personally slapped them had I been in Mumbai,” Kadam said. Police have not confirmed the ages of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-constable-assaulted-by-3-men-at-powai-bjp-mla-denies-asking-police-to-drop-the-case-101610390737690.html
12-01-2021||Patna||Covid-19 vaccination centres in Bihar to have webcast facility||Bihar health department has asked district magistrates (DMs) to make arrangements for the webcast of the Covid-19 vaccination programme. The vaccination drive is set to begin across the country with the healthcare workers on January 16.The arrangement has to be done for monitoring purpose at government session sites which are vaccination centres, said a health official requesting anonymity. Three of the 16 session sites in Patna for the inaugural day vaccination are under private sector while the remaining 13 are under public sector.A total 300 session sites have been identified in Bihar for the inaugural day of vaccination. The government will assess the first day’s programme and then decide on extending the vaccination facility across its 700 health centres.In line with the Centre’s guidelines, DMs, civil surgeons, principals, superintendents of government and private sector medical colleges have been asked to make arrangements for good internet connectivity, capable of supporting video-webcasting at session sites.Also read: Democrats file motion to impeach Trump, to give Pence time to actThey were also asked to ensure good quality laptops or desktop computers with projection system and speaker facility so that the beneficiaries and vaccination officers at session sites could hear any instruction from the control room, said a communication from the executive director State Health Society, Bihar (SHSB) who is also the state nodal officer for the vaccination programme.The letter also asked the officials to arrange for Anaphylaxis kit (to treat an acute and potentially life-threatening allergic reaction or any adverse effect post-vaccination) at all session sites. It also asked them to ensure training to vaccinators and medical officers on the proper use of the kits.Efforts to reach Kumar proved futile as he did not respond to phone calls or text message.“We received the communication on Sunday. The Patna district magistrate will convene a meeting on Covid-19 vaccination preparedness on Tuesday after which we will be clear how to go about the process,” said Dr Vibha Kumari Singh, Patna-based civil surgeon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/covid19-vaccination-centres-in-bihar-to-have-webcast-facility-101610390098794.html
12-01-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram cop accused of graft and illegal detention surrenders||After being on the run for 14 days, suspended police officer Vishal Kumar, who is an accused in a ₹57-lakh graft case and the illegal detention of a call centre owner, surrendered before a court on Monday. He was handed over to the Haryana State Vigilance Bureau for a three-day custodial interrogation. “The police remand is required in order to probe the larger conspiracy between accused Vishal Kumar and his accomplice, head constable Amit Kumar,” said senior officer of Haryana State Vigilance Bureau on condition of anonymity. The officer said that Kumar had illegally detained a call centre owner, assaulted him and extorted ₹57 lakh. He was demanding ₹10 lakh more. Kumar surrendered before the court of judicial magistrate first class (JMIC) Sumitra Kadian, after evading arrest for 14 days. He was handed over to the state vigilance team and was taken to their office in Sector 47. Last week, during his stay in Gurugram, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had said that the accused, who was the station house officer (SHO) of Kherki Daula police station, would be arrested and appropriate action would be taken against him. According to the vigilance department, the victim, Naveen Bhutani, who runs a call centre and sells religious products in the UK and Australia, had approached the senior officers of the department with a complaint against two officials of the Kherki Daula police station for allegedly extorting ₹57 lakh from him and demanding ₹10 lakh more. Bhutani said that SHO Vishal Kumar assaulted him in his office and got his laptop data scanned for information on his business. He allegedly asked for ₹1 crore for his release but agreed on ₹57 lakh after negotiation. Later Bhutani approached senior vigilance officials and narrated his ordeal, following which a case under Section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act and sections 384 (extortion ), 341 (wrongful restraint) and 342 (wrongful confinement) of Indian Penal Code was registered against the police officials. Another senior officer privy to the investigation said that Bhutani was called to a resort on Delhi-Gurugram Expressway. Two policemen in uniform and seven in plain clothes took him to custody, bundled him inside his car and took him to Kherki Daula police station, where Kumar allegedly assaulted him inside his office. The officer said that head constable Amit, allegedly on the direction of SHO, was putting pressure on Bhutani to make a payment of additional ₹10 lakh in exchange for his laptop which was recorded by the victim. The vigilance team laid a trap and caught the head constable red-handed while allegedly taking ₹5 lakh from Bhutani at a dhaba on December 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-cop-accused-of-graft-and-illegal-detention-surrenders-101610388096735.html
12-01-2021||Other||Zend Zend, the man behind the counter at Mumbai’s iconic Yazdani bakery, dies||Zend Zend, a Mumbaiite of Iranian origin born in the city and best known for running its iconic Yazdani bakery, died on Sunday. He was 86.Zend Zend began working at the Fort eatery — started by his father Meherwan Zend — when he was 17.“He was making German-style loaves way before any of artisanal or home bakers were,” said food anthropologist and archaeologist Kurush Dalal. “He was perhaps one of the first bakers in the city to go beyond brun, laadi pav and sliced bread. His apple pie was delicious. Zend was loud, opinionated, brash, but also very honest and a baker par excellence.”Actor and food writer Kunal Vijayakar remembers him as a handsome gentleman who would often visit the National Centre for the Performing Arts, where Vijayakar often performs. When the play Unfaithful was being staged there, co-starring Perizaad Zorabian, “I would see this gentleman attend often, Vijayakar says. “He would also come backstage to say hello to Perizaad.”Zend’s biggest legacy, Vijayakar adds, is that the bakery he inherited is still thriving in a time when many old eateries and the majority of Irani cafes have either shut or are struggling to survive amid changing demographics, gentrification and heightened competition.“The Yazdani family shaped the bakery culture in Mumbai,” says Pooja Dhingra, founder of the Le 15 chain of patisserie and cafes. “Zend was a big proponent of using fewer chemicals, softners and preservatives in his food. His passion for bread and baking was unmatched.”“Even suffering from Parkinson’s disease, Zend would come to the restaurant for a few hours every day,” says Kalyan Karmakar, a food writer and brand consultant who also conducts heritage walks in the Fort area. “Despite the physical difficulties, he would stand, greet his guests. He always made everyone feel welcomed to Mumbai.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/zend-zend-the-man-behind-the-counter-at-mumbai-s-iconic-yazdani-bakery-has-died-101610358804750.html
12-01-2021||World||German police shuts down 'Darknet' marketplace that traded drugs, Bitcoin||German police took down what they believe was the world’s largest illegal “Darknet” marketplace, shuttering a platform that about half a million people used to trade drugs and crypto currencies including Bitcoin.Police arrested a 34-year-old Australian national near the Danish border who was alleged to have operated the site called DarkMarket, prosecutors in the western German city of Koblenz said Tuesday. Authorities also confiscated more than 20 servers in Moldova and Ukraine.DarkMarket facilitated at least 320,000 transactions -- including 4,650 for Bitcoin and 12,800 for Monero, another crypto currency -- valued at more than 140 million euros ($170 million), prosecutors said. The platform was used mainly to sell drugs, but vendors also offered counterfeit money, stolen and fraudulent credit card information, anonymous SIM cards and malware.Authorities from around the world, including the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the US Drug Enforcement Administration and police from countries including the UK, Denmark and Ukraine contributed to the investigation, with the EU’s Europol coordinating.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/german-police-shuts-down-darknet-marketplace-that-traded-drugs-bitcoin-101610473724273.html
12-01-2021||World||EU regulator ponders Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine approval by January end||The European Medicines Agency said Tuesday that AstraZeneca and Oxford University have submitted an application for their Covid-19 vaccine to be licensed across the European Union.The EU regulator said it received a request for the vaccine to be green-lighted under an expedited process and that it could be approved by January 29 “provided that the data submitted on the quality, safety and efficacy of the vaccine are sufficiently robust and complete.”The EMA, the drugs agency for the 27-nation EU, has already approved two other coronavirus vaccines, one made by American drugmaker Pfizer and Germany's BioNTech and another made by US biotechnology company Moderna. Switzerland approved the Moderna vaccine on Tuesday and plans to immunize about 4% of its population using that and the Pfizer-BioNTech shot.Britain gave its approval to the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine last month and has been using it. India approved it this month.As part of its strategy to obtain as many different Covid-19 vaccines as possible for Europeans, the EU said it had concluded early talks with French biotech company Valneva to secure up to 60 million doses of vaccine.Valneva previously signed a deal with Britain to provide tens of millions of doses of its shot, which is developed using similar technology to that used to make flu vaccines. The EU has sealed six vaccine contracts for up to 2 billion doses, many more than are necessary to cover its population of approximately 450 million.The Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine is expected to be a key vaccine for many countries because of its low cost, availability and ease of use. It can be kept in refrigerators rather than the ultra-cold storage that the Pfizer vaccine requires. The company has said it will sell it for $2.50 a dose and plans to make up to 3 billion doses by the end of 2021.Researchers claim the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine protected against disease in 62% of those given two full doses and in 90% of those initially given a half dose because of a manufacturing error. However, the second group included only 2,741 people — too few to be conclusive.Questions also remain about how well the vaccine protects older people. Only 12% of study participants were over 55 and they were enrolled later, so there hasn’t been enough time to see whether they develop infections at a lower rate than those not given the vaccine.The US Food and Drug Administration says it won't consider approving the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine until data are available from late state research testing the shot in about 30,000 people.The World Health Organization is also examining a request from AstraZeneca and Oxford for an emergency use listing for its vaccine.The UN health agency does not license or regulate vaccines itself, but typically evaluates vaccines once they have been approved by an agency such as the UK regulator or the European Medicines Agency. WHO experts conduct their own evaluation of whether or not the risks of a vaccine outweigh its benefits and then make a recommendation for the shots to be “pre-qualified” so they can be bought by donors for developing countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-regulator-ponders-oxford-astrazeneca-vaccine-approval-by-january-end-101610473826945.html
12-01-2021||World||F-35 flies with 871 flaws, only two fewer than year earlier||Lockheed Martin Corp.’s F-35, the fighter jet already being flown by the U.S. and eight allies, remains marred by 871 software and hardware deficiencies that could undercut readiness, missions or maintenance, according to the Pentagon’s testing office.The Defense Department’s costliest weapons system “continues to carry a large number of deficiencies, many of which were identified prior to” the development and demonstration phase, which ended in April 2018 with 941 flaws, Robert Behler, the director of operational testing, said in a new assessment obtained by Bloomberg News in advance of its publication.Lockheed has delivered or is under contract for 970 aircraft of a potential 3,200 or more planes for the US and other nations. The assessment outlining the seemingly intractable roster of flaws -- it’s down only two from the 873 that Behler reported last year -- provides the incoming Biden administration with a primer on the $398 billion F-35 program that retains strong backing in Congress and from overseas purchasers despite its problems.Those include a stalled one-month simulation exercise required to certify the plane is combat-ready against the toughest Russian or Chinese threats and thus ready for a decision on full-rate production.Ellen Lord, the undersecretary of defense for acquisition and sustainment, has directed a review no later than May 31 on progress toward conducting the oft-delayed simulation that most recently had been scheduled to occur last month. In a previously undisclosed Dec. 15 memo to Navy and Air Force officials, Lord also ordered an update to the Pentagon’s F-35 acquisition strategy. Behler predicted the simulation will occur by mid or late-year.In October, the F-35 program will mark 20 years since Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed beat rival Boeing Co. in the contest to build the next-generation US fighter.Laura Seal, a spokesperson for the Defense Department’s F-35 program office, declined to comment until Behler’s report is released officially.Aside from the technical flaws, the F-35 program faces a $10 billion shortfall in the Pentagon’s planned budget for 2021 through 2025. The Trump administration’s final budget blueprint calls for requesting $78 billion for research and development, jet procurement, operations and maintenance and military construction. But the Pentagon’s independent cost analysis unit estimates $88 billion will be needed, according to a June 2020 analysis.Upgrade ScheduleThe F-35 program is undergoing a “Block 4” upgrade costing at least $12.1 billion that’s intended to correct past deficiencies and introduce new capabilities in six-month increments through 2026 to keep up with current threats. The plan includes retrofitting some planes already built and in use by militaries from the US and the UK to Japan.Even with this focused effort, “the overall number of open deficiencies has not changed significantly since” early 2018, Behler wrote, “due to ongoing problems with initial software quality” in Block 4 and “limited lab and flight test capability, resulting in a high rate of problem discoveries” in testing and in the field.The Block 4 process “is not working,” Behler wrote. “It is causing significant delays to planned schedules and results in poor software quality, containing deficiencies.” Software changes “intended to introduce new capabilities or fix deficiencies often introduced stability problems.”Only 10 of the 871 unresolved deficiencies cited by Boehler involve potentially serious “Category 1” issues, defined as critical deficiencies that could jeopardize pilot or aircraft safety or degrade mission effectiveness. That’s compared with 102 such problems among the 941 cases cited in 2018.Lockheed said in a statement that none of the 10 current deficiencies are “1A” problems that could affect pilot or aircraft safety but instead are in “Category 1B,” which the program office defines as representing “a critical impact on mission readiness,” training or maintenance.“Though we have not seen the report, we track all F-35 deficiency reports,” Lockheed spokesman Brett Ashworth said in a statement. He said about 70% of the 871 pending items “are categorized as low priority or are with the F-35 Joint Program Office for resolution.”Of the 10 pending “mission impacts” deficiency reports, nine have “closure resolution plans, with seven already delivered to the government awaiting action,” and the others currently being reviewed.A defense official who’s seen the Behler assessment said many of the deficiencies will be resolved with production line changes and software updates. Although deficiencies must be documented for contractual and reporting purposes, the official said, depending on their severity they might not be rapidly resolved. The size, scope and resolution status are being evaluated as part of the ongoing negotiations for a 15th production contract, the official said.Among other findings, the testing office’s report said that although the F-35 is showing increased reliability, it’s still taking maintenance personnel too much time to repair aircraft and that cybersecurity vulnerabilities identified during earlier testing “have not been resolved.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/f35-flies-with-871-flaws-only-two-fewer-than-year-earlier-101610469415939.html
12-01-2021||World||Donald Trump may be shielded from riot charges by a previous Supreme Court ruling on a Ku Klux Klan speech case||A 1969 Supreme Court ruling that tossed the conviction of a Ku Klux Klan leader may also shield President Donald Trump from prosecution for inciting last week’s Capitol riot, leaving few alternatives to hold him accountable if impeachment efforts fail.At the rally preceding the riot, Trump gave an inflammatory speech, urging the crowd to go to the Capitol and demand legislators address his baseless claims of election fraud. He asked his supporters to “show strength” and “fight much harder.” Rudy Giuliani, Donald Trump Jr. and US Representative Mo Brooks also spoke ahead of the riot, which led to five deaths.Several Democrats and some Republicans have raised the possibility that Trump might be prosecuted for inciting the riot, and Michael Sherwin, the acting US attorney in Washington, fed such speculation when he suggested on Thursday that his office would probe the president’s role. But many legal experts are skeptical charges will be filed against Trump.“A prosecution is possible but unlikely,” said John Banzhaf, a law professor at George Washington University. “A conviction would be even less likely.”‘Imminent Lawless Action’That’s because the Supreme Court said in its landmark decision in Brandenburg v. Ohio that the constitutional right to free speech protects inflammatory rhetoric unless it’s intended to incite “imminent lawless action and is likely to incite or produce such action.” The ruling overturned the conviction of Clarence Brandenburg, an Ohio Klan leader who had been prosecuted under a state law for making a speech in which he advocated violence against African Americans and Jews.The case, in which the American Civil Liberties Union(ACLU) represented Brandenburg, set a high bar for criminal prosecutions of inflammatory speech. To make the case that Trump incited the riot, prosecutors would have to show that he intended to provoke violence, but his words are vague enough that it’s possible to argue that he was simply urging his supporters to peacefully protest outside the Capitol.“Intention to incite is always difficult to show,” said Shirin Sinnar, a law professor at Stanford who studies the legal treatment of political violence. “A lot of the evidence here can be interpreted in different ways.”Speaking to reporters on Tuesday, Trump called his remarks at the rally “totally appropriate,” rejecting any blame for the attack. He instead cast efforts to impeach him as a “terrible thing” that was causing “tremendous anger.”To prove intent, prosecutors could parse the language Trump used in his speech, highlighting particular words or phrases that seem to urge violence. They could also point to Trump’s comments in a video released only after police had started regaining control of the Capitol: “We love you, you’re very special.”‘Trial by Combat’Still, those comments are “a far cry from inciting violence,” said Ediberto Roman, a professor at Florida International University College of Law. Giuliani, who called for “trial by combat” to settle the president’s election-fraud claims,” was “far closer to promoting violence,” Roman said, though the former New York mayor would also be hard to successfully prosecute.The “high crimes and misdemeanors” standard to impeach the President under the Constitution is more flexible, and several Trump allies like former New Jersey Governor Chris Christie have said he clearly committed an impeachable offence by encouraging the rioters. House Democrats on Monday introduced a resolution to impeach Trump for inciting the insurrection at the Capitol, setting up a vote this week unless Vice President Mike Pence and a majority of Trump’s cabinet invoke the Constitution’s 25th Amendment to remove Trump.But it’s unclear how many Republicans will want to take a politically difficult vote to remove a president of their own party. Speaking to CNN on Sunday, US Senator Pat Toomey suggested criminal prosecution might be an alternative to impeachment in terms of holding Trump accountable.Federal prosecutors have so far sent mixed signals. Though Sherwin emphasized that the Justice Department was scrutinizing “all actors,” his top deputy, Ken Kohl, said the following day that he did not expect charges against people who gave speeches at the rally. Ultimately, however, the decision whether or not to prosecute Trump will be up to the leaders of the Justice Department under President-elect Joe Biden, who has said he will nominate federal appeals court judge Merrick Garland to be attorney general.White House SubpoenasSome former prosecutors say Trump’s actions offer enough evidence of intent to justify at least an investigation. A grand jury could subpoena internal White House communications to help US prosecutors determine whether Trump or his associates knew that some of the rioters had come to Washington intent on committing violence.“I wouldn’t say it’s a slam dunk, but if I’m a prosecutor, I feel pretty good about my proof of intent,” said Randall Eliason, a former assistant US attorney in Washington. “This crowd did exactly what Trump wanted.”It’s the same kind of evidence that prosecutors are currently scouring concerning people that directly participated in the riot. If they can find rioters conspired with one another, they’ll use social media posts, email and phone communications, police observations of rioters’ behavior and communications to try to prove their cases, said Mike Shepard, a former Justice Department official.Federal prosecutors have already charged more than 50 participants in the Capitol siege, accusing them of a range of offenses from trespassing to assault, and are also investigating as a murder the death of Capitol Police Officer Brian Sicknick.​Harry Sandick, a former federal prosecutor, said a number of the rioters could ultimately face charges of participating in a seditious conspiracy, which involves two or more people agreeing to use force to hinder the execution of U.S. law or seize U.S. government property, according to statute. Many rioters seemed to have in mind the goal of stopping Congress from certifying Biden’s election victory.“There is evidence of coordination on social media by the rioters with each other,” said Sandick. “There are also statements by the rioters that they understood their actions to be at Trump’s request.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-may-be-shielded-from-riot-charges-by-a-previous-supreme-court-ruling-on-a-ku-klux-klan-speech-case-101610468381868.html
12-01-2021||World||Trump slams impeachment move as Democrats press ahead||US President Donald Trump on Tuesday defended his January 6 speech that has been blamed for storming of the US Capitol as “totally appropriate” and said a move underway to impeach him had caused “tremendous anger”. He sought to characterise it as part of the “witch hunt” that had led to his first impeachment.Democrats in the House of Representatives are planning a vote to impeach Trump on Wednesday for “incitement of insurrection”, amid tightening security countrywide following FBI’s warning of “armed protests” at the US Capitol and all 50 state capitols in the days leading up to President-elect Joe Biden’s inauguration on January 20.“If you read my speech, and many people have done it and I’ve seen it both in the papers and in the media, on television, it’s been analysed and people thought that what I said was totally appropriate,” he told reporters.In another interaction with reporters earlier in the day, the first since the January 6 riots, he had said, “The impeachment is really a continuation of the greatest witch hunt in the history of politics. It’s ridiculous. It’s absolutely ridiculous.”He added: “This impeachment is causing tremendous anger … I think it’s causing tremendous danger to our country, and it’s causing tremendous anger. I want no violence.” He repeated several times he did not want any violence; unlike the vague appeals he had issued during the attacks.The FBI warning of more attacks came in an internal memo that was widely reported in US media. “Armed protests are being planned at all 50 state capitols from January 16 through at least January 20, and at the US Capitol from January 17 through January 20,” it said.US Secret Service’s special security arrangements for the inauguration have been ordered to be initiated a week before January 19, as a result, and National Guard forces, SWAT teams and special police squads have been deployed to secure state capitols.“In light of events of the past week and the evolving security landscape leading up to the inauguration and at the recommendation of (the) Secret Service,” Chad Wolf, the acting secretary of homeland security said in a statement, “I have instructed the US Secret Service to begin the National Special Security Event operations for the 2021 Inauguration effective Wednesday, January 13th instead of January 19th”.Wolf himself resigned later in the day, becoming the third member of President Trump’s cabinet to quit following the storming of the US Capitol on January 6 by rioters incited and instigated by the president’s lies about stolen elections and fraud. Six people died in the attack including two police officers.US House of Representatives will vote on Tuesday to call upon Vice-President Mike Pence to oust President Donald Trump invoking the 25th Amendment. If he doesn’t do so in the next 24 hours, the chamber will vote to impeach Trump on Wednesday, making him the first president impeached twice. He was last impeached in December 2019, but the Senate acquitted him, letting him stay in office.Democrats then plan to send the article of impeachment to the Senate for a trial to convict the president, either before he leaves office at the end of his term on January 20 or after.Efforts to remove President Trump from office gathered momentum as did the investigation into the stunning breach of the US Capitol by rioters instigated by him to stop a joint of session of Congress, presided by Vice-President Mike Pence, from certifying Biden’s election victory.More than 20 people have been arrested in the countrywide sweep by FBI and local law enforcement agencies — that include the rioters seen the most in pictures. Two officers of the US Capitol police have been suspended and 17 others are under investigation for allegedly helping the rioters.Also supportive of the rioters were more than a dozen lawmakers from at least nine states, according to reports. They had joined the crowds, and participated in the storming of Congress. One of them, from solidly conservative West Virginia, has since resigned his seat and has been arrested.The social media sweep of right-wing rhetoric continued. Twitter suspended more than 70,000 accounts linked to right-wing QAnon conspiracy theories and peddlers. It said the action was a fallout of the January 6 events.Democrats had on Monday introduced a resolution urging Pence to lead the cabinet to declare Trump unfit to govern under the 25th Amendment which empowers the vie-president to sideline the president for being unfit to govern. Democrats will give him 24 hours to respond, and then will call the impeachment vote.The article of impeachment, accusing Trump of “incitement of resurrection,” laid out the case against Trump very clearly. “Incited by President Trump, a mob unlawfully breached the Capitol, injured law enforcement personnel, menaced members of Congress and the vice-president, interfered with the joint sessions’ solemn constitutional duty to certify the election results and engaged in violent, deadly, destructive and seditious acts.” The article further said that by such conduct, he has demonstrated that “he will remain a threat to national security, democracy and the constitution if allowed to remain in office.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-slams-impeachment-move-as-democrats-press-ahead-101610470578281.html
12-01-2021||World||Explained: How black boxes of crashed Indonesian jet will be handled||Indonesian authorities have retrieved one of two black boxes, the Flight Data Recorder, from a Sriwijaya Air Boeing 737-500 that crashed into the Java Sea on Saturday.This is how the black box readout process works.What are black boxes?They are not actually black but high-visibility orange. Experts disagree how the nickname originated but it has become synonymous with the quest for answers when planes crash.Many historians attribute their invention to Australian scientist David Warren in the 1950s. They are mandatory.The aim is not to establish legal liability, but to identify causes and help prevent future accidents.How they have evolved?The earliest devices recorded limited data on wire or foil. Models like those typically found on the 1980s-designed Boeing 737-50 use magnetic tape. Modern ones use computer chips.The recordings are housed inside crash-survivable containers able to withstand 3,400 times the force of gravity on impact.The disappearance in 2014 of Malaysian Airlines MH370 triggered debate about whether data should be streamed instead.Airbus and France's BEA are testing an alternative design in a floatable panel embedded in the aircraft's fuselage. Bolts would retract and the device would fall away when the plane is about to crash on water, avoiding a deep-sea search.How big are they?They weigh about 10 pounds (4.5 kilos) and contain four main parts:* a chassis or interface designed to fix the device and facilitate recording and playback* an underwater locator beacon* the core housing or 'Crash-Survivable Memory Unit' made of stainless steel or titanium* inside there, the recordings on chips or older formats.There are two recorders: a Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) for pilot voices or cockpit sounds, and a Flight Data Recorder (FDR).How will the recorders be handled?After a crash over the sea, the recorder is placed back in water to prevent damage from contact with air while being transported.Once dry, technicians peel away protective material and carefully clean and retrieve the recordings, which are copied.Lab experts sometimes use "spectral analysis," a way of examining sounds that can pick out barely audible alarms or the first fleeting crack of an explosion. Indonesian investigators say the Sriwijaya jet appeared to be intact when it hit water.How much information is available?The FDR contains about 25 hours of data on eight tracks and the CVR has 30 minutes of conversation, according to the final report on a similar model of Boeing 737 which crashed in 2008.Later models have two hours of cockpit recordings.In many countries, only the main investigator and a handful of people are allowed to hear the raw cockpit tapes.Where will the data be read?Indonesian officials leading the probe have said they plan to perform the readout at their facilities. If recorders are badly damaged, the operation is occasionally delegated to an overseas agency like France's BEA or the device's manufacturer.Photographs of the Sriwijaya data recorder arriving at a port on Tuesday appeared to show its crash-resistant container intact.How long will the results take?Indonesia has said it will take 2-5 days to inspect and download recordings. Their analysis can take much longer.Interim reports are published after a month but are often sparse. Deeper investigations take a year or more to complete.Experts say air accidents are usually caused by a cocktail of factors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/explained-how-black-boxes-of-crashed-indonesian-jet-will-be-handled-101610469393953.html
12-01-2021||World||Chinese city of Langfang goes into lockdown amid new Covid-19 threat||The Chinese city of Langfang near Beijing went into lockdown on Tuesday as new coronavirus infections raised worries about a second wave in a country that has mostly contained Covid-19.The number of new cases in mainland China reported on Tuesday remained a small fraction of those seen at the height of the outbreak in early 2020. However, authorities are implementing strict curbs whenever new cases emerge.The National Health Commission reported 55 new cases on Tuesday, down from 103 on Monday. Hebei province, which surrounds Beijing, accounted for 40 of the 42 locally transmitted infections.In a village in the south of Beijing that shares a border with Hebei, residents were stopping vehicles and asking to see health-tracking codes on mobile phones."We have to be careful as we're near Guan, where Covid cases were reported today," said a volunteer security officer surnamed Wang.At a highway checkpoint, police in protective gowns ordered a car entering Beijing to return to Hebei after the driver was unable to show proof of a negative coronavirus test.China's state planning agency said it expected travel during next month's Lunar New Year period to be markedly down on normal years, with a bigger share of people choosing cars over other transport. Many provinces have urged migrant workers to stay put for the festival.Home QuarantineLangfang, southeast of Beijing, said its 4.9 million residents would be put under home quarantine for seven days and tested for the virus.The government in Beijing said a World Health Organization (WHO) team investigating the origin of the coronavirus would arrive on Thursday in the city of Wuhan, where the virus emerged in late 2019, after a delay that Beijing has called a "misunderstanding".Shijiazhuang, Hebei's capital, has been hardest hit in the latest surge and has already placed its 11 million people under lockdown. The province has shut sections of highway and is ordering vehicles to turn back.A new guideline from the Beijing Center for Disease Prevention and Control recommended that taxi and ride-hailing operators suspend car-pooling services, and that drivers should get weekly DNA tests and be vaccinated in order to work, the ruling Communist Party-backed Beijing Daily reported.As of Jan. 9, China had administered more than 9 million vaccine doses.Across the country, the number of new asymptomatic cases rose to 81 from 76 the previous day. China does not classify asymptomatic cases as confirmed coronavirus infections.The total number of confirmed cases reported in mainland China stands at 87,591, with an official death toll of 4,634.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinese-city-of-langfang-goes-into-lockdown-amid-new-covid-19-threat-101610464773053.html
12-01-2021||World||What is the 25th Amendment and why is Pence under pressure to invoke it?||The US House of Representatives is set to issue an ultimatum to vice president Mike Pence to remove President Donald Trump by invoking the 25th Amendment of the Constitution. On Monday, House Republicans blocked the resolution that called on Pence to invoke 25th Amendment in order to convene the cabinet and declare Trump unfit for the office after he incited a mob that stormed the US Capitol. The House with Democratic majority will now vote on the resolution to put pressure on the vice president.What is the 25th Amendment of the US Constitution?The amendment was proposed by Congress in the aftermath of the assassination of President John F. Kennedy and was ratified by the states on February 10, 1967. The amendment contains four sections that lay out the provisions for presidential succession, owing to different reasons.The first section states that if the president dies, or undergoes medical treatment, or is incapacitated, the vice president takes over as the president. The second section addresses the vacancies in the office of the vice president. The third section enables the president to declare himself or herself unable to discharge the duties and resign from the office.“The Watergate scandal of the 1970s saw the application of these procedures, first when Gerald Ford replaced Spiro Agnew as Vice President, then when he replaced Richard Nixon as President, and then when Nelson Rockefeller filled the resulting vacancy to become the Vice President,” according to Cornell Law School.Also Read | House set to give Mike Pence ultimatum before moving to impeach Donald TrumpIn the ongoing scenario, Congressional Democrats want Pence to invoke Section 4 of the 25th Amendment. Under Section 4, a president can be removed from the office if he/she is deemed incapable to “discharge the powers and duties” of the office, empowering the vice president to discharge those power and duties as acting president. The fourth section of the 25th amendment has never been invoked in the history of the United States.Is it likely to get invoked?Though the resolution to call on the vice president to invoke the 25th Amendment is likely to pass in a Democrats-controlled House, Pence has not shown any intention to act on it. The resolution is mostly a symbolic gesture by Democrats to show that they have exhausted all options before moving to the impeachment proceedings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/what-is-the-25th-amendment-and-why-is-pence-under-pressure-to-invoke-it-101610467530076.html
12-01-2021||World||Donald Trump rejects blame for Capitol riot, calls rally ‘totally appropriate’||President Donald Trump rejected any responsibility for the deadly storming of the US Capitol by his supporters last week, calling remarks he delivered during a rally outside the White House before the attack “totally appropriate” and warning lawmakers not to impeach him a second time.Trump on Tuesday said it’s “absolutely ridiculous” that the House is moving rapidly to impeach him for inciting an insurrection, saying the effort is causing “tremendous anger.”The president defended remarks he made at a rally at the Ellipse that preceded the Jan. 6 Capitol riot.“People thought that what I said was totally appropriate, and if you look at what other people have said, politicians at a high level, about the riots during the summer, the horrible riots in Portland and Seattle and various other places, that was a real problem, what they said,” Trump said at Joint Base Andrews outside Washington.The president has been largely silent after social media companies banned him last week from their platforms over concern his posts would incite further violence. He spoke to reporters for the first time since the riot as he departed the White House for Alamo, Texas.“It’s really a terrible thing they’re doing,” Trump told reporters at the White House, before boarding the presidential helicopter to the airbase. He also said that “Big Tech has made a terrible mistake” in banning him from social media.Democrats and several Republicans have decried Trump’s role in inciting a mob that went on to force its way into the Capitol in a chaotic scene that left five people dead.The House is set to issue a largely futile ultimatum to Vice President Mike Pence on Tuesday, demanding he invoke constitutional authority to remove Trump from office. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi is expected to go through with a vote on a single article of impeachment as soon as Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-rejects-blame-for-capitol-riot-calls-rally-totally-appropriate-101610466988621.html
12-01-2021||World||Move to impeach continuation of greatest witch hunt in political history: Trump||Donald Trump emerged from isolation at the White House on Tuesday to brand the likely second impeachment of his presidency "absolutely ridiculous" and warn that it has triggered "tremendous anger."Speaking as he boarded Marine One at the White House for a trip to Texas, Trump called his scheduled impeachment in the House of Representatives on Wednesday a "continuation of the greatest witch hunt in the history of politics."With only eight days left in his one-term administration, Trump finds himself alone, shunned by former supporters, barred by social media, and now facing a second impeachment over his instigation of a riot against Congress on January 6.His trip to Alamo, Texas, where he will tout claims of success in building a US-Mexican border wall, is his first live public appearance since he rallied thousands of followers on the National Mall to march on Congress.Although this is not the same Alamo as the famous fortress in another part of Texas, the trip marks something of a last stand for the Republican.Ever since the November 3 election, the real estate tycoon has been obsessively pushing a lie that he, not Democrat Joe Biden, was the real winner and last week, in a speech he described Tuesday as "totally appropriate," he called on the huge crowd to "show strength."Amped up on Trump's rhetoric, the mob burst into Congress, fighting with police, trashing offices and forcing frightened lawmakers to suspend briefly a ceremony legally formalizing Biden's victory.The crisis galvanized many of Trump's former boosters in the corporate and sporting world to turn their backs.In Congress, where the Republican party has been in thrall to the populist leader for four years, even ultra-loyal senior figures like Senator Lindsey Graham have finally told Trump that he must accept his election defeat.Trump, however, remains in denial.He has yet to congratulate Biden or urge his supporters to stand behind the incoming president after he is inaugurated on January 20 -- a gesture of political unity considered all but routine after US elections.And according to Axios, Trump and the top Republican in the House of Representatives, Kevin McCarthy, had a stormy phone conversation Tuesday in which Trump claimed that left wing Antifa activists, not his supporters, attacked Congress."It's not Antifa," McCarthy reportedly responded. "I know. I was there."When Trump continued to push his conspiracy theory that he was the true election winner, McCarthy reportedly interrupted, telling him: "Stop it. It's over. The election is over."Impeachment 2.0 The House of Representatives will vote Tuesday on a longshot bid to get Vice President Mike Pence and the cabinet to invoke the US Constitution's 25th Amendment, which would declare Trump unfit to perform his duties and install Pence as acting president.This is unlikely to happen.Although Pence is reportedly furious about Trump's behavior last week, the two met at the White House on Monday for the first time since the Congress attack and had "a good conversation," according to a senior administration official.That signaled that whatever Pence and the dwindling number of White House officials feel, they are committed to keeping the presidency limping along until January 20.Still, with a string of cabinet officials quitting the government -- most recently the acting head of the Department of Homeland Security Chad Wolf on Monday -- it's also clear that Trump's grip on power is tenuous.In an interview Tuesday on ABC News, Health Secretary Alex Azar did not dismiss outright the option of removing Trump, saying: "I'm not going to get into or discuss the 25th Amendment here."Democrats will follow up the 25th Amendment vote with impeachment proceedings in the House on Wednesday. The single charge of "incitement of insurrection" is all but sure to get majority support.The Republican-controlled Senate, however, is in recess until January 19 and its leadership says there is no way to rush through an impeachment trial before Biden takes over the following day.This means that Trump, who was acquitted in the Senate last year after his first impeachment, would not be forced out of office early.Top Senate Democrat Chuck Schumer has reportedly floated the idea of using a rare parliamentary maneuver to force the chamber back into session under emergency circumstances, giving time for the start of an impeachment trial.But not even all Democrats are gunning for a trial, worried that this would overshadow Biden's first days in office.The new president will already face the challenges of an out-of-control Covid-19 pandemic, the stumbling vaccination program, a shaky economy, and now the aftermath of violent political opposition from parts of Trump's huge voter base.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-calls-move-to-impeach-continuation-of-greatest-witch-hunt-in-history-of-politics-101610465497631.html
12-01-2021||World||Canada to ban import of goods from China that use forced labour||Canada has announced that it will prohibit import of goods made wholly or partly using forced labour, in the wake of reports of forced labour and human rights violations targeting the Uighur Muslim minority in the Xinjiang region of China. This was part of a package of seven measures announced by Global Affairs Canada (GAC), the country’s foreign ministry, in coordination with the United Kingdom and other international partners.A release from GAC said Canada was “advancing measures to address the risk of forced labour from any country from entering Canadian and global supply chains and to protect Canadian businesses from becoming unknowingly complicit.”The announcement came jointly from François-Philippe Champagne, minister of foreign affairs (minutes before he was transferred to the innovation, science and industry portfolio), and Mary Ng, minister of small business, export promotion, and international trade.The statement also asserted that Canada is “gravely concerned with evidence and reports of human rights violations” involving the Uighur ethnic minority in Xinjiang, “ including repressive surveillance, mass arbitrary detention, torture and mistreatment, forced labour and mass transfers of forced labourers from Xinjiang to provinces across China. These activities strongly run counter to China’s international human rights obligations.”The measures taken by the Canadian government also include a Xinjiang Integrity Declaration for Canadian companies, a business advisory on Xinjiang-related entities, enhanced advise to Canadian companies, export controls, increasing awareness for Responsible Business Conduct linked to Xinjiang; and a study on forced labour and supply chain risks.The statement quoted Champagne as saying that Canada was “deeply concerned regarding the mass arbitrary detention and mistreatment of Uighurs and other ethnic minorities by Chinese authorities. Nobody should face mistreatment on the basis of their religion or ethnicity. Together with the UK, we are taking action to ensure we are not complicit in the abuse of the Uighur Muslims in Xinjiang.”Ng said, “Our government is committed to ensuring that Canadian businesses at home and abroad are not unknowingly involved in any supply chains involving forced labour.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canada-to-ban-import-of-goods-from-china-that-use-forced-labour-101610465657308.html
12-01-2021||World||Trudeau reshuffles cabinet after Indian-origin minister quits||Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau on Tuesday conducted an unexpected cabinet reshuffle following the sudden resignation of Indo-Canadian minister Navdeep Bains.In a video statement released on Tuesday, the 43-year-old minister of innovation, science and industry said he was retiring from politics to spend more time with his family. Bains was among the prominent Sikhs in Trudeau’s cabinet along with minister for national defence Harjit Sajjan.Bains has also decided against running in the next federal elections. Bains has been a cabinet minister since 2015 after he was elected from the riding (constituency) of Mississauga-Malton.Bains’s resignation precipitated a larger reshuffle in what was the first-ever virtual swearing-in ceremony for ministers in the history of Canada. Foreign minister François-Philippe Champagne was placed in charge of Bains’s portfolios as minister for innovation, science and industry while transport minister Marc Garneau assumed charge of foreign affairs. Omar Alghabra was promoted from parliamentary secretary to the cabinet and given charge of the transport department. Jim Carr was sworn in as a minister without portfolio and will be the government’s special representative for the Prairies.In his statement, Bains said, “It’s time for me to put my family first and I couldn’t be happier about it.” He said the last year had been hard on his two young daughters and it was time “to focus on the most important job I have in life — being a dad.”Bains’s exit could have a significant impact on the calculus for the next federal elections since he is credited with crafting the strategy for the Liberal Party in the 905 region, referring to the telephone area code for the seat-rich suburbs of Toronto like Brampton and Mississauga.Bains is a veteran within the Sikh community in Canadian electoral politics. He was also an MP between 2004 and 2011.This is the second reshuffle that Trudeau has undertaken since the Covid-19 pandemic erupted last spring. He gave charge of the finance portfolio to deputy prime minister Chrystia Freeland after the resignation of Bill Morneau last year.The reshuffle came just before a cabinet retreat already announced by the Prime Minister’s Office.Bains was famously among the four Sikh cabinet ministers appointed by Trudeau in 2015, along with Sajjan. Of the other two, Bardish Chagger remains as the minister for diversity, inclusion and youth, while the fourth, Amarjeet Sohi, was defeated in the 2019 federal polls. Now the cabinet is left with two Sikh ministers – Sajjan and Chagger.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trudeau-reshuffles-cabinet-after-indian-origin-minister-quits-101610464877074.html
12-01-2021||World||Most hospitalised COVID-19 patients have at least one symptom 6 months after falling ill: Study||More than three quarters of Covid-19 patients hospitalised for treatment have at least one ongoing symptom six months after initially becoming unwell, according to a study published in The Lancet journal.The research looked at the long-term effects of the novel coronavirus infection in 1,733 patients first diagnosed in Wuhan, China between January and May followed to June and September.In the study, scientists, including those from Jin Yin-tan Hospital in China, interviewed the patients face-to-face using questionnaires to evaluate their symptoms and health-related quality of life.The discharged patients also underwent physical examinations, lab tests, and a six-minute walking test to gauge their endurance levels.Nearly 400 patients also underwent further tests, including an assessment of their lung function, and 94 patients whose blood antibody levels were recorded at the height of the infection received a follow-up test.According to the scientists, the most common symptom to persist was muscle weakness (63 per cent of cases), with patients also frequently experiencing sleep difficulties (26 per cent).They said anxiety or depression was reported among 23 per cent of patients.The study noted that hospitalised patients who were severely ill more often had impaired lung function and abnormalities detected in chest imaging -- which the scientists believe could indicate organ damage six months after symptom onset.Since very few follow-up studies have been conducted in recovered patients so far, the scientists said little is known about the long-term health effects of Covid-19.Those that have been conducted looked only at a small number of cases over a short follow-up period, they added."Our analysis indicates that most patients continue to live with at least some of the effects of the virus after leaving hospital, and highlights a need for post-discharge care, particularly for those who experience severe infections," said study co-author Bin Cao, from National Center for Respiratory Medicine, China-Japan Friendship Hospital in China."Our work also underscores the importance of conducting longer follow-up studies in larger populations in order to understand the full spectrum of effects that Covid-19 can have on people," Cao said.The scientists found that 76 per cent of patients reported at least one ongoing symptom during the follow up tests.Patients with more severe illness commonly had reduced lung function, with 56 per cent of those who required ventilation support experiencing reduced flow of oxygen from the lungs to the bloodstream.For patients who required supplemental oxygen therapy and those who did not require oxygen therapy, the researchers said the figures were 29 per cent and 22 per cent, respectively.According to the study, patients with more severe disease performed worse in the six-minute walking test.The scientists said 13 per cent of patients whose kidney function was normal while in hospital had reduced kidney function in follow-up.However, due to the way the data was analysed, the researchers said it was not possible to determine if symptoms reported during follow-up were persistent following the infection, worsened after recovery, or occurred post-discharge.The scientists believe further work is needed to compare differences in outcomes between inpatients and outpatients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/most-hospitalised-covid-19-patients-have-at-least-one-symptom-6-months-after-falling-ill-study-101610462898165.html
12-01-2021||World||CIA documents on UFOs unexpectedly made available to download||The documentation by the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) on unidentified flying objects (UFOs) has been made available for download, months before the deadline given to the US intelligence agencies to submit a report on it. The Black Vault, privately run archive of declassified documents, has published a downloadable archive of a collection of CIA related UFO records.John Greenewald Jr., who runs The Black Vault, said in a blog post that the CIA made a CD-ROM collection of UFO documents over a period of time. In mid-2020, Greenewald purchased this CD-ROM to ensure the Black Vault has as complete a record of CIA documents on “unidentified aerial phenomena” (UAP), a term preferred by the US government, as possible available.“The Black Vault spent years fighting for them, and many were released in the late 1990s. However, over time, the CIA made a CD-ROM collection of UFO documents, which encompassed the original records, along with the ones that took years to fight for,” he stated.Also Read | US intelligence agencies have less than 6 months to reveal details on UFOsThe Black Vault has, so far, filed around 10,000 Freedom Of Information Acts (FOIA) requests to amass approximately 2.2 million pages in its entire archive. Greenewald told Motherboard, via email, that he had fought for years to get additional UFO records released from the CIA and it was like “pulling teeth”. He reportedly said that he had to scan a “couple thousand pages” one at a time. All the files are available online at The Black Vault's website.The CIA’s CD-ROM contents on UFOs are available to download in two formats - original and searchable .pdf conversions. The original form of CD-ROM content is the entire collection, zipped up, with zero processing. The searchable .pdf conversions also contain all files, however, they have been converted to searchable .pdf documents.In April 2020, the department of defense released three declassified videos that showed US Navy pilots encountering what appeared to be UFOs. Following the declassification of videos, the US Navy released seven incident reports on the series of encounters between Navy pilots and UAP.The Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021, part of a massive $2.3 trillion Covid-19 relief and government spending bill signed into law by President Donald Trump last month, has directed the intelligence agencies to submit a report on UAP within 180 days. According to the Senate intelligence committee's directive, the report must contain detailed analyses of UFO data as well as intel inputs from the Office of Naval Intelligence, the Unidentified Aerial Phenomena Task Force and the Federal Bureau of Investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/cia-documents-on-ufos-unexpectedly-made-available-to-download-101610461504381.html
12-01-2021||World||US secretary of state Mike Pompeo says Donald Trump's legacy stronger than riots||Secretary of State Michael Pompeo says President Donald Trump’s legacy is larger than the deadly riots that may lead to him being impeached a second time.Pompeo predicted that Trump’s legacy will not be defined by the deadly riots at the US Capitol incited by the president in a bid to overturn his loss in the November election.“History will reflect on the good work that this president and our administration has done,” Pompeo said Tuesday in an interview on the conservative Hugh Hewitt Show. “Those actions -- the actual things that happened -- will be reflected in a way that shows there was good work done on behalf of the American people.”Trump’s role in instigating a mob of his supporters to march on the Capitol triggered a major backlash from Republicans and Democrats in Congress as well as major corporations. Two cabinet secretaries resigned, citing the violence at the Capitol. But Pompeo and other top national security officials intend to remain in their jobs for the final week of Trump’s term.“Look, what happened Wednesday was terrible. And I have said repeatedly that those folks who engaged in this activity need to be identified, prosecuted and they are criminals and ought to be treated as such,” Pompeo said.Pompeo did not criticize Trump for his role in encouraging his supporters to march on the Capitol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-secretary-of-state-mike-pompeo-says-donald-trump-s-legacy-stronger-than-riots-101610460434017.html
12-01-2021||World||Uganda bans social media ahead of presidential election||Uganda banned social media and messaging apps on Tuesday, two days ahead of a presidential election pitting Yoweri Museveni, one of Africa's longest-serving leaders, against opposition frontrunner Bobi Wine, a popular singer.Users complained on Tuesday that they were unable to access Facebook and WhatsApp, social media platforms being widely used for campaigning by all sides ahead of Thursday's election in the East African country.In a letter seen by Reuters to internet service providers dated Jan. 12, Uganda's communications regulator ordered them to block all social media platforms and messaging apps until further notice.Campaigning ahead of the vote has been marred by brutal crackdowns on opposition rallies, which the authorities say break Covid-19 curbs on large gatherings. Rights groups say the restrictions are a pretext for muzzling the opposition.At 38, Wine is half the age of President Yoweri Museveni and has attracted a large following among young people in a nation where 80% of the population are under 30, rattling the ruling National Resistance Movement party.Wine is considered the frontrunner among 10 candidates challenging Museveni, the former guerrilla leader who seized power in 1986 and brought stability to a country after the murderous reigns of dictators Milton Obote and Idi Amin.While security forces have intimidated the opposition at previous elections, the run up to this year's vote has been especially violent. In November, 54 people were killed as soldiers and police quelled protests after Wine was detained.On Tuesday, Wine said soldiers raided his home in Kampala and arrested his guards while he was giving an interview to a Kenyan radio station. He also said a team member who works mainly as a mechanic was shot dead by the military overnight.Reuters was not immediately able to verify the claims and a military spokesmen did not respond to a call seeking comment.Patrick Onyango, police spokesman for the capital Kampala, denied Wine's home had been raided or that anyone was arrested, saying: "We were just rearranging our security posture in the area near his home, specifically removing some checkpoints."'UNACCEPTABLE BREACHES'A source in Uganda's telecom sector said the government had made clear to executives at telecoms companies that the social media ban was in retaliation for Facebook blocking some pro-government accounts.Neither Ibrahim Bbossa, Uganda Communications Commission spokesman nor government spokesman Ofwono Opondo answered calls requesting comment. An aide to Minister of Information Judith Nabakooba said she was unable to comment at the moment.The U.S. social media giant said on Monday it had taken down a network in Uganda linked to the country's ministry of information for using fake and duplicate accounts to post ahead of this week's election.A Facebook spokeswoman said the company had no comment on reports users were facing difficulties accessing the platform."Any efforts to block online access to journalists or members of the public are unacceptable breaches of the right to information," the International Press Institute, a global media watchdog, said in a statement.Wine has been using Facebook to relay live coverage of his campaigns and news conferences after he said many media outlets had declined to host him. Most radio and TV stations are owned by government allies and Uganda's leading daily is state-run.Museveni, 76, has won every election since the first under his presidency in 1996, though they have been tarnished by intimidation of the opposition and accusations of vote rigging.Uganda is a Western ally, a prospective oil producer and is considered a stabilising force in a region where war has plagued some neighbours. It also contributes the biggest contingent of an African Union force fighting Islamist insurgents in Somalia.Museveni said on Twitter that he would address the nation at 7 p.m. (1600 GMT) on Tuesday.The European Union is not deploying election observers as advice from previous observers about how to make the polls fair went unheeded, the bloc's ambassador to Uganda has said. The African Union will deploy observers.At a news conference on Tuesday, Wine and two other opposition candidates - Patrick Amuriat and Mugisha Muntu - urged Ugandans to turn out and "protect their vote" by staying at polling stations to observe counting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uganda-bans-social-media-ahead-of-presidential-election-101610459677383.html
12-01-2021||World||Twitter blocks 70,000 QAnon accounts after US Capitol riot||LONDON (AP) — Twitter says it has suspended more than 70,000 accounts associated with the far right QAnon conspiracy theory following last week's U.S. Capitol riot. The social media company said Tuesday that given the events last week in Washington, D.C., where a mob of pro-Trump loyalists tried to violently storm the Capitol building, it was taking action against online behavior “that has the potential to lead to offline harm."In many cases, a single individual operated numerous accounts, driving up the total number of affected accounts, the company said in a blog post. “These accounts were engaged in sharing harmful QAnon-associated content at scale and were primarily dedicated to the propagation of this conspiracy theory across the service,” the company said. Twitter's sweeping purge of QAnon accounts, which began Friday, is part of a wider crackdown that also includes its decision to ban President Donald Trump from the service over worries about further incitement to violence. The suspensions mean some Twitter users will lose followers, in some cases by the thousands, the company said. The QAnon conspiracy theory is centered on the baseless belief that Trump is waging a secret campaign against “deep state” enemies and a child sex trafficking ring run by satanic pedophiles and cannibals. Twitter has previously tried to crack down on QAnon, removing more than 7,000 accounts in July. Twitter said it's also stepping up enforcement measures and starting Tuesday it will limit the spread of posts that violate its civic integrity policy by preventing anyone from replying to, liking or retweeting them. The policy prohibits attempts to manipulate elections and spread misleading info about their results, with repeated violations resulting in permanent suspension.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/twitter-blocks-70-000-qanon-accounts-after-us-capitol-riot-101610458229981.html
12-01-2021||World||EU seeks space alliance to defend against US and Chinese ambitions||The European Union (EU) will pursue a more aggressive European space strategy to prevent being muscled out by US and Chinese launcher technology, setting up a European alliance with industry this year, a EU official said on Tuesday.Over the past decades, Europe has sought to build independent access to space from US and Russian pioneers to help its industry, with successes such as Ariane rockets or GPS-rival satnav Galileo."We must ask ourselves: will our current approach successfully get us to 2050, considering the disruptions in the sector that we all observe? I strongly doubt it, and I believe we need a more offensive and aggressive strategy," European Commissioner Thierry Breton, whose brief include the space sector, told a conference."I will therefore gather in the next months all the actors to initiate a European Launcher alliance to be able to jointly define...a common roadmap for the next generation of launchers and technologies relevant to ensure an autonomous access to space," Breton said.Breton said the alliance would be made up of industry, EU governments, EU lawmakers and the European Space Agency, among others.The recent emergence of US competitor SpaceX and its reusable rockets as well as China's rapid advances, including the first ever landing on the far side of the Moon, is giving new urgency to Europe's ambitions.After investing 12 billion euros in space activities between 2014 to 2020, the bloc aims to spend almost 15 billion euros for the 2021-2027 period, although the plans still need final approval by EU governments and the European Parliament.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-seeks-space-alliance-to-defend-against-us-and-chinese-ambitions-101610456077621.html
12-01-2021||World||US asking states to speed Covid vaccine, not hold back second dose||The Trump administration is asking states to speed delivery of Covid-19 vaccines to people older than 65 and others at high risk by no longer holding back the second dose of the two-dose shots, The Associated Press has learned.The Centers for Disease Control is expected to recommend opening up vaccines to everyone older than 65 and to get the vaccines to more people by not holding back the second vaccine dose. That's according to a Trump administration official familiar with the decision, who spoke on condition of anonymity ahead of an announcement.States determine who should get the vaccine based on CDC guidelines.The Trump administration also is pushing to expand the number of places where people can be vaccinated by adding community health centers and additional drug stores.President-elect Joe Biden is expected to give a speech Thursday outlining his plan to speed vaccines to more people in the first part of his administration. His transition team has vowed to release as many vaccine doses as possible, rather than continuing the Trump administration policy of holding back millions of doses to ensure there would be enough supply to allow those getting the first shot to get a second one.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-asking-states-to-speed-covid-vaccine-not-hold-back-second-dose-101610455877345.html
12-01-2021||World||UK PM’s 7-mile bike ride defended as action on lockdown breaches toughens||Downing Street on Tuesday defended UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s cycle ride in east London over the weekend, around seven miles away from his central London office-cum-residence, and insisted he had not breached the Covid-19 lockdown rules which allow for one daily form of exercise but require people to “stay local”.Scotland Yard Commissioner, Dame Cressida Dick, backed up the journey as not being in breach of the rules even as she warned that her officers will be getting tougher on enforcing the rules as the UK continues to deal with a massive surge in coronavirus infection rates.The Prime Minister’s spokesperson said any suggestion that Johnson had broken the rules after being spotted on his bike near the Olympic Park on Sunday was "wrong” and the Met Police chief confirmed it was not against the law."From your front door and come back to your front door… That's my view of local," she told the BBC.Cressida Dick, Britain’s senior-most police official, however agreed that a clearer description of what staying local actually means in distance terms would be beneficial.“That’s certainly something the government could consider. It would depend how it’s done as with all these things. Anything that brings greater clarity for officers and the public in general will be a good thing,” she said.Writing in ‘The Times’ newspaper on Tuesday, she appealed to the public to follow the strict stay-at-home guidelines as the UK faces a “new and urgent phase in our struggle against this terrible virus”.“It is preposterous to me that anyone could be unaware of our duty to do all we can to stop the spread of the virus. We have been clear that those who breach Covid-19 legislation are increasingly likely to face fines,” she writes.“We will still be engaging, explaining and encouraging but those who break the rules or refuse to comply where they should without good reason will find officers moving much more quickly to enforcement action,” she said.The Policing Minister, Kit Malthouse, also echoed her views and urged people to follow the government guidance and leave their homes only for the limited purposes of essential needs or one form of outdoor exercise within their local areas."Now local is, obviously, open to interpretation, but people broadly know what local means. If you can get there under your own steam and you are not interacting with somebody... then that seems perfectly reasonable to me," he said.The issue of travelling for exercise was highlighted at the weekend after police in Derbyshire fined two women 200 pounds after they drove five miles from home to take a walk – a penalty that was later dropped after widespread social media coverage over whether the two women had really broken the law.Each devolved region of the United Kingdom sets its own precise levels of lockdown rules and under the government advice for England, people can leave home to exercise as long as it is “limited to once per day, and you should not travel outside your local area."It adds: "Stay local means stay in the village, town, or part of the city where you live."In Scotland, the advice is that exercise can be taken if it "starts and finishes at the same place, which can be up to five miles from the boundary of your local authority area".In Wales, exercise must start from and finish at home and there no limits on distance travelled, although the advice is that "the nearer you stay to your home, the better".And, people in Northern Ireland are advised not to go more than 10 miles from home when exercising.The debate around tougher action against lockdown breaches, which are punishable by fines ranging between 200 pounds and 10,000 pounds, has been intensifying as a further 529 people died from coronavirus on Monday, taking the country’s death toll to 81,960.According to official data, there are more than 32,200 people in hospital in the UK with coronavirus as health experts warned that the country was currently in the worst phase of the pandemic.It comes as the government tabled a major vaccination programme to immunise tens of millions of people by March-April at over 2,700 vaccination sites across the UK.The National Health Service (NHS) says while over 2 million people have already received the first of two jabs, it is also mobilising a workforce of over 80,000 health professionals to help in the delivery of the programme across the different vaccination sites where the Pfizer/BioNTech and Oxford/AstraZeneca jabs will be administered to the most vulnerable categories.The government has committed to offer the first vaccine dose to all those in the top priority groups recommended by the Joint Committee of Vaccination and Immunisation (JCVI) by February 15.With these groups accounting for 88 per cent of Covid-19 fatalities, the move is aimed at preventing thousands of deaths once their immunity develops within 14 days of the first jab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-pm-s-7-mile-bike-ride-defended-as-action-on-lockdown-breaches-toughens-101610456619670.html
12-01-2021||World||Kremlin foe Navalny says Russian prison authority has asked a court to jail him||Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny said on Tuesday that Russia's prison authority has asked a court to jail him for having allegedly broken the terms of a suspended sentence he has been serving.Navalny, one of President Vladimir Putin's leading critics, was airlifted to Germany for treatment in August after collapsing on a plane in what Germany and other Western nations say was an attempt to murder him with a Novichok nerve agent.Last month, Russia's prison service ordered Navalny to fly back from Germany at once and report at a Moscow office or be jailed if he failed to return before a deadline. )||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kremlin-foe-navalny-says-russian-prison-authority-has-asked-a-court-to-jail-him-101610455899344.html
12-01-2021||World||Interpol issues notices over Beirut's massive port blast||Interpol has issued a wanted notice for two Russians and a Portuguese man over explosive material that had been shipped to Beirut and stored at the city’s port for six years until it exploded in August, the state-run National News Agency reported Tuesday.The Aug. 4 explosion killed 200 people, injured thousands and caused wide destruction in Beirut.NNA said the Interpol-issued Red Notices were for the owner and captain of the Rhosus, the ship that carried the 2,750 tons of ammonium nitrate to Lebanon in 2013, as well as a Portuguese nitrate trader who visited the port's warehouse in Beirut in 2014 where the material was stored.The notice is a non-binding request to law enforcement agencies worldwide to locate and provisionally arrest a fugitive. It is not an arrest warrant and does not require authorities to arrest a wanted suspect.Lebanon’s state prosecutor, Ghassan Khoury, had asked Interpol to issue the notices, NNA said. The agency did not give the names of the three but local media posted the notices identifying them as the vessel's former captain Boris Prokoshev and Igor Grechushkin, a Russian businessman residing in Cyprus who had bought the cargo ship in 2012. The Portuguese man was identified as Jorge Manuel Mirra Neto Moreira.The ammonium nitrate, a highly explosive material used in fertilizers, was not even supposed to be in Lebanon. When the Rhosus set sail from the Georgian Black Sea port of Batumi, it was bound for the Mozambican port of Beira.Prokoshev, the former captain, told The Associated Press days after the blast that he joined the ship in Turkey in 2013, after the previous crew quit over unpaid wages. Grechushkin, who resides in Cyprus, was paid $1 million to transport the dangerous cargo from Georgia to Mozambique, the former captain said.Nearly 30 people, most of them port and customs officials, have been arrested since the blast. Last month, the prosecutor investigating the blast, Fadi Sawwan, filed charges against Lebanon's caretaker Prime Minister Hassan Diab and three former ministers, accusing them of negligence leading to the deaths of those who perished in the explosion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/interpol-issues-notices-over-beirut-s-massive-port-blast-101610456089099.html
12-01-2021||World||Swiss drugs regulator approves Moderna’s Covid-19 vaccine||Switzerland's drug regulator on Tuesday approved Moderna Inc's Covi-19 vaccine, adding a second shot to the country's arsenal against the new coronavirus."Following a thorough review of all the submitted data on safety, efficacy and quality, Swissmedic has today temporarily authorised the Moderna vaccine, which is based on an mRNA platform, for use in Switzerland," the regulator said in a statement.Swissmedic has also approved the vaccine from Pfizer and BioNTech.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/swiss-drugs-regulator-approves-moderna-s-covid-19-vaccine-101610455524959.html
12-01-2021||World||US judge blocks execution of only woman on federal death row||A federal judge in Indiana late on Monday blocked the execution of convicted murderer Lisa Montgomery, the only woman on federal death row in the United States, on mental health grounds, based on evidence that she was unable to understand the government's rationale for her execution.Prosecutors have filed a notice to appeal the judge's ruling, CNN reported on Tuesday. Separately, the US Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia circuit, also voted to stay the execution, pushing any new execution date into Joe Biden's administration unless the Supreme Court intervenes.Montgomery, who was due to be killed by lethal injection on Jan. 12, was convicted in 2007 in Missouri for kidnapping and strangling Bobbie Jo Stinnett, then eight months pregnant. Montgomery then cut Stinnett's fetus from the womb. The child survived.US judge James Patrick Hanlon granted a stay of execution to allow the court to conduct a hearing to determine whether Montgomery is competent to be executed on mental health grounds, according to a court filing made in the US district court of Southern District of Indiana.Montgomery's lawyer, Kelley Henry, welcomed the judge's ruling and said the court was right to put a stop to her execution."Mrs Montgomery is mentally deteriorating and we are seeking an opportunity to prove her incompetence," Henry said in a statement.Montgomery's lawyers have asked for US President Donald Trump's clemency, saying she committed her crime after a lifetime of being abused and raped. In a nearly 7,000-page clemency petition filed last week, they asked Trump to commute Montgomery's sentence to life in prison.The lawyers have said Montgomery admits her guilt but deserves clemency because she has long suffered severe mental illness, exacerbated by being gang raped by her stepfather and his friends during an abusive childhood.Federal executions had been on pause for 17 years before Trump ordered them to resume last year.In 2020, the US government executed 10 people. It was the first time the federal government conducted more executions than all US states combined, according to a database compiled by the Death Penalty Information Center.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-judge-blocks-execution-of-only-woman-on-federal-death-row-101610455015103.html
12-01-2021||World||Turkey, Greece to break five-year negotiations impasse||Turkey and Greece will sit down to try to tackle differences over maritime boundaries and offshore energy resources for the first time since 2016.Diplomats from the two countries will meet in Istanbul on Jan. 25 to begin “exploratory talks,” the Turkish and Greek foreign ministries said late Monday. Greek officials have ruled out expanding the scope of the negotiations to other long-running disputes with Turkey.The announcement comes just weeks after the European Union pledged to expand the number of Turkish officials sanctioned over the country’s energy exploration in the disputed waters of the eastern Mediterranean Sea. Cyprus, Greece and France this week proposed a list of potential new targets.“I believe exploratory talks with Greece will be harbinger of a new era,” in relations, Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan told ambassadors from European Union member countries in Ankara on Tuesday. At the same time, Erdogan urged Greece “to avoid fueling tensions” in the eastern Mediterranean.Ankara and Athens are locked in a showdown over conflicting interpretations of maritime borders. Competing claims to sovereignty over waters rich in hydrocarbon reserves led to a naval standoff between Greece and Turkey in 2020.Another thorn in the relationship is Turkey’s continued control of northern Cyprus, which it seized following a coup attempt in which a military junta in Athens sought to unite the island with Greece.Cyprus and Greece say Turkey’s maritime claims infringe on their sovereignty and have repeatedly demanded that the EU impose sweeping economic sanctions. Such demands have so far failed to win the required unanimous backing of EU member states, many of which fear an escalation that would break the bloc’s ties with Ankara.Erdogan has in recent months toned down his mostly confrontational rhetoric toward the 27-nation bloc, saying his country wants a new chapter in its relations with the EU. His government also ordered an energy exploration ship to limit its work to an area far from Greek islands through June 15, after the vessel’s operations angered Greece.On Tuesday, Erdogan urged the EU to honor its promises to Turkey, including updating their customs union and waiving visa requirements for Turkish citizens. He also called on the bloc to update a 2016 deal by which Turkey stemmed the flow of migrants toward Europe in exchange for financial assistance.Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu, addressing EU ambassadors earlier on Tuesday, said he and Greek Foreign Minister Nikolaos Dendias have agreed to meet following the exploratory talks in Istanbul.The weeks leading up to the negotiations will see some heightened tensions. A senior diplomat in Brussels said Cyprus, Greece and France this week jointly presented a list of other Turkish officials they’d like to see sanctioned over their country’s drilling operations off the coast of Cyprus.The blacklist so far includes only two people and has no material consequences for Turkey’s economy. EU officials will start debating the proposed additional listings next week, though it’s unclear whether the latest push will fare any better than previous attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/turkey-greece-to-break-five-year-negotiations-impasse-101610453614477.html
12-01-2021||World||Abuse of manatee with 'Trump' etched on its back prompts investigation||The US Fish and Wildlife Service has opened an investigation into the harassment of a manatee found in a Florida river with the word "Trump" written on its back, the agency confirmed on Monday.The West Indian manatee, a species classified as "threatened" under US wildlife protection laws, was found on Sunday in the headwaters of the Homosassa River on the state's west coast, about 100 miles (160 km) west of Orlando.A spokeswoman for the US Fish and Wildlife Service said the manatee did not appear to be seriously injured.The Citrus County Chronicle published a video showing an underwater view of the slow-moving mammal, with the word "Trump" written in big letters. How the letters were written was not immediately clear. It was also not clear if the act was meant to bring attention to President Donald Trump, a Florida resident.Here is the video of the poor manatee that had "TRUMP" carved into its body. Minding it's own business and some monster(s) came along and did this. If you have information on the person(s) who committed this federal crime please call 888-404-3922 https://t.co/maOImIxQS0 pic.twitter.com/Yx2qaGhFXeThe Tucson, Arizona-based Center for Biological Diversity said it was offering a $5,000 reward for information leading to a conviction in the case.Harassment of manatees is a federal offense punishable by a fine of up to $50,000 and/or up to one year in prison.Manatees, nicknamed "sea cows," are protected under the Endangered Species Act and the Marine Mammal Protection Act.Strikes by boats are the top cause of death for the mammal; but loss of habitat, algae blooms and disease also threaten them. There are more than 6,300 manatees in Florida, up from about 1,267 in 1991.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/abuse-of-manatee-with-trump-etched-on-its-back-prompts-investigation-101610453303661.html
12-01-2021||World||Indonesia recovers first black box from crashed plane||A black box from the crashed Indonesian passenger jet has been recovered, officials said Tuesday, a discovery that could offer critical clues to explaining why the plane with 62 people aboard slammed into the sea.Divers just off the coast of the capital Jakarta hauled the jet's flight data recorder to the surface, as the hunt continues for its cockpit voice recorder.Indonesian transport minister Budi Karya Sumadi told a live television briefing that the box had been found -- after the Sriwijaya Air Boeing 737-500 plunged about 10,000 feet (3,000 metres) in less than a minute before slamming into the Java Sea Saturday.An AFP reporter on a navy ship said investigators started picking up strong signals from an area where they were searching, with divers able to retrieve the box in about an hour from the wreckage-littered seabed.So far authorities have been unable to explain why the 26-year-old plane crashed just four minutes after takeoff.Black box data -- which record information about the speed, altitude and direction of the plane as well as flight crew conversations -- helps explain nearly 90 percent of all crashes, according to aviation experts.Sumadi added officials believe the cockpit voice recorder is nearby that of flight data recorder."We strongly believe it'll be found soon," he said.Some 3,600 personnel are taking part in the recovery effort, assisted by dozens of boats and helicopters flying over small islands off the capital's coast.The agency deployed a remotely operated vehicle to assist the divers.- 'Hoping for a miracle' -Scores of body bags filled with human remains were being taken to a police morgue where forensic investigators hope to identify victims by matching fingerprints or DNA with distraught relatives -- some held out hope of survivors."We haven't accepted it yet," Inda Gunawan said of his brother Didik Gunardi who was on the doomed Saturday flight."Our family is still hoping for a miracle that he is still alive."Authorities have identified flight attendant Okky Bisma, 29, as the first confirmed victim after matching fingerprints from a retrieved hand to those in a government identity database."Rest in peace up there darling and wait for me... in heaven," Okky Bisma's wife Aldha Refa wrote on Instagram.There were 10 children among the passengers on the half-full plane, which had experienced pilots at the controls as it left Jakarta bound for Pontianak city on Borneo island on a 90-minute flight.A transport safety agency investigator has said the crew did not declare an emergency or report technical problems with the plane before its dive, and that the 737 was likely intact when it hit the water.Search-and-rescue agency chief Soerjanto Tjahjono echoed that view earlier Tuesday, pointing to the relatively small area where debris was scattered in about 23 metres (75 feet) of water."The size is consistent with the assumption that the plane didn't explode before hitting the water," he added."The damage seen on the retrieved fan blade also shows that the engine was still working" at the time of the crash.The crash probe was likely to take months, but a preliminary report was expected in 30 days.Aviation analysts said flight-tracking data showed the plane sharply deviated from its intended course before it went into a steep dive.- Plagued by safety concerns -Sriwijaya Air, which flies to destinations in Indonesia and across Southeast Asia, has had safety incidents including runway overruns.But it has not had a fatal crash since starting operations in 2003.Its CEO has said the jet, which was previously flown by US-based Continental Airlines and United Airlines, was in fit condition.Indonesia's fast-growing aviation sector has long been plagued by safety concerns, and its airlines were once banned from US and European airspace.In October 2018, 189 people were killed when a Lion Air Boeing 737 MAX jet crashed near Jakarta.That accident -- and another in Ethiopia -- led to the grounding of the 737 MAX worldwide.The 737 that went down Saturday was first produced decades ago and was not a MAX variant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indonesia-recovers-first-black-box-from-crashed-plane-101610451967872.html
12-01-2021||World||Trudeau to shuffle cabinet after Indo-Canadian minister quits||Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has scheduled an unexpected cabinet reshuffle following the sudden resignation of Indo-Canadian minister Navdeep Bains.No reason has been attributed for the departure of the 43-year-old minister of innovation, science and industry. Bains is among the prominent Sikhs in Trudeau’s cabinet along with minister for national defence Harjit Sajjan.While no official announcement has been made in this regard, the outlet CBC News reported that Bains has also decided against running in the next federal elections. He has been a cabinet minister since 2015 after being elected from the riding (constituency) of Mississauga-Malton.Multiple Canadian media reports also said this will precipitate a larger reshuffle, with foreign minister François-Philippe Champagne being placed in charge of Bains’ portfolios while transport minister Marc Garneau will take over foreign affairs. Omar Alghabra, currently a parliamentary secretary, is expected to be promoted to the cabinet and given charge of the transport department. The change is expected to be formalised on Tuesday morning.Bains’ exit could have a significant impact on the calculus for the next federal elections since he is credited with crafting the strategy for the Liberal Party in the 905 region, referring to the telephone area code for the seat-rich suburbs of Toronto, like Brampton and Mississauga. Bains is a veteran within the Sikh community in Canadian electoral politics. He was also an MP between 2004 and 2011.This is the second reshuffle that Trudeau has undertaken since the Covid-19 pandemic erupted last spring. He gave charge of the finance portfolio to deputy prime minister Chrystia Freeland after the resignation of Bill Morneau last year.The reshuffle is expected to be conducted virtually and comes just before a Cabinet retreat already announced by the Prime Minister’s Office.Bains was famously among the four Sikh cabinet ministers appointed by Trudeau in 2015, along with Sajjan. Of the other two, Bardish Chagger remains as the minister for diversity, inclusion and youth, while the fourth, Amarjeet Sohi was defeated in the 2019 federal polls. When Bains is replaced, the cabinet will be left with two Sikh ministers – Sajjan and Chagger.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trudeau-to-shuffle-cabinet-after-indo-canadian-minister-quits-101610448467437.html
12-01-2021||World||Benjamin Netanyahu removes joint photo with Donald Trump from his Twitter banner||Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on Tuesday changed his cover photo on Twitter, replacing a picture with outgoing US President Donald Trump with the one in which he is being vaccinated against Covid-19.A joint photo of the two leaders, with Netanyahu sitting next to Trump at a White House meeting, has long been on the prime minister's official Twitter account @netanyahu. The photo was seen as a sign of friendship and close ties between Israel and the Trump-led US administration.The removal came after the relations between the two leaders have deteriorated after Netanyahu officially congratulated US President-elect Joe Biden on the latter's victory in the November presidential election.The new picture on Netanyahu's Twitter profile says "Citizens of Israel, we are returning to life." No comment on the cover photo's replacement was given on his account.Meanwhile, Trump has been blocked on all major social platforms following the January 6 unrest in the US Capitol, when a group of his supporters stormed the building, clashing with police, damaging property, seizing the inauguration stage and occupying the rotunda.The violent rally, which killed five people, took place after Trump urged his supporters to protest what he claims is a stolen election.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/benjamin-netanyahu-removes-joint-photo-with-donald-trump-from-his-twitter-banner-101610447373612.html
12-01-2021||World||German police take down 'world's largest darknet marketplace'||German police have taken down the "world's largest" darknet marketplace, whose Australian alleged operator used it to sell drugs, stolen credit card data and malware, prosecutors said Tuesday.Police in the northern city of Oldenburg "were able to arrest the alleged operator of the suspected world's largest illegal marketplace on the darknet, the DarkMarket, at the weekend," prosecutors said in a statement"Investigators were able to shut down the marketplace and turn off the server on Monday," they added, calling it a months-long international law enforcement operation.At the time of its closure, DarkMarket had nearly 500,000 users and more than 2,400 vendors."A total of at least 320,000 transactions were carried out via the marketplace, with more than 4,650 Bitcoin and 12,800 Monero -- two of the most common cryptocurrencies -- changing hands," prosecutors said.At current exchange rates, that represented turnover valued at 140 million euros ($170 million).The marketplace offered for sale "all kinds of drugs" as well as "counterfeit money, stolen and fake credit card data, anonymous SIM cards, malware and much more".A 34-year-old Australian national believed to be the DarkMarket operator was arrested near the German-Danish border, just as more than 20 servers it used in Moldova and Ukraine were seized."Investigators expect to use the data saved there to launch new probes against the moderators, sellers and buyers of the marketplace," prosecutors said.The prime suspect was brought before a judge but declined to speak. He was placed in pre-trial detention.The American FBI, DEA narcotics law enforcement division and IRS tax authority took part in the probe along with police from Australia, Britain, Denmark, Switzerland, Ukraine and Moldova, with Europol playing a "coordinating role".The secret "darknet" network includes websites that can be accessed only with specific software or authorisations, ensuring anonymity for users.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/german-police-take-down-world-s-largest-darknet-marketplace-101610446715064.html
12-01-2021||World||20,000 people in China's Shijiazhuang quarantined due to fresh Covid-19 outbreak||China transferred more than 20 thousand people on Monday from Shijiazhuang in Hebei province to designated quarantine areas for medical observation due to rising coronavirus cases."More than 20k people in 12 villages in Zengcun county of Gaocheng district in N China's Shijiazhuang have been transferred to designated quarantine areas for medical observation since Mon. The county reported the 1st #Covid19 case on Jan 2 during this round of flare-ups in Hebei," tweeted Global Times.Chinese health experts warned that the coronavirus spreading in China appears to be more infectious and transmissible, and asymptomatic infections, especially silent infections in villages, have become a new and big challenge for China, judging from the ongoing Shijiazhuang outbreak, reported Global Times.A weak and slow Covid-19 response at the grassroots level, which includes a failed surveillance and reporting system in villages, has spawned the recent domestic cluster infections, said experts.The Chinese mainland reported 103 confirmed cases on Monday, mostly from Hebei, the first time for a daily triple-digit rise in the number of confirmed cases in more than five months. The last time the Chinese mainland reported such a rise was at the end of July, when Urumqi, Xinjiang was hit by daily new cases of over 100, reported Global Times.Hebei, currently the hardest-hit Chinese province with the most local Covid-19 patients this winter, reported 40 new confirmed cases on Tuesday. Several infected clusters were recently found in the region, bringing risks of cross-regional spread of the coronavirus.Moreover, the silent spread of the virus amply shows that asymptomatic patients have increasingly become a great challenge for China's epidemic prevention and control efforts, said Zhang Yuexin, a member of the anti-epidemic group in Xinjiang.The epidemic will affect the Hebei region during the Spring Festival holiday, which falls in February, and will see tightened restrictions on the movement of local people in these regions, reported Global Times||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/20k-people-in-china-s-shijiazhuang-quarantined-due-to-fresh-covid-19-outbreak-101610445501592.html
12-01-2021||World||Indonesia faces deadliest day in pandemic a Day before vaccination kicks off||Indonesia reported the deadliest day in its coronavirus outbreak, before President Joko Widodo is set to kick off the mass vaccination program by getting the first shot on Wednesday.The government confirmed that 302 people died from the disease known as Covid-19 in the 24 hours through midday Tuesday. The previous record was 258 deaths on Dec. 25. Some 10,047 tested positive for the virus during the same period Tuesday, bringing total cases to almost 850,000 so far.Jokowi, as the president’s widely known, will receive the first dose of China’s Sinovac Biotech Ltd. vaccine in a televised event on Wednesday as he seeks to build public confidence in the shots. There remains uncertainty over the efficacy of the vaccine as four different protection rates have been reported.Testing remains insufficient in the country. Its positivity rate, a measure of how many of those tested were confirmed to have the virus, eased to 25% on Tuesday, from 31% on Monday. That’s still far above the World Health Organization’s recommendation for the rate to be kept below 5%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indonesia-faces-deadliest-day-in-pandemic-a-day-before-vaccination-kicks-off-101610445706552.html
12-01-2021||World||Iran must undo uranium enrichment, help nuclear diplomacy, EU says||Iran must reverse its decision to enrich uranium at higher levels and give international diplomacy a chance to save the 2015 nuclear accord, the European Union said in a statement."The initiation of uranium enrichment to up to 20% by Iran at the underground Fordow Fuel Enrichment Plant ... is a very serious development and a matter of deep concern," the EU's 27 governments said in a statement released late on Monday."At this critical juncture, Iran's action also risks undermining efforts aimed at building upon the existing diplomatic process. We urge Iran to refrain from further escalation and reverse this course of action without delay."Iran started pressing ahead with plans to enrich uranium to 20% fissile strength at its underground Fordow nuclear plant last week, a level Tehran achieved before striking the deal with world powers to contain its disputed nuclear ambitions.The head of the global atomic watchdog told Reuters on Monday that world powers and Iran had weeks, not months to save the nuclear accord once U.S. President-elect Joe Biden takes office on Jan. 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-must-undo-uranium-enrichment-help-nuclear-diplomacy-eu-says-101610442990995.html
12-01-2021||World||Bodies pile up at crematorium in Germany's virus hot spot||The caskets are stacked three high in the Meissen crematorium's somber memorial hall, piled up in empty offices and stored in hallways. Many are sealed with plastic wrapping, others are labeled “infection risk,” “urgent” or simply “COVID.”A surge of coronavirus deaths in this corner of eastern Germany has boosted business for crematorium manager Joerg Schaldach and his staff, but nobody is celebrating.“The situation is a little bit tense for us at the moment,” Schaldach said as another undertaker's van pulled up outside.The crematorium would typically have 70 to 100 caskets on site at this time of year, when the flu season takes its toll on the elderly.“It’s normal for more people to die in winter than in summer," said Schaldach. "That’s always been the case.”Now he has 300 bodies waiting to be cremated and each day dozens more are delivered to the modernist building on a hill overlooking Meissen, an ancient town better known for its delicate porcelain and impressive Gothic castle.On Monday, Meissen county once again took the unwanted lead in Germany's Covid-19 tables, with an infection rate three times the national average. The state of Saxony, where Meissen is located, includes six of the 10 worst-hit counties in Germany.Schaldach says the crematorium is doing its best to keep up with demand, firing up the twin furnaces every 45 minutes and managing 60 cremations a day.“The ashes still end up in the right urn,” he said.But whereas staff would normally try to ensure the deceased look good for relatives to bid their final farewells, infection rules now mean the caskets of Covid victims have to remain shut throughout, making the entire process even harder for those involved.“It’s our business, we’ve seen death many, many times," said Schaldach. "The problem we see is that the grieving relatives need our help. And at the moment, there’s a greater need for words of consolation because they’ve given their deceased loved one to the ambulance and then they never see them again.”Some have linked Saxony's high infection rate to wider anti-government sentiment in a state where over a quarter voted for the far-right Alternative for Germany party at the last national election. Its lawmakers have objected to the need to wear masks, limits on people gathering and the closure of stores. A few have even denied the existence of a pandemic outright.Other commentators have noted the state's large number of elderly and its reliance on nursing home workers from the neighboring Czech Republic, where Covid-19 infections are even higher.Officials in Meissen, including the head of the county administration, the local doctors association and the lawmaker representing the region in parliament, an ally of Chancellor Angela Merkel, all declined to be interviewed about the situation.Saxony’s governor, Michael Kretschmer, acknowledged in a recent interview with daily Freie Presse that he had underestimated the impact of the pandemic in his state and paid too much attention to those calling for businesses and schools to remain open.A video showing Kretschmer talking to anti-lockdown protesters outside his home Sunday ends with him walking away after one person dons a mask made to look like the German Imperial War Flag, a symbol favored by far-right extremists.Schaldach, the crematorium manager, says most people in Saxony accept the rules. But he, too, has read comments on social media branding reports about bodies piling up at his crematorium as fake news.“Those who believe in conspiracy theories can’t be helped. We don’t want to debate with them," he told The Associated Press. "They have their beliefs and we have our knowledge.”Down in Meissen, the streets are empty, devoid of the usual tourists or even the bustle of locals.Franziska Schlieter runs a gourmet food store in the historic city center that's among the few allowed to stay open amid the lockdown. Her store, which has been run by five generations of her family, is being sustained by a trickle of regulars buying lottery cards and gift baskets.“In the Bible, God sent people plagues when they didn’t behave,” said Schlieter, who feels easing the lockdown over Christmas was a mistake. “Sometimes I have to think of that.”On the cobblestone square, Matthias Huth tends a lone food truck outside his shuttered restaurant. He defends those who have questioned the government’s Covid-19 restrictions, but says skepticism shouldn’t justify denial.“Conversations are starting to change,” Huth said as he served up a dish of chopped blood sausage, sauerkraut and mash known locally as ‘Dead Grandma.’ “Everyone wants it to be over.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bodies-pile-up-at-crematorium-in-germany-s-virus-hot-spot-101610442950802.html
12-01-2021||World||Pompeo to use declassified intelligence to accuse Iran of al Qaeda links: Report||US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo plans to use newly declassified US intelligence on Tuesday to publicly accuse Iran of ties to al Qaeda, two people familiar with the matter said, as part of his last-minute offensive against Tehran before handing over to the incoming Biden administration.With just eight days left in office for President Donald Trump, Pompeo is expected to offer details on allegations that Iran has given safe haven to al Qaeda leaders and support for the group, the sources said, despite some skepticism within the intelligence community and Congress.It was not immediately clear how much Pompeo intends to reveal in his speech to the National Press Club in Washington on Tuesday. He could cite declassified information on the killing of al Qaeda's suspected second-in-command in Tehran in August, said the sources, speaking on condition of anonymity.The New York Times reported in November that Abu Muhammad al-Masri, accused of helping to mastermind the 1998 bombings of two US embassies in Africa, was gunned down by Israeli operatives in Iran. Iran denied the report, saying there were no al Qaeda "terrorists" on its soil.Iran has been a target throughout the Trump administration and Pompeo has sought to further ratchet up pressure on Iran in recent weeks with more sanctions and heated rhetoric.Advisers to President-elect Joe Biden believe the Trump administration is trying to make it harder for him to re-engage with Iran and seek to rejoin an international deal on Iran's nuclear program.More sanctionsPompeo has accused Iran of links to al Qaeda in the past but has not provided concrete evidence."There have been times the Iranians have worked alongside al Qaeda," then CIA director Pompeo said in October 2017.Earlier accusations by the George W. Bush administration of Iranian links to al Qaeda's Sept. 11, 2001, attacks on the United States have been discredited. But reports have surfaced over the years of al Qaeda operatives hiding out in Iran.A former senior US intelligence official with direct knowledge of the issue said the Iranians were never friendly with al Qaeda before or after the Sept. 11 attacks and any claims of current cooperation should be viewed warily.Shi'ite Iran and al Qaeda, a Sunni Muslim militant organization, have long been sectarian foes.Relations between Tehran and Washington have deteriorated since 2018 when Trump abandoned Iran's 2015 nuclear deal, which imposed strict curbs on its nuclear activities in return for the lifting of sanctions.Since the beginning of his administration, Trump has imposed sanctions on Iranian officials, politicians and companies in an effort to force Tehran to negotiate a broader deal that further limits its nuclear work.And more sanctions are expected before Trump leaves office, US officials say.While sanctions have sharply lowered Tehran's oil exports and increased the economic hardship of ordinary Iranians, it has failed to bring Iran back to the negotiating table.Biden has said the United States will rejoin the nuclear deal "if Iran resumes strict compliance."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pompeo-to-use-declassified-intelligence-to-accuse-iran-of-al-qaeda-links-report-101610442445862.html
12-01-2021||World||Mike Pompeo off to Europe on final trip as secretary of state||Secretary of State Mike Pompeo will make his final trip abroad as America's top diplomat this week, the State Department said Monday.With just a week before president-elect Joe Biden is inaugurated, the department said Pompeo will visit Brussels on Wednesday and Thursday. While there, Pompeo plans to meet with NATO chief Jens Stoltenberg and Belgium's foreign minister. He will then return to Washington, capping foreign travel for his two-and-a-half years as President Donald Trump's secretary of state.Pompeo began the Trump administration as the head of the CIA but took the secretary of state job when the president fired Rex Tillerson in early 2018. Most recent secretaries of state have served for a full four-year presidential term. Pompeo and Tillerson are shortest-termed Senate-confirmed secretaries of state in decades.“Secretary Pompeo will highlight the enduring importance of the Transatlantic partnership, champion NATO's ongoing success in safeguarding the Transatlantic community and adapting to new security challenges, and reaffirm the strength of the bilateral relationship between the United States and Belgium,” the department said in a statement.Pompeo has had mixed results in his previous visits to Brussels, which is the home of NATO headquarters and the European Union — two institutions Trump has disparaged during his presidency.A former military officer and West Point graduate who served in West Germany in the closing days of the Cold War, Pompeo has extolled the virtues of NATO but also made clear Trump's demands that allies step up their defense spending. He has, however, received chilly receptions at EU headquarters, where Trump's decisions to withdraw from the 2015 Iran nuclear deal and numerous multilateral agencies and agreements have raised concerns.Pompeo is not expected to visit the EU headquarters during his brief stay in Brussels and instead will meet only with his Belgian counterpart, Sophie Wilmes. He will return to Washington on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mike-pompeo-off-to-europe-on-final-trip-as-secretary-of-state-101610442722861.html
12-01-2021||World||Trump awards Medal of Freedom to ally Jim Jordan at closed-door ceremony||US President Donald Trump on Monday awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom to Republican representative from Ohio Jim Jordan -- who is also regarded as one of the president's 'staunchest loyalists' in Congress -- citing his defences of the outgoing President against impeachment earlier last year and the Russia investigation.According to The Hill, Trump awarded the medal to Jordan at a closed-door ceremony at the White House on the same day House Democrats officially moved forward with plans to impeach Trump for a second time.It was further reported that Jordan was among the Republican lawmakers who still objected to the Electoral College certification affirming Joe Biden as the next president, even after the riot that broke out at Capitol Hill last week.The Presidential Medal of Freedom is usually awarded to figures who have made significant contributions to their field or defended the interests of the United States. But Trump has awarded the medal to political allies, particularly in his final weeks in office.The White House in a statement said that in 2016, Jordan worked with then-Representative Mike Pompeo to investigate and publish a report on the deadly attack against our embassy in Benghazi, Libya."Moreover, he also worked to unmask the Russia hoax and take on Deep State corruption -- confronting senior Justice Department officials for obstructing Congress and exposing the fraudulent origins of the Russia collusion lie," it read."His work helped to unearth malfeasance at the highest levels of the United States Government. At the beginning of last year, Jordan was named ranking member of the House Judiciary Committee and led the effort to confront the impeachment witch hunt," the statement read further.On January 6, a group of Trump's loyalists stormed the US Capitol building, clashing with police, damaging property, seizing the inauguration stage and occupying the rotunda. The unrest took place after Trump urged his supporters to protest what he claims is a stolen election.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-awards-medal-of-freedom-to-ally-jim-jordan-at-closed-door-ceremony-101610440623873.html
12-01-2021||World||US lawmaker Pramila Jayapal tests Covid positive, blames 'reckless' Republicans||US Representative Pramila Jayapal said she has tested positive for COVID-19 after being locked down in a room with Republican lawmakers who refused to wear masks as President Donald Trump's supporters laid siege to the US Capitol.A Democrat from Washington state, Jayapal, 55, lambasted Republicans late on Monday and said many of them not only refused to wear a mask while stuck in the room for several hours but also mocked colleagues and staff when offered one."Too many Republicans have refused to take this pandemic and virus seriously, and in doing so, they endanger everyone around them," she said in a statement.Only hours after Trump incited a deadly assault on our Capitol, many Republicans still refused to take the bare minimum COVID-19 precaution and simply wear a damn mask in a crowded room during a pandemic—creating a superspreader event ON TOP of a domestic terrorist attack.Jayapal, who is the second Democratic member of the US Congress to test positive since last Wednesday's storming of the Capitol by Trump's supporters, said she would work in isolation, in line with the guidance of the Capitol physician.The attending physician for Congress, Dr Brian Monahan, said lawmakers who hid together for hours in a closed room to avoid the mob may have been exposed to the coronavirus.Health officials have warned the attack would likely be a superspreader event, as lawmakers were isolated for hours while a violent crowd of mostly maskless Trump supporters roamed the halls and corridors in an unsuccessful bid to block lawmakers' certification of Joe Biden's presidential win.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-lawmaker-pramila-jayapal-tests-covid-positive-blames-reckless-republicans-101610440484852.html
12-01-2021||World||20 million under Covid lockdown in China, infection spreads among farmers||China on Tuesday locked down a city of 4.9 million residents near Beijing as authorities continued to battle a surge in Covid-19 infections across the country, many of them linked to cases from the northern province of Hebei bordering the capital.The lockdown of Langfang city was announced on Tuesday, with authorities saying residents have been put under home quarantine for a week and will be subject to mass nucleic acid testing.Chinese experts fear the new wave of infection could be spreading undetected in villages with nearly 70% of the new 305 new Covid-19 infections in Hebei being farmers, a state media report said on Tuesday.Guan and Sanhe, two counties under Langfang’s jurisdiction that border Beijing, had already announced home quarantine measures.The new measures mean that three cities in Hebei including capital Shijiazhaung – with 11 million residents - and Xingtai with more than 7 mn population have now been locked down with no residents allowed to leave unless necessary.Stringent closure and control measures have been put in place in the three cities, state media reports said as highways from the cities have been shut down.China’s National Health Commission (NHC) on Tuesday reported 55 new Covid-19 cases for Monday, down from 103 a day earlier.The Hebei province, which surrounds Beijing, accounted for 40 of the 42 locally transmitted infections, with the capital and northeastern Heilongjiang province reporting one local case each, the NHC said.Several provinces and cities across China have put restrictions on people travelling from Hebei and scrambling to trace those who had come into close contact with Covid-19 patients from the province.In Beijing, authorities traced as many as 95 people who came into close contact with a confirmed patient reported in Gu’an county of Hebei on Monday, whose workplace was found to be in the capital’s downtown Xicheng district.Chinese health experts have warned that silent infections in villages have become a new and big challenge for China, judging from the ongoing Shijiazhuang outbreak and previous outbreak in northwest China’s Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region (XUAR), a report in the tabloid, Global Times said Tuesday.A weak and slow Covid-19 response at the grassroots level, which includes a failed surveillance and reporting system in villages, has spawned the recent domestic cluster infections, it quoted experts as saying.Experts also warned of the emergence of super spreaders of the disease, saying they need to be identified and managed in time before infecting countless others.The total number of confirmed Covid-19 cases reported in mainland China stood at 87591 while the death toll remained unchanged at 4,634.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/20-million-under-covid-lockdown-in-china-infection-spreads-among-farmers-101610441506502.html
12-01-2021||World||Thailand aims to inoculate at least half the population in 2021||Thailand is set to begin inoculating its citizens against Covid-19 before the end of February, with the goal of vaccinating at least 33 million people, half the nation’s population, by the end of 2021.The Southeast Asian nation, battling its biggest wave of coronavirus infections since the pandemic began, will start with doses from Sinovac Biotech Ltd. once the Thai Food and Drug Administration approves it, according to the Health Ministry. By April, it plans to complete distribution of two million Sinovac shots to healthcare and front-line workers, people with underlying conditions and those over the age 60.Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-Ocha’s government has approved purchase of a total of 63 million doses and the National Vaccine Institute is in talks with several manufacturers for additional supplies for delivery as early as this quarter. The government expects the first batch of AstraZeneca Plc vaccines -- to be approved by the regulator this month -- will be ready for distribution in May.Thailand has closed schools and temporarily shut some businesses to contain a resurgence that’s seen Covid-19 cases more than double to 10,834 in less than a month. The government is betting on wider availability of vaccine to stamp out the virus and pave for the reopening of its tourism industry, a lifeline for the economy.“Once 50% of the population has been vaccinated, we’ll be able to control the infections and there won’t be any large outbreaks in the country,” Nakorn Premsri, director of the vaccine institute, said in an interview. “Once we’ve reached 70%, we can be certain that there will be no outbreaks here. We may have one or two isolated cases, but the country can move forward.”Thailand may reach the herd immunity threshold only in 2022, given its slow vaccine rollout compared to higher-income countries with a similar population, like the UK. The delay stemmed from the government’s inability to order vaccines in advance during the research when there’s no guarantee of viable shots at the end of the trials, Nakorn said.The agreement with AstraZeneca and the University of Oxford, currently the nation’s biggest vaccine supplier, will also allow local production through technology transfer, Nakorn said.Thailand will administer vaccines from more than 10,000 locations across the country free of charge for citizens. It will also allow private firms to import and sell those vaccines approved by the country’s regulator to people who can afford to pay, according to officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/thailand-aims-to-inoculate-at-least-half-the-population-in-2021-101610434301828.html
12-01-2021||World||Hillary Clinton says Trump impeachment 'essential', won't remove white supremacy||Democratic Party nominee for US President in 2016 Hillary Clinton on Monday expressed solidarity towards impeachment of President Donald Trump by saying it is essential to impeach him in wake of the Capitol riots but warned that impeachment alone "won't remove white supremacy from America".In an opinion piece for The Washington Post, Clinton wrote that Wednesday's attack on the Capitol was the "tragically predictable result" of white-supremacist grievances fueled by Trump adding that his departure from office -- whether immediately or on January 20 -- "will not solve the deeper problems exposed by this episode"."Removing Trump from office is essential, and I believe he should be impeached. Members of Congress who joined him in subverting our democracy should resign, and those who conspired with the domestic terrorists should be expelled immediately. But that alone won't remove white supremacy and extremism from America," Clinton stated."There are changes elected leaders should pursue immediately, including advocating new criminal laws at the state and federal levels that hold white supremacists accountable and tracking the activities of extremists such as those who breached the Capitol," she added.The former First Lady said what happened in Capitol on Wednesday is cause for grief and outrage and it "should not be cause for shock"."What were too often passed off as the rantings of an unfortunate but temporary figure in public life are, in reality, part of something much bigger. That is the challenge that confronts us all," the former New York senator wrote.Recalling the time of being a senator from New York during the September 11 attacks, she said, she thought about that day and the 9/11 commission report that followed."The report's authors explored the failures that opened the door for a devastating terrorist attack. 'The most important failure,' they wrote, 'was one of imagination. We do not believe leaders understood the gravity of the threat'," Clinton wrote."Almost 20 years later, we are living through another failure of imagination -- the failure to account for the damage that can be done to our nation by a president who incites violence, congressional leaders who fan the flames, and social media platforms that sear conspiracy theories into the minds of Trump's supporters. Unless we confront the threats we face, we risk ensuring that last week's events are only a prelude to an even greater tragedy," Clinto stated in Washington Post's opinion piece.Clinton stated that by the time Trump lost in 2020, he had whipped a dangerous element of "our country" into a frenzy adding that Trump's supporters began planning their insurrection, making plans to march on the Capitol and "stop the steal."The former secretary of state raised the question that how do Americans move forward as a country adding that what does the Capitol riots say about the US that so many were complicit, while those who sounded the alarm were dismissed as hysterical."It's sobering that many people were unsurprised by what occurred last week, particularly people of color, for whom a violent mob waving Confederate flags and hanging nooses is a familiar sight in American history," she said.The 2016 Democratic Presidential candidate lauded Twitter and other social media accounts to permanantly suspend Trump's accounts but added that they "will have to do more to stop the spread of violent speech and conspiracy theories."Clinton, in her Washington Post opinion piece wrote that the incoming Joe Biden-led administration will need to address this crisis "in all its complexity and breadth, including holding technology platforms accountable" prosecuting all who broke the laws, and making public more intelligent and analysis about domestic terrorism.On January 6, a group of Trump's loyalists stormed the US Capitol building, clashing with police, damaging property, seizing the inauguration stage and occupying the rotunda. The unrest took place after Trump urged his supporters to protest what he claims is a stolen presidential election. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hillary-clinton-says-trump-impeachment-essential-won-t-remove-white-supremacy-101610434331825.html
12-01-2021||World||Facebook has no plans to lift Donald Trump ban, says operation chief Sandberg||worl Facebook Inc's operations chief Sheryl Sandberg said on Monday the world's largest social network had no plans to lift its block on the accounts of U.S. President Donald Trump, as the company clamped down on a phrase that has become a rallying cry for the president's supporters.Sandberg, speaking during the Reuters Next conference, said she was glad that Facebook had frozen Trump's accounts, which came as tech giants scrambled to crack down on his baseless claims about fraud in the U.S. presidential election amid riots in Washington last week.Hours later, the company banned the phrase "stop the steal" altogether, citing use of the term to organize events contesting the outcome of the U.S. presidential election that have a propensity for violence.If Trump wanted to appeal the removal of his content, that could happen through the company's new Oversight Board, she added. Facebook said Trump could not appeal the actual suspension through the board."This shows the president is not above the policies we have," Sandberg said, speaking with Reuters Breakingviews columnist Gina Chon.Facebook executives have long taken a light touch to policing speech posted by politicians, maintaining that people have a right to see statements from their leaders.The company backed down somewhat on that position and started applying labels to the president's posts after facing a backlash this summer, including an advertiser boycott, when it declined to act against Trump's incendiary rhetoric around anti-racism protests throughout the United States.It reversed course and banned Trump indefinitely following last week's riots, which culminated in the storming of the U.S. Capitol.Facebook's stock closed down 4% on Monday, as social networks' moves against Trump spurred concern among investors over future regulation. Twitter, which permanently suspended Trump, tumbled over 6% while Alphabet lost 2%.Violent rhetoric on social media platforms including Facebook had ramped up in the weeks preceding the rallies as groups planned openly for the gatherings, according to researchers and public postings, prompting criticism of the companies for failing to take action in advance.Sandberg acknowledged that Facebook may have missed some of those posts but said she believed the events were largely organized on other platforms.She said the company was keeping an eye on further possible armed protests being planned for Washington, D.C. and at all 50 U.S. state capital cities in the run-up to President-elect Joe Biden's inauguration on Jan. 20, which has prompted an FBI warning.Asked why Facebook had not taken comparable action against other leaders like Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro and President Rodrigo Duterte in the Philippines, who likewise have been accused of inciting violence online, Sandberg said the company's policies would apply globally.'I'M STAYING'Sandberg has played a less prominent public role at Facebook in the past year, even as CEO Mark Zuckerberg has thrown himself into the public sphere with a series of livestreamed chats and multiple sessions testifying before Congress.The two have also faced questions about their future at Facebook following the mid-year return of Chief Product Officer Chris Cox, who had left the year prior citing vague differences over the company's direction.Asked about the future for herself and Zuckerberg at Facebook, Sandberg said both were staying put in their current roles."I'm staying," she said, adding that she and Zuckerberg "feel we have a real responsibility to fix the systems that didn't work before to protect our service and to make sure great things can happen," Sandberg added.Sandberg also denied reports that she had been sidelined as Zuckerberg took a more active role in content policy and government relations, her traditional areas of responsibility."People love headlines about corporate drama, and I think it's fair to say they particularly love headlines about sidelining women. But I just feel tremendously lucky to have this job because there is so much good," she said.Sandberg said regulatory pressure on U.S. tech companies around antitrust issues was "very real," cautioning similar scrutiny two decades ago was a "major distraction" for Microsoft Corp and caused it to miss the next phase of technology development."We know that history, and we have to both work on these serious issues, work with the government, work on reforming the rules that govern us - which need to be reformed - and keep innovating," she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/facebook-has-no-plans-to-lift-donald-trump-ban-says-operation-chief-sandberg-101610438736478.html
12-01-2021||World||Indian American owned company donates over 6.5 million masks||A California-based company owned by an Indian-American has donated 6.5 million masks to various charities and non-profits across the country to support them in their efforts to protect frontline workers and the larger communities during the ongoing Covid-19 crisis.Guru Nanda -- a manufacturer of premium farm-to-home aromatherapy and other health and wellness products -- has also donated a total of 163,128 sets of toothpastes and toothbrushes to the organisations, a media release said on Monday.The 6.5 million masks donated by Guru Nanda will be used to help charities and non-profit organisations in their efforts to protect frontline workers, other staff and family, patients and the larger communities they support during the ongoing Covid-19 crisis, it said.“It is incumbent on all of us as individuals, corporations, and global citizens to do everything we can to help stop the spread of COVID-19," said Puneet Nanda, founder of Guru Nanda.“As a longtime Southern California manufacturing company, we at Guru Nanda have the wherewithal to provide massive quantities of masks, and we are proud to work with so many esteemed charitable partners to deliver them to those that need them most,” he said.Recipients of the donations include the San Antonio Hospital Foundation in Upland, California; Localheartsfoundation.org; Oklahoma City-based Feedthechildren.org; Social Security Works Education Fund’s Masks for America Project; and MedVets, a veteran-designated non-profit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indian-american-owned-company-donates-over-6-5-million-masks-101610438192898.html
12-01-2021||World||House set to give Mike Pence ultimatum before moving to impeach Donald Trump||The House is set to issue a largely futile ultimatum to Vice President Mike Pence on Tuesday, demanding he invoke constitutional authority to remove President Donald Trump from office, as a prelude to an expected vote to impeach the president for the second time in little more than a year.Pence met with Trump Monday night and the two agreed to work together through the end of their term, according to an official, leaving little doubt that the vice president will spurn the House demand. That means House Speaker Nancy Pelosi will go through with a vote on a single article of impeachment as soon as Wednesday.The resolution being pushed through the House by the majority Democrats on Tuesday calls on Pence to invoke the Constitution’s 25th Amendment to convene the cabinet and declare that as a result of his encouraging a mob that stormed the Capitol that Trump is unable to perform as president.The vote serves mostly as a symbolic gesture by Democrats intended to show they exhausted all options before moving on a historic second impeachment of the president during his last days in office.Pence met with Trump Monday for the first time since the siege at the Capitol, where the vice president was presiding over a joint session of Congress. Pence has been described as initially furious at Trump over the violence. But on Monday, the official said the two men agreed that people who broke the law at the Capitol don’t represent Trump’s “America First” movement and pledged to continue their work on behalf of the country for the remainder of their term.The assault on the Capitol Jan. 6 as Congress was certifying the Electoral College votes that made Joe Biden president-elect has put Trump and Republicans under pressure from all sides. Trump stoked his supporters’ fury in a speech to them before the march to Capitol Hill and more than 100 Republicans in Congress signed on to object to counting the electoral votes from states the Biden won.Almost every Democrat in the House has expressed support for the impeachment resolution and one if its main sponsors, Rhode Island Representative David Cicilline, said he expected it also would draw Republican votes. Several GOP lawmakers, including Adam Kinzinger of Illinois, have denounced both the effort to object to the certification of electors -- one of the main motivators for the crowd of Trump supporters -- and the president fueling their anger.“I expect we will have Republican support,” Cicilline said Monday.Yet the number of Republicans is likely to be very small. Moderates like New York’s Tom Reed have come out against impeachment, favoring a censure resolution instead.The four-page impeachment resolution includes a single article accusing Trump of high crimes and misdemeanors for “Incitement of Insurrection,” and says he “willfully made statements that, in context, encouraged -- and foreseeably resulted in -- lawless action at the Capitol.” It also cites Trumps telephone call to Georgia’s secretary of state, Brad Raffensperger, urging that he “find” enough votes to overturn Biden’s win there.“In all this, President Trump gravely endangered the security of the United States and its institutions of government,” the resolution says.Many House Republicans, including those who voted to throw out electoral votes that Biden received, have warned that another impeachment vote would widen existing divisions in the country. House GOP leader Kevin McCarthy, who voted to object to Arizona and Pennsylvania electors, told colleagues Monday that he opposes impeaching Trump, but floated other potential responses, including censure.He told fellow Republicans in a conference call that Trump had acknowledged having some responsibility for the riot, according to a lawmaker on the call, and another person familiar with the matter.Democrats, meanwhile, are grappling with how to manage the impeachment and a trial in the Senate while Biden is getting his administration up and running.The Senate is currently in recess, and bringing senators back before Jan. 19 would require support from Republican leader Mitch McConnell, who remains majority leader at least until Inauguration Day. A trial that begins on that day, as it would under current rules, would delay confirmation of Biden’s cabinet nominees and early legislative initiatives, including a new stimulus.While many House Democrats are calling for an immediate Senate trial, Representative James Clyburn of South Carolina, a member of Pelosi’s leadership team, has suggested delaying a Senate trial for at least the first 100 days of the Biden administration.Senate Democratic Leader Chuck Schumer is exploring whether the chamber can be called into an emergency session for a trial before Inauguration Day. Yet that would at least require the cooperation of McConnell, who hasn’t said whether he would back impeaching the president or expediting a trial.It’s also likely that a Republican senator would object, killing the plan. Senator Steve Daines, a Montana Republican, said in a statement Monday that “pushing partisan driven articles of impeachment through Congress days before the inauguration will further divide our country.”Some Democrats also were sending warnings about proceeding with an impeachment and trial. West Virginia Democrat Joe Manchin has said that while Trump deserves to be impeached, following through and starting a trial as Biden is trying to get his administration off the ground is impractical.It “basically stops us from putting a government together,” he said Sunday on CNN.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/house-set-to-give-mike-pence-ultimatum-before-moving-to-impeach-donald-trump-101610438042114.html
12-01-2021||World||Indonesia's Sriwijaya flew old planes, neglected routes to become No.3 carrier||Starting with just one plane in 2003, Indonesia's Sriwijaya Air has become the country's No.3 airline group, aided by its strategy of acquiring old planes at cheap prices and serving routes neglected by competitors. The mid-market airline, which has few international flights, was thrust into the spotlight this week when a nearly 27-year old Boeing Co 737-500 crashed into the Java Sea on Saturday with 62 people on board.Brothers Chandra and Hendry Lie, whose family was involved in tin mining and the garment industry, and their business partners launched Sriwijaya 17 years ago with a single plane that flew from their hometown of Pangkal Pinang on Bangka Island to Indonesia's capital Jakarta.Its focus on second and third-tier routes gave it a loyal customer base and helped it snare nearly 10% market share behind Lion Air and national carrier Garuda Indonesia."They had a reasonable business approach," an industry source who was not authorised to speak publicly said of Sriwijaya's founders."They are not flamboyant people like many you see running airlines."They used a conservative business model of acquiring older planes on the cheap rather than taking advantage of low-cost financing to purchase large fleets of new aircraft like other fast-growing carriers such as Lion Air, Malaysia's AirAsia Group Bhd and Vietnam's VietJet Aviation JSC.The fleet of Sriwijaya and regional offshoot NAM Air is nearly 20 years old on average - nearly three times older than Lion Air group, according to website Planespotters.net.The plane involved in the crash, a 737-500, was one of only 77 remaining in service globally, aviation data provider Cirium said. Other current operators including the likes of Nigeria's Air Peace and Kazakhstan's SCAT Airlines.Two former Sriwijaya employees told Reuters there were strategic reasons for keeping such an old model in service beyond the cheaper acquisition cost.The smaller seating capacity of 120 was more appropriate for certain routes like Jakarta to Pontianak on Borneo flown by the plane that crashed on Saturday and the 737-500 could land at airports that were otherwise served by turboprops due to short runway lengths, they said on condition of anonymity.Sriwijaya did not respond immediately to a request for comment.STRATEGY TESTEDThe crashed jet's black boxes have not yet been recovered so the cause of the accident remains unclear.Older jets can be operated just as safely as newer ones if maintained properly, though the cost of doing so is higher, as are the operating costs because they are less fuel efficient. Indonesia's Transport Ministry said on Tuesday the Sriwijaya plane that crashed had passed an airworthiness inspection in December.Rising upkeep costs and low fare prices due to heated competition meant that by 2018 Sriwijaya had accrued large debts owed to Garuda's maintenance arm, GMF AeroAsia. As of Sept. 30, 2020, Sriwijaya and NAM owed around $63 million in unpaid bills to GMF AeroAsia and Garuda had warned of impairment losses on $37.5 million owed by Sriwijaya as part of a failed cooperation agreement, according to GMF AeroAsia and Garuda.The status of its financial position since the start of the pandemic is unclear, but a Sriwijaya pilot, speaking on condition of anonymity, said there were salary cuts and a reduction in the number of planes operating during the pandemic in line with many other airlines globally.The pilot added the airline had been complying with all training and maintenance requirements throughout the pandemic.Sriwijaya and NAM together have 34 planes for operations and half of them are in service, according to Planespotters.net. "The question now is whether Sriwijaya, already in poor financial health, is able to overcome this accident as Covid-19 has crippled all airlines," said Shukor Yusof, head of Malaysian aviation consultancy Endau Analytics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indonesias-sriwijaya-flew-old-planes-neglected-routes-to-become-no-3-carrier-101610437630626.html
12-01-2021||World||Xi says, time, momentum on China's side as world faces unprecedented turbulence||Time and momentum are on China's side as the world faces an unprecedented turbulent time, President Xi Jinping has said, outlining his vision for the ruling Communist Party for the next 30 years to achieve "great rejuvenation of Chinese nation".Xi, 67, who has become China's most powerful leader after Mao Zedong since he came to power in 2012 was addressing the leading cadre of the Communist Party of China (CPC) on Monday. Founded in 1921 by Mao, the CPC took over power in 1949.In his morale-boosting speech, Xi said he believes "time and momentum are on China’s side", despite challenges, including the Covid-19 pandemic, supply chain disruptions, deteriorating relations with the West and a slowing economy.The coronavirus pandemic, which first broke out in central China's Wuhan city one year ago, has so far killed over 1,944,750 people worldwide and crushed the global economy."The world is in a turbulent time that is unprecedented in the past century,” Xi was quoted as saying by Hong-Kong based South China Morning Post."But time and momentum are on our side. This is where we show our conviction and resilience, as well as our determination and confidence,” he said.Xi spoke of the importance of implementing the new development philosophy and advancing the new development paradigm of "dual circulation" in the country's new development phase to ensure a good start for the 14th Five-Year Plan (2021-25) period.Xi has consolidated his leadership as the head of the party, the military and the presidency and bestowed the “core leader” status of the CPC, a position only enjoyed by Mao. Thanks to a constitutional amendment doing away with the two-term provision for the president in 2018, Xi now has the privilege to continue in power for life.Given the evolution of the principal contradiction facing Chinese society as well as the change in the world power structure, Xi also underscored the importance of becoming more aware of potential dangers, keeping in mind worst-case scenarios and getting prepared to deal with a more complicated and difficult situation, the state-run China Daily reported.He called for ensuring a good start for fully building a modern socialist country, adding that the next three decades will be a new development phase during which the Chinese people achieve a tremendous transformation from standing up and growing rich to becoming strong under the CPC's leadership.Xi's remarks drew mixed reactions from analysts. While western analysts likened it to that of French Emperor Napoleon Bonaparte's declaration that the conditions are right to make the most of a world that was in flux, Chinese observers said the address reflected Xi's confidence in China’s political system and development.Steve Tsang, director of the SOAS China Institute at the University of London, said Xi’s remarks showed he intended to make the most of a world that was in flux and undergoing changes that could fundamentally reshape the global order.“Xi is now cautiously very optimistic. He sees the general environment and development as positive for China to assert a new historical role and sees challenges but feels confident that China under him will be able to make the most of it,” Tsang was quoted as saying by South China Morning Post.“It is a – to paraphrase Napoleon – declaration that the conditions are right for the previously slumbering lion to roar and he will see to it that it does,” he said.Though Xi has not specified the exact policies China will implement, “what he has declared is that the conditions are ripe, and if China will rally around the leadership and follow the leader it will get there. The world should take notice,” Tsang said.Zhuang Deshui, deputy director of the Research Centre for Government Integrity Building at Peking University, said Xi’s speech showed his confidence in China’s political system and development.“From his remarks, we can see that Beijing is very confident about China’s major policies and all kinds of responsive measures and Beijing is determined to walk its own path, unaffected by the outside world as it undergoes changes not seen in a century,” he said.Peng Peng, vice-president of Guangdong System Reform Research Society think-tank, said the speech indicated new momentum at a time when China had largely contained the pandemic, and as the US was in chaos amid a power transition.“In the future, China will seek to consolidate partnerships with Russia and Southeast Asian countries, try to mend its strained ties with the US, and it will stick to its own principles in dealing with the Hong Kong and Taiwan issues,” Peng said.Xi has been outlining sweeping changes to come in China’s governance after the Plenum, a key leadership meeting of the CPC in October last year which has approved the 14th Five-Year Plan (2021-2025) for National Economic and Social Development and the Long-Range Objectives Through the Year 2035.In November last year, he said China is set to change its development model from 2021, relying more on domestic consumption than export-reliant growth and begin a new phase to become a modern socialist country.Also, coinciding with Xi's assertion of a fully modern socialist society, the CPC in recent months focussed more on reviving studies in Marxism, theory and practice, besides strengthening regulations against top business houses like Alibaba and its billionaire founder Jack Ma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/xi-says-time-momentum-on-china-s-side-as-world-faces-unprecedented-turbulence-101610436586171.html
12-01-2021||World||FBI warns 'armed protests' being planned at all 50 state capitols, Washington DC||The FBI has warned that it has received intelligence that "armed protests" were being planned at all 50 US state capitols and in Washington DC in the run-up to President-elect Joe Biden's inauguration on January 20, leading to fears of more deadly violence by extremists supporting outgoing President Donald Trump.Posts on pro-Trump and far-right online networks have called for protest action on a number of dates, including armed demonstrations in cities across the country on January 17 and a march in Washington DC on inauguration day itself."Armed protests are being planned at all 50 state capitols from January 16 through at least January 20, and at the US Capitol from January 17 through January 20," according to the internal Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) bulletin obtained by CNN and other media outlets.Biden is slated to be sworn in as the 46th President of the United States on January 20, along with Indian-origin Kamala Harris as the Vice President.On Monday, Biden told reporters he was not afraid to take the oath of office outside of the US Capitol.Both he and Harris are still expected to be sworn in outside the building, only two weeks after it was the site of a deadly raid by radical supporters of Trump opposing the election result.Only after the Congressional certification of the November 3 presidential elections last week, the outgoing Republican President Trump has reluctantly accepted the election results and promised a smooth transition of power.But he still believes the presidential elections had massive voters’ fraud, an allegation which remains unsubstantiated and have been thrown out of courts dozens of times.However, Trump’s repeated assertion of massive voters' fraud has incited his base. This resulted in thousands of his supporters storming the Capitol Hill, the historic building, that houses the US Congress on January 6.Five people, including a woman and a police official died and several dozens injured in the incident that is now considered as a dark letter day in the history of American democracy.The Democratic Party, which has majority in both the House of Representatives and the Senate and would occupy the White House after January 20, on Monday moved second impeachment proceedings against Trump, blaming him for the unprecedented violence.The FBI and the American security and intelligence agencies, who were taken aback by the last week inglorious moment at the Capitol Hill, a major breach of security that put the lives of hundreds of American lawmakers at risk, are now leaving nothing to chance."On 8 January, the FBI received information on an identified group calling for others to join them in 'storming' state, local and federal government courthouses and administrative buildings in the event POTUS is removed as President prior to Inauguration Day."This identified group is also planning to 'storm' government offices including in the District of Columbia and in every state, regardless of whether the states certified electoral votes for Biden or Trump, on 20 January," said the FBI bulletin, according to CNN.The FBI is also tracking reports of "various threats to harm President-Elect Biden ahead of the presidential inauguration," the bulletin. "Additional reports indicate threats against VP-Elect Harris and Speaker Pelosi," the bulletin said.Interestingly, Trump himself has issued an emergency declaration for the national capital here till January 24.In a statement on Monday, the White House said the President's action authorises the Department of Homeland Security and the Federal Emergency Management Agency to coordinate relief efforts to alleviate the hardship and suffering caused by the emergency on the local population.Washington DC, meanwhile, is being converted into a garrison city to prevent any kind of untoward incident ahead of the inauguration. The Pentagon has approved to deploy more than 15,000 additional National Guard troops in the national capitol.Army Gen. Daniel R. Hokanson, the chief of the National Guard Bureau, told reporters during a conference call that as of Monday 6,000 national guard troops have already been deployed in the city.Troops in riot gear and shield have already occupied strategic locations in Washington DC. A close look is being kept at all the hotels and incoming traffic.The Site Intelligence Group, which tracks extremist threats online, said in a report that a day of armed far-right protests is scheduled for January 17 and has been in the works for weeks, with Trump supporters and anti-government activists promoting marches in Washington and at state capitols around the nation, The Wall Street Journal said.Fliers promoting the event are circulating online, including one encouraging people to “come armed at your personal discretion,” it said.Other pro-Trump groups are planning Million Militia March on January 20, the daily said.According to The New York Times, State Capitols are bracing up for violence on and around January 20. State legislatures already becoming targets for protesters, the daily said.“Dozens of state capitals will be on alert in the coming days, following calls among a mix of antigovernment organizations for actions in all 50 states on January 17. Some of them come from far-right organisations that harbour a broad anti-government agenda and have already been protesting state Covid-19 lockdowns since last spring,” The New York Times reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/fbi-warns-armed-protests-being-planned-at-all-50-state-capitols-washington-dc-101610434109081.html
12-01-2021||World||US Congress moving swiftly to oust Trump||US House of Representatives will vote on Tuesday to call upon Vice-President Mike Pence to oust President Donald Trump invoking the 25th Amendment. If he doesn’t in the next 24 hours, the chamber will vote to impeach Trump on Wednesday, making him the first president impeached twice.Democrats plan to then send the article of impeachment to the Senate for a trial to convict the president, either before he leaves office at the end of his term on January 20 or after.Efforts to remove President Trump from office gathered momentum amid other major developments.Chad Wolf, the acting homeland security secretary, became the third Trump cabinet member to resign. Two Capitol police officers were suspended for supporting the rioters and 17 others came under scrutiny for doing the same. Warnings were issued by FBI of more attacks if Trump was removed from office before the end of his term. Bill Belichick, a celebrated American football coach, turned down Trump’s Presidential Medal of Freedom, an honour accorded to Americans for exceptional contribution to the country.Trump has remained out of public sight and sound after Twitter and Facebook shut down his accounts, depriving him of his loudest bullhorns, just hours after a mob of his supporters incited by his lies about election fraud stormed the Capitol, horrifying democracies around the world.Democrats on Monday introduced a resolution urging Pence to lead the cabinet to declare Trump unfit to govern under the 25th Amendment which empowers the vice-president to sideline the president for being unfit to govern. The resolution recalls the horrific events of the day when Pence was whisked away by security personnel shortly after he had started the joint session of Congress to certify Biden’s election victory. And it reminds him that as he took shelter in a secure location from the mob that was chanting “Hang Mike Pence”. Trump had egged them on, tweeting “Mike Pence didn’t have the courage to do what should have been done to protect our country’”.The article of impeachment laid out the case against Trump very clearly. “Incited by President Trump, a mob unlawfully breached the Capitol, injured law enforcement personnel, menaced members of congress and the vice-president, interfered with the joint sessions’ solemn constitutional duty to certify the election results and engaged in violent, deadly, destructive and seditious acts.”And, it concluded, “In all of this, President Trump gravely endangered the security of the United States, and its institutions of government. He threatened the integrity of democratic system, interfered with the peaceful transition of power, and imperiled a coordinate branch of government. He, thereby, betrayed his trust as president, to the manifest injury of the of the United States.The article further said that by such conduct, he has demonstrated that “he will remain a threat to national security, democracy and the constitution if allowed to remain in office.”The article of impeachment introduced Monday by Democrats charges the president with “incitement of insurrection” and bluntly blames him for the January 6 attack on US congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-congress-moving-swiftly-to-oust-trump-101610431545504.html
12-01-2021||World||Malaysia declares state of emergency as pandemic worsens||Malaysia’s king declared a state of emergency in the Southeast Asian nation, in a move that could allow the embattled government to delay elections as it tackles the worsening coronavirus pandemic. The ringgit and the country’s main stocks index declined.“His Royal Majesty has given consent for the declaration of emergency to be carried out as a proactive measure to contain the Covid-19 pandemic,” the palace said in a statement on Tuesday. The decision comes a day after Prime Minister Muhyiddin Yassin imposed a two-week targeted lockdown in most of the country starting Wednesday to quell the surge in infections.Covid-19 cases have exploded in Malaysia after a local election in September, with new infections hitting a record-high last week. The government has forecast daily cases to reach 8,000 by late March or late May, based on a predictive modeling analysis. The tally stood at little over 2,000 on Monday. The emergency measure will end on Aug. 1, or sooner if the outbreak abates, according to the statement.The ringgit fell as much as 0.6% to 4.0760 per dollar, the weakest since Dec. 7, while government bonds extended losses. Malaysia’s main stock index fell as much as 1.3%, led by banks including CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. Muhyiddin is scheduled to deliver a television address on the emergency at 11 a.m. Kuala Lumpur time.An emergency “may serve as a ‘circuit breaker’ on the domestic political noises, but on the other hand, it could increase the perceived risk of foreign investors on Malaysia,” said Winson Phoon, head of fixed-income research at Maybank Kim Eng Securities.The measure comes amid infighting within Malaysia’s largest ruling party, the United Malays National Organisation, on whether or not to hold a snap election by March. UMNO is expected to make a final decision on the matter during its general assembly on Jan. 31.Muhyiddin has maintained that an election should only be held after the pandemic is under control. His attempt to place the entire country under emergency in October -- ahead of a major budget vote that doubled as a confidence test -- was rebuffed by the king.Malaysia went through political upheaval in 2020 as various factions jockeyed for power after former Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad abruptly stepped down in February. Muhyiddin emerged as the head of an unwieldy bloc with a majority of only a few lawmakers, prompting repeated concerns about the strength and durability of the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/malaysia-declares-state-of-emergency-as-pandemic-worsens-101610420137110.html
12-01-2021||World||Freezing weather in Asia sends energy prices soaring, catching markets off guard||China’s coldest winter in decades meant state-owned energy giant Sinopec was desperate to unload heating fuel from a vessel headed to a northern port, yet freezing temperatures that have swept parts of Asia froze a thick sheet of ice and blocked access.With the help of an icebreaker ship and a cannon loaded with hot water, workers spent 20 hours clearing a pathway for the tanker to dock and discharge its cargo of liquefied natural gas in Tianjin.The effort underscores how frigid temperatures have upended energy markets across Asia, catching some companies flat-footed and sending prices for electricity, fuel and vessels to record highs. And with temperatures showing no signs of easing in key markets in Japan, China and South Korea, it could be weeks before any return to normality.“This winter has definitely caught the market off-guard,” said Henning Gloystein, a director at Eurasia Group. “My hunch is that this spike will end with springtime.”A La Nina weather phenomenon has sent a wave of cold air across North Asia this winter. Beijing last week recorded its lowest temperature since 1966, while Seoul had its coldest day since 1986, and record snowfall is sweeping across Japan’s west coast.The chill is creating a surge in heating demand across the region. Japan’s spot electricity prices have soared more than 10-fold to record levels, while South Korea and China’s main grid have set records for power demand.“Cold weather and electrification of heating create potential for massive spikes in power demand in winter,” said Alex Whitworth, a research director at Wood Mackenzie Ltd.Those three countries are the world’s biggest LNG importers, and the extra demand has helped send prices for spot cargoes and tankers carrying the fuel to record levels. Disruptions at some massive export plants and shipping delays caused by Panama Canal congestion are also contributing, said Jenny Yang, a senior director at IHS Markit Ltd. in Beijing.“The cold winter is not the only reason contributing to the recent dramatic spot price spikes,” she said. “The spikes were likely due to a combination of supply, demand, and shipping factors in a relatively thin and illiquid market.”Japan’s largest power suppliers, including Tokyo Electric Power Co., have implored customers to conserve electricity, while the nation’s grid manager has ordered power producers in a number of regions to boost generating capacity to maximum output to help avoid a supply crunch. Utilities are sharing electricity supplies with rivals.Snow accumulated in parts of Niigata prefecture is 10 times the level of a normal year, according to national broadcaster NHK.Read more: As Polar Vortex Stirs, a Deep Freeze Threatens U.S. and EuropeChina’s power generation is also spurring consumption of coal, which still provides the majority of the country’s energy. Futures on the Zhengzhou Commodity Exchange soared to records last month, while a spot deal was recently done at 900 yuan ($139) a ton, the highest in nine years, according to consulting firm Fengkuang Coal Logistics.At least one coal ship that’s been idling off northern China had to relocate to avoid ice forming near the coast, according to vessel-tracking data compiled by Bloomberg.In parts of China where coal supply is particularly tight, the government has curtailed electricity to businesses to make sure there’s enough supply for home heating. That’s led to a surge in orders for portable generators and extra demand for the diesel that fuels them.Still, that hasn’t underpinned more demand for crude oil, as refiners like SK Innovation Co. say they’ve adjusted yields to produce more heating oil, but aren’t boosting overall rates.The winter stress isn’t likely to end soon. Sub-freezing temperatures and disruptive winds are expected for the rest of the week in Northeast China, according to the country’s meteorological agency. That will keep pressure on inventories of coal at Chinese power plants until weather starts to warm up, said James Stevenson, senior director at IHS Markit.“This will likely linger as an issue through to the end of the winter, and it will create a bigger restocking need coming out of the winter,” Stevenson said in an emailed message. “All in all, I think it suggests strong pricing -- albeit likely off current highs -- into the second quarter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/freezing-weather-in-asia-sends-energy-prices-soaring-catching-markets-off-guard-101610409429861.html
12-01-2021||World||New Zealand further tightens border measures to combat virus||New Zealand will further tighten border measures to combat the global spread of more transmissible variants of the Covid-19 virus.From Jan 18, almost all people entering New Zealand will need to be tested for the virus within the first 24 hours of arrival, Covid Response Minister Chris Hipkins said in an emailed statement Tuesday in Wellington. Health officials are also putting in place requirements for almost all travelers to New Zealand to have a negative Covid-19 test withing 72 hours of their departure.“New Zealand already has some of the most stringent border protection measures in the world,” Hipkins said. “Today’s amendments further strengthen that position in line with the government’s overall elimination strategy.”New Zealand reported 60 cases among new arrivals in the first 10 days of January, following 106 cases in December. All were caught during the mandatory 14-day stay at isolation hotels that every returnee faces. Infected people must quarantine until tests return negative and they no longer have symptoms.Hipkins said travelers from Australia and some Pacific Island nations will be exempt the pre-departures and day one test. There will also be exemptions for young children and for those who can present a medical certificate as a past recovered case and are assessed as no longer infectious.The broader rules build on existing conditions on arrivals from the U.K. and the U.S., who have faced day one testing since the start of the year and are required to stay in their isolation hotel room until a negative result. Travelers from the U.K. and the U.S. arriving after Jan. 15 must also provide evidence of a negative test.The exact date when the pre-departure test requirement for other nations will be imposed is still being finalized. But those arriving in New Zealand from Jan. 29 without evidence of a negative test will incur a fine, Hipkins said.For more articles like this, please visit us at bloomberg.com©2021 Bloomberg L.P.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-zealand-further-tightens-border-measures-to-combat-virus-101610416211224.html
12-01-2021||World||Indonesia uses unmanned undersea vehicle in hunt for air crash victims||Indonesia has deployed a remotely operated underwater vehicle to help divers search for the remains of victims and recover the flight recorders from a Sriwijaya Air jet that crashed into the sea three days ago soon after takeoff.The Boeing 737-500 plane with 62 people on board plunged into the Java Sea Saturday afternoon, four minutes after taking off from Jakarta's main airport.Indonesian police made the first identification of a victim from the crash on Monday. Flight attendant Okky Bisma was identified by his fingerprints, said a police official."My super kind husband... Heaven is your place... Until we meet again darling," Okky's wife, who is also a flight attendant, wrote on her Instagram account.The Boeing 737-500 jet was headed on a domestic flight to Pontianak on Borneo island, about 740 km (460 miles) from Jakarta, before it disappeared from radar screens.It was the second major air crash in Indonesia since 189 passengers and crew were killed in 2018 when a Lion Air Boeing 737 MAX also plunged into the Java Sea soon after taking off. The jet that crashed on Saturday is a largely different design."Today we are focusing on finding the victims," Yusuf Latif, a spokesman for search and rescue agency Basarnas, said on Tuesday.Divers have narrowed down an area where they believe the flight recorders, known as black boxes, are believed to be but search efforts have been hindered by debris, officials said.A remotely operated underwater vehicle has been deployed to help scour the seabed, while navy vessels with sonar search from the surface.Once the flight data and cockpit voice recorders are found, Indonesia's National Transportation Safety Committee (KNKT) expects to be able to read the information in three days.With few immediate clues on what caused a catastrophic loss of control after take-off, investigators will rely heavily on the flight recorders to determine what went wrong.The Sriwijaya Air plane was nearly 27 years old, much older than Boeing's problem-plagued 737 MAX model. Older 737 models are widely flown and do not have the stall-prevention system implicated in the MAX safety crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indonesia-uses-unmanned-undersea-vehicle-in-hunt-for-air-crash-victims-101610419899272.html
12-01-2021||World||Twitter suspends thousands of accounts dedicated to sharing QAnon content||Twitter Inc said it has suspended more than 70,000 accounts since Friday that were primarily dedicated to sharing QAnon content after last week's violence in Washington when supporters of President Donald Trump stormed the U.S. Capitol."Given the violent events in Washington, DC, and increased risk of harm, we began permanently suspending thousands of accounts that were primarily dedicated to sharing QAnon content on Friday afternoon", Twitter said in a blog late on Monday."These accounts were engaged in sharing harmful QAnon-associated content at scale and were primarily dedicated to the propagation of this conspiracy theory across the service", the company said.QAnon backers have pushed conspiracies on social media that include the baseless claim that Trump secretly is fighting a cabal of child-sex predators, among them prominent Democrats, figures in Hollywood and "deep state" allies.Twitter had said on Friday it would permanently suspend accounts pushing QAnon content, banning prominent right-wing boosters of its conspiracy theories.The storming of the Capitol building last week by Trump supporters delayed the certification of Biden's election victory.Lawmakers were forced to flee, as the building was mobbed by the president's supporters who overwhelmed security forces. Five people died in the violence including one Capitol Police officer who was beaten as he tried to ward off the crowds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/twitter-suspends-thousands-of-accounts-dedicated-to-sharing-qanon-content-101610419674318.html
12-01-2021||World||Trump administration misses deadline for providing Congress census data||The Trump administration missed a deadline for giving Congress numbers used for divvying up congressional seats among the states, and government attorneys said Monday that the figures would not be ready until early March, almost a month later than previously disclosed.President Donald Trump on Sunday let slip the target date for transmitting the apportionment numbers to Congress as the US Census Bureau continued to work toward fixing data irregularities from its number-crunching efforts.Under federal law, the president is required to hand over the numbers to Congress showing the number of people in each state within the first week of the start of Congress in the year following a once-a-decade head count of every US resident. There are no penalties for missing the deadline.The president's tardiness stemmed from the Commerce Department, which oversees the Census Bureau, missing a year-end target date for giving the apportionment numbers to the president, due to the pandemic and irregularities that were discovered while crunching data from the 2020 census on a shortened schedule.“The Census Bureau is committed to fixing all anomalies and errors that it finds in order to produce complete and accurate results," said Deborah Stempowski, an assistant director at the Census Bureau, in a court filing last week.The census not only decides how many congressional seats and Electoral College votes each state gets based on population, but it also determines the distribution of $1.5 trillion in federal funding each year.The earliest date the apportionment numbers will be ready is March 6, nearly a month past the Feb. 9 date disclosed last week, as the Census Bureau fixes anomalies discovered during data processing, Department of Justice attorneys said Monday during a court hearing.Deputy Assistant Attorney General John Coghlan said during the hearing there were no new irregularities, but that the ones disclosed last week needed more time to correct.The Department of Justice is representing the Commerce Department and Census Bureau in a lawsuit filed by a coalition of municipalities and advocacy groups in federal court in San Jose, California.If the March date holds, the Census Bureau will not finish processing the numbers until weeks after Trump leaves office January 20, putting in jeopardy an unprecedented order by the president to exclude people in the country illegally from those figures. President-elect Joe Biden opposes the order, which was inspired by an influential GOP adviser who wrote that excluding them from the apportionment process would favor Republicans and non-Hispanic whites.Last week, Biden announced that Rhode Island Gov. Gina Raimondo will be his nominee for Commerce Secretary, which would make her responsible for the final 2020 census numbers instead of current Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross, if census data processing continues past January 20.The Constitution states that the apportionment process is based on “the whole number of persons in each state." Trump’s apportionment order was challenged in more than a half-dozen lawsuits across the US But the Supreme Court ruled last month that any challenge was premature.The San Jose lawsuit was originally brought by a coalition of municipalities and advocacy groups that had sued the Trump administration stop the census from ending early out of concerns that a shortened head count would cause minority communities to be undercounted. The coalition of municipalities and advocacy groups currently is seeking data and documents to help assess the accuracy of the 2020 census, saying a shortened timeline for processing the data will compromise its quality.The coalition says Department of Justice attorneys have repeatedly refused to turn over court-ordered documents, and the coalition is seeking sanctions of $5,000 a day until they do so.“They have done so precisely so that Defendants ‘best-Census-ever!' assertions ... can never be fully tested," coalition attorneys said in a court filing.U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh said at Monday's hearing that she was disappointed that the government attorneys hadn't produced more documents. Koh is presiding over the lawsuit, but a separate panel of magistrate judges is deciding whether to agree to the sanctions.“I see obstruction and I don’t see cooperation and I don’t think that’s a good look for the Department of Justice,” Koh said.The Department of Justice attorneys have said sanctions are inappropriate. Government attorneys said at Monday's hearing that they have been overwhelmed by the volume of requests from the plaintiffs' attorneys.“We are in a hole, and we are trying to get out of the hole as dirt is being poured on us, said Brad Rosenberg, a Department of Justice attorney.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-administration-misses-deadline-for-providing-congress-census-data-101610415980777.html
12-01-2021||World||Amazon to remove QAnon products from platform after US Capitol siege||Amazon.com Inc on Monday said it was working to remove some QAnon products from its online marketplace, citing policies that prohibit offensive items or other inappropriate content.The world's largest online retailer drew scrutiny for having apparel with QAnon insignia and related books up for sale days after QAnon followers joined last week's siege of the US Capitol, which left five people dead.QAnon backers have pushed conspiracies on social media based on web postings from the anonymous "Q," citing insider knowledge of US President Donald Trump's administration. These include the baseless claim that Trump secretly is fighting a cabal of child-sex predators, among them prominent Democrats and figures in Hollywood.Read more: At stake, the future of democracyThe action by Amazon follows a decision to stop hosting the web content of Parler, a social network used by some supporters of Trump. The company alleged that Parler had violated the terms of service of its cloud computing division, Amazon Web Services (AWS), for failing to deal with an increase in violent social media. Parler sued AWS on Monday in response.Amazon previously has come under fire for - and removed the listings of - products promoting extremist views, such as books denying the Holocaust.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/amazon-to-remove-qanon-products-from-platform-after-us-capitol-siege-101610413285958.html
12-01-2021||World||Trump administration re-designates Cuba as 'state sponsor of terrorism'||The Trump administration has re-designated Cuba as a "state sponsor of terrorism", reversing an Obama-era decision days ahead of the inauguration of President-elect Joe Biden.Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said on Monday that the US government had been focused from the start on denying the Castro regime the resources it uses to "oppress its people at home, and countering its malign interference in Venezuela and the rest of the Western Hemisphere"."The State Department has designated Cuba as a State Sponsor of Terrorism for repeatedly providing support for acts of international terrorism in granting safe harbor to terrorists," Pompeo said."With this action, we will once again hold Cuba's government accountable and send a clear message: the Castro regime must end its support for international terrorism and subversion of US justice," he said.The previous Obama Administration had previously removed from this designation, which subjects Cuba to sanctions that penalise persons and countries engaging in certain trade with it, restricts US foreign assistance, bans defence exports and sales, and imposes certain controls on exports of dual-use items.Cuba returns to the list following its "broken commitment" to stop supporting terrorism as a condition of its removal by the previous administration in 2015. On May 13, 2020, the State Department notified Congress that it had certified Cuba under Section 40A(a) of the Arms Export Control Act as "not cooperating fully" with US counterterrorism efforts in 2019."The Cuban intelligence and security apparatus has infiltrated Venezuela's security and military forces, assisting Nicholas Maduro to maintain his stranglehold over his people while allowing terrorist organizations to operate."The Cuban government's support for FARC dissidents and the ELN continues beyond Cuba's borders as well, and the regime's support of Maduro has created a permissive environment for international terrorists to live and thrive within Venezuela," Pompeo said.According to Pompeo, members of the National Liberation Army (ELN), a US-designated foreign terrorist organisation, travelled to Havana to conduct peace talks with the Colombian government in 2017.Citing peace negotiation protocols, Cuba has refused Colombia's requests to extradite 10 ELN leaders living in Havana after the group claimed responsibility for the January 2019 bombing of a Bogota police academy that killed 22 people and injured more than 87 others, Pompeo said.Cuba also harbours several US fugitives from justice wanted on or convicted of charges of political violence, many of whom have resided in Cuba for decades, he alleged.For example, the Cuban regime has refused to return Joanne Chesimard, on the FBI's 'most wanted terrorists' list for executing New Jersey State Trooper Werner Foerster in 1973; Ishmael LaBeet, convicted of killing eight people in the US Virgin Islands in 1972; Charles Lee Hill, charged with killing New Mexico state policeman Robert Rosenbloom in 1971; and others.Pompeo said the US would continue to support the Cuban people in their desire for a democratic government and respect for human rights, including freedom of religion, expression, and association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-administration-re-designates-cuba-as-state-sponsor-of-terrorism-101610411568141.html
12-01-2021||World||Republicans face growing corporate backlash after Capitol assault||Republicans in the US Congress faced growing blowback on Monday from businesses that said they would cut off campaign contributions to those who voted last week to challenge President-elect Joe Biden's victory.The announcements by Amazon.com Inc, General Electric Co, Dow Inc, AT&T Inc, Comcast Corp, Verizon Communications Inc, American Express Co, Airbnb Inc, Best Buy Co Inc and Mastercard Inc, among others, threaten to throttle fundraising resources for Republicans who will soon be out of power in the White House and both chambers of Congress.AT&T and Comcast, for example, are among the biggest corporate donors in Washington.Greeting-card giant Hallmark Company Ltd said it had asked senators Josh Hawley and Roger Marshall to return its contributions. Representatives for the two Republicans, who both objected to Biden's certification, did not immediately respond to requests for comment.The announcements are a sign that some corporate donors, which typically spread their money widely around Capitol Hill, are re-assessing their strategy after supporters of President Donald Trump attacked the Capitol last week in an effort to prevent Congress from formalizing Biden's victory.It is unclear whether their decisions will have a lasting impact. Fundraising activity is currently at a post-election lull in Washington, giving businesses and trade groups some time to figure out their approach.Few companies have gone as far as Dow, which said it would withhold donations for the Republican lawmakers' entire terms in office - up to six years for those in the Senate. Others said they would withhold donations temporarily, or suspend giving to Republicans and Democrats alike.GE's suspension will last through the end of 2022 and then the employee board that oversees its political action committee will consider requests for support for those lawmakers who opposed certification "on a case-by-case basis."At least five people died in last week's attack, which also forced lawmakers into hiding for several hours.When they reconvened, 147 Republicans in the House of Representatives and the Senate voted to challenge Biden's victory in Pennsylvania or Arizona, even though both states already formally certified the results and election officials say there were no significant problems with the vote.Those voting yes included the top two House Republicans, Kevin McCarthy and Steve Scalise, and Senator Rick Scott, who as incoming head of the National Republican Senatorial Committee will head up efforts to win back the Senate in the 2022 elections. All of their jobs require extensive fundraising. McCarthy and Scalise's offices did not respond to a request for comment. Representatives for Scott declined to comment.Amazon said it would discuss concerns "directly with those members we have previously supported" before deciding whether to resume contributions.CUT OFF FOR HOW LONG?The sheer extent of the Republican opposition will make it difficult for businesses to simply cut off those who voted against certifying Biden's victory, said a senior Republican business strategist, speaking on condition of anonymity. Roughly two-thirds of all House Republicans, including seasoned legislators and vocal Trump partisans, supported the challenge.Business groups will be watching closely over the coming weeks to see whether those Republicans make gestures to re-establish a sense of normalcy, such as attending Biden's inauguration, the strategist said."Each of those people are going to be scrutinized," the strategist said. "Are they all going into the bucket of 'no contributions'? I would be shocked if they all get put in."A growing list of companies, including Ford Motor Co, Microsoft Corp, American Airlines, Alphabet Inc's Google, Facebook Inc, Goldman Sachs, BP Plc, Smithfield Foods Inc and Union Pacific Corp said they would temporarily suspend donations to Democrats and Republicans alike.Trade associations, among the biggest donors in Washington, are moving more slowly.The National Association of Beer Wholesalers, the National Association of Auto Dealers, and the American Bankers Association said they would re-assess their contribution strategy. Other top donors, including the National Association of Homebuilders and the National Association of Realtors, said they have yet to make a decision.Several analysts said the boycott may not be permanent, as the need for access on Capitol Hill might ultimately outweigh the risk of being seen as an underwriter of those who weaken US democracy."It’s very easy to suspend campaign contributions two months after an election. The question is whether these policies will remain in effect," said Stanford University law professor Nathaniel Persily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/republicans-face-growing-corporate-backlash-after-capitol-assault-101610408658766.html
12-01-2021||World||Senior Chinese diplomat Wang Yi visits Myanmar, promises vaccines||Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi discussed closer cooperation with Myanmar and promised vaccines against Covid-19, state-run television said on Monday, after he arrived on the first stop of a five-day tour of Southeast Asia.Wang met President Win Myint and Aung San Suu Kyi, the de facto head of the government whose National League for Democracy (NLD) was returned to power in November with a second successive landslide election victory.Wang is scheduled to meet army chief Min Aung Hlaing in the capital Naypyitaw on Tuesday before moving on to Indonesia, Brunei and the Philippines.Wang and Myanmar officials discussed border security, regional cooperation and China's roles in brokering peace in Myanmar and in the potential repatriation of Rohingya refugees, Myanmar Radio and Television (MRTV) said.Wang also promised Myanmar 300,000 doses of a Chinese vaccine against the novel coronavirus.China is the second largest investor in Myanmar and wants to speed up mega-projects launched under its Belt and Road Initiative.Beijing plays a crucial role in peace negotiations between Myanmar's army and ethnic armed groups based along the border.It has also sought to speed up the return of Muslim Rohingya refugees from camps in Bangladesh, and has shielded its neighbour from accusations at the United Nations that it committed genocide against the Muslim minority.More than 730,000 Rohingya fled Myanmar's Rakhine state in 2017 after a military crackdown that United Nations investigators have said was executed with genocidal intent - an accusation that Myanmar denies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/senior-chinese-diplomat-wang-yi-visits-myanmar-promises-vaccines-101610411214866.html
12-01-2021||World||Gorillas test positive for coronavirus at San Diego park||Several gorillas at the San Diego Zoo Safari Park have tested positive for the coronavirus in what is believed to be the first known cases among such primates in the United States and possibly the world.The parks executive director, Lisa Peterson, told The Associated Press on Monday that eight gorillas that live together at the park are believed to have the virus and several have been coughing.It appears the infection came from a member of the parks wildlife care team who also tested positive for the virus but has been asymptomatic and wore a mask at all times around the gorillas. The park has been closed to the public since December 6 as part of the state of California's lockdown efforts to curb coronavirus cases.Veterinarians are closely monitoring the gorillas and they will remain in their habitat at the park, north of San Diego, Peterson said. For now, they are being given vitamins, fluid and food but no specific treatment for the virus."Aside from some congestion and coughing, the gorillas are doing well," Peterson said.While other wildlife has contracted the coronavirus from minks to tigers, this is the first known instance of transmission to great apes and it is unknown if they will have any serious reaction.Wildlife experts have expressed concern about the coronavirus infecting gorillas, an endangered species that share 98.4 percent of their DNA with humans and are inherently social animals.The gorillas infected at the San Diego safari park are western lowland gorillas, whose population has declined by more than 60% over the last two decades because of poaching and disease, according to the World Wildlife Fund.The safari park tested feces of the troop of gorillas after two apes began coughing January 6. Positive test results were confirmed by the US Department of Agriculture National Veterinary Services Laboratories in three gorillas. Feces from all eight in the troop are being taken for testing.Zoo officials are talking to experts who have been treating the coronavirus in humans in case the animals' develop more severe symptoms. They will remain together since separating them could be harmful to the gorillas that live in tight-knit groups."This is wildlife, and they have their own resiliency and can heal differently than we do," Peterson said.The safari park on Monday added more safety measures for its staff, including requiring face shields and eye goggles when working in contact with the animals.The confirmation that gorillas are susceptible to the coronavirus contributes to information about how the pandemic may affect these species in their native habitats where they come into contact with humans and human materials, the park officials said.San Diego Zoo Safari Park plans to share what it learns with health officials, conservationists and scientists to develop steps to protect gorillas in the forests of Africa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/gorillas-test-positive-for-coronavirus-at-san-diego-park-101610410008525.html
12-01-2021||World||PayPal blocks website that helped raise funds for Capitol protesters||PayPal Holdings Inc. blocked the Christian crowdfunding site GiveSendGo after it helped raise funds for people who attended last week’s violent event in Washington, D.C., according to a person familiar with the matter.The payments giant also closed an account held by Ali Alexander, one of the organizers of the gathering, the person said, asking not to be named discussing non-public information.“We regularly assess activity against our acceptable-use policy and carefully review actions reported to us, and will discontinue our relationship with account holders who are found to violate our policies,” PayPal said in a statement on Monday.Bloomberg previously reported that PayPal closed an account held by Joy In Liberty. It was among groups that paid for supporters of President Donald Trump to travel to Washington, where mobs stormed the U.S. Capitol last week, breaking through police lines and forcing lawmakers into hiding.Some of PayPal’s rivals have also begun reassessing doing business with companies linked to Trump. Shopify Inc. shut down online stores affiliated with him.“PayPal has a longstanding, well-defined and consistently enforced acceptable use policy,” the company said in Monday’s statement. “Regardless of the individual or organization in question, we work to ensure that our services are not used to accept payments for activities that promote hate speech, violence or other forms of intolerance.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/paypal-blocks-website-that-helped-raise-funds-for-capitol-protesters-101610409386210.html
12-01-2021||World||FBI warns of armed protests ahead of Joe Biden inauguration||The FBI has warned of armed protests being planned for Washington and all 50 US state capitals in the run-up to President-elect Joe Biden's January 20 inauguration, a federal law enforcement source said on Monday.Threatened with more violence from outgoing President Donald Trump's supporters following last Wednesday's storming of the US Capitol, the FBI issued warnings for next weekend that run at least until Inauguration Day, the source said.In other steps to safeguard the US capital, the National Guard was authorized to send up to 15,000 troops to Washington, and tourists were barred from visiting the Washington Monument until January 24.The chief of the National Guard Bureau, General Daniel Hokanson, told reporters he expected about 10,000 troops in Washington by Saturday to help provide security, logistics and communications.He said the number could rise to 15,000 if requested by local authorities.At least one lawmaker asked the Pentagon to do more.Senator Chris Murphy, who said he was sending a letter to the acting secretary of defense on Monday, said it was unclear if the National Guard would be sufficient to protect the nation's capital and that active-duty troops may be needed also."I'm not afraid of taking the oath outside," Biden told reporters in Newark, Delaware, referring to the traditional setting for the swearing-in ceremony on the Capitol grounds. But he said it was critically important that people "who engaged in sedition and threatened people's lives, defaced public property, caused great damage" be held accountable.Biden's inaugural committee said on Monday the theme of the Jan. 20 ceremony would be "America United." Trump, who has sought unsuccessfully to overturn the Nov. 3 election results with false claims of widespread fraud, said last week he would not attend the ceremony, a decision the president-elect supported.WASHINGTON MONUMENT CLOSED TO TOURSThe Park Service said it would suspend tours of the Washington Monument, an obelisk honoring the country's first president, due to safety concerns from threats to disrupt the inauguration.Washington Mayor Muriel Bowser called for the US Interior Department to cancel public-gathering permits through January 24. "This inaugural planning period has to be very different than all the others," she told reporters on Monday.In a letter to acting Homeland Security Secretary Chad Wolf made public on Sunday, Bowser called for a fresh approach to security after what she called last week's "unprecedented terrorist attack."Bowser asked Wolf to extend the National Special Security Event period from Monday through January 24. The Secret Service heads security operations for events, including presidential inaugurations, considered to be nationally significant.Wolf said in a statement he had instructed the Secret Service to begin National Special Security Event operations for the inauguration effective Wednesday, instead of January 19 as previously scheduled. The acting secretary told his staff he was stepping down on Monday.The assault on the Capitol, challenging the certification of Biden's election victory, sent lawmakers into hiding and left five people dead, including a Capitol Police officer. Dozens of people have been charged in the violence and hundreds of more cases are expected.The assault occurred shortly after Trump urged supporters to march on the Capitol during a rally where he repeated false claims his resounding defeat in November's election was illegitimate.Democrats in Congress began a push on Monday to force Trump from office, introducing an article of impeachment that accuses him of inciting insurrection.The presidential inaugural committee and Bowser have told Americans not to travel to the inauguration, and said Washington's National Mall would be covered with 191,500 flags of different sizes, to represent the missing crowds.A presidential inauguration traditionally draws hundreds of thousands of visitors to Washington, but the ceremonies have been scaled back dramatically because of the Covid-19 pandemic.In state capitols, governors are on high alert ahead of the inauguration.In Wisconsin, a swing state where Trump alleged election fraud, Governor Tony Evers authorized the Wisconsin National Guard to support the state's Capitol Police.In Michigan, another swing state where Biden's victory was contested by Trump, the state's Capitol Commission, which oversees the legislature, issued an order to ban the open carrying of weapons inside the Capitol building in Lansing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/fbi-warns-of-armed-protests-ahead-of-joe-biden-inauguration-101610409384429.html
12-01-2021||World||Judge sets May sentencing for Michael Avenatti in Nike case||Michael Avenatti will be sentenced in May for his conviction on charges of trying to extort $25 million from Nike, a judge said Monday.Judge Paul G. Gardephe in Manhattan set the May 7 date for the once fast-rising lawyer known for combative online clashes with President Donald Trump while he represented Stormy Daniels. If it occurs then, it will be more than a year since Avenatti was first set to be sentenced.Avenatti was convicted early last year of threatening to damage Nike’s reputation if he wasn’t paid millions of dollars.Later this year, he faces two fraud trials in Los Angeles, where prosecutors say he cheated clients of millions of dollars. He also faces a trial in New York next year on charges he cheated the porn star Daniels of $300,000 in book proceeds.Free on bail, he has pleaded not guilty to all charges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/judge-sets-may-sentencing-for-michael-avenatti-in-nike-case-101610408663785.html
12-01-2021||World||UN chief Antonio Guterres declares he will seek second term||UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres officially declared Monday he is seeking a second five-year term at the helm of the United Nations.Guterres, whose current term ends next Dec. 31, said in a letter to General Assembly President Volkan Bozkir that “It would be my honor to continue to serve the organization in pursuing its purposes and fulfilling its noble objectives.”The former Portuguese prime minister and UN refugee chief was elected by the 193-member assembly to succeed Ban Ki-moon after a hotly contested and transparent race in October 2016 that initially included 13 candidates -- seven women and six men. Guterres took office on Jan. 1, 2017.“I am available to serve a second term as secretary-general of the United Nations, if that will be the will of member states,” Guterres said in a letter to Bozkir obtained by the Associated Press.Several diplomats have said Guterres was waiting for the results of the U.S. presidential election and would not have sought a second term if Donald Trump won. But another diplomat familiar with his thinking said Guterres, after more than 40 years of public service, would have felt he couldn’t desert the U.N. if Trump had defeated President-elect Joe Biden who takes office on Jan. 20.Trump pulled the United States out of the World Health Organization, the UN-backed 2015 Paris climate agreement and the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization and stopped funding the UN population fund and the U.N. agency for Palestinian refugees. Biden has said the US will quickly rejoin the WHO and the climate agreement.UN spokesman Stephane Dujarric said Guterres was responding to a letter from Bozkir on Friday asking his “intentions regarding a second mandate.”The secretary-general spent time over the holidays speaking to his family, Dujarric said, and “I don’t think any particular elections cycle in any particular country impacted his decision.”Dujarric said Guterres informed the five permanent members of the Security Council -- the United States, Russia, China, Britain and France -- on Friday. China’s U.N. Ambassador Zhang Jun hosted a lunch for the P5 ambassadors, as they are called, with the secretary-general on Friday, diplomats said.The General Assembly elects the secretary-general on the recommendation of the 15-member Security Council where the five permanent members have veto power, so their support is crucial.Guterres, 71, got his first key vote of support late Monday.British Prime Minister Boris Johnson “warmly welcomed the secretary-general’s decision to run for a second term and congratulated him on a successful first term,” his office said following a virtual meeting between the two leaders.Guterres also spoke to leaders of the UN’s regional groups on Friday and sent a letter to the Security Council on Monday, the UN spokesman said.As for next steps, a General Assembly resolution adopted in September 2015 asks the presidents of the assembly and Security Council to “start the process of soliciting candidates for the position of secretary-general through a joint letter addressed to all member states.”Assembly spokesman Brenden Varma said president Bozkir spoke to Tunisia’s U.N. Ambassador Tarek Ladeb, this month's council president, on Monday and will meet with him Tuesday, among other things to discuss “the next steps in this process.”The 2015 resolution, which was adopted by consensus, made the previously largely secretive selection of the secretary-general more open and transparent. It allowed the world body’s member states for the first time to see basic information about all candidates, including their resumes, and to meet and question them at open sessions.Just before Christmas, a group of 25 nations from all regions called the Accountability Coherence and Transparency group wrote to the General Assembly and Security Council urging that the selection process meets “at a minimum" the 2015 standards of transparency and involvement of UN members.Guterres’ election was a disappointment to women, who have never held the U.N.’s top job, and to East Europeans who have never had a secretary-general from the region. It was supposed to be next in the informal geographical rotation for U.N. chief when Guterres, a West European was elected.Since this will be the first time an incumbent is seeking a second term following the resolution’s adoption, and it isn’t yet known whether there will be any other candidates, the next steps are unclear.Guterres said in his reply to Bozkir: “In line with the strong interest of the General Assembly regarding transparency and inclusivity, I am ready to fully meet the expectations referred in your letter, notably with regard to the submission of a vision statement and to the participation in an informal dialogue with member states.”The secretary-general said in the letter that he has worked to reform the United Nations “to meet the aspirations of member states, striving for the dignity and the well-being of people, while ensuring the sustainability of our planet for future generations.”On the day of his election, Guterres pledged to be “a bridge-builder” and to promote a new “diplomacy for peace.”But the last four years have seen the United Nations, the global bastion of multilateralism, and its leader trying to deal with an increasingly polarized world facing a pandemic, regional conflicts, a shrinking economy, growing inequality and escalating US-China tensions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/un-chief-antonio-guterres-declares-he-will-seek-second-term-101610408680776.html
12-01-2021||World||How a British Covid-19 vaccine went from pole position to troubled start||On June 5, researchers at the University of Oxford quietly made a change to a late-stage clinical trial of their Covid-19 vaccine. In an amendment noted in a document marked CONFIDENTIAL, they said they were adding a new group of participants.The adjustment might seem minor in a large-scale study. But it masked a mistake that would have potentially far-reaching consequences: Many of the United Kingdom trial subjects had inadvertently been given only about a half dose of the vaccine.The new volunteers would now receive the correct dose. The trial continued.Much was riding on the Oxford vaccine, a British-led endeavour also involving UK drugs firm AstraZeneca. Prime Minister Boris Johnson's government was desperate for a success story after its early mishandling of the pandemic contributed to one of the world's highest death tolls from Covid-19 - around 65,000 by mid-December. The government has secured 100 million doses.On Nov. 23, Oxford and AstraZeneca delivered positive news. They announced that the regimen of a half dose followed by a full dose booster appeared to be 90% effective in preventing Covid-19. Two full doses scored 62%. Oxford researchers have said they aren't certain why the half-dose regimen was much more effective.Johnson called the vaccine team and tweeted his thanks "for their brilliant work." He went on, "These results are incredibly encouraging and a major step forward in our fight against Covid-19."Oxford and AstraZeneca are now hoping for quick authorization by Britain's regulator. But questions about the trial and the results won't go away.Some experts say the dosing discrepancy raises doubts about the robustness of the study's findings. And they worry about another acknowledged peculiarity of the study: The half-dose regimen wasn't tested on anyone over 55 - the group considered at high risk from Covid-19. In contrast, a vaccine produced by Pfizer/BioNTech was tested on thousands of people over 65, with an efficacy of 94%.John Moore, a professor of microbiology and immunology at Weill Cornell Medical College in New York, said there needed to be a better understanding of how the Oxford trial unfolded. "When you get corporate and academic scientists saying different things, it doesn't give you the impression of confidence in what they're doing," he told Reuters. "Was the dosing thing a mistake or not?"Now a Reuters review of hundreds of pages of clinical trial records, as well as interviews with scientists and industry figures, provides the most detailed account to date of what went wrong with the dosing in the Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine study. The review found that Oxford researchers were responsible for what their own clinical trial documents called "a potency miscalculation."For Oxford and AstraZeneca, the stakes could not be higher. They hope to produce up to three billion doses of the low-cost vaccine by the end of next year, enough to inoculate much of the world, including many of its poorest inhabitants. For months, scientists at Oxford have been busily promoting the experimental vaccine's prospects in bullish terms - beginning even before the first human test subjects were injected with the experimental vaccine.In an interview that appeared on April 11 in Britain's The Times newspaper, Sarah Gilbert, one of the vaccine's chief researchers at Oxford, said she was 80% certain her team would be able to produce a successful vaccine, possibly as early as September. That was 12 days before a clinical trial to test its safety began.Oxford didn't answer detailed questions for this story, but provided a statement saying the trials have been "conducted under the strict national, ethical and regulatory requirements." It added that "all trial protocols and trial amendments have been subject to review and approval by the relevant authorities. All safety data have been reviewed regularly" by regulators.A spokesman for AstraZeneca referred questions about the UK clinical trial to Oxford, which sponsored it. A spokeswoman for Britain's regulator, the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA), declined to answer questions about the Oxford/AstraZeneca dosing issue. "Our rolling review is ongoing," she said, "so this information is currently commercially confidential."The UK's Department of Health and Social Care declined to comment.AN EXACT SCIENCEVaccines are the world's best hope of ending a pandemic that has claimed more than 1.7 million lives globally. More than 60 Covid-19 vaccine candidates are currently undergoing human trials, according to the World Health Organization.Vaccines made by Pfizer/BioNTech and Moderna have already been authorized for use in some countries, including the United States. They use a relatively new technology called messenger RNA (mRNA) that instructs human cells to produce antigens, a type of protein, that stimulate the immune system. Late-stage clinical trials showed both vaccines appeared to be at least 94% effective. Until the UK approved the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine on December 2, no RNA vaccine had ever received authorization for general use.The Oxford/AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine employs a more established technique called viral vector. The vaccine uses a bioengineered version of a harmless common-cold virus found in chimpanzees to instruct human cells to make antigens.On December 8, Oxford published an interim analysis of its trial results and more than 1,100 pages of supplementary documents in the scientific journal The Lancet. These show that measuring the concentration of viral materials can be tricky, and they shed light on the chain of events leading up to the dosing discrepancy.Viral vectors are typically produced in bioreactors holding up to 2,000 liters, which are then filtered and purified into a concentrated batch of active substance of just a few liters."This is not about measuring pencils, pens, bricks, or fixed objects of a given size," said Lucio Rovati, chief executive of Rottapharm, an Italian biotech company that is trying to develop a different type of vaccine using a genetic fragment. "It's about live biological products."According to the Oxford documents, in May researchers received a vaccine delivery from Italy's IRBM/Advent — one of the contract manufacturers Oxford enlisted to complement its own vaccine production. The late-stage trial of the Oxford vaccine was about to begin.The shipment, batch K.0011, had undergone the Italian company's quality check using an established genetic test - quantitative PCR, or qPCR - to determine viral matter per milliliter.Oxford ran its own analysis for good measure. The university had been using a different method known as spectrophotometry, which measures viral material in liquids based on how much ultraviolet light the viral matter absorbs.Oxford's measurement showed that the batch was more potent than the Italian manufacturer had found, the documents show. Oxford trusted its own result and wanted to remain consistent with a measuring tool it had used throughout an earlier trial phase. So it asked Britain's drugs regulator for permission to reduce the volume of vaccine injected into trial participants from the K.0011 batch. Permission was granted."The decisions about dosing were all done in discussion with the regulator. So when we started the trial, we had some discrepancies in the measurement of the concentration of virus in the vaccine," Andrew Pollard, the Oxford trial's chief investigator, told Reuters.A spokeswoman for the regulator declined to discuss when it first became aware of the dosing issue."SERENDIPITY"Trial participants who received shots from the Italian batch displayed milder than normal expected side effects, such as fever and fatigue. AstraZeneca executive vice president Mene Pangalos said the dose was measured incorrectly. "It ended up being half the dose," he told Reuters. He called the mistake "serendipity," given that data analysis later indicated the half dose, followed by a full-dose booster shot, was much more effective than two full doses.He also recently told the BBC: "There is no doubt I think that we would have run the study a little bit differently if we had been doing it from scratch. But ultimately, it is what it is."IRBM/Advent told Reuters there was no manufacturing issue with the batch. The company said in a written statement that the measuring mishap was "the result of a change in the testing method" used to confirm the potency of the dose "once the material had been shipped."The documents published in The Lancet confirm that the error lay with the Oxford researchers. A common emulsifier, polysorbate 80, used in vaccines to facilitate mixing, had interfered with the ultraviolet-light meter that measures the quantity of viral material, according to the documents. As a result, the vaccine's viral concentration was overstated and Oxford ended up administering half doses of vaccine, believing they were full doses.The documents don't give a detailed timeline, nor do they show that Oxford informed AstraZeneca at the time. But they do show that Oxford contacted the British regulator again, this time seeking approval to change its measuring method to the one used by the Italians, and to figure out how to proceed with a late-stage trial that had begun with participants receiving the wrong dose. The documents don't provide full details of the communication between Oxford and the regulator.In early June, the regulator gave the green light to continue injecting people with the half-dose, in an effort to keep the trial as large as possible and to try to speed up the results, according to the analysis published in The Lancet. The regulator also ruled that Oxford must add another test group to receive the full dose, in accordance with its original plan to test the safety and efficacy of full doses."We went back and discussed it again with the regulators and agreed with them," said Pollard, the Oxford study's chief investigator.Ultimately, 1,367 trial participants - none of them over 55 - received the half-dose/full-dose regimen. Two full doses were given to 4,440 adult participants, from all age groups.The MHRA, Britain's regulator, is expected to decide soon whether to approve the vaccine. The agency is headed by June Raine, a doctor who trained in general medicine at Oxford. The university's website shows she has made donations, given talks and performed volunteer work for the university's Somerville College, which she attended.The MHRA said that before any decision on the Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine is made, Raine "will ensure, for complete transparency" her interactions with Oxford as an alumnus are declared. It added that "none of these ties are of a nature that could give rise to a conflict requiring recusal."CONTRADICTIONSDeep within the more than 1,100 pages of supplemental appendices published in The Lancet appeared a description of the dosing discrepancy — "a potency miscalculation." That admission is contained in a "Statistical Analysis Plan" by Oxford and AstraZeneca dated November 17.Six days later, Oxford and AstraZeneca announced the interim results of their clinical trials in the UK and in Brazil. "Oxford University breakthrough on global Covid-19 vaccine," was the headline of an Oxford press release.AstraZeneca's news release was more muted. "Two different dosing regimens demonstrated efficacy with one showing a better profile," it stated.In interviews about the results with Reuters and the New York Times, AstraZeneca's Pangalos spoke of "serendipity," a "useful mistake" and a "dosing error."But the firm's chief executive officer, Pascal Soriot, told Bloomberg: "People call it a mistake — it was not a mistake." A spokesman for AstraZeneca declined to comment on the statements.Meanwhile, the two scientists leading Oxford's development of the vaccine — Sarah Gilbert and Adrian Hill — suggested that the half-dose was not administered by mistake. They didn't provide evidence. Gilbert, an Oxford vaccinology professor, said it was normal for researchers to look at different dose levels during vaccine trials. "It wasn't a mix-up in dosing," she told the Financial Times in an article published on November 27.A few days later, Hill told Reuters it was a conscious decision by researchers to administer a lower dose. "There had been some confusion suggesting that we didn't know we were giving a half dose when we gave it — that is really not true," he said.Gilbert and Hill together have about a 10% stake in a private biotech firm called Vaccitech that was spun out of Oxford University, according to a filing with Companies House, the UK's companies registry, dated Oct. 29. According to a spokeswoman for Vaccitech, the company transferred its rights to the vaccine to Oxford University's research commercialization arm in exchange for a share of the revenue. "If the vaccine is successful then all shareholders and investors in the company could potentially indirectly benefit," she wrote in an email.Hill and Gilbert didn't respond to detailed questions for this article.The conflicting explanations of what went wrong have drawn criticism from some experts. "Personally, I can say that I think their vaccine is much better than their communication," said Guido Rasi, who until last month was executive director of the European Medicines Agency, the European Union's regulator. He said the agency eventually will evaluate the trial data.'AHEAD OF THE WORLD'For months, the Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine was described by officials and in the media as the front-runner in the global race to produce a Covid-19 vaccine.Britain's health minister, Matt Hancock, told a press conference in April that Britain was "at the forefront of the global effort" to find a vaccine.On June 26, the World Health Organization's chief scientist, Soumya Swaminathan, said at a press conference that Oxford's vaccine was probably the world's leading candidate.Five days later, the then head of Britain's vaccine procurement program, Kate Bingham, told a parliamentary committee: "Oxford is ahead of the world in that it is the most advanced vaccine anywhere."Some Oxford scientists did little to dampen the enthusiasm. Asked at the same science and technology parliamentary committee on July 1 whether the world would have to struggle through the coming winter without a vaccine, Gilbert said, "I hope we can improve on those timelines and come to your rescue."At the end of July, she alluded to competing vaccine efforts. In an interview on the Royal Society of Biology's website, she said of the Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine: "If this doesn't work, I don't think anything will work."Her main partner on the project, Hill, was equally bullish. On May 15, he told Reuters the Oxford/AstraZeneca candidate is "almost certainly the best single dose rapid-response vaccine." He dismissed as "total unknowns" and a "wild card" the vaccines using mRNA technology, such as Pfizer/BioNTech and Moderna, which have since published results showing they were both at least 94% effective at preventing COVID-19. The Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine is already being distributed in the millions in the United States and the UK."Why would you take a vaccine technology that is new, unproven, maybe quick to manufacture, but expensive to manufacture - and has never been scaled up and has never been shown to protect against anything in humans, and prioritize that in a global emergency?" he asked. "It's very odd."Ian Jones, a professor of virology at Britain's University of Reading, told Reuters that the plethora of upbeat statements hasn't benefited the Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine candidate."I don't want to take away from the fact everybody has worked very hard and (the vaccine) is fundamentally safe and sound," he said. "But reporting has always had a slightly nationalistic tone, which I don't think has been helpful."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/how-a-british-covid-19-vaccine-went-from-pole-position-to-troubled-start-101610391390460.html
12-01-2021||World||Speedy distribution of vaccine a major challenge for global govts: WHO experts||As India launches the world's most ambitious and biggest vaccination drive against Covid-19, the country will encounter the formidable challenge of rapidly scaling up distribution of the vaccines to secure immunity for its entire population, two prominent Indian scientists at WHO have said. This daunting challenge is not only for India but also for all the governments across the globe as they start inoculating their populations to tackle the pandemic, noted Dr Soumya Swaminathan, Chief Scientist of WHO, and Dr Hamsadvani Kuganantham, Consultant, WHO. On Sunday, the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO),India's drugs regulator, had approved Oxford vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute of India (SII), and Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use for the frontline warriors and senior citizens in the country. Currently, there are 45 candidate vaccines in clinical evaluation and 156 candidate vaccines in pre-clinical evaluation, the WHO scientists said. COVAX,a ground-breaking global collaboration to accelerate the development, production, and equitable access to COVID-19 treatments and vaccines,is jointly led by the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI), Gavi (the Vaccine Alliance set up by The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation), and the World Health Organisation (WHO). Also Read: A new 'dawn': Serum Covid-19 vaccine shipment to start on Tuesday"It is the only global initiative that is working with governments and manufacturers to ensure COVID-19 vaccines are available worldwide to both higher-income and lower-income countries," they wrote in an article for Manorama Yearbook 2021. "The goal of COVAX is to deliver two billion doses of safe, effective vaccines that have passed regulatory approval and/or WHO prequalification, by the end of 2021. These vaccines will be offered equally to all participating countries, proportional to their populations, initially prioritizing healthcare workers, then expanding to cover vulnerable groups, such as the elderly and those with pre-existing conditions," the scientists pointed out. Further doses will then be made available based on a countrys need, vulnerability and Covid-19 threat. The scientists said it is equally important to ensure sustained surveillance, tracing, test and treat. "Vaccines will help us achieve herd immunity but, until then we need to keep practicing the non-pharmacological measures to prevent infection and spread," said Dr Swaminathan and Dr Kuganantham. "What is clear is that the virus has a foothold in most parts of the world, and transmission increases as soon as public health control measures are relaxed. Non-pharmacological interventions such as physical distancing and mask-wearing will reduce spread and, ideally, keep infection and death rates down," they observed. Quoting the global health security index published last year, they said no country is prepared to handle an epidemic or a pandemic. It concluded that most countries lack foundational health systems capacities vital for epidemic and pandemic response. With regard to reopening of schools, the scientists said schools operate not in isolation but within the community. Thus, anything that affects the community affects the schools too. Data shows that even though the schools have moved online, around 463 million children across the world have no access to remote schooling, the article said adding that education of one-third of the world's children has been affected and one in four countries presently do not have a reopening date for their schools. "This has devastating outcomes that can affect the children for a lifetime. They will be more exposed to physical and emotional violence, more prone to be pushed to child labour, suffer sexual abuse and further intensify the cycle of poverty. We need the decision-makers to closely check the factors and ensure a safe environment for the children," they stressed. Observing that there are many lessons from the pandemic that can be learnt to adapt and prepare for the future,the experts said, "This pandemic will come to an end, but the world needs to work together to ensure that we are better prepared next time. It is only through science and solidarity that solutions will be found."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/speedy-distribution-of-vaccine-a-major-challenge-for-global-govts-who-experts-101610390830266.html
12-01-2021||India||Dawood Ibrahim's group enjoying 'five-star hospitality': Jaishankar||India on Tuesday indirectly criticised Pakistan and China for failing to effectively counter-terrorism, saying the organisation of terrorist Dawood Ibrahim is being provided “five-star hospitality” while the listing of terror groups and individuals is being held up without proper reasons.Addressing an open debate in the UN Security Council on global cooperation in combating terror two decades after the adoption of Resolution 1373 in the aftermath of the 9/11 terror attacks, external affairs minister S Jaishankar proposed an eight-point action plan, including holding accountable states that support terror.Resolution 1373, he said, is a reminder that terrorism continues to be the “gravest threat to mankind”, and the resolution and the counter-terrorism committee are important pillars of the global architecture against terrorism.Without naming either Pakistan or China, Jaishankar said some countries are “clearly guilty” of supporting terrorism and providing financial assistance and safe havens to terrorists, while others were placing blocks and holds on requests for sanctioning of groups and individuals by the UN Security Council “without any rhyme or reason”.Also read: Trump slams impeachment move as Democrats press aheadIndia has long accused Pakistan of harbouring and supporting terror groups such as Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) and Lashkar-e-Taiba which was behind the 2008 Mumbai attacks. JeM chief Masood Azhar was sanctioned by the Security Council in May 2019, almost a decade after a request for his listing, when China withdrew a “technical hold” on the matter.“Some states lack the legal and operational frameworks and technical expertise needed to detect, investigate and prosecute terrorist financing cases. However, other states are clearly guilty of aiding and supporting terrorism and wilfully providing financial assistance and safe havens,” Jaishankar said.“While we must enhance capacities of the former, the international community must collectively call out the latter and hold them accountable,” he added.While proposing the eight-point action plan, Jaishankar called for reforms in the working methods of UN committees dealing with sanctions and counter-terrorism to ensure transparency, accountability and effectiveness. “The practice of placing blocks and holds on listing requests without any rhyme or reason must end. This only erodes our collective credibility,” he said.He said the action plan should also recognise and address links between terror and transnational organised crime. In a reference to Dawood Ibrahim’s organisation, Jaishankar said, “We in India have seen the crime syndicate responsible for the 1993 Mumbai bomb blasts not just given state protection, but actually enjoying five-star hospitality.”The action plan also included political will to unhesitatingly combat terrorism, removal of double standards and ending the distinction of good and bad terrorists, discouraging “exclusivist thinking” that divides the world and breeds mistrust and hatred among communities, and ensuring that listing and delisting of individuals and entities under the UN sanctions regime is done objectively and not for political or religious considerations.The action plan further called for the effective combating of terror financing. Jaishankar said there should be enhanced cooperation between the UN and the Financial Action Task Force (FATF), which should continue to identify and remedy weaknesses in anti-money laundering and counter-terrorism.He also recommended adequate funding for UN counter-terrorism bodies from the regular budget needs and said the forthcoming review of the UN Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy offers an opportunity to strengthen measures to combat terror and build the capacities of member states.Jaishankar said the time had come for all nations to “walk the talk” and commit themselves to the goal of zero tolerance for terrorism at a time when terror groups and lone-wolf attackers had significantly enhanced their capabilities by gaining access to new technologies such as drones, encrypted communications and virtual currencies, and social media networks were contributing to radicalisation and recruitment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dawood-ibrahim-s-group-enjoying-five-star-hospitality-jaishankar-101610475824156.html
12-01-2021||India||'Fatalities will increase if courts open for physical hearing': CJI||Medical advice to the Chief Justice of India (CJI) and other judges of the Supreme Court has ruled out against the physical functioning of Courts for the present. Fatalities due to Covid-19 could rise with lawyers and judges congregating for open court hearings.This was stated by CJI SA Bobde during the hearing of a petition filed by lawyer Nilakshi Chaudhary who demanded the reopening of courts. The lawyer, who appeared in person, expressed concerns over the smooth conduct of hearings through videoconferencing platform Vidyo through which the Supreme Court has been conducting virtual court proceedings since March last year.Along with her petition, several bar associations too pleaded before the Court the cause of lawyers facing penury due to loss of work during the Covid-19 lockdown. Some state bar councils were even willing to stand as a guarantee if the Central government was willing to provide interest-free loans to the lawyers.Also read: Trump slams impeachment move as Democrats press aheadRuling out any reopening of physical courts for the present, a three-judge bench headed by the CJI remarked, “We are facing problems in virtual court hearings for almost a year now. But we have also received medical advice from medical authorities that it is dangerous for people to congregate at this time. If physical courts are started, the number of fatalities will increase.”The bench, also comprising Justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, cited instances of High Courts which had to close down after resuming physical courts as Covid-19 began to spread. “In Madras High Court, lawyers are not coming for open court hearings. They have now stopped. Similarly, Rajasthan High Court too resumed physical court hearings but had to close down.”The bench said that the decision to reopen the apex court is being periodically reviewed. “We will start after following medical advice and not without that. We will regularly revisit our decision,” the CJI remarked.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta lauded the Court for keeping the Courts open through the difficult time of the pandemic by ensuring access to justice for litigants through virtual court proceedings.“In a huge country like ours, the top court has not stopped the administration of justice even for a day. That is salutary,” Mehta said. On the aspect of providing financial aid to lawyers under financial distress, Mehta assured the Court of exploring possibilities by taking up the issue with the officers in the concerned department after consulting senior leaders of the bar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fatalities-will-increase-if-courts-open-for-physical-hearing-cji-101610475591850.html
12-01-2021||India||200 liters of country liquor destroyed in Andhra's Krishna||The Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) police on Tuesday destroyed 200 liters of country liquor and 600 liters of jaggery wash at Pedana Mandal in Krishna district of Karnataka, informed the police."We held cordon and search operation in Pedana Mandal with 140 police personnel. We found that country liquor is being made in at GT Palm and Kakarlamudi villages," informed SEB Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP) Vakul Jindal."We have destroyed 200 liters of country liquor and 600 liters of Jaggery wash. We have seized 5kg Ammonia and 50 kg black jaggery and two gas stoves. We will file cases on the accused and will send them to remand. Stern action will be taken on those who continue such offenses," he added.Jindal also informed that there is no permission for cockfights or card games during the Sankranti festival and requested people to celebrate the festival at home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/200-liters-of-country-liquor-destroyed-in-andhra-s-krishna-101610474749900.html
12-01-2021||India||Family of arrested Kerala journalist Siddique Kappan seeks CM's intervention||Family members of Kerala journalist Siddique Kappan, arrested by the Uttar Pradesh police three months ago, staged a dharna here in front of the Secretariat here on Tuesday demanding the intervention of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan to set him free.Kappan, secretary of the Delhi unit of Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ), and three other alleged Popular Front of India (PFI) activists were booked by the UP police on sedition and other serious charges in Mathura on October 5 last year while they were heading to Hathras where a 19-year old Dalit woman had allegedly been gang-raped and murdered.Speaking to the media, Kappan's wife, Reaiheanath alleged that her husband was tortured by the Uttar Pradesh police and asked him to name any CPI(M) leaders in order to escape from his ordeal."They tortured him while he was arrested. They tortured him saying he is a Keralite. Kappan told me and our lawyer that the UP police asked him to name some CPI(M) leaders so that he can escape from the orderal," she said."They also asked why Rahul Gandhi visited our house and whether Kappan eats beef. They accused him of having assets worth ₹100 crore. But just see our house and everyone will understand how much we have," she added.Hamsa, elder brother of Kappan, said the Kerala chief minister had said that the government was unable to interfere in the matter as it was outside the state."We had written a letter to CM seeking his intervention in the matter. But we got a reply saying the government was unable to interfere as it was outside the state. This dharna is to demand the intervention of the CM in the matter. We hope he will. We have been requesting everyone. They (UP police) have not even presented any evidence in the matter," Hamsa said.Reaiheanath said the health of Kappan's mother, who is 90, was deteriorating and needed help for everything.Mother of three minors, Reaiheanath (37) is running from pillar to post seeking justice for Kappan and her family.On January5, the judicial custody of Kappan and three others--Atiq-ur Rehman, Masood, and Alam--was extended by 90 days.Uttar Pradesh police submitted to the court that since most of the offices of the PFI and other allied organisations are based in Kerala and during the investigation there some more information has surfaced, the STF needs the accused to be in judicial custody for verification of the information.According to the FIR, charges under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and the IT Act were also filed against the four men, who were accused by the state police of having links with the PFI.The four men were arrested from a toll plaza in Mathura as they were heading to Hathras district to visit the victim's native village.The Hathras incident that witnessed nationwide outrage involved a 19-year old Dalit woman who was allegedly raped at a village in the district by four men on September 14 last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/family-of-arrested-kerala-journalist-siddique-kappan-seeks-cm-s-intervention-101610472391360.html
12-01-2021||India||'When every moment counted', tweets minister Hardeep Puri as Covid-19 vaccine drive set in motion||Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Tuesday tweeted about the fist day of Covid-19 vaccine delivery, highlighting how quickly the vaccine was delivered."When every moment counted, temperature-sensitive boxes carrying the vaccines handed over to consignee within 7 minutes of arrival of aircraft at the parking bay at @aaivjaairport & within 8 minutes at @DelhiAirport," he tweeted.He also added a Sanskrit prayer in his tweet which means "May all be free from illness or disease".सर्वे सन्तु निरामयाःWhen every moment counted, temperature-sensitive boxes carrying the vaccines handed over to consignee within 7 minutes of arrival of aircraft at the parking bay at @aaivjaairport & within 8 minutes at @DelhiAirport.@flyspicejet pic.twitter.com/bOQmECqZhiA massive pan-India inoculation drive against Covid-19 was set in process on Tuesday with more than 56 lakh doses of the Covishield vaccine flown to 13 cities across India from Pune and taken to designated national and state-level stores amid tight security.In the vaccination drive scheduled to begin on January 16, the healthcare and frontline workers will be inoculated in the first phase. The Centre said on Tuesday that all the vaccine vials - 1.1 crore of Covishield from the Serum Institute of India and 55 lakh of Covaxin from Bharat Biotech - will be received by January 14.Announcing the start of the vaccine movement earlier in the day, Puri had said on Twitter that four airlines were operating nine flights to transport the doses of the vaccine from Pune to Delhi, Chennai, Kolkata, Guwahati, Shillong, Ahmedabad, Hyderabad, Vijayawada, Bhubaneswar, Patna, Bengaluru, Lucknow and Chandigarh.Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said that there are four central government medical store depots in Chennai, Karnal, Kolkata and Mumbai where the Covishield vaccine is being received.Besides this, all states have at least one regional vaccine store.Another vaccine consignment on three trucks left SII for Mumbai on Tuesday evening and will be sent from there to 27 places across the country on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/when-every-moment-counted-tweets-minister-hardeep-puri-on-vaccine-drive-101610472456420.html
12-01-2021||India||J-K witnessed positive changes in past two years: DGP Dilbag Singh||Jammu and Kashmir Director General of Police Dilbag Singh on Tuesday said a number of positive changes have taken place in the Union Territory over the past two years and the police force will continue to work with more dedication to strengthen peace and stability in the region.Singh was speaking at a closing ceremony of the 9th Police Martyrs Memorial Inter Club Cricket Championship at Kathua district."The Jammu and Kashmir Police is engaged on different fronts to strengthen the peace in Jammu and Kashmir… a number of positive changes took place during the last two years and we will continue to work with more dedication to strengthen the peace and stability in Jammu and Kashmir," the DGP said.On his arrival, the police chief laid floral wreaths at the martyr gallery and lightened the lamp to pay homage to the brave martyrs.Singh appreciated the efforts of Martyrs Welfare Association, Kathua Police and associate partners for organising the event annually and said that they are doing a sacred duty as this tournament is aimed to pay tributes to the brave hearts who sacrificed their lives in line of duty."It is our mission to provide better platforms to our youth to utilise their energy in constructive activities like sports, cultural and educational events," he said.The J-K Police has been organising sports tournaments throughout the year particularly after September 2020 to pay tribute to our brave martyrs who laid down their lives to protect the nation and its people, Singh said."Without caring for their lives and of their families our martyrs performed their duties to provide a better atmosphere to the people of Jammu and Kashmir. It is very painful that during last year only we lost 62 security personnel, including 16 from JK Police," the DGP said.However, he said, "It also makes us very proud that to protect the integrity of the country and to serve its people, we are ready to sacrifice our lives. I also convey my condolences to the families of these brave martyrs who lost their loved ones while protecting the interests of people and the country."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jk-witnessed-positive-changes-in-past-two-years-dgp-dilbag-singh-101610472442214.html
12-01-2021||India||Mumbai sizzles at over 35 degrees Celsius in year’s hottest January day||At 35.3 degrees Celsius, Mumbai marked the hottest day in January so far this year. The maximum temperature crossed last year’s highest maximum temperature in January of 34.5 degrees Celsius.The maximum temperature at Santacruz station of the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) recorded a maximum temperature of 35.3 degrees Celsius, which was 5.1 degrees above normal. This was higher than Monday’s 34.5 degrees Celsius. Colaba recorded a maximum temperature of 32.8 degrees Celsius, which was 3.3 degrees above normal.Minimum temperatures, too, remained high on Tuesday, albeit slightly lower than Monday’s record high. Santacruz recorded a minimum temperature of 22.5 degrees Celsius, a good 5.6 degrees above normal and 0.5 degrees below Monday’s temperature. At Colaba, the minimum temperature was 23.4 degrees Celsius, only 0.1 degree below Monday’s record and 5.4 degrees above normal.“Usually, a cold wave in the state and city is because of the cold wind coming in from north India. This year, however, there is a change in wind patterns. Warm easterly winds from Telangana and Tamil Nadu are causing temperatures to rise,” said a senior official from IMD, western region.Meanwhile, with days becoming hotter, pollution levels have dipped further. An overall air quality index (AQI) of 218 was measured on Tuesday. Although the air quality remains in the poor category, it has improved from Monday’s 256 and Sunday’s 301 (very poor).The AQI was calculated by the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) as the average of indices recorded at 10 locations in the city and suburbs. SAFAR categorises AQI levels for PM2.5 in the 0-50 range as good; 51-100 as satisfactory; 101-200 as moderate; 201-300 as poor; 301-400 as very poor and above 400 as severe.Navi Mumbai recorded the poorest air of the 10 locations with an AQI of 319 (very poor). This was followed by Colaba with an AQI of 306, also very poor. At Bandra Kurla Complex, an AQI of 300 was measured.“The air quality of Mumbai is in the poor category which is likely to further improve marginally by Wednesday. However, it may continue to remain in poor category and desired relief is not expected for the next three days due to calm wind and relatively colder conditions,” said a spokesperson from SAFAR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-sizzles-at-over-35-degrees-celsius-in-year-s-hottest-january-day-101610471440340.html
12-01-2021||India||Ladakh: BRO launches special snow-clearing op to facilitate troop movement||The Border Roads Organisation has launched a special snow-clearing operation to keep strategic roads and passes open for troop movement amid the tension along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), officials said, as the force's personnel brave freezing temperatures and intimidating altitudes to keep communication lines opened.BRO officials said the organisation has launched project 'Himank' to undertake the arduous and daunting task of keeping the strategically important roads along the LAC open even though that meant maneuvering some of the highest mountain passes in the world and working in temperatures going down to minus 35 degrees Celsius."Winter snow clearance task this year has been particularly more challenging considering the altitude, extreme weather and the heavy deployment of the troops along the LAC," a senior BRO official said.Officials said that BRO personnel deployed at altitudes ranging from 16,500-18,000 feet are relentlessly executing the winter snow-clearance.They said the strategically important road axes and prominent mountain passes where the snow-clearance operations are carried out include Chang la, Warila, Marshimikla , Kajukondla, Kassangla, Umlingla, besides the Durbuk-Shyok-Daulat Beig Oldie Road.During the winters, the only existing road axis connecting DBO in Sub Sector North, Hot Spring and Chushul in Eastern Ladakh, and gateway to Changthang Sector of Ladakh (via Changhla and Warila passes) gets blocked due to heavy accumulation of snow.Officials said that to provide sustenance to troops deployed in these areas amid the tension with China, road construction companies are working tirelessly to keep the roads open and ensure connectivity all through the winter."To keep the roads open, meticulous planning and resources mobilisation were undertaken and adequate advance winter stocking including that of equipment spares and winter diesel was done," one of them said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ladakh-bro-launches-special-snow-clearing-op-to-facilitate-troop-movement-101610471899510.html
12-01-2021||India||First consignment of 54,900 vials of Covid-19 vaccine reaches Patna||The first consignment of 54,900 vials of Covishield vaccine of the Serum Institute of India reached Patna by a Spice Jet flight (SG 757) from Pune on Tuesday afternoon.The vaccines were taken in three refrigerated vans under police escort from the airport to the state vaccine store at the Nalanda Medical College Hospital (NMCH). Bihar health minister Mangal Pandey and principal secretary, health, Pratyaya Amrit, were at the airport to oversee arrangements.“Each vial will cater to 10 doses,” said Dr Binod Kumar Singh, medical superintendent of the NMCH, where the vaccines have been kept.The vaccine will cater to 5.49 lakh beneficiaries in the state. Over 4.67 healthcare workers from Bihar have so far enrolled on the CoWIN portal for the first phase of vaccination against Covid-19 to begin countrywide on January 16.After completing paper formalities, the vaccines will be dispatched to 10 regional vaccines stores at East Champaran, Muzaffarpur, Darbhanga, Purnia, Bhagalpur, Aurangabad, Saran, Saharsa, Nalanda and the Public Health Institute in Patna before being distributed across 300 vaccination centres for the inaugural day vaccination on January 16.The second consignment of vaccines for around 5.5 lakh frontline workers is expected to arrive either later this month or early next month, said a senior state health officer.Bihar has mapped 14,724 vaccinators for first phase of vaccination. Another 45,000 potential vaccinators, who are doctors, dentists, nurses, medicos, nursing students and paramedics in public and private health facilities have been identified for mass vaccination.Bihar has a storage capacity of 51 lakh vials at its state vaccine store in Patna and 10 regional vaccine stores.The state vaccine store has an average storage capacity of 15 lakh vials in its walk-in cooler and another 5 lakh vials in its walk-in freezer. Vaccines are taken in refrigerated vans to the 10 regional vaccine stores in the state before being taken in cold boxes. The state has around 2,000 ice-lined refrigerators for field-level vaccination.Bihar has enrolled around 10 lakh beneficiaries for the first two phases of vaccination of healthcare and frontline workers. It is eyeing a priority target group of 1.5 crore to 2 crore people for vaccination, including healthcare and frontline workers, those above 50 years of age and people with co-morbidity belonging to any age group.“This is a historic day for us when we have received the Covid-19 vaccine,” said minister Pandey.Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar will inaugurate the vaccination programme at the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences on January 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-consignment-of-54-900-vials-of-covid-19-vaccine-reaches-patna-101610471606404.html
12-01-2021||India||India’s vaccine ferrying drive begins, 9 flights to 13 cities take off on Day 1||India on Tuesday began the mammoth task of ferrying the first lot of Covid-19 vaccine Covishield doses, developed in Pune’s Serum Institute of India, with 9 flights carrying as many as 5.6 million doses to 13 cities ahead of the vaccination drive scheduled from January 16.The flights from Pune were scheduled to ferry the vaccines to Delhi, Chennai, Kolkata, Guwahati, Shillong, Ahmedabad, Hyderabad, Vijayawada, Bhubaneswar, Patna, Bengaluru, Lucknow and Chandigarh on day one of the transportation drive, Union aviation minister Hardeep Puri announced on Tuesday.Private carriers including SpiceJet, GoAir, Indigo and national carrier Air India were deployed for the transportation of the vaccines.The first flight operated by Spicejet departed from Pune airport with 1088 kg of the vaccine consignment packed in 34 boxes and reached Delhi airport at 9:54 am. The second flight operated by GoAir ferried 70,800 vials of Covid-19 vaccines to Chennai.“Some flights post 8 pm will operate from Mumbai airport too due to construction at Pune airport, cargo trucks will ferry the vaccine consignment from Pune to Mumbai. The schedule of flights ferrying consignment of vaccines from Hyderabad will be prepared once the government finalises and places an order with Bharat Biotech,” a senior official said.The government had on Monday placed orders in advanced commitments for over six crore doses of vaccines from SII and Bharat Biotech for inoculating three crore healthcare and frontline workers in the first phase.“Civil aviation sector launches yet another momentous mission. Vaccine movement starts. First two flights operated by SpiceJet and GoAir from Pune to Delhi and Chennai have taken off,” Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Puri tweeted on Tuesday morning.“Good news just flew in! The first batch of Covid-19 vaccines reached Delhi Airport today. Our cargo terminal efficiently handled it through temperature-controlled technology, ranging from -20 Deg C to +25 Deg C,” Delhi airport tweeted.The Centre will bear the entire cost of vaccinating 30 million healthcare and frontline workers — employees across government departments, the police and civic bodies — at the start of the world’s biggest immunization drive against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday.The government on Friday put final touches to its Covid-19 vaccine roll-out plan as it held the biggest-yet drill to perfect immunization logistics and last-mile delivery, issued guidelines for safe air delivery of vaccines across the country. The guidelines directed airlines and airport authorities to ensure the vaccines are packaged in dry ice and refrigerated material in a bid to maintain low temperatures.The guidelines issued by the Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) state all scheduled operators who have been currently authorized to carry dangerous goods may carry Covid-19 vaccines packed in dry ice, meeting the regulatory requirements.“Though there may be different refrigerant options, use of dry ice (Carbon Dioxide Solid) is the most commonly used, affordable and readily available refrigerant material available in the country for transportation of perishables by air. Dry ice continually sublimates (Dry ice that is solid, transforms into Carbon Dioxide gas (CO2) at temperatures higher than -78°C (-108.4O F) under normal atmospheric pressure. At reduced pressures, the sublimation rate of dry ice will increase while all other factors being the same,” it noted.The Centre had begun preparations for the transportation of the vaccines in December, the aviation ministry had instructed airport operators, including state-run Airports Authority of India (AAI), ground handling service providers and airlines to put in place standard operating procedures (SOPs) for the transportation of Covid-19 vaccines. The aviation ministry held multiple rounds of meetings with airline executives on transport logistics for the vaccine, HT had reported on December 7.Airlines too had begun preparations for transportation; and started partnering with pharmaceutical transportation companies offering cold storage. SpiceJet had announced the signing of multiple memoranda of understanding (MoUs) with an aggressive push for cold storage transportation ahead of the drive.“I am happy to share that SpiceJet has carried India’s first consignment of Covid-19 vaccine today. The first consignment of Covishield consisting of 34 boxes and weighing 1088 kg was carried from Pune to Delhi on SpiceJet flight 8937,” Ajay Singh, Chairman and Managing Director, SpiceJet said.“We will be carrying multiple vaccine consignments to different Indian cities including Guwahati, Kolkata, Hyderabad, Bhubaneswar, Bengaluru, Patna and Vijayawada through the day today. SpiceJet is fully committed and prepared to transport the Covid vaccine both within and outside India. Today marks the beginning of a long and decisive phase in India’s fight against the pandemic and SpiceJet is proud to assist in the biggest vaccination drive in the history of mankind,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-vaccine-ferrying-drive-begins-9-flights-to-13-cities-take-off-on-day-1-101610470423471.html
12-01-2021||India||Haryana epicentre of farm stir, discussed law and order situation with Amit Shah: Khattar||Hours after the Supreme Court stayed the implementation of three contentious farm laws enacted by the Centre in September, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Tuesday met home minister Amit Shah. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders discussed the law and order situation as Haryana is the “epicentre of farmers’ stir,” Khattar said after the meeting, according to news agency PTI.“Today, the Supreme Court stayed the farm laws and formed a committee. All these were discussed (during the meeting with Amit Shah). Events on January 26 should go well as it's a national festival. Farmers assured in their press conference that it'll be peaceful. It's being hoped that they'll call off agitation and go back home,” Haryana chief minister told news agency ANI after the meeting.“The ball is now in the court of the SC and I feel whatever is its decision, it will be acceptable to all,” Khattar had said after the meeting.The protesting farmers, however, have refused to call off the demonstrations, till the three agricultural legislations are repealed. They said they won't accept any committee formed by the apex court to end the impasse between the government and the protesters as “the members of the committee are pro-government.”Khattar and his deputy Dushyant Chautala along with the state presidents of BJP, the JJP and state cabinet ministers met the home minister in Delhi.Khattar also said that the political situation in the state was alright. “The speculations by the Opposition and media are baseless. Our Government is going on strong and will complete its tenure,” he told ANI.The remark came after Congress on Monday demanded that Haryana chief minister resign as he has "lost the faith of the people" and the moral authority to rule after farmers did not allow his chopper to land during an event in Karnal.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-epicentre-of-farm-stir-discussed-law-and-order-situation-with-amit-shah-khattar-101610470051870.html
12-01-2021||India||Odisha waives exam fee for six lakh Class 10 students||The Odisha government on Tuesday waived the examination fee of over 6 lakh Class 10 students in the state keeping in mind the difficulties faced by several students during the Covid-19 pandemic.Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik who directed the Board of Secondary Education to waive the examination fees of ₹420, said the decision will cost the state government ₹27 crore. Earlier, political parties had demanded waiver of the exam fees.Though the board exam dates are yet to be announced in the state, school and mass education minister Sameer Das said at least 100 days of classroom teaching will be held for class 10 and 12 students before exams are held. Due to the pandemic, schools in Odisha were shut for more than nine months which hampered studies.Schools across the state opened on January 8 for Class X and XII students.Last week, the BSE had announced filling up of forms for the annual High School Certificate Examinations through online mode for students of regular, ex-regular and correspondence courses. Those students who fail to fill up forms within the stipulated date and time can do the same again between January 29 and February 2, the notification indicated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-waives-exam-fee-for-six-lakh-class-10-students-101610469714302.html
12-01-2021||India||All you need to know about SII vaccine 'Covishield'| 10 points||Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) on Tuesday delivered its coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine ‘Covishield’ across 13 cities in India ahead of the nationwide vaccination drive on January 16.The first 100 million doses of the vaccine has been provided to the government at the cost of ₹200 per dose, with SII’s chief executive officer (CEO) and owner Adar Poonawalla adding that the cost will increase later on. Terming the pan-India dispatch of Covishield doses as a ‘historic moment’, Poonawalla further said that the biggest challenge for Serum Institute would be to provide doses for everyone in the country.Covishield, along with Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, were approved for restricted emergency use by the Drugs Controller General of India (DGCI) on January 3 (Sunday).Here are the details about ‘Covishield’ as per the document released by Serum Institute:1. The vaccine should not be administered to those who suffered a severe allergic reaction during its first dose or have a severe allergic reaction to any of the vaccine’s ingredients, the SII said in its document.2. Ingredients of the vaccine are: L-Histidine, L- Histidine hydrochloride monohydrate, Magnesium chloride hexahydrate, Polysorbate 80, Ethanol, Sucrose, Sodium chloride and Disodium edetate dihydrate (EDTA), the SII described.3. The dose will be given to an individual as an intramuscular (IM) injection, ideally on the deltoid muscle and the vaccination course comprises two separate doses of 0.5 millilitres (ml) each, according to SII.4. After receiving the first dose, the second dose would be administered between four to six weeks, said SII.Also Read| Explained: Who gets Covid-19 vaccine jabs in first two phases, what's the price5. If a person misses the second dose of Covishield, the Serum Institute recommends him/her to seek advice from the healthcare provider adding it is important to get the second dose.6. With regard to benefits, the vaccine, in the ongoing trials, has shown prevention against Covid-19 following two doses, the SII claimed. The company highlights that the duration of protection against Covid-19 is currently not known. A person may get a protective response four weeks after the second dose, it further said.7. The side effects of Covishield are divided into three categories: Very Common, Common and Uncommon. According to SII, very common side effects are headaches, itching, feverish feeling, joint pain and muscle pain and may be seen in more than one in 10 people. The company further says that common effects include lump at the injection site, vomiting, flu-like symptoms which include coughs, runny nose, sore throat, high temperature etc. Finally, the uncommon side effects comprise of abdominal pain, dizzy feeling, decreased appetite, enlarged lymph nodes, excessive sweating, itchy skin or rashes, the SII said.Also Watch| ‘Both vaccines are safe for use’: Centre ahead of vaccination roll-out in India﻿﻿8. All those who experience severe allergic reactions are asked by the SII to call or visit the nearest hospital. The side effects can also be reported to the Serum Institute.9. The SII has instructed pregnant or breastfeeding women to discuss options with a healthcare provider before getting the vaccine.10. After receiving the dose, individuals are asked to speak to their healthcare provider regarding the option to upload vaccination record on a digitised platform, if available, said SII.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ingredients-side-effects-response-time-all-you-need-to-know-about-covishield-101610469717522.html
12-01-2021||India||On Priyanka Gandhi's 49th birthday, a special message from brother Rahul, son Raihan||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi shared a special throwback photograph to celebrate the 49th birthday of her sister and party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra.Rahul shared the black and white photo on Instagram which shows the siblings together in a jolly mood. Both are very young; while Priyanka is seen focussing on the camera, Rahul happily looks away.Rahul captioned the picture “Happy Birthday P”.A post shared by Rahul Gandhi (@rahulgandhi)Her son Raihan Vadra also joined in by sharing a photo of Priyanka holding him in her lap. “Happy Birthday Ma. Thank You for always being my side and supporting me through thick and thin. Love you always.” he captioned the photograph on Twitter.Happy Birthday MaThank You for always being my side and supporting me through thick and thinLove you always❤️ pic.twitter.com/w88jWTI3ncA number of Congress leaders also wished their general secretary a happy birthday. Rajasthan’s chief minister Gehlot tweeted, "Wishing a very happy birthday to All India Congress Committee (AICC) General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi ji. May she be blessed with good health, happiness and long life." While Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh tweeted, "I am proud of your commitment and hard work for the people of the country. My best wishes for your success. May God bless you."Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, party leaders Randeep Singh Surjewala and Anil K Shastri also extended their warm wishes to Priyanka. "I am proud of your commitment and hard work for the people of the country. My best wishes for your success. May God bless you," Captain Amarinder wrote on Twitter.Priyanka was born on January 12, 1972. She is the Congress general secretary in-charge of Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-priyanka-gandhi-s-49th-birthday-a-special-message-from-brother-rahul-son-raihan-101610469111419.html
12-01-2021||India||BJP gets a boost in Darjeeling with a clutch of GJM leaders joining it||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Tuesday received a shot in the arm in the Darjeeling hills when some leaders of its former partner, the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (GJM), joined the saffron camp.The BJP which won the Darjeeling Lok Sabha seat in 2009, retained it in 2014 and 2019 with support from local political parties, the most important among which was the undivided GJM led by Bimal Gurung.The GJM split in 2017 when Gurung, who was charged under anti-terror law by the West Bengal government for the violent Gorkhaland movement, went into hiding. One faction of the party, headed by Binoy Tamang, became an ally of the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) and it currently runs the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA).Gurung surfaced from hiding in October last year. He too offered support to Mamata Banerjee and swore to defeat the BJP in the coming assembly polls.Among those who joined the BJP at a rally in the outskirts of Siliguri on Tuesday are Swaraj Thapa, former political advisor to Gurung; B P Bajgain, Gurung’s former spokesperson and Sawan Rai and L M Lama, former central committee members of the GJM’s Binoy Tamang faction.Many GJM (Gurung faction) leaders from Terai, Kalimpong and Kurseong also joined the BJP. The party also roped in many academicians and trade union leaders and a retired West Bengal Civil Service officer.Sayantan Basu, the BJP state general secretary who addressed the rally along with Raju Bista the party’s Lok Sabha MP from Darjeeling said, “The BJP is committed to the cause of the Gorkhas.”“The development will create more fissures in the local parties including the GJM’s Gurung faction,” said Kalyan Dewan, the BJP’s Darjeeling unit president. Dewan himself was a senior leader of the Gurung faction before joining the BJP.The hill leaders who joined the BJP said that they still believe that the BJP is the only party that will deliver what it promised to the people of Darjeeling.The BJP, in its 2019 election manifesto, had promised to find a permanent political solution to the Gorkhaland issue and give scheduled tribe status to 11 Gorkha communities.Gurung has alleged in his recent speeches that the BJP betrayed the Gorkhas and wasted their time for 12 years. He appeared before the media in Kolkata on October 21 and announced that he would shift his allegiance to Mamata Banerjee. Gurung has been asking people to vote for the TMC since then.Lacking local leaders, the BJP was finding it difficult to set up a new base in the north Bengal hills. The scenario somewhat changed on Tuesday. Other smaller parties, such as the Gorkha National Liberation Front and Communist Party of Revolutionary Marxists have already offered to support the BJP if it helps the cause of the Gorkhas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-gets-a-boost-in-darjeeling-with-a-clutch-of-gjm-leaders-joining-it-101610468891452.html
12-01-2021||India||Gauhati HC stays removal of Congress’ leader of opposition in Assam assembly||The Gauhati High Court on Tuesday stayed the notice issued by Assam assembly secretariat removing Congress legislature party leader Debabrata Saikia from the status of leader of opposition.On January 1, Saikia’s status was withdrawn after two Congress MLAs resigned from the party and joined the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party, bringing the total number of Congress legislators down to 20 in the 126-member assembly.It was stated that since the present strength of the Congress was not equal to the quorum fixed to constitute a sitting of the House, i.e. one-sixth of the total members, his status was withdrawn.Hearing a petition filed by Saikia challenging the notification, Justice Achintya Malla Bujor Barua stayed the move and issued notices to the secretary and principal secretary of Assam assembly returnable within two weeks.Appearing for Saikia, advocate Satyen Sarma submitted that since fulfilled the requirement of being leader of the largest party in opposition and was also recognized by the assembly Speaker as such, he (Saikia) is still legally entitled to remain leader of opposition.“No material has been produced before the court that the petitioner Debabrata Saikia is not the leader of Indian National Congress legislature party in the Assam legislative assembly. So from the said point of view, the petitioner satisfies the requirement of the meaning of the expression leader of opposition,” Justice Bujor Barua said in his order.“Prima facie the order contained in the notification dated 01-01-2021 of the secretary, Assam legislative assembly withdrawing the recognition of the petitioner Debabrata Saikia as the leader of opposition would be unsustainable, both on law as well as on facts,” the order added.The matter has been listed for hearing after two weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gauhati-hc-stays-removal-of-congress-leader-of-opposition-in-assam-assembly-101610467825290.html
12-01-2021||India||Elusive tiger attacks another forest official in Kerala’s Wayanad||The elusive tiger which triggered panic in Pulpally in Wayanad district of north Kerala attacked another forest guard on Tuesday while officials were trying to dart the big cat. The tiger, however, escaped the dragnet yet again.Last Saturday, a forest ranger T Sasikumar was attacked by the tiger while he was searching for it in a private estate after it killed three domestic animals. Wayanad forest divisional officer B Ranjith Kumar said hectic efforts are on to trap the animal which strayed into human habitat from the nearby Bandipur tiger reserve.Earlier forest officials had brought urine of a female tigress from Mysuru Zoo and sprayed it near the trap to attract the animal and cage it. But it failed to fall into the “honey trap”. For the last two days, at least 70 forest officials and local people have beenpressed into service to locate the male tiger.On Tuesday it was located with the help of a drone and officials fired darting shots but it attacked a forest guard and got away. Local people have been warned not to step out of their houses till the animal was trapped. Local people say straying of a tiger into human habitat has become routine these days.Two months back another tiger was trapped in the district after it killed many domestic animals and tried to attack human beings. The injured big cat is now undergoing treatment. Wild animals straying into human habitat is regular in Wayanad these days, local people blame the rising tiger population for this. In June a tribal youth was killed and his half-eaten body was recovered later. A woman two-wheeler rider had a narrow escape in August after it chased her.The district also boasts of a wildlife sanctuary which is a favourite habitat of elephants and tigers. According to the last wildlife census the Wayanad wildlife sanctuary spread over 344 sq km is home to 80 tigers. The district has 60 per cent forest cover and it is a good tourist destination also. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi represents it in the Lok Sabha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/elusive-tiger-attacks-another-forest-official-in-kerala-s-wayanad-101610465415768.html
12-01-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Covid-19 vaccines, cooperation to be focus of Nepal foreign minister's visit||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid-19 vaccines, cooperation to be focus of Nepal foreign minister's visitProcuring Covid-19 vaccines and development cooperation will be the focus of Nepalese foreign minister Pradeep Gyawali’s visit to India during January 14-16. Read moreBird flu scare in Jharkhand after crows, mynas found dead; samples sent for examinationAround 2,500 samples, including 20 dead wild birds, have been sent to a lab for a bird flu test, Jharkhand Animal Husbandry Department Director (AHD) informed on Tuesday. Read more12 men die after drinking illicit alcohol in Madhya Pradesh’s Morena districtAt least 12 people from three villages died and several others fell ill allegedly after drinking spurious alcohol in Morena district, 465 km north of Bhopal, late Monday night, police said on Tuesday. Read moreIf someone had talked to me like Paine did to Ashwin, I'd have lost all respect for them, says David LloydFormer English cricketer and veteran commentator David Llyod, also known as ‘Bumble’, has taken a harsh dig at Australian Test captain Tim Paine. Read moreNetflix unveils star-studded 2021 slate, featuring Leonardo DiCaprio, Dwayne Johnson, Chris Hemsworth. See first looksNetflix in a special video revealed first footage from high-profile upcoming projects such as Dwayne Johnson-Ryan Reynolds-Gal Gadot-starrer Red Notice, Zack Snyder's Army of the Dead, and Leonardo DiCaprio-Jennifer Lawrence-starrer Don't Look Up. Read moreThis galaxy cluster is almost 10 billion light years away from Earth. Here are some other fascinating facts about itA retired NASA astronaut, Ron Garan, famously said, "Earth is a small town with many neighbourhoods in a very big universe". Read moreCovid: How much will Covishield, Covaxin, other vaccines cost? Centre reveals||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-covid-19-vaccines-cooperation-to-be-focus-of-nepal-foreign-minister-s-visit-101610463778706.html
12-01-2021||India||Gauhati HC stays removal of Cong MLA as leader of opposition in Assam assembly||The Gauhati High Court on Tuesday stayed the notice issued by Assam assembly secretariat removing Congress legislature party leader Debabrata Saikia from the status of leader of opposition.On January 1, Saikia’s status was withdrawn after two Congress MLAs resigned from the party and joined the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party, bringing the total number of Congress legislators down to 20 in the 126-member assembly.It was stated that since the present strength of the Congress was not equal to the quorum fixed to constitute a sitting of the House, i.e. one-sixth of the total members, his status was withdrawn.Hearing a petition filed by Saikia challenging the notification, justice Achintya Malla Bujor Barua stayed the move and issued notices to the secretary and principal secretary of Assam assembly returnable within two weeks.Appearing for Saikia, advocate Satyen Sarma submitted that since he fulfilled the requirement of being leader of the largest party in opposition and was also recognized by the assembly Speaker as such, he (Saikia) is still legally entitled to remain leader of opposition.“No material has been produced before the court that the petitioner Debabrata Saikia is not the leader of Indian National Congress legislature party in the Assam legislative assembly. So from the said point of view, the petitioner satisfies the requirement of the meaning of the expression leader of opposition,” Justice Bujor Barua said in his order.“Prima facie the order contained in the notification dated 01-01-2021 of the secretary, Assam legislative assembly withdrawing the recognition of the petitioner Debabrata Saikia as the leader of opposition would be unsustainable, both on law as well as on facts,” the order added.The matter has been listed for hearing after two weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gauhati-hc-stays-removal-of-cong-mla-as-leader-of-opposition-in-assam-assembly-101610465616414.html
12-01-2021||India||'Shripad Naik is stable, will be shifted to Delhi if needed': Rajnath Singh||Union minister Shripad Naik successfully underwent four orthopaedic surgeries at the Goa Medical College and Hospital on Tuesday. A host of dignitaries including Vice President Venkaiah Naidu, Union defence minister Rajnath Singh and several state leaders called on Naik and prayed for his wellbeing on Tuesday.Naik was involved in a car accident in Ankola town in Karnataka's Uttara Kannada district, around 50 kilometres south of the Goa border, suffering serious injuries while his wife Vijaya Naik who was travelling with him and a close aide succumbed to their injuries.Defence minister Rajnath Singh flew tp Goa to inquire about the minister's health and called on him at the Goa Medical College and Hospital besides also visiting the family residence.“His condition is stable according to doctors. They have said there is no danger. If proper treatment can be provided here, then he will be treated here itself. If need be, he will be shifted to Delhi. Everything will depend on doctors here,” Singh told reporters after a consultation with the team of doctors treating the Naik.Also read: ‘No ifs and buts in fight against terrorism’ - Jaishankar at UNSC debateSingh also visited Naik’s private residence at Sao Pedro in Old Goa to condole the death of Vijaya Naik and offer his support to the family.Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant cancelled all scheduled functions during the day and called on the minister. He shared that Naik is stable and recovering well.Naik was shifted to the Goa Medical College and Hospital via an ambulance after preliminary treatment at a local hospital in Ankola.Late last night, Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke with the Goa CM to inquire about the health of the minister and offered support should the minister be shifted to Delhi.Naik, 68, has helmed the newly created ministry of Ayurveda, Yoga, Unani, Sidda and Homeopathy (AYUSH) and has been at the forefront of promoting indigenous systems of medicine. He is a senior leader in the Goa BJP besides being a five-time MP having continuously represented the North Goa constituency since 1999.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shripad-naik-is-stable-will-be-shifted-to-delhi-if-needed-rajnath-singh-101610465713143.html
12-01-2021||India||Assam prepares for Magh Bihu celebrations amid bird flu scare||The annual Magh Bihu, also known as Bhogali Bihu, which marks the end of the harvesting season and widespread feasting, will be celebrated across Assam on Thursday amid the bird flu scare in several parts of the country.Uruka, which falls on the night before Bihu, is when people across Assam enjoy traditional Assamese vegetarian and non-vegetarian delicacies along with family members and loved ones.But this year, due to bird flu the government has banned import of poultry including chicken and duck from other states through the western border. This is expected to lead to a surge in prices of mutton, chicken, fish, duck etc.“Assam has not recorded any case of bird flu, but the ban on import has been placed to ensure that the disease doesn’t reach our state. There’s no threat of bird flu if people consume poultry products which are cooked properly,” said Ashok Barman, director, animal husbandry and veterinary department.The ban on import hasn’t affected markets which are flooded with fish, chicken, duck and other products from within the state. People across the state are also busy preparing traditional sweets called ‘larus’ and ‘pithas’ for the festival.As has been seen in previous years, villages in many parts of Assam took part in collective fishing in rivers, ponds and water bodies to prepare for the Uruka feast on Wednesday night.In villages across Assam, people are also giving finishing touches to traditional ‘mejis’ and ‘bhela ghars’ (temporary night shelters made of bamboo and straw) which are burnt on the morning of Magh Bihu.“Bhogali Bihu is a estival fof feasting and celebrations. True to the spirit of Bhogali Bihu where ‘mejis’ are set on fire, we should all give up our ill feelings and consign them in the flames of ‘mejis’ to strengthen our bond of unity,” Governor Jagadish Mukhi said in his Magh Bihu greetings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-prepares-for-magh-bihu-celebrations-amid-bird-flu-scare-101610464152473.html
12-01-2021||India||14 die after drinking illicit alcohol in Madhya Pradesh’s Morena district||At least 14 people from three villages died and several others fell ill allegedly after drinking spurious alcohol in Morena district, 465 km north of Bhopal, late Monday night, police said on Tuesday.Two of the men died at a hospital in Gwalior on Tuesday evening taking the toll to 14.As many as 19 men who fell ill after drinking spurious liquor have been hospitalised in Morena and Gwalior, according to inspector general (IG) of police Manoj Sharma."An FIR has been lodged against 7 persons who sold the spurious liquor to the victims. A reward of ₹10,000 has been announced on arrest of each of the accused," Sharma said.The tragedy in Morena comes less than three months after at least 14 people lost lives in Ujjain district in a similar incident.District excise officer Javed Ahmad and Bagchini police station in-charge in Morena district Avinash Rathore were suspended on the ground of dereliction of duty, officials said.The deceased include Ram Kumar Kirar, Dharmendra Singh, Dilip Shakya, Jitendra Jatav, Sarnam Kirar, Kedar Jadhav, Mukesh Kirar and Mukut Singh Rathore, residents of Manpur-Chhaira village, Bunty, Jitendra and Ramnivas, residents of Pawali village and Amar Singh, a resident of Bilaiyapura, police said.“Twelve persons died and seven fell after drinking what is suspected to be spurious liquor. An FIR has been lodged under section 304 (Culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of Madhya Pradesh Excise Act. Investigation in the case is going on. Some people have been detained for questioning,” deputy inspector general (DIG) of police of Morena range Rajesh Hingankar had said earlier in the day.A police officer who did not wish to be named said the victims were in a group who attended a party where they drank. It was around midnight when the victims started falling ill and their condition deteriorated leading to the death of 10 of them on the way to hospitals.Madhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra said that illicit alcohol was responsible for the casualties.“The deaths caused by spurious liquor in Morena are unfortunate and painful. A police station in charge has been suspended. A separate team is being sent for an investigation. None of the guilty will be spared.”Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan also termed the incident as unfortunate in a tweet and said the guilty would not be spared.“Though investigation in the case is going on, the district excise officer has been suspended on the ground of his carelessness in supervision. As and when facts during the investigation come to light the guilty will not be spared. We will take a stern action,” he said.The opposition Congress, however, attacked the BJP government for the tragedy.State Congress president Kamal Nath said, “The mafia who were crushed by the then Congress government are operating with impunity during the BJP government. The liquor mafia continues to wreak havoc in the state. Earlier they killed about 16 people in Ujjain and now they have killed more than 10 in Morena.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/12-men-die-after-drinking-illicit-alcohol-in-madhya-pradesh-s-morena-district-101610464158702.html
12-01-2021||India||For now, Covid vaccine recipients will not get to choose from two options: Govt||The government hinted on Tuesday that for now, the Covid vaccine recipients will not have the option to choose from the two vaccines recently approved for restricted emergency use in India. Replying to a question at a press conference here, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said, "At many places in the world, more than one vaccine are being administered, but presently, in no country, vaccine recipients have the option of choosing the shots."India has recently approved two vaccines for the viral disease for restricted emergency use -- Oxford University's Covishield and Bharat Biotech's Covaxin.Bhushan said there will be a gap of 28 days between two doses of the Covid-19 vaccine and its effectiveness can be seen only after 14 days."So we urge people to keep following Covid appropriate behaviour," he said.India will launch its Covid-19 vaccination drive from January 16 with priority to be given to nearly three crore healthcare and frontline workers.  Bhushan said 54.72 lakh of the entire stock of Covid-19 vaccine doses ordered so far were received by the designated national and state-level vaccine stores till Tuesday afternoon, with the coronavirus inoculation drive set to begin from Saturday.He said all the orders -- 1.1 crore doses of Covishield from the Serum Institute of India and 55 lakh doses of Covaxin from Bharat Biotech -- will be received by January 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/for-now-covid-vaccine-recipients-will-not-get-to-choose-from-2-options-govt-101610463084379.html
12-01-2021||India||Amit Shah to visit 4 states, including poll-bound Bengal, Assam, this month||Union Home Minister and BJP leader Amit Shah will visit four states, including poll-bound West Bengal and Assam, in the next fortnight during which he will address public rallies and take part in road shows, sources said on Tuesday.Shah will undertake a visit to West Bengal on January 30 and 31 and meet BJP leaders and workers.He will also take part in public meetings there, sources said.Shah will visit Assam on January 24 during which he will address a party rally.The home minister will visit Karnataka on January 16 and 17 where he will take part in a few government functions and interact with party leaders and workers.Shah will also visit Gujarat on January 14, the sources said.Assembly elections in West Bengal and Assam, along with Kerala, Tamil Nadu and the Union Territory of Puducherry, are due between April and May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-to-visit-4-states-including-poll-bound-bengal-assam-this-month-101610464078982.html
12-01-2021||India||‘No ifs and buts in fight against terrorism’: Jaishankar at UNSC debate||Minister of external affairs S Jaishankar on Tuesday called for political will to combat terrorism across the globe. “There must be no ifs and buts in the fight,” he said while addressing the UNSC Open Debate, according to news agency ANI.Calling out “double standards,” the foreign minister said “Terrorists are terrorists, there are no good and bad ones. Those who propagate this distinction have an agenda and those who cover up for them are just as culpable.”The Union minister pointed out that some states lack the legal or operational frameworks and technical expertise to detect, investigate and prosecute terrorist financing cases while there are others that are guilty of aiding and supporting terrorism provide financial assistance and safe havens.“While we must enhance the capacities of the former, the international community must collectively call out the latter and hold them accountable,” he told the UN members.Jaishankar asserted, “Nor should we allow terrorism to be justified & terrorists glorified. All members must fulfill the obligations enshrined in int'l counter-terrorism instruments,” according to ANI.The foreign minister said that enlisting and delisting of individuals and entities under the UN sanctions regimes must be done objectively and not for political or religious considerations. “Proposals in this regard merit due examination before circulation” he added.According to the minister, terrorist groups and lone-wolf attackers have enhanced their capabilities in the recent years by gaining access to emerging technologies, including drones, virtual currencies and encrypted communications. Social media networks have contributed to radicalization and recruitment of youth, he added.Emphasising on the seriousness of the times, Jaishankar said the Covid-19 pandemic has only aggravated the situation further. The relative isolation and extended disruption due to the lockdowns and the associated distress and economic uncertainty has made the world more susceptible to radicalizing narratives and extremist propaganda, he said in his address.He said the linkages between terrorism and transnational organized crime need to be fully recognized and addressed vigorously. “We, in India, have seen crime syndicate responsible for the 1993 Mumbai bomb blasts not just given State protection but enjoying 5-star hospitality,” he was quoted as saying by ANI.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-at-unsc-debate-jaishankar-says-there-must-be-no-ifs-and-buts-in-fight-against-terrorism-101610462898716.html
12-01-2021||India||Supreme Court verdict against govt wishes, wanted farm laws to be implemented: Union minister Kailash Choudhary||Minister of state for agriculture in the Centre, Kailash Choudhary, said on Tuesday that the Supreme Court’s verdict regarding the three new farm laws was against government’s wishes, adding that it wanted the laws to be implemented and not to be put on hold.“The Supreme Court’s decision is against our wishes. We wanted the farm laws to be implemented, not to be put on hold. But we respect and welcome the decision,” Choudhary was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The minister also said that the Centre would accept the decision of the apex court to form a committee to resolve the impasse over farm laws.The Union minister further said that Centre is always ready for talks but it's up to the protesting farmers to take a call whether they wanted to go ahead with the January 15 meeting. Eight rounds of talks have been held till now between the Centre and farmer unions which remained inconclusive. The farmers have stuck to their demand that the laws should be repealed - a proposition rejected by the government.The Supreme Court's decision is against our wishes. We wanted the farm laws to be implemented, not to be put on hold. But we respect & welcome the decision. We will accept the decision by SC committee: MoS Kailash Chaudhary pic.twitter.com/5a7kGfB6O1Choudhary pointed out that the Supreme Court committee is a neutral one and would also fast-track the proceedings to resolve the issues. “The committee will speak to farmers across the country. I believe that this committee will be assured that these laws are in favour of farmers. I also believe the matter will be resolved soon,” he said.The Supreme Court in a major development on Tuesday, had stayed the implementation of the farm laws till further orders and formed a four-member committee to resolve the standoff. A three-judge bench headed by the Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde laid down the rules for the committee.Also Read| Farmers reiterate they won't accept any committee formed by Supreme Court on farm laws, say its members are pro-govtAccording to an order issued by the bench, the committee should hold the first sitting within 10 days and submit reports within two months from the sitting. The committee would hear the arguments raised by the farmers’ unions and the government. The members of the committee are Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) chief Bhupinder Singh Mann; Shetkeri Sangathana Maharashtra chief Anil Ghanwat; Pramod Kumar Joshi, director for South Asia, International Food Policy Research Institute and agriculture economist Ashok Gulati.Meanwhile, the protesting farmers said that they won’t accept any committee formed by the court adding that the members of the committee were pro-government and had been justifying the farm laws. “We had said yesterday itself that we won’t appear before any such committee. Our agitation will go on as usual. All the members of this Committee are pro-govt and had been justifying the laws of the Government,” Balbir Singh Rajewal of the BKU said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-verdict-against-govt-wishes-wanted-farm-laws-to-be-implementedchoudhary-101610462599124.html
12-01-2021||India||Explained: Who gets Covid-19 vaccine jabs in first two phases, what's the price||India is all set to begin the “world’s biggest” vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) from January 16. The country aims to achieve vaccination for 30 crore people in the next few months, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said during a meeting with the chief ministers of all states on Monday.The government has sent a purchase order of 11 million doses of the Astrazeneca-Oxford vaccine to drug manufacturer Serum Institute of India. The Pune-based pharmaceutical firm has already begun the shipment of the first lot Covishield doses with nine flights ferrying as many as 5.6 million doses to 13 cities on Tuesday. Meanwhile, the first batch of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin is ready to be dispatched from Hyderabad this evening. The government said it is procuring 5.5 million doses of Covaxin, which are expected to be received by January 14, according to news agency PTI.Also Read: Gap of 28 days between two Covid-19 vaccine doses, says govtWho gets the vaccine first?In the first phase of the immunisation drive, nearly 30 million health workers, from both government and private sector, and frontline workers will be vaccinated. These include cleaners, police and paramilitary, home guards, disaster management volunteers and other jawans in civil defence, and revenue officials associated with containment and surveillance.Who will receive the vaccine in second phase?In the second stage, those above 50 years of age, and those below 50 years of age with comorbidities or with high risk of infection, will be vaccinated. The Prime Minister confirmed the details in his virtual meeting with chief ministers on Monday.How much will the vaccine cost?Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan on Tuesday said the Covid-19 vaccine may cost in the range of ₹200 to 295 in India.The first 100 million doses of the Oxford vaccine will be sold to the government at ₹200 per dose and the rate will later be increased to ₹1000 per dose, according to SII chief executive officer Adar Poonawalla."For 38.5 lakh doses of Covaxin the price is ₹295 each, excluding taxes. Bharat Biotech is providing 16.5 lakh doses for free which ultimately brings the cost of Covaxin down to ₹206 per dose," Bhushan said.Who bears the cost of vaccines?Modi has announced that the Centre will bear the cost of vaccinating 30 million people in the first stage and not the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/explained-who-gets-covid-19-vaccine-jabs-in-first-two-phases-what-s-the-price-101610461674570.html
12-01-2021||India||All 4 members of Supreme Court panel pro-govt, say protesters; minister calls them impartial||The government on Tuesday said that the Supreme Court order staying the implementation of the three farm laws is against its wish but the direction of the apex court is 'sarva-manya' (acceptable to all) and welcomed the composition of an "impartial" committee to resolve the deadlock."We welcome the Supreme Court order. Definitely, an impartial committee has been formed which will take the opinion of all farmers and experts across the country," minister of state for Agriculture Kailash Choudhary said."The Supreme Court order is against our wish. We want the laws to continue. However, the order is "sarva-manya" (acceptable to all)," he added.The minister also said that new laws have been framed in the interest of farmers and will make them self-reliant.Chaudhary further said that the government is always ready for talks but it is up to farmer unions to decide whether they want to go ahead with the scheduled ninth round of talks on January 15.Meanwhile, the farmer unions protesting against the three laws said they want nothing less than a complete repeal of the laws. The protesters also said that the members of the committee chosen by the Supreme Court are pro-government and they will not appear before the panel."It is clear that the court is being misguided by various forces even in its constitution of a committee. These are people who are known for their support to the three acts and have actively advocated for the same," a statement issued by All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) said.Darshan Pal, the president of the Krantikari Kisan Union, one of the farmer bodies participating in the agitation, said that they have already stated that any such committee is not acceptable to them."We had said yesterday itself that we won't appear before any such committee. Our agitation will go on as usual. All the members of this Committee are pro-government and had been justifying the laws of the government," said Balbir Singh Rajewal, a member of the Bhartiya Kisan Union.While staying the implementation of the three new farm laws, passed by Parliament in September last year, the Supreme Court announced a four-member panel to end the impasse between the government and the protesting farmers.Bhupinder Singh Mann, President of Bhartiya Kisan Union; Anil Ghanwat, President of Shetkari Sangthana, Maharashtra; Pramod Kumar Joshi, director for South Asia, International Food Policy Research Institute, and agriculture economist Ashok Gulati have been named in the panel.Gulati is an eminent agriculture scientist and he received Padma Shri award in 2015 for his contribution in this field. He was the youngest member of the Economic Advisory Council of the then Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee during the first NDA regime.Pramod Kumar Joshi is the director for South Asia, International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI), New Delhi. Earlier, he had held the positions of director of the National Academy of Agricultural Research Management, Hyderabad as well as the National Centre for Agricultural Economics and Policy Research, New Delhi.Farmer leader Bhupinder Singh Mann is the national president of Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU), which is part of the All India Kisan Coordination Committee. He was Rajya Sabha member from 1990-96.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-say-sc-panel-members-pro-govt-minister-calls-them-impartial-101610460853085.html
12-01-2021||India||Gap of 28 days between two Covid-19 vaccine doses, effectiveness to begin after 14 days: Govt||There will be a gap of 28 days between two doses of Covid-19 vaccine and its effectiveness will begin 14 days after the second dose, the Health Ministry said on Tuesday.Addressing a press briefing, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said vaccine effectiveness will be seen only after 14 days."So we urge people to keep following Covid appropriate behaviour," he said. Bhushan said there will be a gap of 28 days between two doses of Covid-19 vaccine.India will launch its Covid-19 vaccination drive from January 16 with priority to be given to nearly three crore healthcare and frontline workers.India had recently granted emergency use authorisation to two vaccines, Oxford's Covishield being manufactured by Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech's Covaxin. Both vaccines, the statement from the Health Ministry said, have established safety and immunogenicity.Dr V K Paul member, NITI Aayog member, said these two vaccines have been tested in thousands of people, they are the safest and there is no risk of any significance."We should have no doubt that the two vaccines approved are the safest of the vaccines. Both the vaccines have been tested on thousands of people and side-effects are negligible. There is no risk of any significance," he said.Bhushan said that as said earlier, there will be a sequential rollout of Covid-19 vaccination."Healthcare workers (approximately one crore) will be on the top priority, followed by frontline workers (approximately 2 crore) and prioritized age groups (approximately 27 crore). The cost of healthcare workers and frontline workers will be borne by the central government," Bhushan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gap-of-28-days-between-two-covid-19-vaccine-doses-effectiveness-to-begin-after-14-days-govt-101610459728160.html
12-01-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccines, cooperation to be focus of Nepal foreign minister's visit||Procuring Covid-19 vaccines and development cooperation will be the focus of Nepalese foreign minister Pradeep Gyawali’s visit to India during January 14-16 though the border row is expected to figure in discussions, people familiar with developments said on Tuesday.Gyawali is visiting at the invitation of his Indian counterpart S Jaishankar for a meeting of the India-Nepal joint commission, which will discuss the entire spectrum of bilateral relations, including Covid-19 cooperation and the boundary issue, according to a readout from Nepal’s foreign ministry.Though Nepal has formally reached out to both India and China for vaccines, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity that Kathmandu had indicated a preference for sourcing doses from New Delhi because of a variety of factors, including pricing, logistics and well-established links between the health sectors of the two countries.“The joint commission meeting will discuss the whole gamut of Nepal-India bilateral relations, including trade, transit, energy, boundary, Covid-19 cooperation, infrastructure, connectivity, investment, agriculture, tourism, culture, among others,” the readout from Nepal’s foreign ministry said.The people cited above said Nepal is hoping India will provide vaccines as assistance to inoculate some portion of the 12 million people it plans to cover in its first phase of vaccinations. Nepal is also looking to buy millions of doses from foreign suppliers, including the Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech.“These are the sort of issues that will be discussed at the joint commission meeting so that we can work out modalities,” one of the people said.Jaishankar said on Tuesday that India’s ability to export vaccines after meeting domestic needs will become clear over the next few weeks. Officials have already said India’s neighbours will get priority for the supply of vaccines.India-Nepal ties had come under the shadow of a border row last year after Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli’s government issued a new political map that included Kalapani, Limpiyadhura and Lipulekh, which are part of Indian territory. The map was published in response to India’s opening of a strategic road to Lipulekh, located on the border with China.Following back-to-back visits to Kathmandu last year by Research and Analysis Wing chief Samant Goel, Indian Army chief Gen MM Naravane and foreign secretary Harsh Shringla, bilateral ties were put on an even keel and the two countries held a series of meetings to boost cooperation in areas such as energy and trade.Ahead of Gyawali’s visit, Oli has sent mixed signals on the border row. Addressing the upper house of Parliament on Sunday, he pledged to “retrieve” Kalapani, Limpiyadhura and Lipulekh from India through diplomatic talks. At the same time, he has also spoken of forging a stronger bond and friendship with India.The people cited above said India had already made its position on the border row very clear – the external affairs ministry had last year described Nepal’s new map as “unjustified cartographic assertion” – and the stance hadn’t changed.Gyawali is the senior-most Nepalese leader to visit India since the Covid-19 outbreak and his delegation will include the foreign secretary, health secretary and other senior officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/untitlcovid19-vaccines-cooperation-to-be-focus-of-nepal-foreign-minister-s-vis-101610459927218.html
12-01-2021||India||Bird flu: Centre asks states to maintain sufficient stock of PPE kits||The Centre on Tuesday said it has issued advisories to states regarding testing protocols for bird flu and also asked them to maintain sufficient stock of PPE kits and accessories required for culling operations.Till Monday, bird flu outbreak was confirmed in 10 states -- Delhi, Maharashtra, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Kerala, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana and Gujarat."Till 12 January 2021, additional cases of Avian Influenza (H5N8) has been confirmed among dead crows in HCL-Khetri Nagar in Jhunjhunu district of Rajasthan," the Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying said in a statement.Avian influenza (H5N1) has also been confirmed in dead crows and pelican in zoological park, Kanpur in Uttar Pradesh as well as in dead crows in Jagnoli and Fatehpur village in Kangra district of Himachal Pradesh.The confirmation of avian influenza (H5N1) in poultry sample from Jhabua district of Madhya Pradesh has been received on Tuesday from NIHSAD (National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal), it added."The Department of Animal Husbandry and Dairying has issued advisory on testing protocol to states, encouraging them to undertake screening at state level ensuring suitable bio secure facilities," the statement said.A central team has been deputed to visit Maharashtra and Gujarat to monitor the epicentres of avian influenza outbreak in those states."Constant efforts to generate awareness about Avian Influenza and how to deal with the situation is being shared among the general public through various media platforms including social media platforms like twitter," the statement said.The ministry said states have been advised to maintain sufficient stock of PPE kits and accessories required for culling operations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bird-flu-centre-asks-states-to-maintain-sufficient-stock-of-ppe-kits-101610459630033.html
12-01-2021||India||54.72 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses received till Tuesday afternoon: Centre||The Centre said 54.72 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses have been received at designated national and state-level stores till Tuesday afternoon, and all the shots -- 1.1 crore from the Serum Institute of India and 55 lakh from Bharat Biotech -- will be received by January 14.A massive pan-India inoculation drive against Covid-19 was set in process with Covishield vaccine leaving Pune for 13 cities across India early in the morning, four days before vaccination is scheduled to begin on January 16.Apart form the 1.1 crore doses of Covishield being procured from the Serum Institute of India, 55 lakh doses of indigenously developed Covaxin were being obtained from Bharat Biotech, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said at a press conference."Fifty-five lakh doses of Covaxin are being procured from Bharat Biotech. For 38.5 lakh doses the price is ₹295 each, excluding taxes. Bharat Biotech is providing 16.5 lakh doses for free which ultimately brings the cost of Covaxin down to ₹206 per dose," he said.Bhushan said there are four Central Government Medical Stores Depots at Chennai, Karnal, Kolkata and Mumbai where the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine, Covishield, doses are being received.Besides this, all states have at least one regional vaccine store. Some big states have multiple stores. Uttar Pradesh has nine such stores, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat four each, Kerala has three such facilities, Jammu and Kashmir, Karnataka and Rajasthan two each, he said."As we speak, 54,72,000 doses have already been received till 4 pm at these vaccine stores, while 100 per cent doses, 1.1 crore from Serum Institute and 55 lakh from Bharat Biotech, will be received by January 14 in all states and Union Territories," the health secretary added.NITI Aayog member Dr V K Paul, Covishield and Covaxin have been tested on thousands of people. "They are the safest and there is no risk of any significant side effect."Bhushan said that Zydus Cadila, Russia's Sputnik V, Biological E and Gennova are the other vaccines which are in advanced stages of clinical trials in India."In the coming days some of these vaccines too may be approaching the drug controller for emergency use authorisation. There will be sequential roll-out of Covid-19 vaccination."Healthcare workers will be on the top of priority list, followed by frontline workers and prioritized age groups. The cost of vaccination for healthcare and frontline workers will be borne by the central government," the Union health secretary said.Giving a scenario of the price of vaccines available round the world, Bhushan said each dose of the vaccine developed by Pfizer-BioNTech costs ₹1,431 per dose, Moderna ₹2,348 to ₹2,715, Sinovac ₹1,027, Novavax ₹1,114, Sputnik V less than ₹734 and the one developed by Johnson and Johnson at ₹734."All these vaccines except the one developed by Pfizer can be stored between two to eight degrees Celsius. The one developed by Pfizer needs to be stored at -70 degrees Celsius," he added.About the effectiveness of the vaccines, Bhushan said those can be observed only after 14 days. "So we urge people to keep following Covid-appropriate behaviour."The health secretary said the five key principles for anti-coronavirus vaccination are to ensure people's participation, utilise the experience of elections and universal immunisation programme, making no compromise on scientific and regulatory norms and neither on existing healthcare services.Noting that the Covid-19 situation is worrisome around the world, he said even though daily new cases are declining in India, there should not be any laxity in following Covid-appropriate behaviour.India's overall Covid-19 positivity rate stands at 5.7 per cent while positivity rate in the last one week was recorded at 2 per cent, Bhushan said, adding that about 43.96 per cent of the total Covid-19 patients are in healthcare facilities while 56.04 per cent patients are in home isolation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5472-lakh-covid-19-vaccine-doses-received-till-tuesday-afternoon-centre-101610457391541.html
12-01-2021||India||‘Will hold ground in Ladakh for as long as needed’: Gen Naravane on standoff||Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane on Tuesday said that the Indian Army was prepared to hold ground in eastern Ladakh “for as long as it takes” to achieve national objectives in case the ongoing military and diplomatic talks with China to reduce tensions in the sensitive sector are “prolonged,” even as he described a joint threat from China and Pakistan as “very potent.”He said India should not read too much into the recent withdrawal of Chinese troops from depth areas on the Tibetan plateau as there has been absolutely no reduction of troops by either side at friction points in the Ladakh sector where the border standoff between the two nuclear powers is in its ninth month.Hindustan Times reported on Monday that the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has moved back at least 10,000 soldiers from depth areas in the Ladakh theatre to rear positions but the PLA’s frontline deployments remain unchanged.Speaking to reporters at his customary annual press conference ahead of Army Day on January 15, Naravane said he was hopeful that the ongoing dialogue with China would yield an “amicable solution” but stressed that the operational preparedness of the army was of high order and the force was ready to deal with any eventuality.The two armies are due to hold the ninth round of talks between their senior commanders to resolve the lingering border dispute that has brought chill to ties between India and China.“Eight rounds of talks have taken place between military commanders and each of these rounds has either been preceded or followed by diplomatic level engagement. We will ensure that through the medium of these talks we reach a solution which is acceptable and not detrimental to our interests. And if the talks get prolonged, so be it. We are prepared to hold our ground for as long as it takes to achieve our national goals and interests,” the army chief said.The army chief’s remarks convey two important things, said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General DS Hooda (retd). “First, it is a declaration of resolve and intent to continue with a strong posture along the LAC till the time the matter is resolved to India’s satisfaction and that time is not of paramount importance. Secondly, it also shows that an early resolution appears unlikely, most probably due to the positions of both sides being quite different on the terms of disengagement and de-escalation,” Hooda said.The army chief said India hoped to reach an agreement with China based on the principles of "mutual and equal security” that would result in disengagement of border troops at friction points and subsequent de-escalation of conflict in the Ladakh theatre.The army chief also indicated that there had been no change in the ground situation in eastern Ladakh and the army had carried out a troop rebalance on the northern borders to deal with any challenge. There are plans to use elements of a strike formation in the plains to deal with the Chinese threat.“On the situation at the northern borders, we are carrying out certain studies. We carry out a periodic review of our operational plans and our strategies to deal with various threats --- both external (one front or two fronts) and internal. And based on these reviews, a certain amount of rebalancing does happen. And as the events in eastern Ladakh have shown, there was a requirement of carrying out a certain amount of rebalancing towards our northern borders and this is what we have now put into place,” the army chief said.He said the army was focused not only on eastern Ladakh but along the border with China --- stretching from Ladakh to Uttarakhand to Arunachal Pradesh.“There is no eyeball-to-eyeball deployment in the central and eastern sectors but friction points are there. In these areas, China has built a lot of infrastructure on its sides including roads and barracks. We monitor all these developments and factor them in when we devise a new strategy,” he said.The army chief did not view the recent withdrawal of Chinese troops from their depth areas as a significant development but pointed out that the PLA’s moves were being closely monitored. He said various Chinese army units and formations come to the Tibetan plateau for their summer training and go back when the winter sets in.“We should not read too much into their presence of absence in these training areas. These areas are well in depth and are as much as 500 km to 1,500 km away from the border. All the same, we keep an eye on their deployments on the Tibetan plateau because these are the forces that could be mobilised and sent to the borders in 24 to 48 hours…However, what is more important is that in the border areas where there is eyeball-to-eyeball confrontation, there has been no reduction of troops. That is where we have to be more concerned and careful,” the army chief said.On the origin of the border row with China, Naravane said the army had full details of where the PLA was training in the Ladakh theatre last summer but the latter had the “first-mover advantage” that can never be predicted. He said the Indian Army exploited the same advantage last August when it moved swiftly and occupied strategic heights on the southern bank of Pangong Tso.“They (PLA) come for training every year and we had full details of the areas they were present in. We were regularly monitoring the situation. But suddenly they had the first-mover advantage. This first-mover advantage will always remain, like we had in the month of August. Even though we were in eyeball-to-eyeball contact, China had no clue that we would surprise them,” he said.The Indian Army swiftly occupied a series of key heights to prevent the PLA from grabbing Indian territory on the southern bank in a stealthy midnight move on August 29.The Indian Army now controls ridgeline positions on the southern bank of Pangong Tso that allow it to completely dominate the sector and keep an eye on Chinese military activity, with the positions scattered across Rezang La, Reqin pass, Gurung Hill and Magar heights.The army chief said that there was no doubt that India faced a collusive threat from China and Pakistan.“This is not just something that was part of some strategic paper or loud thought process. It is very much manifesting itself on the ground. There is indeed increased cooperation between China and Pakistan in both military and non-military fields. And a two-front threat is something that we have to be prepared for. And in dealing with such a threat, we have to see which threat is more serious, prioritise it and deal with it first,” he said.The two countries together pose a very potent threat that cannot be wished away and the army keeps that element in mind during its strategic planning, he said.The army chief said that the force was reducing its footprint in the North-east with the security situation there improving manifold in recent years. He said one brigade had been relieved of counter-insurgency duties and two more would follow suit. “We are drawing down in the North-east. It will help us focus more on our primary task, which is dealing with external threats,” he said.On a recent controversial one-man study --- published by a think tank --- that said half of the army was under stress, Naravane said it was based on a highly inadequate sample size of just 400 people. “For 99% accuracy, the sample size should have been 19,000.”On a lighter note, he said maybe there is stress in the army and “I am also stressed.” Stress is not always bad as it can also get work done, he said, adding that measures were in place to deal with the problem.Army women to fly choppers soonArmy chief Manoj Mukund Naravane on Tuesday said that the army would soon open the doors of its aviation wing to women officers.“Last month, we moved a proposal to allow women officers in the flying branch of the Army Aviation Corps. Until now, women officers were only carrying out ground duties in army aviation,” the army chief said. The army’s aviation wing operates helicopters.Naravane said that the first batch of women officers will commence training to become pilots in July 2021. They will join front-line flying duties on completion of training in July 2022. Women in the Indian Air Force and the navy carry out flying duties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-hold-ground-in-ladakh-for-as-long-as-needed-gen-naravane-on-standoff-101610456603925.html
12-01-2021||India||EC, home secy discuss requirement of central forces for upcoming assembly polls||The Election Commission on Tuesday discussed with Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla the availability and requirement of central security forces for the upcoming assembly elections in five states/Union territory.The meeting held at Nirvachan Sadan, the EC headquarters here, was "primarily to discuss requirement vis-à-vis availability of central armed police forces (CAPFs), and related matters, for the upcoming Assembly Elections to the States of Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal, and the Union Territory of Puducherry," a brief EC statement said.The terms of the legislative assemblies of West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Assam, Kerala and Puducherry are coming to an end on different dates in May and June this year. The assembly elections are likely to take place sometime in April-May.Keeping in mind social distancing norms due to coronavirus pandemic, the Commission could increase the number of polling stations in these states to restrict the number of voters per polling station.In the recently-held Bihar polls, the number of voters per polling station was reduced from 1,200 to 1,000, resulting in creation of additional polling stations.More polling stations would mean deployment of additional election staff and security personnel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ec-home-secretary-discuss-requirement-of-central-forces-for-assembly-polls-101610457189166.html
12-01-2021||India||Nepalese PM’s comment on disputed areas sparks unease along Pithoragarh border||After months of calm in Lipulekh, Luimpiyadhura and Kalapani near the Indo-Nepal border in Uttarakhand’s Pithoragarh district, there is unease after Nepalese Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli on Sunday said the country would “take back” the three disputed areas from India.The three places had first come under limelight after India inaugurated a road connecting Dharchula to Lipulekh near border with the Tibet Autonomous Region in China to facilitate pilgrims going to Kailash Mansarovar on May 8 last year.After Sunday's development, political events have also increased in the Darchula district of Nepal sharing the border with Pithoragarh district where all three disputed areas are located. The Nepal government is also carrying out its own road construction project - the 87-km long Darchula-Tinkar road on its own side of the border after India's move.According to the officials, there are seven villages in the three areas with a total population of about 6,000. Amid the border dispute, they had asserted that they are Indians since ages and Nepal has no authority over the three areas."After PM Oli's statement on Sunday, a political event was held in a village near the border in Darchula on Monday by the leaders of the ruling Nepal Communist Party," a district administration officer said on condition of anonymity.“In the event which was also attended by a senior official of the Nepalese government, a local leader of the ruling party delivered a provocative speech urging the people of the area to be united to take back these areas from India," said the officer.Five border crossing points between the two countries in Pithoragarh have been closed due to the Covid-19 pandemic.Residents on the Indian side of the border say Oli's statement would "create unwanted political tension on the other side of the border.""The people on both sides of the border have good relations with each other as they have been crossing over for years for trade and other social events. Now, after the issue has flared up again, there will be tension which is not good for people on either side of the border, who don’t want any politics. We have been part of India and will always remain so," said Gurendra Samwal, a resident of Gunji village near Indo-Nepal border.When contacted, district magistrate Pithoragarh, Vijay Jogdande, said, "We can't do anything much or worry about developments on the Nepal side.""There may be political events on that side over the border issue, but we can't do anything about it. The border patrolling agencies are on alert as always even as the border crossing points remain closed due to the Covid-19 pandemic," said Jogdande.Despite several attempts the chief district officer (equivalent to district magistrate) of Nepal’s Darchula district could not be connected for a response.The relations between the two countries came under strain after Nepal’s Parliament on June 18 passed a constitutional amendment under which it unanimously voted to endorse the new political map showing the disputed areas of Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura as part of Nepal following India's move of constructing a new road connecting Lipulekh in Pithoragarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nepalese-pm-s-comment-on-disputed-areas-sparks-unease-along-pithoragarh-border-101610455539215.html
12-01-2021||India||JP Nadda holds meetings with Assam BJP leaders on assembly polls||BJP president J P Nadda held a series of meetings with senior party leaders of Assam on the upcoming assembly election, the saffron party's state unit Ranjeet Kumar Dass said on Tuesday.Discussions were held on wide-ranging issues related to the polls, including the strengthening of the party's organisational structure, he told reporters here.Nadda conducted three meetings with the members of the core committee, election committee and other office-bearers of the party's state unit till late Monday night, Dass said.He said that Nadda's visit will inspire the party's grassroot-level workers before the assembly elections due in March-April."I, on behalf of all party workers, express my gratefulness to him for his valuable guidance which will motivate all members to work hard during the polls," he said.The meetings were attended by Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal, senior minister and North East Democratic Alliance (NEDA) Convenor Himanta Biswa Sarma, the BJP's Assam in-charge Baijayant J Panda and others.The NEDA is the NDA's version in the northeast.Nadda had officially launched the party's campaign for the assembly polls in the state by addressing the 'Vijay Sankalp' Rally at Silchar on Monday.He arrived in Guwahati on Monday night and held party meetings. He did not have any public engagement.Nadda, along with Sonowal and Sarma, offered tributes to Swami Vivekananda on the occasion of his birth anniversary on Tuesday.Accompanied by Dass and Panda, the BJP president also visited the Kamakhya Temple to offer prayers, before leaving for New Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jp-nadda-holds-meetings-with-assam-bjp-leaders-on-assembly-polls-101610455898033.html
12-01-2021||India||Farmers reiterate they won't accept any committee formed by Supreme Court on farm laws, say its members are pro-govt||The farmers protesting against the three central farm laws said on Tuesday that they won't accept any committee formed by the Supreme Court to end the impasse between the government and the protesters. Addressing a briefing on Tuesday evening, the members of the farmer unions said that the members of the committee are pro-government."We'd issued a press note last night stating that we won't accept any committee formed by Supreme Court for mediation. We were confident that Centre will get a committee formed through Supreme Court to take the burden off their shoulders," said Darshan Pal, the president of the Krantikari Kisan Union, one of the farmer bodies participating in the agitation."We had said yesterday itself that we won't appear before any such committee. Our agitation will go on as usual. All the members of this Committee are pro-government and had been justifying the laws of the government," said Balbir Singh Rajewal, a member of the Bhartiya Kisan Union.The farmers are adamant that the government must repeal the three laws passed by Parliament in September last year.The Supreme Court, while hearing a petition on the laws, stayed the implementation of three new farm laws till further orders and decided to set up a four- member committee to resolve the impasse over them between the Centre and farmers' unions protesting at Delhi borders.The names to be included in this committee are: Harsimran Mann of Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU), Dr Pramod Kumar Joshi, agriculture economist Ashok Gulati and Anil Ghanwat of the Shetkari Sanghatana, a Maharashtra-based farm union.Out of these members, Gulati is the former chairman of the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices (CACP), the advisory body of the Government of India on food supplies and pricing policies. The agricultural economist was honoured with the Padma Shri by the President of India in 2015.Dr Joshi is a leading name in the field of agriculture research. He has served as the director of the National Academy of Agricultural Research Management, Hyderabad, and the director of the National Centre for Agricultural Economics and Policy Research, New Delhi.Anil Ghanwat is the president of the Shetkari Sanghatana which has been backing the government in the entire agitation by farmers. Mann, meanwhile, if a leader of the farmer union Bhartiya Kisan Union.Ghanwat said on Tuesday that the new farm laws partially implement what his outfit has been demanding for decades. His attempt will be to improve them, said Ghanwat."We are not lauding the Centre's three acts that are described as giving freedom to farmers. It was the Shetkari Sanghatana headed by late Sharad Joshi which had pressed for these changes first," Ghanwat, whose organization has been accused of backing the Centre on the issue despite representing farmers, said."Now the current government has tried to implement them to some extent. My role in the committee will be to protect the interest of farmers and improve these laws," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-reiterate-they-won-t-accept-any-committee-formed-by-sc-on-farm-laws-101610455125354.html
12-01-2021||India||In Chhattisgarh, 3 doctors booked for negligence in operating on 5-year-old||The Chhattisgarh police have booked three doctors, including a government hospital surgeon, for alleged negligence in operating on a 5-year-old boy who died after the surgery in the state’s Korba district, police said on Tuesday.“The accused doctors have been booked under Section 304 A (causing death by negligence) and 34 (common intention) of the IPC and we have also formed a committee which will probe the matter. No arrests have been made so far,” said Abhishek Meena, Superintendent of Police, Korba district.As per the FIR, Dr Prabhat Panigrahi, surgeon at the district hospital, and Dr Pratikdhar Sharma and Dr Jyoti Shrivastav were booked on Sunday based on the complaint of Manoj Kevat, the father of the deceased child identified as Divyasnh.According to the complaint, Kevat, a labourer and resident of Belgari Basti locality, had taken his child to the district hospital on January 6 where Dr Panigrahi told him that the boy was suffering from hernia and advised a sonography.Later, Dr Panigrahi told them that the child needed urgent surgery and fixed the operation at Ayushman Nursing Home, a private hospital, citing the government hospital lacks adequate facilities, the complainant said.On January 9, during the surgery, Dr Panigrahi and Dr Sharma were present inside the operation theatre in Ayushman Nursing Home and Dr Shrivastav was also there, he said.“When I asked Dr Panigrahi about the health condition of my son, he said the boy has stopped breathing. Meanwhile, without consulting me, they shifted the child to another private hospital where doctors said that the child was brought in a serious condition and passed away,” Kevat said in the complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-chhattisgarh-3-doctors-booked-for-negligence-in-operating-on-5yearold-101610454602918.html
12-01-2021||India||‘Khalistanis have infiltrated farmers' protest’, says Attorney General; SC seeks affidavit||The Centre told the Supreme Court on Tuesday that a banned Khalistani organisation is extending support to the farmers protesting against the three farm laws of the government.The comment was made by attorney general K K Venugopal during the hearing on the three farm laws, during which the bench stayed the implementation of the controversial laws.Venugopal told the bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde, Justice AS Bopanna, and V Ramasubramanian that 'Khalistanis' have infiltrated into the ongoing farmers' protest, the bench asked him to file an affidavit in this regard."Laudably, the farmers have so far carried on the agitation peacefully and without any untoward incident. But it was pointed out in the course of hearing that a few persons who are not farmers have also joined, with a view to show solidarity with the farmers".It said that an apprehension was expressed that the possibility of some persons creating trouble cannot be entirely ruled out. "In fact, a specific averment is made in an intervention application filed by one Indian Kisan Union, in...that an organisation by name 'Sikhs for Justice', which is banned for anti-India secessionist movement is financing the agitation. This averment is supported by the learned Attorney General also," it said."If there is an infiltration by a banned organization, and somebody is making an allegation here on record, you have to confirm it. You file an affidavit by tomorrow", Chief Justice Bobde told the AG.The top law officer said that he will do so by Wednesday.The apex court stayed the implementation of the three laws - the Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act - against which farmers from all over the country have been protesting.The bench also set up a four-member committee consisting of Bhartiya Kisan Union's HS Mann, Anil Ghanwat, president of Shetkeri Sangthana, Pramod Kumar Joshi, director for South Asia, International Food Policy Research Institute and agriculture economist Ashok Gulati to help resolve the deadlock between the government and the farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/khalistanis-have-infiltrated-farmers-protest-says-attorney-general-sc-seeks-affidavit-101610454579741.html
12-01-2021||India||Covishield, Covaxin tested on thousands, no doubts about safety: VK Paul||Serum Institute of India’s Covishield and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin have been authorised for restricted emergency use and there should be no doubt about their safety, Dr VK Paul, Member (Health), NITI Aayog said on Tuesday, adding that the two vaccines against the coronavirus disease have been tested on thousands of people and the side effects are negligible. “There is no risk of any significance,” he said.Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan also assured that there will neither be any compromise on the scientific and regulatory norms nor on the existing healthcare services during the vaccination drive that begins from January 16 across the nation. “The Centre had been proactive and pre-emptive in addressing the vaccination needs in the country and a task force was set up in May last year to promote indigenous research and development in vaccines, pharmaceuticals and diagnostics,” he said during a health ministry briefing.The remarks come as Pune-based pharma firm SII started the shipment of the Astrazeneca-Ofxord vaccine Covishield across several cities. The Centre has sent a purchase order of 11 million doses of the vaccine which is being provided to it at ₹200 for the first 100 million doses. The price will later be increased to ₹1000 per dose, according to SII chief executive officer Adar Poonawalla.Meanwhile, Bharat Biotech is ready to dispatch its vaccine Covaxin from the Rajv Gandhi International Airport in Hyderabad on Tuesday evening. Covaxin, which is still in the third phase of trial, is indigenously developed by Bharat Biotech and Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)-National Institute of Virology (NIV).During the briefing, VK Paul also lauded the Indian Medical Association (IMA) that has requested its 3.5 lakh members from 1800 local branches to volunteer for Covid-19 vaccination to demonstrate its safety and efficacy to the general public. “The IMA has decided to accept and support the two indigenously developed vaccines. I would like to thank them for this,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covishield-covaxin-tested-on-thousands-no-doubts-about-safety-vk-paul-101610453194503.html
12-01-2021||India||NIA files charge-sheet against doctor who joined ISIS||The National Investigation Agency on Tuesday filed a charge-sheet against a doctor who allegedly joined the Islamic State terror group to further its ideology and illegal activities in India, an official said.The charge-sheet was filed before a special NIA court here under sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) against 28-year-old Abdur Rahman of Bengaluru."Rahman has been charge-sheeted for furthering the ideology and activities of proscribed terrorist organisation ISIS/Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP) in connivance with co-accused Jahanzaib Sami Wani and others for committing subversive/anti national activities in India," a National Investigation Agency (NIA) spokesperson said.Earlier, a charge-sheet was filed on September 2 last year against Wani and Hina Bashir Beigh of Srinagar, Abdullah Basith of Hyderabad, and Sadiya Anwar Shaikh and Nabeel Siddick Khatri of Pune under sections of the IPC and the UAPA.The case pertains to the arrest of Wani and his wife Beigh from Jamia Nagar in Delhi in March 2020 on receiving information that they were affiliated to the ISKP, a part of the ISIS, and were planning subversive and anti-national activities in the country, the official said.The NIA took up the investigation, and during the course of the probe, Rahman was arrested in August 2020 from Bangalore by the agency.Rahman got radicalised when he was a student of MBBS at the Bangalore Medical College. He listened to online lectures of hardline Islamic preachers, including 'Anwar Awlaki', the NIA official said.Subsequently, he came in contact with other radicalised youths and travelled to Syria in December 2013 and participated in various terrorist activities of the ISIS, the official said, adding that after his return to India, he continued to remain associated with the ideology of the ISIS.Utilising his knowledge of ophthalmic lasers and medical science, he made efforts to develop applications for medical and military requirements of the ISIS, the NIA spokesperson said.He was in regular communication with ISIS terrorists located abroad and in India, including Wani, through Threema, a secure messaging platform, the official said.The NIA official said Rahman achieved significant progress towards developing a medical application for treatment of ISIS terrorists and also a laser guided anti-tank missile application for controlling trajectory of missiles for enhancing their effectiveness.Further investigation in the case is underway, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-files-charge-sheet-against-doctor-who-joined-isis-101610453982795.html
12-01-2021||India||SC asks committee it formed on farm laws to hold first sitting within 10 days||The Supreme Court on Tuesday laid down the ground rules for the committee it has formed to end the impasse between the government and the farmers over the three central farm laws.The order was passed by a three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde.The court said that the committee should hold its first sitting within 10 days in Delhi and submit its recommendations within two months from first sitting. It further said that the committee shall hear the government as well as the representatives of farmers’ bodies and other stakeholders.The bench said this committee is “constituted for the purpose of listening to the grievances of the farmers relating to the farm laws and the views of the government and to make recommendations”.The court stayed the implementation of the laws passed by Parliament in September last year. "Stay on implementation of farm laws will encourage farmer bodies to convince their members to get back to their livelihood," the bench said.It also said in its order that Minimum Support Price (MSP) system, which was in existence before the enactment of new farm laws, shall be maintained until further orders."In addition, the farmers’ land holdings shall be protected, i.e. no farmer shall be dispossessed or deprived of his title as a result of any action taken under the farm laws," said the court.It also lauded the farmers for carrying on their agitation against the farm laws peacefully. The farmers had launched their agitation on November 26 near Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-asks-the-committee-it-formed-on-new-farm-laws-to-hold-first-sitting-within-10-days-in-delhi-101610454560508.html
12-01-2021||India||Delhi Riots: Court grants bail to two accused, casts doubt on credibility of police witnesses||A Delhi court Tuesday granted bail to two persons in a case related to the north-east Delhi riots while casting doubts on the credibility of the two police witnesses in the matter.Additional Sessions Judge Vinod Yadav granted the relief to Mohd Shoaib and Shahrukh on furnishing a bail bond of ₹20,000 with surety of like amount in the case of alleged vandalism and torching of a shop by a riotous mob in Gokalpuri area.The court noted that the prosecution was opposing both the bail pleas on the strength of their categorical identification by beat officers -- Constable Vipin and Head Constable Hari Babu -- in their statements recorded under section 161 (examination by police) of the Code of Criminal Procedure on April 7, 2020.Their identification was hardly of any consequence, it said, adding that even though they were posted as beat officers in the area at the relevant time of the incident, they waited till April to name the accused when they had categorically seen and identified them allegedly indulging in riots on February 25, 2020.“Being police officials, what stopped them from reporting the matter then and there in the police station or to bring the same in the knowledge of higher police officers. This cast a serious doubt on the credibility of two police witnesses,” the cour said in its order.It further said that the CCTV footage relied upon by the police in the case pertained to February 24, 2020, whereas the incident took place the next day.“No CCTV/video footage of February 25, 2020, (on which date the incident in question took place) has been placed on record by the investigating agency."The applicants (Shoaib and Shahrukh) were not arrested from the spot, instead their arrest has been formally affected in the case on April 15, 2020 (i.e after lapse of about 55 days of the date of incident) in Mandoli Jail...,” it added.It also said both the accused were entitled for grant of bail on the ground of parity as the role assigned to them was on identical footing as co-accused Rashid who was already enlarged on bail.“Be that as it may, the investigation in the matter is complete; charge sheet has also been filed; trial in the matter is likely to take long time; applicants cannot be made to incarcerate in jail for infinity merely on account of the fact that other persons who were part of the riotous mob have to be identified and arrested in the matter,” it said.It directed both the accused not to tamper with evidence and to install “Aarogya Setu” app on their mobile phones.During the hearing, advocate Salim Malik, appearing for the accused, claimed they have been falsely implicated in the matter and were mere “bonafide bystanders”.Special Public Prosecutor D K Bhatia, appearing for the police, argued that both the accused were allegedly present at the spot with an unlawful assembly which was armed with stones, sticks, petrol bombs and acid bottles.Communal violence had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 last year after clashes between the Citizenship (Amendment) Act supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-riots-court-grants-bail-to-two-accused-casts-doubt-on-credibility-of-police-witnesses-101610453367755.html
12-01-2021||India||Three Naxals surrender in Chhattisgarh's Bijapur district||Three Naxals, allegedly involved in the killing of a local journalist in 2013, surrendered before security forces in Chhattisgarh's insurgency-hit Bijapur district on Tuesday, an official said.The cadres, who were active in Basaguda-Jagargunda area committee of Maoists, turned themselves in before CRPF and police officials, citing disappointment with the "hollow" Maoist ideology and atrocities committed by senior cadres of the outlawed outfit, the official said.The surrendered ultras were identified as Alam Bamo (24), deputy commander of the action team of Maoists, Modiam Sundar (27), a member of the same squad, and Madkam Motu (28), a member of the supply team, he said.The trio had allegedly been involved in several attacks on security forces, including an IED blast on Basaguda-Sarkeguda route, in which two security personnel were killed in 2012, he said.They were also involved in killing Sai Reddy, a Bijapur-based reporter of a Hindi daily, in Basaguda in December, 2013, the official added.The surrendered ultras were given an assistance of ₹10,000 each, and other facilities as per the government's surrender and rehabilitation policy will also be provided to them, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-naxals-surrender-in-chhattisgarh-s-bijapur-district-101610453768367.html
12-01-2021||India||Villagers in Uttarakhand ban ‘anti-farmer, pro-farm laws politicians’||People in some villages of Uttarakhand’s Bazpur area in US Nagar district have “banned” the entry of “anti-farmer and pro-farm laws politicians” into their villages.Over the last few days, they have put banners at the entrance of the villages proclaiming that the entry of such people is not allowed in their villages.Minakshi Surya, village head of Banskhera village in Bazpur said, “We have banned the entry of anti- farmer leaders in our village. If they visit our village, they will face opposition from the villagers. We cannot permit them to play with our sentiments.”The banners came up a few days after Uttarakhand education minister Arvind Pandey had to face the anger of villagers while going to attend a programme on January 5.The villagers blocked the road and gheraoed Pandey forcing him to return without attending the programme.Harvinder Singh Herry, a farmer of one of the villages said, “Our villagers are against the farm laws and any leader who supports the law will not be tolerated in the village. We will continue the ban such leaders till the laws are withdrawn.”Similar banners have been put at the entrance of Bazpur’s Shivpuri village. The villagers are opposed to the farm laws and are participating in the protests with high spirit, said a resident.Bazpur has emerged as a major hub of farmer politics after the Centre enacted the three farm laws last September. This area is known for big farms and rich farmers. Several farmers are participating in the farmers’ protest at Gazipur on the Uttar Pradesh-Delhi border.Farmers have also started running a bus between Bazpur and Gazipur twice a week to ferry those who want to participate in the protests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/villagers-in-uttarakhand-ban-anti-farmer-pro-farm-laws-politicians-101610452004229.html
12-01-2021||India||US planned to back India in addressing issues like border dispute with China: Document||Two years before the military standoff on the Line of Actual Control (LAC), the US framed a strategy for the Indo-Pacific that envisaged offering diplomatic and military support to India to address challenges such as the border dispute with China, according to a newly declassified US national security document. In early 2018, US President Donald Trump endorsed the strategy developed by the National Security Council throughout 2017. A national security briefing prepared by the White House, which was classified “secret” and “not for foreign nationals”, was declassified last week and will be released on Wednesday. Australia’s public service broadcaster ABC News obtained the document on Tuesday. The US planned to “offer support to India through diplomatic, military and intelligence channels — to help address continental challenges such as the border dispute with China”, ABC News reported, citing the document. The US objective is to “accelerate India’s rise and capacity to serve as a net provider of security” by building “a stronger foundation for defense cooperation and interoperability; expand our defense trade and ability to transfer defense technology”. Also read | India-China ties ‘profoundly disturbed’ by first act of bloodshed in 45 years: JaishankarThe document also referred to the need to “align our [US] Indo-Pacific strategy with those of Australia, India and Japan”, of deepening the US’s cooperation with Japan and Australia, and a quadrilateral security relationship with India. Over the past three years, the US has signed three key defence agreements, one at each of the 2+2 ministerial meetings, to facilitate the real-time sharing of sensitive military information and transfer of sophisticated technology. These agreements are the Communications Compatibility and Security Agreement (COMCASA), the Industrial Security Annex to the General Security of Military Information Agreement, and the Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement (BECA). In a recent farewell address, outgoing US ambassador Kenneth Juster had specifically referred to these agreements and said concluding them had elevated the bilateral defence partnership. During the same event, Juster had said the US was “very supportive” amid the India-China border standoff but declined to go into details. “We both share a vision of the Indo-Pacific region...and that is an inclusive vision that provides opportunities for all countries to grow and prosper but also wants to avoid incursions of any type, intimidations and predatory financing, and when there’s a situation that is along those lines, we cooperate to try to resist it,” he had said. The four members of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad – India, Australia, Japan and the US – elevated the body to the ministerial level in 2019 and the second ministerial meeting was held in Tokyo last year. Ahead of that meeting, US secretary of state Mike Pompeo had spoken about plans to formalise the Quad. The US national security document was declassified 30 years earlier than normal and experts said the move was apparently aimed at signalling continuity in American policy for the Indo-Pacific amid the change in government in Washington.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-planned-to-back-india-in-addressing-issues-like-border-dispute-with-china-document-101610451227873.html
12-01-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh: SEC expresses reservations over govt timeline for panchayat elections||The state election commission (SEC) has expressed reservations over the Uttar Pradesh government’s proposed timeline for holding the three-tier panchayat elections, terming it “impractical” considering all the work the commission has to accomplish before issuing the poll notification. The SEC feels it may need more time to be poll-ready even if the government completes preparations on its part.Though the government has not issued any official timeline, it has indicated that it wants the panchayat elections to conclude by March-end before board examinations begin in schools.Also Read: For BJP, panchayat polls a ‘test’ match before 2022 UP assembly electionsMinister of panchayati raj Bhupendra Chaudhary has publicly said the government will issue its poll notification around mid-February for the commission to start voting by mid-March. According to sources, the SEC has, however, told the government that it might not be possible for it to hold rural polls as per the government’s plan due to paucity of time required to complete the revision of electoral roll. “The government is free to decide the timeline for itself and complete the work related to delimitation, reservation etc accordingly, but there are certain things, such as the voters’ list revision, that the commission has to do and for which some time is required,” an SEC official said, requesting anonymity. Currently, the commission is in the middle of giving final touches to the electoral roll revision for the entire state, barring the three districts of Moradabad, Shamli and Gonda, where delimitation of gram sabhas and wards is still in progress. The last panchayat elections in these three districts were held on the basis of the 2010 data and delimitation exercise there could not be carried out in 2015. The delimitation exercise of villages affected by creation of new blocks in some districts, including Gautam Budh Nagar, is also underway and the government has proposed completing the job and issuing a final notification by January 18. The SEC is going to make final the publication of voter lists for the rest of the state on January 22 after four months of protracted exercise. “Now, the problem is that we will have to carry out a fresh exercise to revise the voter lists in three districts of Moradabad, Shamli and Gonda, where major changes are expected in the configuration of gram sabhas as well as in villages that come under new blocks,” another commission official said requesting anonymity. The commission, he said, needed a minimum of 30-35 days to complete the fresh electoral roll revision. “This means we cannot make publish the electoral rolls for the remaining districts and villages before February-end, that too if the government sticks to its January 18 deadline for the completion of delimitation,” he pointed out. The state government and the commission, he said, cannot issue the poll notification before the voter list revision for the whole state is completed. Sources said that in the given situation, rural polls were unlikely to be held before April. When told about the commission’s doubts, additional chief secretary, panchayati raj, Manoj Kumar Singh, said there was still time to make preparations to conclude the polls by March-end. “Let us see. We, on our part, will complete the delimitation work as per our timeline,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-sec-expresses-reservations-over-govt-timeline-for-panchayat-elections-101610451167588.html
12-01-2021||India||Covid-19: No sashtang pranam, only namaste in Gujarat temples||Nothing is same after the outbreak of coronavirus, not even the way of paying obeisance to God.`Sashtang pranam' or prostration before the deity is no longer allowed in Gujarat temples. Instead, devotees can only bring their palms together to offer a`namaste'.Carrying 'prasad' (offerings) inside the sanctum sanctorum is also not allowed in line with the standard operating protocol of the state government, authorities said.Temples and other places of worship reopened in the state in June, 75 days after the lockdown came into effect."Sashtang pranam is not allowed as per the government guidelines. No devotee is allowed to touch anything as per the SOP," said Vijaysinh Chavda, manager of the famous Somnath temple."People are allowed inside the sanctum sanctorum only for `darshan' to ensure minimum contact in view of the pandemic," he said.Sashtang pranam or namaskar involves prostrating oneself in such a way that eight parts of the body touch the floor."No devotees are allowed entry in the temple for aarti which is performed thrice a day, and no more than five devotees are allowed to sit for prayers at once. No more than three persons are allowed during yagna," Chavda further said.Ambaji Mata Temple in Banaskantha district, another major shrine in Gujarat, too has banned sashtang pranam as per government guidelines, said its spokesperson Ashish Raval.Social distancing and wearing a mask are compulsory and devotees are allowed inside only after thermal screening, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-no-sashtang-pranam-only-namaste-in-gujarat-temples-101610450434985.html
12-01-2021||India||Farmers’ protest: Bihar Cong to march to Raj Bhavan on Jan 15||Newly appointed All India Congress Committee (AICC) in-charge for Bihar, Bhakta Charan Das, on Tuesday thanked the Supreme Court (SC) for acknowledging the apprehensions of agitating farmers and said the party would take out a march to Raj Bhavan in Patna on January 15 in support of the cause.Talking to media persons after a meeting of the party’s farmers’ wing, Das, also a former Union minister, questioned Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s silence on the issue. Alleging that the Centre did not care about the electorate, he said,“Apart from the farmers, who will become instant victims of the Acts, common people would be compelled to buy essential commodities at three to four times of their actual cost as the Centre has repealed the stock limit under the essential services commodities act.”The AICC leader lambasted the Central government for undermining constitutional institutions and said it did not have any regard for the RTI Act. “How can a government, elected by the people, act against those who elect them? Aren’t farmers patriots? Farm sector’s contributions in the GDP had gone down to 1-2% against 4-5% recorded during the UPA-2 regime ,” said Das.About his strategy to strengthen the organisation in Bihar, Das said that he would start divisional-level meeting of the party workers from January 31. “The process of revamping the state unit would start in the next couple of months after the meeting of stakeholders. Instances of indiscipline will not be tolerated,” said Das, without getting into details, when asked about a reported scuffle during the farmers’ unit meeting earlier in the day at BPCC office.Party insiders said that Das asked BPCC chief Madan Mohan Jha to expel Raj Kumar Sharma, the self proclaimed chief of the famers’ wing, from the party if he did not leave the venue as his supporters were creating a ruckus. Earlier, Das met Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Monday and extended support to the Opposition’s human chain formation on January 30 to protest against growing unemployment and migration issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-bihar-cong-to-march-to-raj-bhavan-on-jan-15-101610450567597.html
12-01-2021||India||Uttarakhand HC stays Governor’s nod to de-notify Shivalik Elephant Reserve||The Uttarakhand high court on Monday stayed a notification regarding the governor’s assent given on January 8, 2021 for de-notification of the Shivalik Elephant Reserve.On January 8, the day when the HC stayed the approval given by the State Wildlife Advisory Board on November 24, 2020 for de-notification of the Shivalik Elephant Reserve, the Uttarakhand government also issued a notification to denotify with the Governor’s nod.The Shivalik Elephant Reserve is spread over 5405 sq km in eights districts of the state.Abhijay Negi, counsel for the petitioner in the case said the division bench of Chief Justice RS Chauhan and Justice Manoj Tiwari stayed on January 8, 2021 a notification during an urgent hearing while responding to the fresh application moved in a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Dehradun-based activist Reenu Paul.Negi said the government’s move was surprising. “On the very same day, the Government of Uttarakhand released a notification relying on the approval of the State Wildlife Board for denotification of the Shivalik Elephant Reserve, which was stayed by the court,” he said.“During the urgent hearing, the Advocate General, who represented state government said since the Shivalik Elephant Reserve was notified as an elephant reserve as a policy decision by a Government Order in 2002, it was always open to the government to review or call back its own policy decision. The petitioner highlighted the conduct of the government in this matter; stressing that denotification also merits to be stayed as HC had stayed the approval on the same day. The petitioner also highlighted that the said decision of the government was being taken without obtaining prior approval of the Central government and was in violation of the Forest Conservation Act,” he said.On November 24, 2020, the state wildlife board during its 16th meeting had approved the de-notification of Shivalik Elephant Reserve, with government officials saying there is no law to define an elephant reserve.In September last year, the state government had written to the Union environment ministry for obtaining prior approval under Section 2 of the Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980 for non-forestry use of 87.0815 hectares of forest land for “Expansion of the Jolly Grant Airport”. This land falls within the Shivalik Elephant Reserve. Officials estimate that about 10,000 trees will be cut for the expansion.Uttarakhand has over 2000 elephants at present according to the elephant census released in June last year. There are 2026 elephants in the state currently, while in 2012, there were 1559 and in 2017 there were 1839 elephants in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-hc-stays-governor-s-nod-to-de-notify-shivalik-elephant-reserve-101610450033488.html
12-01-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: China puts 20 mn people under lockdown as Covid-19 surges and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 5pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.20 million under Covid lockdown in China, infection spreads among farmersChina on Tuesday locked down a city of 4.9 million residents near Beijing as authorities continued to battle a surge in Covid-19 infections across the country, many of them linked to cases from the northern province of Hebei bordering the capital. Read MoreCovishield reaches regional hubs, Bharat Biotech awaits dispatch: Latest updatesThe vaccine for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) reached the respective regional hubs on Tuesday ahead of the launch of nationwide vaccination. Read MoreSupreme Court stays implementation of farm laws, forms 4-member panelThe Supreme Court on Tuesday stayed the implementation of the three farm laws till further orders and decided to set up a four-member committee to resolve the deadlock between the Centre and farmers' unions. Read More2021 Honda Africa Twin Adventure Sports launched in IndiaHonda Motorcycle and Scooter India on Tuesday launched the 2021 Africa Twin Adventure Sports at a starting price of Rs.15.96 lakh. Read MoreIndia vs Australia: 'Especially in places like Australia and South Africa,' Gautam Gambhir says racist remarks must stopThe third Test between India and Australia proved to be a very controversial one due to instances of racism during Day 3 and Day 4 of the match. Read MoreTripti Dimri flaunts contemporary silhouette in a modern embellished pantsuitEmerging as the breakthrough star of OTT platform ever since her Netflix film, Bulbbul, streamed last year, Laila Majnu actor Tripti Dimri is now creating ripples in the fashion world. Read MoreKevin Feige exclusive interview: Marvel boss on India's role in MCU's future, WandaVision's treatment of traumaKevin Feige, on a regular day, commands just as much attention as some of the movie stars who work for him. Read MoreMumbai Police shares a clip from Brooklyn Nine-Nine, says ‘smort’ people do thisAre you a fan of the American comedy series Brooklyn Nine-Nine? Do you often send your friends Terry Crews memes? Do you regularly rewatch cute Jake and Amy scenes on YouTube? Read More‘Need to root out dynastic politics from India’: PM Modi’s message to youthPrime Minister Narendra Modi said that dynastic politics is the biggest enemy of democracy and that it needs to be rooted out. PM Modi was addressing the valedictory function of the 2nd National Youth Parliament. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-china-puts-20-mn-people-under-lockdown-as-covid-19-surges-and-all-the-latest-news-101610448183748.html
12-01-2021||India||PM was distressed, asked me to visit Shripad Naik at Goa hospital: Rajnath Singh||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday visited the hospital in Goa where Union minister Shripad Naik is admitted following a road accident in Karnataka. Singh said that Naik’s condition is stable and doctors have said that he doesn't seem to be in any danger as of now, according to news agency ANI.The defence minister said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had asked him to visit Naik at the Goa Medical College and Hospital. “I'd spoken to the Goa CM after the accident, PM had spoken to him too. The PM had then called me up and expressed distress. He then asked me to come here, I was thinking the same,” he told ANI.He added that doctors have spoken to AIIMS Director (Delhi) and a team will come to Goa to consult with the doctors. “If needed, he might be taken to Delhi for treatment. It depends on the doctors here (Goa),” he said.Naik (68), the Union Minister of State for Defence and AYUSH, underwent surgeries at the government-run hospital during the night, a senior official from the hospital told news agency PTI.Naik was injured while his wife Vijaya and an aide died on Monday when their car met with the accident near Ankola in Uttar Kannada district, while they were returning to home state Goa from Dharmasthala in neighbouring Karnataka.Naik, the BJP MP from North Goa, was shifted to the GMCH near Panaji late Monday night.Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant on Monday night said Naik's condition was critical earlier, but now he is "stable". "A team of doctors led by Dean of GMCH Dr Shivanand Bandekar is treating him. We are giving him the best medical care," the chief minister said.Goa health minister Vishwajit Rane had said another medical team was on a standby to ensure best treatment for Naik.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-was-distressed-asked-me-to-visit-shripad-naik-at-goa-hospital-rajnath-singh-101610449243588.html
12-01-2021||India||Uttarakhand forms two-tier committees to tackle bird flu||A day after bird flu cases were confirmed in Uttarakhand, the state government on Tuesday formed a state-level and district-level committees to control the spread of avian influenza.The announcement was made by the state’s animal husbandry minister Rekha Arya who met senior officials from the department to take stock of the situation.In the meeting, the minister was apprised that bird flu in the state is under complete control.“There is no need to be afraid of bird flu, but to be alert and aware. The flu has not been detected in the poultry sector in Uttarakhand. Poultry sector is completely safe in itself. We have formed a state-level and district-level committees to monitor the situation. The state-level committee will be headed by additional chief secretary or commissioner of agricultural produce in the state government and district-level committee will be headed by the district magistrate,” said Arya in the meeting.Official orders for formation of the committees were issued by R Meenakshi Sundaram, secretary for the animal husbandry department.The animal husbandry department said it is continuously collecting random samples from poultry farms to monitor bir. A high alert has also been sounded for all poultry farms. Uttarakhand has around 15,000 poultry farms including 500 big farms.“At present, bird flu has been confirmed only in wild birds. The infection has not been found in any kind of poultry farms in the state Samples of birds that have died in the wild in Garhwal division and Kumaon division, have been taken and sent to IVRI Bareilly for testing, where reports are awaited,” the minister said.The minister has also instructed officials to conduct a seminar on Thursday for farmers in which scientists or experts would explain how to deal with the situation. She further said that officials should ensure sufficient stock of PPE kits and N95 masks.Officials from the forest department said that so far over 475 birds have died in Uttarakhand in the last one week. Two bird samples sent to National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal tested positive on Monday.Since Sunday, over 240 crows have been found dead from Bhandari Bagh in Dehradun district. Apart from this, pigeons, myna, spotted dove and kites were also found dead in different regions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-forms-two-tier-committees-to-tackle-bird-flu-101610449167952.html
12-01-2021||India||IMD issues cold wave alert for north Indian plains||With temperatures falling, an orange alert was issued by the India Meteorological Department on Tuesday for the northern plains with a forecast of a cold wave for the next four days.A similar alert has been sounded for Tamil Nadu and Puducherry with a forecast of heavy rains.The IMD said that the minimum temperature over the north Indian plains is likely to be below normal during this period."Due to the prevalence of dry north/northwesterly winds, the minimum temperature is very likely to be below normal over most parts of northwest India during next 4-5 days which are very likely to cause cold day/severe cold day conditions at some parts of Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh & Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand during next three days."Cold wave/severe cold wave conditions at some parts are also very likely over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi and in isolated parts over Uttar Pradesh, north Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan during next three days," the IMD said.Ground frost is also very likely in isolated pockets over south Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and north Rajasthan during the next two days.The IMD said that dense to very dense fog conditions at isolated places are very likely over northwest India during the next 4-5 days.It has issued an orange colour coded alert for Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh from January 13 to 16. It has also sounded an orange alert for Rajasthan for January 13.The IMD has four colour codes signifying the intensity of weather events. While an orange alert is an indication to be prepared for likely extreme conditions, red is a warning to take action to protect life and property from extremely bad weather.Green indicates normal conditions and yellow is for keeping a watch for a deterioration in the weather.Due to a cyclonic circulation over the Comorin area, fairly widespread to widespread rainfall, with isolated heavy falls and moderate thunderstorms and lightning are very likely over Tamil Nadu Puducherry, Karaikal, Kerala, Mahe and Lakshadweep during next 2-3 days, the IMD said.There will be a significant decrease in rainfall activity over these regions thereafter. Isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall is very likely over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal on January 12 and 13, the IMD added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-issues-cold-wave-alert-for-north-indian-plains-101610449332986.html
12-01-2021||India||Covid-19 situation worrisome across globe, India can't show laxity despite fall in cases, says health ministry||The Union health ministry said on Tuesday that the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease situation was worrisome across the entire world and India could not show laxity despite witnessing a decline in cases.Addressing a press briefing, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said, “The Covid-19 situation is worrisome around the world; even though daily new cases are declining in India, we can’t show laxity.”Bhushan pointed out that the coronavirus infections graph was climbing in countries such as the United States (US), Brazil, Russia, United Kingdom (UK) and South Africa and that these countries had a population which was far less than that of India.He said that the active cases in the country were declining steadily and remained below the 220,000-mark adding that Maharashtra and Kerala were the only states that saw over 50,000 active cases.The Government of India agreed to procure 110 lakh Covishield vaccine doses from Serum Institute of India (SII) at ₹200/dose. 55 lakh doses of Covaxin to be procured from Bharat Biotech(BBIL), of which 38.5 lakh doses priced at ₹295/dose: Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan pic.twitter.com/GsqMa6Cuz3With regard to vaccines for combating Covid-19, the Union health secretary said that the Centre had been proactive and pre-emptive in addressing the vaccination needs in the country and a task force was set up in May last year to promote indigenous research and development in vaccines, pharmaceuticals and diagnostics.Ahead of the nationwide vaccination roll-out from January 16, Bhushan highlighted that the Centre was working in close collaboration with all states and Union Territories (UTs) for vaccine roll-out preparedness.Also Read| India to help neighbours with emergency Covid vaccine; commercial supplies laterHowever, there would be no compromise on existing healthcare services during the vaccine drive and there would be no compromise on scientific and regulatory norms, he added.The Centre had approved the Covid-19 vaccines manufactured by the Serum Institute of India (SII) and Bharat Biotech on January 3. The Serum Institute had earlier started dispatching its vaccine ‘Covishield’ across 13 cities and would provide the first 100 million doses at ₹200/dose. Meanwhile, the government was procuring 5.5 million doses of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin of which 3.85 million doses would be priced at ₹295/dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-situation-worrisome-across-globe-india-can-t-show-laxity-health-ministry-101610448308262.html
12-01-2021||India||Bharat Biotech set to dispatch its vaccine, Covishield reaches regional hubs: Latest updates||The vaccine for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) reached the respective regional hubs on Tuesday ahead of the launch of nationwide vaccination on January 16.As many as 5.6 million doses of Covishield, the vaccine manufactured by the Serum Institute of India (SII), will be delivered across 13 cities today. SII's chief executive officer (CEO) Adar Poonawalla said the first 100 million doses of Covishield is being provided to the government at ₹200 after which the price will be increased to ₹1000.The first consignment of the vaccines rolled out of the Serum Institute of India facility in Pune early Tuesday and reached landed at Delhi airport at 10 am.Here are the latest updates on the vaccine front:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covishield-reaches-regional-hubs-bharat-biotech-awaits-dispatch-latest-updates-101610447560845.html
12-01-2021||India||Aurangabad civic body to inspect fire system at hospitals after Bhandara horror||Against the backdrop of the Bhandara hospital fire tragedy in which ten newborns lost their lives on January 9, the Aurangabad civic body will inspect all hospitals in the district to check their preparedness to meet any eventuality, an official said on Tuesday.Ten babies died after a fire broke out at the special unit of the state-run Bhandara district hospital located in east Maharashtra.The official said three teams will be formed to conduct the inspection exercise at all hospitals in Aurangabad city, which is the biggest in Marathwada region of the state, and rural areas in the district over the next two months."We will check preparedness of hospitals to tackle any fire incident. We will also check fire safety equipment in every hospital in Aurangabad well as in other parts of the district," Fire brigade department head R K Sure told PTI.Meanwhile, the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in Aurangabad, which is one of the biggest health facilities in the Marathwada region, has completed a preliminary assessment of its paediatric ward, an official said.He said minor repairs were undertaken at the GMCH."The administration has repaired switch boards and also checked the electricity infrastructure. The (safety) audit at GMCH was carried out in 2019, but it will be done again now," he said.According to the official, the paediatric ward has only a single entry."Another access to the ward is being planned for emergency purpose. We have written about this to the Public Works department," said hospital superintendent Dr. Suresh Harbade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aurangabad-civic-body-to-inspect-fire-system-at-hospitals-after-bhandara-horror-101610443730080.html
12-01-2021||India||IIT-Goa campus: Minister writes to CM not to go ahead with project||Goa health minister Vishwajit Rane, who represents the Valpoi constituency where the contentious IIT-Goa campus is proposed to be set up, said he has written to chief minister Pramod Sawant to cancel the project in the Melaulim village and relocate it elsewhere. Addressing the public via a recorded video message, Rane that he initially supported the project with a view to bring development to the villages. “I had felt that if we bring the IIT, development will come to the villages. But today, I’m seeing that many people are agitated and upset. I have written a letter to the chief minister that we do not want the IIT here now,” Rane said. “I appeal to the chief minister to withdraw the cases filed against the protesters. Today, the situation is such that I have to take a decision keeping the interest of the people in mind and what the people want. I will always stand by the people. The IIT can be taken somewhere else in Goa, we do not want it here, my concern is only for development, jobs and employment for the youth,” he said. Rane’s change of heart comes a day after he indicated he was willing to back down after initially insisting that the project would go ahead despite the protests and opposition to it. “Issues raised by our people is of utmost concern to me, and I shall be working towards resolving the same. I shall be assessing the ground situation with our people regarding IIT at Shel-Melauli and will discuss the matter with the CM in this regard,” Rane had said on Monday evening. On Monday, the chief minister said he was willing to discuss the issue with the protesting villagers even as he added that the demand for shifting the IIT campus to another location would not be considered. Protesting villagers, who have set up a blockade at the entrance to the proposed site, have, for several months now, been refusing to allow government surveyors to demarcate the land to be handed over to the IIT. They have also turned down the state government’s offer to exclude lands surrounding the village temple from the campus as well as concessions for those who claimed to use the land for agricultural purposes. In May last year, the Goa government had formally transferred around 1 million sq mts of land in Melaulim village in North Goa, for setting up of IIT-Goa. Since 2014, the institute has been functioning from a temporary campus at the Goa Engineering College.Earlier also, two sites identified by the state government, in Canacona and Sanguem sub districts, for setting up of a permanent campus were scrapped in the face of protests from local residents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iitgoa-campus-minister-writes-to-cm-not-to-go-ahead-with-project-101610446967582.html
12-01-2021||India||‘Historic moment’: Adar Poonawalla as SII dispatches Covid-19 vaccine across India||With over 5.6 million doses of the Serum Institute of India’s coronavirus (Covid-19) vaccine ‘Covishield’ being transported across several cities, SII’s chief executive officer (CEO) and owner Adar Poonawalla on Tuesday called the dispatch as a historical moment and added that the manufacturer's aim was to make the vaccine available for everyone in India.Speaking to news agency ANI, Poonawalla said, “This is a historical moment that vaccine is being dispatched from our factory. Our main challenge is to bring it to everyone in the country. It is our challenge for 2021, let’s see how it happens.”Also Read| Centre will bear cost of 1st phase of vaccination: ModiReiterating on the point of providing the first 100 million doses of Covishield at a price of ₹200 to the government, Poonawalla said that this was being done to support the healthcare workers, common man, poor and the vulnerable adding that no profit would be made.We make 70-80 million doses every month. Planning is underway to see how many will be given to India and foreign countries. Health Ministry has made logistics plans. We also have partnership with pvt players for trucks, vans and cold storage: CEO-Owner, Serum Institute of India pic.twitter.com/v5OINQwTXB“To Govt of India, we’ll still maintain a very reasonable price but it will be a little bit more than ₹200 which is our cost price. So we decided not to make any profit, we wanted to support the nation & Govt of India for the first 100 million doses.” the SII CEO told ANI. Although he pointed out that after the first 100 million doses, Covishield would be sold at a price of ₹1,000 in private markets.Poonawalla said that the Serum Institute would be making 70-80 million doses of the vaccine per month and that it was being planned on how many doses will be provided to India and foreign nations. SII was trying to supply Covishield to places such as Africa and South America, he said.Also Read| 20 million under Covid lockdown in China, infection spreads among farmers“We make 70-80 million doses every month. Planning is underway to see how many will be given to India and foreign countries. Health Ministry has made logistics plans. We also have partnership with pvt players for trucks, vans and cold storage,” Poonawalla added.Meanwhile, the transportation of SII’s coronavirus vaccine started from Pune to 13 cities across the country, Union aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Tuesday. Vaccines were being transported to Delhi, Kolkata, Chennai, Guwahati, Shillong, Hyderabad, Ahmedabad, Vijayawada, Bhubaneswar, Patna, Bengaluru, Lucknow and Chandigarh, Puri had tweeted.Three temperature-controlled trucks were seen moving out of the Serum Institute premises in the early hours of Tuesday. The first consignment of Covishield doses arrived in the national capital at 10 am after which the doses were seen delivered to other states such as Telangana, Gujarat, Karnataka etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/historic-moment-adar-poonawalla-as-sii-dispatches-covid-vaccine-across-india-101610446490737.html
12-01-2021||India||Contempt action if hanging wires, cables not removed from Chandni Chowk: HC||The Delhi high court on Tuesday warned of contempt action against officials of agencies such as North Delhi Municipal Corporation, Mahanagar Telephone Nigam Limited (MTNL), and BSES if they fail to comply with its orders for removing hanging wires and cables in Chandni Chowk.A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli issued the warning after it was told MTNL was not cooperating and feeder pillars were yet to be shifted despite repeated directions.The court was hearing a plea on the redevelopment of Chandni Chowk for the beautification of the walled city.Also read | Chandni Chowk revamp nearing end, facade of buildings along stretch may get restoredAdvocate Naushad Ahmed Khan, who appeared for the Shahjahanabad Redevelopment Corporation, told the court that the hanging wires are not electrical wires but maybe internet cables or DTH cables. He submitted that the nodal officers had been directed to ensure removal of hanging wires by mobile service providers and cable operators from the entire stretch by January 7. Officials of North MCD and the Delhi Police were also asked to take punitive action if they reappear in the future, he added.Khan said the hanging wires and cables are required to be removed and sought directions for various agencies to remove them. He added Chandni Chowk’s redevelopment project may be the theme of Delhi’s Republic Day tableau.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-warns-of-contempt-action-if-hanging-wires-cables-not-removed-from-chandni-chowk-101610445587032.html
12-01-2021||India||Bihar rights body seeks report over custodial death of Dalit man||The Bihar Human Rights Commission (BHRC), taking suo-motu cognisance of media reports, has sought a report from Patna SSP and DM about the alleged custodial death of a Dalit man. The report is to be submitted in five weeks.Citing media reports, the commission observed that it appears to be a glaring instance of violation of human rights of an individual in police custody for which accountability rests on the police force of the state.Thirty-year-old Dharmendra Manjhi, who was arrested on charges of liquor smuggling on Friday, had died while being taken to police station from the court on Saturday. Police had cited Manjhi’s ill health for his death.Following the incident, an irate mob on Sunday gathered outside the police station, blocked Patna-Gaya main road and burned tyres to register their protest. They also pelted stones targeting the police station, forcing cops to remain inside till reinforcement reached there from different police stations.Police claimed that late on Saturday Manjhi’s health deteriorated and he was taken to the hospital. But the doctors declared him dead on arrival.The victim’s family members have alleged that the man died due to torture by police. They also accused the police of demanding money from them for the man’s release.The commission has fixed the next date for hearing on February 18.Earlier on December 4, the BHRC has ordered state government to pay ₹7 lakh as compensation to the wife of software engineer Ashutosh Kumar Pathak alias Appu, who was killed due to torture during police custody in Naugachhia police district on October 24, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-rights-body-seeks-report-over-custodial-death-of-dalit-man-101610444914597.html
12-01-2021||India||Bharat Biotech set to dispatch first consignment of Covaxin||Bharat Biotech, which has received emergency use authorisation approval from the Drug Controller General of India for its Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin, is set to dispatch it from the Rajv Gandhi International Airport here on Tuesday evening, a senior official of the Airports cargo division said."Today we have received the first consignment of vaccines from Serum Institute at Hyderabad airport. We received 970 kgs of consignment (from Serum Institute).""Today in the evening the first consignment is going out of Hyderabad.... (it is from ) Bharat Biotech. It is going to 11 destinations," the official told reporters after receiving the first consignment of Covishield vaccines.Covishield is developed by Oxford University and British-Swedish company AstraZeneca and manufactured by the Serum Institute of India (SII).An email sent to Bharat Biotech about the delivery schedule of Covaxin evoked a "no comments" response.The vaccine programme in the country has started and the airports cargo division is gearing up to meet the demands as the city is the vaccine hub of the world, the official added.Covaxin is being indigenously developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) - National Institute of Virology (NIV).The indigenous, inactivated vaccine is developed and manufactured in Bharat Biotech's BSL-3 (Bio-Safety Level 3) bio-containment facility, the firm had earlier said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-biotech-set-to-dispatch-first-consignment-of-covaxin-101610444613391.html
12-01-2021||India||Welcome SC verdict but will continue agitation against farm laws, say protesters||Farmer leaders welcomed the Supreme Court's order to stay the implementation of three farm laws on Tuesday, but said they would not call off their protest until the legislations are repealed.The Sankyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of around 40 protesting farmer unions, has called a meeting later in the day to decide the next course of action.The farmer leaders said they are not willing to participate in any proceedings before a committee appointed by the Supreme Court, but a formal decision on this will be taken by the Morcha."We welcome the court's order to stay the implementation of the farm laws, but we want a complete repeal of these laws," Abhimanyu Kohar, a senior leader of the Morcha, told PTI.Another farmer leader, Harinder Lokhwal, said the protest will continue until the contentious farm laws are repealed.The Supreme Court stayed the implementation of the controversial farm laws till further orders on Tuesday and decided to set up a committee to resolve the impasse between the Centre and the farmers' unions protesting at Delhi's borders over the legislations.A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde said it will pass an order to this effect.The committee will look into the farmers' grievances against the three laws.Thousands of farmers, mostly from Haryana and Punjab, have been protesting at several border points of Delhi since November 28 last year, demanding a repeal of the three laws and a legal guarantee on the minimum support price for their crops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/welcome-sc-verdict-but-will-continue-agitation-against-farm-laws-say-protesters-101610444210450.html
12-01-2021||India||Sand price in Bihar shoots up by 30-40%, real estate sector hit||Several districts in Bihar are hard hit with an upward revision in sand prices by 30-40 per cent, sparking fear of slowdown in the real estate sector.Traders say the escalation in cost has encouraged black marketing and illegal mining of the basic construction commodity.“The sand price in December was ₹5,400 for a trailer of tractor, now, it has risen to ₹7,000 in Patna. There are reports that the price of sand in other districts has risen by 30-40%,” said Mahesh Lal, a sand trader of Danapur.“The sand traders are hard pressed as they have to pay royalty to mines department besides charges of loading, ‘raiyati’ (cost of sand), patrolling party and money for crossing road that comes on the land owners,” said Niraj Kumar, who is into sand business and also a transporter. He added, “The mines department thinks that the traders have to just pay royalty, but the business involves other charges too, leaving a petty margin for us.”Another dealer of sand at Gaya, Arun Yadav, said the price of sand has risen ₹800 per trailer of tractor since December.The spike in price of sand is being witnessed after the state cabinet took a decision to extend the validity of lease of existing sand mining ghats with 50% increase in lease fee.A mines and geology official said the need of extending the lease of old lease holders of sand ghat was necessitated after some people filed a petition with the National Green Tribunal (NGT) against the new sand mining policy of the Bihar government. Now, the mines and geology department has moved the Supreme Court to seek relief.The sharp rise in sand price has spurred smuggling of both yellow and Ganga sand, despite the mines and geology department claiming that raids were being conducted.Mines commissioner-cum-principal secretary, mines and geology department, Harjot Kaur Bamhrah said, “To check illegal mining of sands, frequent raids are being conducted in districts. The DMs and SPs have a district mining task force, which conducts regular meetings and raids are conducted. FIRs have lodged and offenders booked.”Another official of the mining department said the department had earned about ₹35 crore this fiscal till December by penalising the sand smugglers.Boats plying on the Ganga river could be spotted lifting sand from the river bed, making it shallower. The NGT has banned lifting of sand from the river bed.Seeing the massive smuggling of sand, Patna district magistrate Chandrashekhar Singh on Sunday asked the officials to constitute a special team to nab the smugglers.Former national president of Builders Association of India, Sachin Chandra, agreed that the rise in the price of sand was going to badly hit the real estate sector.“The real estate sector has already been hit by a slowdown caused by Covid-19 and the escalation in the price of sand is a bolt from the blue,” he said.“With a 30-40% rise in sand price, the project cost is going to rise by ₹200-300 per square feet,” he said, claiming, many builders might wait for the price of sand to ease to start their work. He said the margin of income of builders who had already taken money from the buyers was going to face a deep cut due to the rise in price of sand and steel.Bamhrah said, “The high court has given many rulings that once the royalty is charged by the mines and geology department, the price of sand will be decided by the market forces. However, still the prices are going beyond a particular gradient and we will look into it and start conducting raids so that the prices can be checked.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sand-price-in-bihar-shoots-up-by-30-40-real-estate-sector-hit-101610444159400.html
12-01-2021||India||Remembering Swami Vivekananda and his teachings on his birth anniversary||January 12 marks the birth anniversary of one of the brilliant minds and inspiration -- Swami Vivekananda. Since 1985, his birth anniversary is observed every year as the National Youth Day. Several youngsters have been inspired by his philosophy and the speech he gave in the Parliament of Religions in America in September of 1893. The speech gained the spotlight as Hinduism and its philosophy was introduced to the western world for the first time in Chicago.He became India's spiritual ambassador in America and tried to teach Vedanta philosophies in the west through rational and humanistic approach. Vivekananda's teaching included seeing god in all and promoted peace and unity amongst all. William James, a philosopher at Harvard University, called Swami Vivekananda as the "paragon of Vedantists.""I am proud to belong to a religion which has taught the world both tolerance and universal acceptance. We believe not only in universal toleration, but we accept all religions as true," Swami Vivekananda had said in his speech at the Parliament of Religions.Also Read | Swami Vivekananda's 158th birth anniversary celebrated across Bengal"As the different streams having their sources in different paths which men take through different tendencies, various though they appear, crooked or straight, all lead to Thee," he had said."Sectarianism, bigotry, and its horrible descendant, fanaticism, have long possessed this beautiful earth. They have filled the earth with violence, drenched it often and often with human blood, destroyed civilization and sent whole nations to despair. Had it not been for these horrible demons, human society would be far more advanced than it is now," he had added.Many political leaders paid their tributes to the great personality. Prime Minister Narendra Modi paid homage to Swami Vivekananda while addressing the valedictory programme of the National Youth Parliament Festival. "Inspired by the great ideals of Swami Vivekananda and his vision for youth empowerment, the National Youth Parliament Festival gives a platform to India’s youth to showcase their skills. It also furthers the spirit of ‘Ek Bharat, Shreshtha Bharat’ among youngsters," the prime minister had said.Born on January 12, 1863, he died in 1902 on July 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/remembering-swami-vivekananda-and-his-teachings-on-his-birth-anniversary-101610444009992.html
12-01-2021||India||Uttarakhand organises winter snow leopard tours, promotes conservation||The Uttarakhand forest department has decided to begin first ever snow leopard tours in high altitude areas of Uttarkashi district to promote conservation along with sustainable tourism.The tours will be conducted in collaboration with the state tourism department and United Nations Development Programme, which has already been working in the area through the Secure Himalaya project (aimed at promoting conservation along with improvement of livelihood opportunities).Rajiv Bhartari, head of forest force of the Uttarakhand forest department, said, “We have already been working in the high-altitude areas through the Secure Himalaya project, where locals have been trained in adventure sports and wildlife movement. Using that, we are working to start snow leopard tours in the high-altitude areas of Uttarkashi district, where sightings of snow leopards have increased in the past few months.”The senior forest official said that the tours will be started in the month of February and bookings will be made on a first-come, first-served basis."A maximum of six participants will be allowed for every tour, who will travel with medical and forest staff. These tours will increase chances of snow leopard sightings as due to peak winters all animals come down to lower reaches," added Bhartari.Aparna Pandey, state project officer for Secure Himalayas, said, "The main objective of this initiative is to connect conservation with livelihood opportunities. With these tours, the locals will get jobs as tour operators, adventure guides, cooks. They will also naturally want to work towards conservation of the animal. This model has worked successfully in Himachal Pradesh and Ladakh."Meanwhile, the union environment ministry on Monday tweeted, "Sustainable tourism for wildlife conservation.. through Secure Himalayas Project; Global Environment Facility, Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, Uttarakhand Forest Department and United Nations Development Programme are partnering with Uttarakhand Tourism Development Board to organise first ever winter snow leopard tours in Uttarakhand and promote nature-based livelihood in the Himalayas."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-organises-winter-snow-leopard-tours-promotes-conservation-101610443870629.html
12-01-2021||India||Socia media, YouTube help Kashmiri singers reach wider audiences||Manzoor Ahmad Shah, a known Kashmiri folk singer, would dissuade his son, Adil Manzoor Shah, 23, from following in his footsteps and taking up music as a career. For him, it did not make much sense as the opportunities in the field were restricted to weddings and appearances on the state-owned TV and Radio stations. But Adil Manzoor Shah did not give up and convinced his father to teach him music. His persistence has paid off and he is now among more recognisable musicians in Kashmir thanks largely to video-sharing site YouTube and social media.Adil Manzoor Shah is not alone. Many like him have excelled thanks to new avenues to showcase their talent and by giving a modern touch to the folk music like Chakker for which instruments like harmonium, rabab, sarangi, and nout (earthern pot) have traditionally been used.“We are bringing newness to Chakker by using guitar, keyboard, and dholak. ...YouTube is giving it more prominence,” he said. “Folk [music] should not die. With some subtle changes, the younger generation is happily accepting it.”Adil Manzoor Shah, who began singing when he was 14, has his YouTube channel, which is helping new and talented singers to reach a wider audience and the Kashmiri diaspora. His channel has over 100,000 subscribers. A duet he sang has over 3.1 million views so far.Another singer Tariq Ahmad Bhat, who used to be a dancer and then learnt harmonium, said people looking for singers to perform at weddings would often ask about his previous work. “[Then] I started recording my work. YouTube has [since] given me a lot of fame,” he said.Shazia Bashir, 32, who has been in the music industry since winning a talent show on Doordarshan over a decade back, said not everybody would get the platform to showcase her talent earlier. “Before social media, talented people would find it difficult to get a break. ‘How to start’ used to be a big question back then. Now social media provides you the ultimate platform. Nowadays, newcomers and budding talent are in good shape due to social media.”Prominent singer and composer Waheed Jeelani advised the younger singers to first learn the basics instead of getting carried away by instant fame. “The youths understand that our identity is Kashmiri music. Though they also experiment with western instruments and do innovations like introducing the guitar to revive old songs sung by Kashmiri stalwarts. They present them in a fresh way and get a lot of fame. What is important is that, in this way, many youngsters are coming towards Kashmiri music particularly the folk.”Jeelani said social media gives information but it cannot be one’s teacher.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/young-kashmiri-singers-gain-prominence-as-social-media-youtube-help-them-showcase-talent-reach-wider-audiences-101610443186895.html
12-01-2021||India||Kerala HC rejects govt plea questioning CBI probe into Life Mission project||In a setback to the Kerala government, the High Court on Tuesday dismissed its plea questioning the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe into alleged irregularities in the state’s pet project Life Mission.A single bench headed by Justice P Somarajan observed that officers involved in the project were pursuing “a hidden agenda” but liability for such mischief could not be extended to the political executive but it needs to be looked into thoroughly.A flagship project of the government, aimed at building free houses for the poor, it ran into rough weather after Congress MLA Anil Akkara filed a complaint with the CBI saying the project violated the Foreign Currency Regulation Act (FCRA).Besides this, when the lockers of gold smuggling prime accused Swapna Suresh was searched the Enforcement Directorate (ED) found ₹one crore cash and gold in them and she later told the agency this was the commission she received for brokering a deal with Red Crescent, a foreign charitable body, which sponsored the housing project in Thrissur district.However, when the CBI started preliminary investigation, the government moved the High Court to restrain it saying it will sabotage the project and its intervention was unwarranted and it cannot take up cases like this without the permission of the government or court. But the court refused to stop the probe.“It seems an intellectual fraud played in furtherance of the MoU so as to avoid audit by the CAG and to get kickbacks and gratifications. MoU was not entered into in accordance with Article 229 of the Constitution which pertains to the government contract,” the court ruled saying it was clinched to avoid the CAG audit.There are allegations that senior IAS officer M Sivasankar, now in jail in connection with money laundering charges related to the gold smuggling case, and his accomplices allegedly played a key role in clinching the project.The gold smuggling case came to light in July last year after the Customs seized 30 kg of gold from a consignment that came to the UAE Consulate camouflaged as a diplomatic parcel. Now a multi-agency investigation is on and 35 people have been arrested including the CM’s private secretary M Sivasankar. Opposition Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party have welcomed the verdict. “It is a slap on the face of the government,” said Anil Akkara, Congress legislator who had approached the CBI.The project relates to building 140 housing units in Vadkancherry in Thrissur district. As per the application filed by the CEO of the project in the High Court, the Red Crescent authority of the UAE consulate offered to sponsor the project and an MoU was entered into in 2019.According to the MoU, the sponsor will execute the project through independent contractors. The Congress lawmaker later filed a complaint alleging 10 lakh UAE Dirham was transferred to the private contractor, Unitach, in violation of FCRA norms. It was found during investigation that out of the ₹20 crore project, ₹four crore was allegedly siphoned off to people who worked behind the project and the quality of construction was inferior. It was also found that the Centre’s permission was not obtained before signing the MoU.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-hc-rejects-govt-plea-questioning-cbi-probe-into-life-mission-project-101610439251104.html
12-01-2021||India||25 states/UTs have less than 5,000 active Covid-19 cases: Health ministry||The Union health ministry on Tuesday said that 25 states/Union Territoriess have less than 5,000 active cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The ministry also said that India has recorded 12,584 new cases of coronavirus, the lowest in around seven months, taking the country's Covid-19 caseload to 1,04,79,179. The death toll increased to 1,51,327 with 167 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed.  The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,01,11,294 pushing the national Covid-19 recovery rate to 96.49 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.44 per cent. The Covid-19 active caseload remained below 3 lakh.There are 2,16,558 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 2.07 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. The ministry also said that the total number of persons found positive with UK variant strain of Covid-19 is 96 and there has been no addition in the last 24 hours.India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 18,26,52,887 samples have been tested up to January 11 with 8,97,056 samples being tested on Monday.The 167 new fatalities include 40 from Maharashtra, 20 from Kerala, 16 from West Bengal, 15 from Chhattisgarh and 13 from Delhi.A total of 151327 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 50,101 from Maharashtra followed by 12,228 from Tamil Nadu, 12,144 from Karnataka, 10,691 from Delhi, 9,957 from West Bengal, 8,504 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,131 from Andhra Pradesh and 5,447 from Punjab.The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities."Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/25-states-uts-have-less-than-5-000-active-covid-19-cases-health-ministry-101610441531956.html
12-01-2021||India||Who are the members of the committee set up by Supreme Court to resolve farm laws impasse?||The Supreme Court on Tuesday stayed the implementation of controversial new farm laws till further orders and decided to set up a committee to resolve the impasse over them between the Centre and farmers' unions protesting at Delhi borders.A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde said that it will pass an order to this effect.The names to be included in this committee are: Harsimran Mann of Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU), Dr Pramod Kumar Joshi, agriculture economist Ashok Gulati and Anil Ghanwat of the Shetkari Sanghatana, a Maharashtra-based farm union.Out of these members, Gulati is the former chairman of the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices (CACP), the advisory body of the Government of India on food supplies and pricing policies. The agricultural economist was honoured with the Padma Shri by the President of India in 2015.Gulati's research centres around issues related to agriculture and food security, agri-trade and agri-valuechains, crop insurance, subsidies, sustainability and poverty alleviation.Dr Joshi is a leading name in the field of agriculture research. He has served as the director of the National Academy of Agricultural Research Management, Hyderabad, and the director of the National Centre for Agricultural Economics and Policy Research, New Delhi. Dr Joshi was previously the South Asia Coordinator at the International Food Policy Research Institute and senior economist at the International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics in Patancheru.Anil Ghanwat is the president of the Shetkari Sanghatana which has been backing the government in the entire agitation by farmers. Mann, meanwhile, if a leader of the farmer union Bhartiya Kisan Union.The committee will look into the farmers' grievances against the three new laws.During the hearing on Tuesday, the top court sought cooperation of the protesting farmers and made it clear that no power can prevent it from setting up a committee to resolve the impasse over the controversial farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-are-the-members-of-the-committee-set-up-by-sc-to-resolve-farm-laws-impasse-101610442146009.html
12-01-2021||India||India-China ties ‘profoundly disturbed’ by first act of bloodshed in 45 years: Jaishankar||The relationship between India and China has been “profoundly disturbed” by the first incident of bloodshed along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in 45 years, which had a “huge impact” on public opinion, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Tuesday. Jaishankar made the remarks at the virtual Reuters Next conference, even as Indian Army chief Gen MM Naravane told a news briefing that troops are prepared to hold ground along the LAC for as long as needed to meet national objectives. The standoff in Ladakh sector, Naravane said, will be resolved on the basis of mutual and equal security. “After 45 years, you’ve actually had bloodshed on the border,” Jaishankar said, referring to the clash between Indian and Chinese troops at Galwan Valley in June last year that left 20 Indian soldiers dead and resulted in unspecified Chinese casualties. Also read | China tried to change status quo by force in Ladakh, says MoD review“And that’s had a huge impact on public opinion and politically...really the impact on trust and confidence in India where China and their relationship is concerned. That has been profoundly disturbed,” he added. Jaishankar reiterated his contention that China is yet to offer an explanation for deploying a large number of troops along the LAC. “Now last year, for reasons which are not clear to us, the Chinese really brought an enormous military force to one part of the border. And then at the LAC, obviously we moved up when we saw them coming and that has sort of created friction points along the LAC,” he said. Tens of thousands of troops from both sides have dug in for the harsh winter along the LAC, backed by artillery and armoured formations. Several rounds of diplomatic and military talks between the two countries have not led to headway in disengagement and de-escalation at friction points in Ladakh. The deaths in Galwan Valley were the first fatalities on the LAC since four Indian soldiers were killed at Tulung La in Arunachal Pradesh in 1975. Jaishankar has said several times that Chinese aggressive actions along the LAC have violated several agreements for maintaining peace and tranquillity on the disputed border. On the other hand, Jaishankar said India’s ties with the US were on the upswing and he was confident about the direction of the relationship under the incoming Biden administration. “When I look at many of the challenges we face, the US is going to be much more open looking for partners and I’m confident about where we are going with the relationship,” he said. “Structurally, the relationship with the US is very, very sound, it has very unique elements, there is political convergence, growing security and defence convergence,” he added. Shared concerns about China have led to greater cooperation between India and the other members of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad – Australia, Japan and the US – in recent months. On the issue of trade, Jaishankar acknowledged that India and the US had got bogged down in details and lost the “wood for the trees”. Negotiators had worked towards a mini trade deal for months without making headway, and he said India will respond positively to any offer from the Biden administration to restart some kind of free trade talks. Jaishankar also told the Reuters Next conference that the government will have greater clarity within the next few weeks on exporting Covid-19 vaccines after meeting domestic needs. India, he said, understands the anxieties of foreign governments with regard to getting the vaccines delivered to their populations. “We will get clarity pretty soon on what our own consumption is going to be, (what) deployments are going to be. And we will keep our global role very much...,” he said. “The policy of course is we will start the rollout in India. We have our own challenges,” he said. “A number of countries are in touch with us...and what we are telling them is, look, this is the first month...The production is now coming into stream. There is a certain amount of stock-taking going on.” India is one of the world’s largest producers of vaccines and pharmaceutical products and supplied medicines and equipment to some 150 countries amid the pandemic. It is expected to be a key manufacturing centre for Covid-19 vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indiachina-ties-profoundly-disturbed-by-first-act-of-bloodshed-in-45-years-jaishankar-101610440666374.html
12-01-2021||India||GoAir begins vaccine delivery; operates flight to Chennai from Pune||Budget carrier GoAir has operated a flight to Chennai from Pune, containing 70,800 vials of Covid-19 vaccines as the much-awaited roll out of the vaccine commenced on Tuesday.The flight took off for Chennai from Pune early morning on Tuesday, carrying 70,800 vials (7,08,000 doses) of the vaccine, according to GoAir."We at GoAir are overwhelmed with the kind of responsibility bestowed upon us to transport the life-saving Covid-19 vaccines. We are grateful that we have got an opportunity to be able to contribute to the vaccine movement and support the noble cause," GoAir chief Executive Officer, Kaushik Khona said in a statement."In our efforts to alleviate the complexities of the vaccine movement given the scale of the consignments and logistics, we are taking every possible step to support the institutions and our stakeholders to reach the vaccine in all possible corners of the country," he said.This responsibility of vaccine shipment recognises the efforts taken by GoAir towards developing its cargo services for critical vaccine movement and motivates us to take the lead in order to remain the preferred choice for the industry, Khona added.Earlier in the day, flights started ferrying vaccines to different cities from Pune with the first consignment of Covishield vaccines in a flight operated by budget carrier SpiceJet reaching Delhi from Pune at around 10 am, four days ahead of the launch of a nationwide drive against coronavirus.Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said four airlines will operate nine flights to transport 56.5 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccine from Pune to 13 cities across the country on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goair-begins-vaccine-delivery-operates-flight-to-chennai-from-pune-101610434284775.html
12-01-2021||India||Shiv Sena targets BJP over bird flu, asks if Pak, Khalistanis behind outbreak||Shiv Sena on Tuesday slammed its former ally BJP and questioned it on whether there was any Pakistani, Khalistani or Naxalites hand behind bird flu outbreak in the country.In its editorial mouthpiece 'Saamana', Shiv Sena pointed out that BJP leaders had earlier targeted farmers' agitation alleging that Pakistanis, Khalistani, Chinese, Naxalites, and Maoists are behind the protest."Farmers are agitating against the new agricultural law and meanwhile new crisis of bird flu outbreak has emerged. Government officials say that Pakistanis, Khalistani, Chinese, Naxalites and Maoists are behind the farmers' agitation. BJP spokesperson has not declared if Khalistani, Pakistani and Naxalites have a hand in mysterious deaths of the chickens and bird," read the editorial.Shiv Sena said that farmers and those involved in poultry farming have been adversely affected due to bird flu."The sale of chickens and eggs is more in rural areas. They have the economics of their own and there is no place for poor egg seller's economy in the new farm laws. According to the new agricultural law, corporates will not deal in chickens and eggs infected with bird flu. Then who will support the farmers involved in poultry farmer?" the editorial asked.The party said that several poultry markets have been shut down across the country that has increased the difficulties of traders dealing in chickens and eggs."Due to fear, people will not eat chickens and eggs for a few days and this will affect the business of the area, which will spoil the economic administration," it said.Avian Influenza has been confirmed in 10 states of the country so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shiv-sena-targets-bjp-over-bird-flu-asks-if-pak-khalistanis-behind-outbreak-101610423039330.html
12-01-2021||India||Supreme Court stays implementation of farm laws, forms 4-member committee||The Supreme Court on Tuesday stayed the implementation of the three farm laws till further orders and decided to set up a four-member committee to resolve the deadlock between the Centre and farmers' unions over them. A bench, which was headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde, justice AS Bopanna and justice V Ramasubramanian, said that it will pass an order to this effect later.The top court stayed the implementation of the Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act after several petitions were filed challenging their constitutional validity.The bench the four-member committee will look into the farmers' grievances on the issue. HS Mann, president of the Bhartiya Kisan Union, president of Maharashtra's Shetkeri Sangthana, Anil Ghanwat; Pramod Kumar Joshi, the director for South Asia, International Food Policy Research Institute, and agriculture economist Ashok Gulati will be the members of the panel, it said."We are forming a committee so that we have a clearer picture. We don't want to hear arguments that farmers will not go to the committee. We are looking to solve the problem. If you (farmers) want to agitate indefinitely, you can do so," CJI Bobde said.Farmers' leaders welcomed the Supreme Court's order but said they would not call off their protest until the legislations are repealed. The Sankyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of around 40 protesting farmers' unions, has called a meeting later in the day to decide the next course of action.The bench was hearing a batch of petitions, including those filed by DMK lawmaker Tiruchi Siva, the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Manoj K Jha, regarding the constitutional validity of the farm laws, passed by the central government in September last year, and the plea to disperse protesting farmers from the borders of the national capital.The three-judge bench had earlier said that it is willing to suspend the laws but not indefinitely without any activity going on both sides.The top court had said on Monday it is “extremely disappointed" with the way negotiations between the Centre and the farmers' representative were going while hearing a bunch of petitions on the farm laws.Also read | Put farm laws on hold, or we will, SC tells govtIt also indicated that the three contentious laws will have to be put on hold for creating an atmosphere conducive for talks.The bench had also asked the Centre if it was willing to pause the implementation of the laws, saying it will do it otherwise. Attorney General KK Venugopal was asked to come back with a response.Senior advocate Dushyant Dave, representing the farmers' unions, was also asked to consult the farmers and inform the court if they were willing to join the deliberations before a committee, which the court proposed to constitute for resolving the issues.However, late on Monday evening, the unions issued a statement that they would not want to go before the proposed committee. According to the unions, it would not make any sense to go before the committee after the government's affidavit which maintained that laws will not be repealed.Also read | PM should apologise to farmers, says OppnEight rounds of talks have been held between the Centre and the farmer unions but have failed to end the deadlock as the government ruled out repealing the contentious laws while the farmer leaders said their 'ghar wapsi will happen only after law wapsi'.The top court had earlier sought the Centre's response on a batch of pleas against the Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act.Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, have been camping on Delhi's borders since November 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-says-will-form-committee-to-resolve-crisis-over-farm-laws-101610438136311.html
12-01-2021||India||Karnataka receives first consignment of Covid-19 vaccines||The first consignment of Covid-19 vaccines have arrived here on Tuesday, and the Karnataka government said it was committed to conducting the vaccination drive in a transparent way. According to official sources, the flight carrying the vaccines landed at the Kempegowda international airport here. Earlier in the day, Karnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar said 7.95 lakh Covishield vaccines were arriving. "... 7,95,000 vials of Covishield vaccine are arriving in the first consignment at around 11:45 this morning.. the arrival of the remaining of the total 13,9000 vails that the state will get, will be known in the later stages," he said. Speaking to reporters here, he said it will be stored at the state vaccine stores in the city. "The state government will conduct the vaccination drive- whether it is storage, supply or administering as per guidelines- will be held in a transparent way, as directed by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa," he added. The state government has already said that about 16 lakh frontline workers in the state will be administered a vaccine against Covid-19 in the first phase at 235 sites. Noting that the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) has given approval to Covishield and the Centre has purchased 1.1 crore doses, Sudhakar claimed that there was no other country in the world that has fixed the price of the vaccine at such low rates. "It has been procured at ₹210 per dose including GST from the Serum institute, Pune. The total cost is ₹231 crore," he said. The central government will be vaccinating about 3 crore people in the country in the first phase for free of cost. Observing that one vial contains 5 ml and it will be 0.5 ml per dose, Sudhakar said 10 people can be administered in each vial of vaccine. "28 days after taking the first dose, a second dose should be taken. The vaccine will help in developing immunogenicity. The vaccine is completely safe and there is no need for anyone to worry or fear," he said The vaccination will be held as per protocols and guidelines issued. "If there are any side effects it will be recorded... details of every person who takes a vaccine will be recorded, after getting the vaccine shot the person will have to be in the observation room. If there is any side effect, there will be facilities to immediately treat them," the minister said adding that the vaccine has been safe during clinical trials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-receives-first-consignment-of-covid-19-vaccines-101610437680933.html
12-01-2021||India||'Need to root it out': PM Modi slams dynastic politics on National Youth Day||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said dynastic politics is the "biggest enemy of democracy" and that it has to be rooted out completely as he addressed the valedictory function of the second National Youth Parliament Festival virtually."Dynasty politics is a challenge which has to be rooted out. The days of those who used to contest elections on the basis of their surname are numbered. But this disease is not completely destroyed yet," the Prime Minister said.Urging youngsters to lead the country in future, he called politics a strong medium to bring about changes in India.Prime Minister Modi called the National Youth Parliament Festival, which is observed on the birth anniversary of Swami Vivekananda, an "important day," and urged youngsters to join politics "in large numbers." He also paid tributes to Swami Vivekananda and narrated various anecdotes related to him."It is an important day today as the National Youth Parliament Festival is being held at the Central Hall of Parliament, where the framing of our Constitution took place," PM Modi said, urging youngsters to realise the significance of where they were sitting.The new National Education Policy (NEP), PM Modi said, aimed at holistic development of individuals. "The new National Education Policy is a step towards nation-building. We're building an ecosystem which will give better opportunities to our youth," he said.The theme for National Youth Day 2021 was 'YUVAAH-Utsah Naye Bharat Ka.'Since 1984, January 12 has been observed as National Youth Day to commemorate the birth anniversary of Swami Vivekananda who was born on this day in 1863. Born as Narendranath Dutta, Vivekananda, who died at a very young age of 39 on July 4, 1902, had delivered an iconic speech at Parliament of the World's Religions at Chicago in 1893.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-to-root-it-out-pm-modi-slams-dynastic-politics-on-national-youth-day-101610429481284.html
12-01-2021||India||Tiger translocated from Corbett to Rajaji Reserve lost radio-collar, located through camera-trap image: Uttarakhand Forest dept||A six-year-old male tiger that was translocated from Corbett Tiger Reserve to Rajaji Tiger Reserve on Saturday is reported to have lost its radio-collar. However, officials said that the tiger is present in the reserve. JS Suhag, chief wildlife warden of Uttarakhand forest department, said, “It is a young male tiger which has a lot of power and aggression. It is likely that it removed the radio-collar on its own. But the tiger is present in the reserve as it was camera trapped on January 10.” The chief wildlife warden added that the forest department’s main objective is to safely translocate the tigers to the western part of Rajaji with the aim of repopulating the landscape. “We have been monitoring tigers in Rajaji Tiger Reserve even without radio collars. Our aim is to translocate the tigers and their monitoring will be done through camera traps and patrolling as done for other animals,” added Suhag. On Saturday, the tiger was released in the western part of Rajaji Tiger Reserve, in Motichur area, by state forest minister Harak Singh Rawat. Before this, on December 24, a four-year-old tigress was translocated and released in a temporary enclosure in Rajaji Tiger Reserve. The tigress was translocated as part of a project to repopulate the western part of Rajaji, already home to two tigresses, which has not reported breeding in almost a decade. The project for translocation of tigers to the western part of Rajaji was approved by the Central government in 2016. A total of five tigers will be translocated to Rajaji. Rajaji Tiger Reserve currently has around 37 tigers with only three tigresses in its western part, which is spread over 570 sq km. It has a carrying capacity of 83 tigers, revealed a recent survey conducted by the state forest department. The eastern and the western part of the reserve are divided by a busy traffic corridor making it difficult for the tigers to migrate between the two parts. Caption: Camera trap image from Sunday of tiger that was translocated to Rajaji Tiger Reserve on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tiger-translocated-from-corbett-to-rajaji-reserve-has-loses-radio-collar-uttarakhand-forest-dept-101610437666575.html
12-01-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: India to help neighbours with emergency Covid vaccine; commercial supplies later||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India to help neighbours with emergency Covid vaccine; commercial supplies laterIndia will send a limited quantity of Covid-19 vaccines to neighbouring countries for “emergency use authorisation” under the grant-in-aid programme while commercial supplies will only take place after the vaccines get market authorisation. Read more Hopeful for positive situation: Army chief expects talks to resolve border crisis with ChinaIndian Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane said on Tuesday he expected talks to lead to an amicable solution to the border crisis with China that flared last year after a scrap in which 20 Indian soldiers were killed. Read more5.65 million Covid-19 vaccine doses to be transported on Day 1: Hardeep PuriAs the first batch of Covid-19 vaccines was sent to several cities across India from Pune's Serum Institute of India (SII) on Tuesday morning, Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri tweeted four carriers will operate nine flights to transport 5.65 million doses of Covishield. Read moreIndia vs Australia: 'He was not trying to change Rishabh Pant's guard mark,' Tim Paine defends Steve SmithAustralia captain Tim Paine on Tuesday defended Steve Smith and said the Aussie batsman was not trying to change Rishabh Pant's guard. Read moreKim Sharma rocks bikini looks at BTown's favourite holiday destination, MaldivesFrom leopard prints to glitzy beach wear and recently a sultry black bikini, Mohabbatein-fame Kim Sharma is setting the Internet ablaze with her sizzling looks during her stay at Bollywood's favourite holiday destination, Maldives. Read moreGullak Season 2 review: This middle class drama is as genuine as pure loveGullak is not just a piggybank that serves as the resting place of random change you have lying around, but also a reservoir of stories of the household it resides in. Read moreBMW 220i M Sport launched in India at an introductory price of ₹41 lakhBMW India has launched the 2 Series Gran Coupe in a new petrol variant in India today at an introductory price of ₹40.90 lakh. Read more Man creates song out of the ‘gamla’ scene from Kabhi Khushi Kabhie Gham. WatchOne of the top meme trends of 2020 undoubtedly was Rasode Mein Kaun Tha. Yashraj Mukhate, a sound engineer, turned a scene from the show Saath Nibhaana Saathiya into a song which many still can't stop humming. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-india-to-help-neighbours-with-emergency-covid-vaccine-commercial-supplies-later-101610435088244.html
12-01-2021||India||No prohibition on inter-state transport of gutkha, paan masala through Maharashtra: HC||The Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court has held that a ban on gutkha and paan masala in Maharashtra cannot be extended to prohibit inter-state transport of the banned products through the state. The division bench of justice Sunil Shukre and Avinash Gharote, however, clarified on Monday that the food and drugs administration (FDA) can examine and seize the consignments being transported across Maharashtra, in order to ensure that they are not offloaded in the state under the guise of inter-state transport.The court was hearing a petition filed by owner of a truck seized by FDA officials at Jaulka in Washim district on October 3, 2020, and the transporter who had engaged him to ferry the consignment.FDA officials seized the consignment as it contained paan masala, zarda and scented tobacco products banned in the state under an order issued by the food safety commissioner, Maharashtra, on July 15, 2020. The truck owner and the transporter said they were merely transporting the consignment from Valsad in Gujarat to two locations in Odisha where there is no ban on betelnut-based products.They had challenged the July 15, 2020 order, contending that it was unconstitutional and ultra vires the Food Safety and Standards Act (FSSA), 2006, for the enactment does not confer any power on the food safety commissioner to prohibit inter-state transportation of any goods, including gutkha and paan masala.One of their argument was that inter-state trade and commerce is a subject within the domain of Union of India, and as such, cannot be prohibited by the state.The HC accepted the contention and the bench said though FSSA is a central enactment, and though the food safety commissioner acts under it as a delegate of the Centre, his jurisdiction is limited to the state and any prohibition to manufacture, storage, distribution or sale, imposed by the commissioner has to operate within the state or such lesser area as may be notified by him.The bench clarified that this however will not mean that the FDA will be restrained from enforcing the prevailing ban on gutkha and paan masala in the state.In this regard, HC also took note of the grim reality that though there is a ban on manufacturing, distribution, storage and sale of gutkha and paan masala in Maharashtra, these products are available in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-prohibition-on-inter-state-transport-of-gutkha-paan-masala-through-maharashtra-hc-101610436646635.html
12-01-2021||India||Woman alleges petrol poured on son's private parts, burnt with cigarettes||A 15-year-old boy from Bikaner district was allegedly brutally thrashed, had petrol poured on his private parts and suffered cigarette burns by his four kidnappers, according to a complaint filed by the victim's mother on Monday at Bajju police station.“The accused and the victim’s families are old rivals. Our preliminary probe reveals that the boy sustained some minor injuries on his genitals and other parts,” said Priti Chandra, superintendent of police (SP), Bikaner.The victim's mother told police that on December 5 last year, her teenage son was going to his maternal grandfather when he was kidnapped and taken to Lunkaransar town.On the way, the accused forced him to drink liquor and also beat him, the victim’s mother alleged. The minor was allegedly in their custody for a month and was able to escape on January 4, the mother added.A case has been registered under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (wrongful restraint), 354 (assault to outrage modesty) of Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, said officer Chandra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-alleges-petrol-poured-on-son-s-private-parts-burnt-with-cigarettes-101610435432164.html
12-01-2021||India||MSME ministry secretary takes VRS, sets off buzz over next assignment||IAS officer Arvind Kumar Sharma of the Gujarat cadre, who headed the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) ministry as its secretary is learnt to have quit the job having taken voluntary retirement, according to a person aware of the developments.Sharma is an 1988 batch officer who has worked closely with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and handled important departments in the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO).Sharma had also closely worked with the prime minister when he was the chief minister of Gujarat. He had been a part of the chief minister’s office for several years and is known to be one of his trusted officers.Also Read: PM should apologise to farmers, says Oppn“Sharma has taken voluntary retirement effective from Monday,” said a government official when contacted.It is expected that Sharma may join another top position in the coming days, the person cited above said.A notification issued by the MSME ministry and seen by HT, said: “Consequent upon acceptance of his request for voluntary retirement by his cadre authority i.e. Government of Gujarat, Arvind Kumar Sharma IAS, secretary, ministry of micro, small and medium enterprises stands voluntarily retired from government service with effect from the afternoon of 11th January, 2021.”Sharma had been brought by the government to the MSME ministry, which was a move many believed was mainly due to the prime minister’s keenness to strengthen this key department which supports small business and consequently crores of Indians.“He was an officer who had impressed the prime minister with his ability and also had his trust. His retirement is largely seen as a precursor to a major position in the coming days,” said the first person cited above.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/msme-ministry-secretary-takes-vrs-sets-off-buzz-over-next-assignment-101610434546237.html
12-01-2021||India||Hopeful for positive situation: Army chief expects talks to resolve border crisis with China||Indian Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane said on Tuesday he expected talks to lead to an amicable solution to the border crisis with China that flared last year after a scrap in which 20 Indian soldiers were killed."I am hopeful that talks will lead to an amicable situation but we are prepared to meet any challenge," Gen Naravane said during the annual Army Day press conference.The army chief said Chinese troops have moved back from depth areas in the Tibetan plateau but there has been no thinning of troops at friction points in eastern Ladakh. Gen Naravane added that the situation in Ladakh will be resolved on the basis of mutual and equal security, which he said was important for disengagement and then de-escalation. The general also said that Pakistan and China pose a potent threat and their nexus can't be wished away.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-chief-expects-talks-to-resolve-border-row-with-china-101610434045414.html
12-01-2021||India||Signal becomes most downloaded app as privacy concerns dog WhatsApp||Messaging application Signal became the most downloaded app on Apple App Store on Monday days after Facebook-owned WhatsApp updated its privacy terms.WhatsApp seeks the right to share user data like location and phone number with Facebook and Instagram as part of the new privacy terms. The terms have triggered a backlash and migration of users to platforms such as Telegram and Signal amid concerns about Facebook’s poor record of handling user data.Signal was one of the most downloaded apps on Google Play Store globally on Monday and was ranked third with at least 10 million installations. It was the highest-ranked on App Store even as the number of downloads was unavailable. WhatsApp was in the third position on Apple App Store and did not feature among the top 10 apps on Google Play Store.Also Read: Paytm CEO ‘Signals’ users should leave WhatsApp over data privacy concernsInternet Freedom Foundation Trustee Apar Gupta called Signal a better alternative as it does not gather any data linked to users. “WhatsApp gathers metadata such as locations we share, our display pictures, who we message and when we message,” said Gupta. “We do not know how much data is stored and collected by WhatsApp, who is it being sold to and how are we being targeted with different kinds of ads. This is the core distinction between Signal and WhatsApp.”Gupta said to proceed with the continued use of WhatsApp, users cannot refuse their latest changes. “Once the data bill is passed [in India], a data protection authority will be able to monitor WhatsApp’s privacy policy.”Raman Chima, Asia Pacific policy director at Access Now, said Facebook promised to keep WhatsApp separate when it acquired the app. “Then, they [Facebook] said they would start transferring data, such as the number of users, contacts, who we regularly message. In the European Union, the European Commission fined Facebook for lying and suppressing a material fact. Facebook paid the fine and acknowledged that it had indeed suppressed information about data sharing.”Chima said metadata, one’s activity on WhatsApp with respect to messaging and contacting, may result in profiling for third-party services, allowing them to target selected people. “They are doing all of this without the informed consent of the users.”Unlike WhatsApp, Signal is decentralised, does not store metadata, or have advertising interests. Signal’s encryption protocol and software design are also available openly for researchers, making it trustworthy, experts say.In a tweet, Signal cited the advantages it has over WhatsApp. “Facebook is probably more comfortable selling ads than buying them, but they’ll do what they have to do in order to be the top result when some people search for ‘Signal’ in the App Store. P.S. There will never be ads in Signal, because your data belongs in your hands, not ours”.WhatsApp has given users until February 8 to accept the policy. It is also working to launch its own payments service. In a tweet, WhatsApp said, “We want to address some rumours and be 100% clear we continue to protect your private messages with end-to-end encryption.”Union Information technology ministry officials said that they were monitoring the developments. The government is formulating a personal data protection bill, which is currently under review of a parliamentary panel. The bill proposes to disallow companies from storing users’ data abroad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/signal-becomes-most-downloaded-app-as-privacy-concerns-dog-whatsapp-101610434185730.html
12-01-2021||India||PAGD not for petty electoral gains but for restoration of J&K’s special status, reiterates Mufti||Former Jammu & Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti has reiterated that the six-party People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) was not formed in October for petty electoral gains but for the restoration of Jammu & Kashmir’s special status. In a series of tweets, Mufti on Monday said the PAGD has rattled Delhi and there was speculation regarding the future of PAGD, which swept the District Development Councils polls in the Kashmir Valley last month. The polls were the first major electoral exercise in the region after it was stripped of its special semi-autonomous status under Constitution’s Article 370, which was nullified in 2019.“Amidst all the unnecessary speculation about PAGD, Id like make a few things absolutely clear. The purpose of this grand alliance [PAGD] is not for petty electoral gains. It exists for a much larger cause & purpose i.e to restore J&Ks special status,” tweeted Mufti, who heads the People’s Democratic Party (PDP).“A lot of baseless theories are being deliberately floated to discredit PAGD amongst masses since they overwhelmingly voted for us in the DDC elections. Regardless of who fought how many seats, our purpose to deny BJP [Bharatiya Janata Party] & its proxies democratic space has been achieved.”Mufti said that all parties of PAGD stand united. “Delhi is deeply rattled by PAGD so I expect this false campaign to intensify in the coming days. Many PDP leaders are already arrested & I expect the situation to worsen. But this will not break our resolve to stand united & fight for whats rightfully ours.”Mufti’s tweets came after two leaders of PAGD constituent People’s Conference and PDP leader Fiyaz Ahmad Mir questioned National Conference, which leads the grouping, for allegedly fielding proxy candidates in DDC polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pagd-not-for-petty-electoral-gains-but-for-restoration-of-j-k-s-special-status-reiterates-mufti-101610434126103.html
12-01-2021||India||India to first help neighbours with emergency Covid vaccine; commercial supplies later||India will send a limited quantity of Covid-19 vaccines to neighbouring countries for “emergency use authorisation” under the grant-in-aid programme while commercial supplies will only take place after the vaccines get market authorisation. The grant-in-aid restricted use to friendly neighbours will be rolled out soon after the Indian roll-out on January 16, people familiar with the matter said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi has made it clear that the commercial supplies of Serum’s Covishield and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin to foreign countries should be done under the aegis of the external affairs ministry in consultation with the pharmaceutical ministry, a senior government official said. PM Modi is in touch with the health ministry over the vaccine management and is ensuring that all government departments are in sync with each other as well as the private sector.“As of now, globally all vaccines are being sold only to national governments under emergency use authorisation, whether it is Pfizer or Moderna. The market authorisation is expected in the second quarter of the year, by which time the Phase 3 trial of all the named vaccine contenders are completed,” said a senior official.While the Modi government will buy 1.1 crore vials of vaccine by January 14, the shipping of “symbolic” quantities of the restricted use vaccine will be done immediately after the Indian roll-out.Bangladesh has tied up with Serum India for commercial supply of 30 million vials. Nepal is looking to procure 12 million vials from India apart from other neighbours such as Bhutan, Myanmar and Sri Lanka who have requested New Delhi for the Indian vaccines.Officials said the decision on the amount of vaccine to be made available under the emergency use authorisation will be taken by the external affairs ministry, which had last year also coordinated supplies of Hydroxychloroquine in the early phase of the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/untitleindia-to-help-neighbours-with-emergency-covid-vaccine-commercial-supplie-101610432616480.html
12-01-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi to attend Jallikattu in Madurai on January 14||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi will attend the popular bull taming sport of Jallikattu in Avaniyapuram in Madurai, Tamil Nadu, on Pongal on January 14, a party leader said. Gandhi, who left for abroad on December 27 a day ahead of the party’s 136th foundation day, will visit the state for the function soon after his return to India. With this, Gandhi will also kick off the party’s campaign for the upcoming assembly elections in the state where the Congress is in alliance with the Dravida Munnetra Kazagham. Tamil Nadu Congress chief KS Alagiri told reporters on Tuesday that Gandhi’s one-day visit would be the first of the series of visits that he would make in the run-up to assembly elections.The Tamil Nadu government has allowed Jallikattu with limited gathering. BJP president JP Nadda will also be in Tamil Nadu on the same day to participate in the Thuglak magazine’s 51st anniversary celebrations. Earlier, Union home minister Amit Shah was to be the chief guest of the event. Shah couldn’t attend due to unavoidable reasons and other party leaders are also invited to speak, tweeted Thuglak’s editor S Gurumurthy. (With inputs from Divya Chandrababu in Chennai)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-to-attend-jallikattu-in-madurai-on-january-14-101610432326755.html
12-01-2021||India||Covishield vaccine: First batch arrives in Delhi from Pune||The first lot of Covid-19 vaccines arrived at the Delhi airport from Pune on Tuesday morning in a SpiceJet flight. Later in the day, an Air India flight is also expected to fly in another consignment of the vaccines to Delhi from Pune. A total of nine flights from Pune will ship the Covid-19 vaccines to multiple cities including Delhi on Tuesday, officials said.ALSO WATCH | First batch of SII’s Covishield vaccines reach Delhi: Latest Updates﻿The SpiceJet flight SG8937, that brought the very first consignment of vaccines to Delhi, departed the Pune airport at 8.05am and landed at the Indira Gandhi International Airport at 10.15am. At the Delhi airport, a team of the officials from the Airport Authority of India, ministry of civil aviation, health ministry, Delhi airport and Central Industrial Security Force officers received the vaccines. The vaccines were taken to the cargo terminal where they were stored in temperature-controlled units. They will be transported to nearby centres.Also Read: Nearly 700,000 Covishield vaccines to reach Kolkata todayOfficials from the ministry of civil aviation, who are aware of the development, told Hindustan Times that on Tuesday, Air India, SpiceJet, GoAir and Indigo will operate nine flights from Pune with 5,650,000 doses to Delhi, Chennai, Kolkata, Guwahati, Shillong, Ahmedabad, Hyderabad, Vijayawada, Bhubaneswar, Patna, Bengaluru, Lucknow and Chandigarh.An official from the Delhi airport, who wished not to be named, said from the cargo terminals the vaccines will be sent to designated hospitals amidst heavy security in GPS-enabled trucks.CEO, Delhi International Airport Limited, Videh Kumar Jaipuriar said that a temperature-controlled facility, with temperatures ranging from -20 degrees Celsius to 25 degrees Celsius, at two cargo terminals can efficiently and safely handle these temperature-sensitive vaccines. “We have cool chambers and cool dollies to maintain the temperature required for these vaccines at the cargo terminal and during transit between aircraft and terminal or vice versa. Both the terminals can handle around 5.7 million vials a day,” he said.The Delhi Police, which will escort the vaccine-loaded trucks to the designated hospitals in the city, have also made elaborate arrangements outside the airport to facilitate speedy and smooth movement of the vaccines.Ajay Singh, chairman and managing director, SpiceJet, that brought in the first consignment of vaccines to Delhi, said the first lot of Covishield, consisting of 34 boxes and weighing 1088kg, is being carried from Pune to Delhi on SpiceJet flight 8937.“I am happy to share that SpiceJet has carried India’s first consignment of Covid vaccines today [Tuesday]. We will be carrying multiple vaccine consignments to different Indian cities, including Guwahati, Kolkata, Hyderabad, Bhubaneswar, Bengaluru, Patna and Vijayawada through the day today,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covishield-vaccine-first-batch-arrives-in-delhi-from-pune-101610432325596.html
12-01-2021||India||Sputnik V meets primary endpoint of safety in phase 2 clinical trial in India||Dr Reddy's Laboratories has said that independent Data and Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) reviewed the safety data from phase two clinical trial of Russia's Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V and recommended phase three recruitment along with continuing clinical trial without any modifications.The phase two study of Sputnik V was conducted on 100 subjects as part of randomised, double-blind, parallel-group, placebo-controlled study in India. The DSMB concluded that no safety concerns were identified and the study has met the primary endpoints of safety.Besides, the safety data has been submitted to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) for review and approval to continue phase three clinical trials."This further reinforces our confidence in the safety of Sputnik V, which has now been administered to more than 10 lakh people in Russia and more than three lakh people in Argentina," said G V Prasad, Co-chairman and Managing Director of Dr Reddy's Laboratories."We are working closely towards fast-tracking the launch of the Sputnik V vaccine in India."Kirill Dmitriev, CEO of the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), said the safety data from phase two clinical trial from India is very positive, and confirms the safety profile of Sputnik V in international markets."The Sputnik V consistently shows safety and high efficacy in international clinical trials as it is based on safe human adenoviral vector platform," he said.In September 2020, Dr Reddy's and RDIF entered into a partnership to conduct clinical trials of the Sputnik V vaccine and rights for distribution in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sputnik-v-meets-primary-endpoint-of-safety-in-phase-2-clinical-trial-in-india-101610431214097.html
12-01-2021||India||Delhi gets colder as minimum temperature falls to 4.3 degrees Celsius||Delhi’s minimum temperature on Tuesday fell to 4.3 degree Celsius, bringing cold wave-like conditions to the city.India Meteorological Department (IMD) data showed that the minimum temperature on Tuesday at the Safdarjung observatory, which is considered the official marker of the city, was 4.3 degrees Celsius, three degrees below the season’s normal. Also Read: Freezing weather in Asia sends energy prices soaring, catching markets off guardFor it to be considered a cold wave, the temperature needs to be at least four notches below normal.IMD scientists said that the fall in temperature was because of the cold, dry winds blowing over the city from the snow-clad states of Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh. IMD forecast has said that the temperatures over the next week are likely to be around 4-5 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-gets-colder-as-minimum-temperature-falls-to-4-3-degrees-celsius-101610430645462.html
12-01-2021||India||5.65 million Covid-19 vaccine doses to be transported on Day 1: Hardeep Puri||As the first batch of Covid-19 vaccines was sent to several cities across India from Pune's Serum Institute of India (SII) on Tuesday morning, Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri tweeted four carriers will operate nine flights to transport 5.65 million doses of Covishield.Also Read | Delhi airport set to receive first consignment of Covishield vaccines arriving from Pune todayTwo vaccines, Covishield and Covaxin, have been given emergency use authorisation (EUA) by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI). Covishield has been developed jointly by Oxford University and AstraZeneca and Covaxin is India’s first and indigenous vaccine against Covid-19, which has been developed by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech International Limited.A SpiceJet flight landed in Delhi from the Pune international airport with the first consignment of the Covid-19 vaccines.“Civil aviation sector launches yet another momentous mission. Vaccine movement starts. First two flights operated by @flyspicejet and @goairlinesindia from Pune to Delhi and Chennai have taken off,” Puri tweeted.“Today @airindiain, @flyspicejet, @goairlinesindia and @IndiGo6E will operate 9 flights from Pune with 56.5 lakh doses to Delhi, Chennai, Kolkata, Guwahati, Shillong, Ahmedabad, Hyderabad, Vijayawada, Bhubaneswar, Patna, Bengaluru, Lucknow and Chandigarh,” the civil aviation minister said in another tweet.Civil aviation sector launches yet another momentous mission.Vaccine movement starts. First two flights operated by @flyspicejet & @goairlinesindia from Pune to Delhi & Chennai have taken off. pic.twitter.com/uo11S4OvqKIndia will commence what will be the world’s largest vaccination drive from January 16. Interacting with chief ministers on the country’s vaccination plan, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday had said 30 million frontline workers will be vaccinated in the first phase, adding that the government would vaccinate 300 million citizens in the next few months.India is the world’s second worst-hit country after the United States with more than 10.47 million cases, as per the Union health ministry’s data on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/565-million-covid-19-vaccine-doses-to-be-transported-on-day-1-hardeep-puri-101610429634160.html
12-01-2021||India||PM rejects proposal to vaccinate MPs, MLAs on priority basis||Prime Minister Narendra Modi shot down a proposal to vaccinate all MPs and MLAs on a priority basis, saying it will send a “very bad signal” to the people. At the meeting between the Prime Minister and the chief ministers on Monday, Puducherry chief minister V Narayanasamy demanded that MPs and MLAs must be given Covid-19 vaccine on a priority basis as they, too, are in the frontline in tackling the virus and they have to interact with people in their constituencies. Refusing to entertain such an exemption for the elected representatives, he said in his concluding speech at the end of the meeting, “All these demands will send a very bad message. It will look like the government is not worried about the common people but is busy trying to cater to lawmakers.” The demand for vaccination of lawmakers also came as Parliament as well as state assemblies are set to hold their budget sessions in the next few weeks. The issue about cost-burden of the vaccines was raised by West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee. The PM replied that the cost of vaccination of 30 million healthcare and frontline workers will be borne by the Central government. The PM and the CMs are expected to meet again towards the end of this month or early February to discuss the modalities and cost sharing issues for the vaccines required for the remaining 270 million people in the priority list. “There will be another meeting to discuss about the expenses required to inoculate senior citizens and those with comorbidities,” said a senior official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-rejects-proposal-to-vaccinate-mps-mlas-on-priority-basis-101610429565859.html
12-01-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh paddy purchase outstrips its storage capacity as procurement continues||The Uttar Pradesh government has purchased more paddy than the state’s storage capacity even as the procurement will continue till February, officials aware of the matter said. The procurement will follow the purchase of wheat from April, they added.Food and civil supplies commissioner Manish Chauhan said the paddy will be purchased till the procurement season ends and they may request the Food Corporation of India to move the surplus from Uttar Pradesh. “...we may also think of distributing rice under the public distribution system for two months at one go to create additional space,” he said.Uttar Pradesh distributes 8lakh metric tons (LMT) of subsidised rice monthly.Officials said over 57 LMT of paddy worth Rs10,274 crore has been purchased from 1.1 million farmers so far. The target for purchase was 55 LMT. They added the final procurement is likely to around 70 LMT. Around 45 LMT of paddy was purchased during the corresponding period last year.Chauhan said overall 56.6 LMT paddy was purchased last year. “...[It] was the highest-ever and this year the paddy purchase has already broken last year’s record.”Uttar Pradesh’s total storage capacity is around 50 LMT.An official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said they have to store paddy scientifically and unlike wheat, rice cannot be stored in the open. “We are fast running out of safe storage capacity and the government will have to find a short-term solution immediately.”Chauhan said the Minimum Support Price (MSP) that the government is offering is much higher than what the farmers are being offered in the open market. “...because of this, most farmers are trying to sell their paddy to the government at MSP,” Chauhan said.Officials said the government has also undertaken aggressive procurement in view of the protests against the three farm laws enacted in September to liberalise the farm economy. The protesting farmers say the laws will lead benefit big corporations and erode the MSP system.Officials said the difference between MSP and the market price for paddy is around ₹400-500 per quintal in Uttar Pradesh. “Earlier, the difference used to be nominal due to which many farmers preferred to sell their produce to private players even if the MSP was a little higher to avoid inconvenience involved in taking the produce to government purchase centres,” said a second official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-paddy-purchase-outstrips-its-storage-capacity-as-procurement-continues-101610428665015.html
12-01-2021||India||First flight with Covid-19 vaccines lands in Delhi from Pune||The first consignment of Covishield vaccines reached Delhi from Pune on Tuesday, four days ahead of the launch of a nationwide drive against the coronavirus.A SpiceJet flight carrying the vaccines landed at the Delhi airport around 10 am. It had left for the national capital around 8 am, three hours after three trucks with the maiden consignment of the vaccines rolled out of the Serum Institute of India (SII) facility, 15 km from the Pune airport.Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said four airlines will operate nine flights to transport 56.5 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccine from Pune to 13 cities across the country on Tuesday.Vaccine movement has started, he said on Twitter, adding that first two flights operated by "SpiceJet and GoAir from Pune to Delhi and Chennai have taken off".Three temperature-controlled trucks rolled out of the Serum Institute gates shortly before 5 am and left for Pune airport, from where the vaccines will be flown across India.A 'puja' was performed before the vehicles left the facility."I am happy to share that SpiceJet has carried India's first consignment of COVID vaccine today. The first consignment of Covishield consisting of 34 boxes and weighing 1,088 kg was carried from Pune to Delhi on SpiceJet flight 8937," said Ajay Singh, Chairman and Managing Director, SpiceJet.Covishield is developed by Oxford University and British-Swedish company AstraZeneca and manufactured by the SII.The government on Monday placed firm orders in advanced commitments for over 6 crore doses of Covid vaccine from SII and Bharat Biotech for inoculating three crore healthcare and frontline workers in the first phase of the vaccination drive scheduled to start from January 16, together which will cost ₹1,300 crore.The Pune airport tweeted on Monday morning that the "vaccine to kill the disease is being loaded onto the aircrafts for distribution all over the country now"."Today marks the beginning of a long and decisive phase in India's fight against the pandemic and SpiceJet is proud to assist in the biggest vaccination drive in the history of mankind," said SpiceJet CMD Ajay Singh."We will be carrying multiple vaccine consignments to different Indian cities including Guwahati, Kolkata, Hyderabad, Bhubaneswar, Bengaluru, Patna and Vijayawada through the day today. SpiceJet is fully committed and prepared to transport the Covid vaccine both within and outside India," Singh said.Interacting with chief ministers on Monday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi underscored the enormity of what he called as the world's biggest vaccination exercise, saying over 30 crore citizens will get the jabs in the next few months in India against only 2.5 crore people vaccinated so far in over 50 countries in around a month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-flight-with-covid-19-vaccines-lands-in-delhi-from-pune-101610428219716.html
12-01-2021||India||Maharashtra: Daily Covid cases decline; MMR continues to be the most affected area||Even though the number of Covid-19 cases recorded daily has reduced in Maharashtra over the past two months, the contribution of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), which comprises Mumbai and its surrounding areas, to the daily tally remains the same as it continues to be the most-affected region in Maharashtra.Of the total 2,438 cases reported on January 11, as many as 826 cases were reported from the MMR (33.88% of the day’s tally). A month ago, it was 30.48% when the daily case count of the region was 1,301 of the total 4,268 cases reported in the state on December 11, shows the data released by the state health department.A look at the MMR’s contribution in the last six days (January 5-10) also indicates the same. MMR’s contribution to the daily infections was 34.33%, 33.63%, 34.75%, 34.84%, 31.94% and 33.95% on January 5,6,7,8,9 and 10 respectively.Also Read: India records 12,584 new Covid-19 cases, lowest since June 16MMR comprises nine municipal corporations, including Mumbai and the rural areas of Thane, Palghar and Raigad districts. The region has also reported 6,76,298 cases, the maximum count, among all regions till January 11.Pune region follows MMR in terms of daily case count. On January 11, it recorded 432 cases, the second-highest contribution to cases in the state. It is also the second most-affected area after MMR with 488,704 cases, as of January 11, states the data.It comprises three municipal corporations — Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad, Solapur—and rural areas of Pune, Solapur and Satara districts.“Despite concerns of a surge, the current trend shows a different picture as the state is still recording less cases, which is a positive sign. As far as the contribution of MMR is concerned, its tally is affected because of Mumbai, which is still reporting the highest number of cases among all the cities and districts across the state,” said a health official, wishing not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-daily-covid-cases-decline-mmr-continues-to-be-the-most-affected-area-101610428365119.html
12-01-2021||India||Final dry run for Covid-19 vaccination held in Uttar Pradesh||The final dry run for the Covid-19 vaccination was conducted at 1,500 centres across Uttar Pradesh on Monday ahead of the first phase of the immunisation campaign across the country on January 16.Additional chief secretary (health and family welfare) Amit Mohan Prasad said 900,000 health care workers will be among those vaccinated during the first phase.Prasad said 3,000 vaccination sessions were organised at government district hospitals, government and private medical colleges, community health centres, primary health centres and railway hospitals as part of the final dry run.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath reviewed the dry run in 75 districts via video conference with the district administration officers.The previous state-wide dry runs were conducted on January 5 and January 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/final-dry-run-for-covid-19-vaccination-held-in-uttar-pradesh-101610428244656.html
12-01-2021||India||Nearly 700,000 Covishield vaccines to reach Kolkata today||With four days remaining for the Covid vaccination drive to begin, around 700,000 Covishield vaccines are scheduled to arrive in Kolkata on Tuesday. “The first consignment of Covishield vaccines, comprising 689,000 doses, is scheduled to arrive in Kolkata in the afternoon from Pune’s Serum Institute,” said a top official of the state health department. Dry runs have already been carried out across the state in this month itself. While the first dry run was done at three sites in North 24 Parganas, it was carried out in all the districts, including Kolkata, later. The vaccines would first be taken to the central store of the health department in Kolkata from where they would be sent to 941 Covid chain points across the state. Also read | First Covishield vaccines to arrive in Delhi todayThe state government has identified 44,000 vaccinators and more than 4,000 vaccine administration session sites for phase-1 vaccination. Around 580,000 government and private healthcare workers have been enrolled. Data of another 250,000 police personnel and 125,000 municipal workers was also being uploaded. “We have formed a state level committee headed by the chief secretary, state level task force, district level task forces and block level task forces. All these are meeting regularly to ensure all necessary arrangements for Covid-19 vaccine administration in a time-bound manner,” said another official. Covid-19 cases have come down drastically in the state in the past two months. On November 1, West Bengal had more than 36,000 active cases. This dropped to around 7,000 on Monday. Till date, the state has reported 561,000 Covid-19 cases out of which, 9,957 people have died. Kolkata and North 24 Parganas district have reported the maximum cases in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nearly-700-000-covishield-vaccines-to-reach-kolkata-today-101610427345044.html
12-01-2021||India||Farmers’ protests: SC to deliver order on farm laws today||The Supreme Court will today take up a clutch of petitions on farm laws, a day after it indicated that the three contentious legislations will have to be put on hold for create an atmosphere conducive for talks.The SC bench, led by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde, has fixed the matter on Tuesday for delivering an order.On Monday, the bench had asked the Central government if it was willing to pause the implementation of the laws; it said the court will otherwise do it. Attorney General KK Venugopal was asked to come back with a response.Also Read: Farm stir fanned by vested interests: GovtSimilarly, senior advocate Dushyant Dave, representing the farmers’ unions, was also asked to consult the farmers and inform the court if they were willing to join the deliberations before a committee, which the court proposed to constitute for resolving the issues.However, late on Monday evening, the unions issued a statement that they would not want to go before the proposed committee. According to the unions, it would not make any sense to go before the committee after the government’s affidavit which maintained that laws will not be repealed.The hearing in the top court is scheduled around 12pm today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-verdict-on-farm-laws-today-101610427165104.html
12-01-2021||India||India records 12,584 new Covid-19 cases, lowest since June 16||With 12,584 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the lowest in nearly seven months, and 167 related deaths between Monday and Tuesday morning, India's tally has risen over 10.47 million, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Tuesday morning. India, which has the second-highest number of cases in the world, has seen its daily tally of infections gradually ease from nearly 100,000 Covid-19 cases in September last year.The country's death toll stands at 151,327, the health ministry's dashboard at 8am showed.There have been less than 170 daily deaths for the last two days, data shows. The number of active cases of Covid-19 was at 216,558 and 18,385 people were cured of the viral disease in the last 24 hours, which have taken the recoveries in the country to 10,111,294 and the recovery rate to 96.48%.Also read | Delhi airport set to receive first consignment of Covishield vaccines arriving from Pune todayIndia will start its vaccination drive from January 16 and three trucks loaded with the first doses of the Covishield vaccine against the coronavirus disease left from Pune's Serum Institute of India (SII) to be sent to various cities across India. Covishield, which has been developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca and manufactured by the Pune-based SII, and Bharat Biotech's Covaxin were among the two vaccines approved by the drugs regulator.These vaccines will be carried in private air carriers to Delhi Chennai, Chandigarh, Kolkata, Gandhinagar, Hyderabad, Vijaywada, Bhubaneswar, Guwahati, Bengaluru, Patna, and Lucknow.Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday that the Centre will bear the entire cost of vaccinating 30 million health care and frontline workers at the start of the world’s biggest immunisation drive against the coronavirus disease. The cost for this phase could be around ₹10,000 crore, according to officials who did not want to be named.Modi, in his virtual meeting with chief ministers five days before the vaccination drive on Saturday, said some more vaccines are in the pipeline and expected to arrive by the time India starts inoculating senior citizens and those with comorbidities.India aims to vaccinate 300 million people in the first phase of its drive, turning its attention to people above 50 years of age and those below 50 with comorbidities, after administering the shot to health-care and front-line workers who are at the vanguard of the fight against the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-12-584-new-covid-19-cases-167-deaths-101610425597355.html
12-01-2021||India||Bird flu confirmed in Mumbai, BMC seeks info on dead birds||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has asked people to inform the civic body’s disaster management cell on the number 1916 if they see any unusual bird deaths. The appeal came as two cases of bird flu were reported in the city on Monday.The BMC separately issued a circular on Monday asking its market department to issue guidelines for inspections of chicken and mutton markets to ensure retailers follow cleanliness, hygiene norms and for appropriate action against the violators.Also read | Bird flu spreads to forest areas, triggers worries about safety of endangered speciesThe circular said dead birds have to be disposed of in line with the government’s bird flu norms. BMC officers have been directed to inform rapid response teams formed to tackle the spread of bird flu before burying the dead birds.The BMC also plans citizen awareness programmes on how the bird flu spreads as retailers have said their business has gone down by around 20% because of bird flu fears.Samples of two out of 11 birds found dead in Mumbai’s Chembur on Sunday tested positive for bird flu on Monday. Earlier 13 birds were reportedly found dead in Thane and prompted the Thane Municipal Corporation to set-up a control room. On Monday, 800 chickens were reported dead because of bird flu in Parbhani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bird-flu-confirmed-in-mumbai-bmc-seeks-info-on-dead-birds-101610425724821.html
12-01-2021||India||Co-owner of Mumbai’s famous Muchhad Paanwala arrested by NCB in drugs case||Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) arrested Ramkumar Tiwari, one of the owners of Muchhad Paanwala shop, on Tuesday morning after drugs were allegedly found in the warehouse of the shop owner. Ramkumar Tiwari is one of the four sons of Shyamcharan Tiwari who started the famous Muchhad Paanwala shop at Kemps Corner in south Mumbai in the late 1970s.NCB’s zonal director Sameer Wankhede confirmed the arrest. “Drugs were found in a warehouse owned by Ramkumar Tiwari. He is one of the owners of Muchhad Paanwala,” said Wankhede. Tiwari will be produced in court on Tuesday, added Wankhede. NCB, however, did not give details of the drugs found in the warehouse.Also Read: Drugs found from warehouse of Mumbai’s famous paan vendorWankhede said that others working at the paan shop were being interrogated and that the drugs seized have been send for testing. Jaishankar Tiwari, Ramkumar Tiwari’s brother, was summoned on Monday after the name of Mucchad Panwala cropped up in NCB’s investigation, following the arrest of a British national Karan Sejnani and sisters Rahila and Shaista Furntiurewala from Bandra on January 9. About 200 kilograms of marijuana was seized from the three.NCB had arrested Sejnani following a specific input, after the agency seized around 340 grams of marijuana stored in three parcels from the office of a courier service company in Bandra. They raided Sejnani’s flat at Khar and found 194.6kg of imported strains of marijuana. After his interrogation, officers raided the home of Rahila and Shaista Furniturewala in Bandra and found a small quantity of drugs. They were arrested under various sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coowner-of-mumbai-s-famous-muchhad-paanwala-arrested-in-drugs-case-101610425364473.html
12-01-2021||India||Bird flu spreads to forests, triggers concerns about safety of endangered species||Bird flu, or avian influenza, has spread to the forest and protected areas of Himachal Pradesh, Gujarat, and Kerala and infected mostly migratory duck species over the past week, the Union environment ministry has said. In other states, mostly poultry has been impacted.“The first cases of avian influenza were reported from the Pong Dam in Himachal Pradesh. But following that reports have come from forest areas of Kerala and Gujarat where the affected birds are mostly migratory duck species in forest wetlands,” said the ministry’s additional director general, Soumitra Dasgupta.The ministry is trying to get other agencies like the department of fisheries involved in controlling the spread. “We have to see which are the other bird species that have been infected,” said Dasgupta.Dasgupta added an advisory was issued to all chief wildlife wardens on January 3 asking them to keep a strict vigil on the wintering habitats of migratory birds including wetlands for any mortality or outbreak signs.Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS) director Bivash Pandav said most migratory waterfowl species are known to be carriers of the H5N1 virus (bird flu). “Most recently there have been reports of red junglefowl [contracting the disease]... They are a relatively rugged species. So, it is very surprising that they contracted the virus. The avian influenza virus normally does not jump over to humans but can be easily transmitted from migratory species to domestic birds and has great potential to completely damage our poultry... and even pigs.”Also read | Poultry sector predicts losses of over ₹1k-crPandav said the possibility of endangered bird species contracting the virus cannot be ruled out. “We have to be extremely watchful and monitor wetlands and other wintering grounds. You cannot catch migratory birds and vaccinate them. All you can do is protect other species like vultures. Precautions must be taken in zoos. This epidemic cannot be taken lightly as the virus mutates and evolves very quickly.” Pandav added birders and nature lovers can help in reporting cases of dead or sick birds but they should avoid going close to them.The ministry’s advisory said the affected birds have symptoms such as tremors, diarrhoea, head tilt, and paralysis. The disease spreads quickly causing paralysis and staggering. The advisory asked state chief wildlife wardens to prepare action plans for monitoring migratory birds and for dealing with any emergency.“Dead birds should be handled with utmost caution and scientific supervision and surveillance should not be restricted to the protected areas alone, but to all such wetlands and habitats that provide grounds to the migrating birds and to areas where there is a possibility of interaction of migratory birds and poultry such as backyard poultry.”The forest department staff has been asked to use protective gear like rubber gloves, eye gear, or face shield, and to disinfect hands and surfaces and take antiviral drugs. The virus is much more difficult to inactivate if it is encrusted in organic material such as faeces or soil.Experts say bird flu has various strains with H5N1 being the worst as it can jump from birds to mammals. H5N1 also spreads through fomites or infected surfaces. So, surfaces interacting with infected bird species can also spread the virus.Ornithologist Asad Rahmani said most domestic birds are kept away from wild birds but as domesticated ducks feed in the same paddy fields where wild ducks also feed, there are chances that disease may transmit either way. “Similarly, poultry farms are spread all over India, sometimes near to areas where wild birds are found. Hence, poultry farm birds are also susceptible to get the avian flu from wild birds [and vice versa].”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bird-flu-spreads-to-forest-areas-triggers-worries-about-safety-of-endangered-species-101610425184758.html
12-01-2021||India||10 die, several take ill after consuming hooch in Madhya Pradesh’s Morena||At least 10 villagers died and several others took ill, allegedly after consuming hooch in Morena district, 465 km north of Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh, late night on Sunday, said police. According to police, the deceased belonged to two villages-- Chhaira Manpura under Baghchini police station and Pahawali under Sumaoli police station, situated about 25 to 30 km from the district headquarters. At least 10 villagers have been hospitalised. Inspector general of police Manoj Sharma said, “We are trying to identify where they bought the liquor. The villagers consumed liquor in a group. Those taken ill have been admitted to hospitals in Morena and Gwalior. The bodies would be sent for post-mortem. The cause of death can only be established after the post-mortem reports come.” Sumaoli police station in-charge Ravi Gurjar said, “As per the information gathered so far, the victims were attending a party where they consumed liquor made locally. Some villagers said the liquor was made with some chemicals. An investigation is going on.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-die-several-take-ill-after-consuming-hooch-in-madhya-pradesh-s-morena-101610424464299.html
12-01-2021||India||Congress panel waits for Rahul Gandhi’s return to finalise internal poll schedule||A Congress panel tasked to hold organisational elections is waiting for former party chief Rahul Gandhi to return to India to finalise the schedule for the internal polls, people aware of the matter said. Gandhi, who left for abroad on December 27, is expected to return in next few days. A member of the central election authority (CEA) of the Congress said the panel was to announce the schedule by December-end but it got delayed as efforts to build consensus on the presidential candidate are on. He said Congress president Sonia Gandhi’s meeting with party leaders, including some members of the group of 23 letter writers, was part of that consensus-building. “What we gather is that there is a broad consensus among the party leaders on the name now,” the CEA member quoted above said on the condition of anonymity. Also Read: ‘Too much vikas’: Rahul Gandhi stings govt; uses GDP, employment dataOnce the schedule is finalised, the Congress Working Committee (CWC), the party’s highest decision-making body, will meet to clear it. At Sonia Gandhi’s meeting with dissenters and other senior leaders at her 10, Janpath residence on December 19, there was a renewed call for Rahul Gandhi to return as the party chief. While Rahul Gandhi said it would not be appropriate to interfere in the ongoing internal election process, the dissenters are firm that they will not accept a “proxy” candidate and insist that polls should be held at all levels, including the CWC. As per Congress Constitution, 12 of the 25 CWC members have to be elected by All India Congress Committee (AICC) delegates and the rest appointed by the party president.The CWC has not witnessed any election in over two decades now. The last elections to the CWC was in 1997 during the Kolkata plenary. Prior to that, the CWC polls took place in 1992 at the Tirupati session. The CEA member quoted above said the panel is expected to wind up the organisational polls by February-end as per the deadline to inform the Election Commission of the completion of the process. He said in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the CEA has decided to restrict the number of electoral college AICC members. “We will not include the co-opted members this time. So, the electoral college will have around 800 members only” he added. The CEA member further said that the digital IDs of the AICC members are almost ready to enable the panel to hold virtual sessions in case it is difficult to hold such a convention physically due to Covid-19. The five-member CEA is headed by Madhusudan Mistry and its members are Rajesh Mishra, Krishna Byre Gowda, S Jothimani and Arvinder Singh Lovely, one of the 23 signatories to a letter written to Sonia Gandhi in August 2020 seeking a complete overhaul of the party and a full-time leadership to stem the steady decline of the 135-year-old organisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-panel-waits-for-rahul-gandhi-s-return-to-finalise-internal-poll-schedule-101610424044101.html
12-01-2021||India||Rajnath Singh to visit Goa today to inquire about health of Shripad Naik||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday informed that he will go to Goa to inquire about the health of his deputy Shripad Naik, who suffered injuries in an accident."I will go to Goa today to inquire about the health of Minister of State for Defense Shri Shripad Naik and his ongoing treatment. May God give strength and strength to his family in this hour of crisis and sorrow," Singh tweeted.The accident took place near a village in Ankola Taluk of Uttara Kannada district in Karnataka on Monday. Naik along with his wife and personal assistant were on their way to Gokarna from Yellapur. His wife Vijaya Naik and the personal assistant died in the accident.Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant has said that Naik is out of danger and in a stable condition."All the health parameters of Union Minister Shri Shripad Bhau Naik are stable and he is undergoing treatment at ICU of Goa Medical College," Sawant tweeted.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had earlier spoken to Sawant to ensure proper arrangements for the treatment of Naik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-to-visit-goa-today-to-inquire-about-health-of-shripad-naik-101610423102340.html
12-01-2021||India||Delhi airport set to receive first consignment of Covishield vaccines arriving from Pune today||The first lot of Covid-19 vaccines is to arrive at Delhi airport from Pune on Tuesday morning aboard a SpiceJet flight. Later in the day, an Air India flight is expected to fly in another consignment of the vaccines to Delhi from Pune.The SpiceJet flight SG8937 departed the Pune airport at 8.05am and is expected to land at Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport by 10.15am. At the Delhi airport, a team of the officials from the Airport Authority of India, ministry of civil aviation, health ministry, Delhi airport and Central Industrial Security Force officers is waiting to receive the vaccines that will be transported to designated hospitals in GPS-enabled trucks.An official from the Delhi airport said that preparations have been made at the cargo terminals at Delhi airport and the staff is waiting to receive the vaccines, which will be stored in temperature-controlled units.Also Read: Serum Institute’s Covishield supplies begin moving from Pune unit for distribution across nationThe Delhi Police have also made elaborate arrangements outside the airport to facilitate speedy and smooth movement of the vaccines to the hospitals.Ajay Singh, chairman and managing director, SpiceJet, said the first consignment of Covishield consisting of 34 boxes and weighing 1088kg is on the way from Pune to Delhi.“I am happy to share that SpiceJet has carried India’s first consignment of Covid-19 vaccines today [Tuesday]. We will be carrying multiple vaccine consignments to different Indian cities including Guwahati, Kolkata, Hyderabad, Bhubaneswar, Bengaluru, Patna and Vijayawada through the day today,” Singh said.He added that SpiceJet is fully committed and prepared to transport the Covid-19 vaccine both within and outside India. “Today marks the beginning of a long and decisive phase in India’s fight against the pandemic and SpiceJet is proud to assist in the biggest vaccination drive in the history of mankind,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-consignment-of-covishield-vaccines-to-arrive-from-pune-to-delhi-today-101610423145251.html
12-01-2021||India||Akhilesh Yadav on hop, stop, click temple run in Uttar Pradesh||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav has been keeping a bustling schedule, visiting Hindu pilgrimage centres like Ayodhya, Chitrakoot across Uttar Pradesh and meeting saints and seers almost on a regular basis. Yadav has also been invoking Hindu deities - Ram, Krishna, Hanuman, and Parshuram. Political observers say it appears the party is treading the soft Hindutva path in the run-up to the Uttar Pradesh assembly polls, due to be held early next year.The former Uttar Pradesh chief minister made a brief stopover in Ayodhya from Azamgarh four weeks back, where he said: “Is Lord Ram not of Samajwadis (socialists)?"Then, on January 8, Yadav visited Chitrakoot, did a full 5.5-kilometre parikrama (circumambulation) of the Kamtanath temple at Kamadgiri. Kamadgiri is believed to have been the abode of Lord Ram, Sita, and Lakshman during their exile.The 47-year-old also visited half-a-dozen temples, including a Hanuman temple, and met seers and saints there. He took their blessings and posted pictures of his visit on his Twitter account. He took credit for development of the circumambulation route and accused the BJP government of neglecting it.Before this, in Ayodhya, he had similarly stated that it was his government that planted Parijat trees on the Ayodhya parikrama routes.“When Lord Ram returned to Ayodhya, Parijat trees showered flowers on him. Parijat is also associated with Lord Krishna, it was he who brought the tree to earth. That story is different. We revere all the incarnations of Lord Vishnu — Ram, Krishna, and others," he had said and added that he would soon visit Ayodhya with his family.He also emphasised: “I am religious. I have a temple at home, one outside, and had built one at the chief minister's residence during my stay there.”Political observers call it a clear and emphatic display of soft Hindutva by the former chief minister and say that it is an attempt to attract Hindu voters."It's a logical strategy. The party is aware that apart from its traditional Yadav and Muslim vote banks, and secular posturing, it’s important to win over Hindu voters as well if they have to win the 2022 polls," said Prof SK Dwivedi, a political analyst and former head of the department of political science, Lucknow University.“WH Morris Jones, an eminent writer, wrote that in Indian politics there are three political idioms at play — traditional (caste, creed, etc), modern (democracy, secularism, constitution, etc), and saintly (religion, religious leaders, seers, maulanas, etc). What Akhilesh Yadav is exercising is saintly idiom ahead of the polls. It’s logical also considering the ruling party, the BJP, has been emphatic about its Hindutva,” Dwivedi added.Two weeks ago, a group of Hindu, Muslim, and Sikh religious leaders from Ayodhya visited him in Lucknow. On the occasion, Ayodhya’s former SP MLA Tej Narayan Pandey, aka Pawan Pandey, who is most likely to contest the 2022 polls from Ayodhya again, had accused the BJP government of ignoring Parshuram, a Brahmin warrior.He had said: “This BJP government scrapped the holiday that Akhileshji’s government had introduced on Parshuram Jayanti (birth anniversary).”Yadav had said several times that on return to power, he will reintroduce the Parshuram Jayanti holiday.He also frequently talks about the ancient King Harshvardhan whose capital was Kannauj and his contribution to Kumbh fair where he used to donate everything he had.Yadav represented Kannauj thrice in Lok Sabha. And it was at the same event that he made the statement: "Lord Ram is not of BJP alone. Lord Ram is of all Indians and all the people outside India.”Perhaps in response, chief minister Yogi Adityanath was quick to say in a public meeting: "Those who used to say Ram was a kalpanik (imaginary) figure, are now saying Ram is of everyone.”On Sunday, on his return to Lucknow from his Chitrakoot trip, Akhilesh Yadav tweeted: “Harey Krishna, Harey Krishna, Krishna Krishna Harey Harey; Harey Ram, Harey Ram, Ram Ram Harey Harey”. Along with the tweet, there was a picture of him standing next to a temple.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/akhilesh-yadav-on-whirlwind-hop-stop-click-temple-run-in-uttar-pradesh-101610422620570.html
12-01-2021||India||Union minister Shripad Naik's condition stable after accident, says Goa CM||Union minister Shripad Naik, who was injured in a road accident in Karnataka on Monday, is out of danger and in a stable condition, Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant has said. The minister's wife Vijaya Naik and his close aide died after suffering injuries in the accident that occurred in a village in Karnataka's Uttara Kannada district."All the health parameters of Union Minister Shri Shripad Bhau Naik are stable and he is undergoing treatment at ICU of Goa Medical College," Sawant tweeted. "He is out of danger and his health condition is stable. Two minor surgeries would be performed on him tonight. As of now, there is no requirement to shift him to Delhi for treatment," Sawant also said while speaking to reporters, according to ANI.The 68-year-old minister and the others who were injured were shifted to Panaji's Goa Medical Hospital at Bambolim, according to Ankola Police. Naik, who is the Union minister of state for AYUSH (independent charge), was coming back after offering prayers at Yellapur's famous Gante Ganesha Temple when his vehicle met with the accident, police in Ankola said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had earlier spoken to Goa chief minister Sawant to ensure proper arrangements for Naik's treatment. Defence minister Rajnath also spoke to the Goa chief minister. "The State Government is properly managing the treatment of Sripadji. Pray to God that Shripadji recovers soon," Singh tweeted in Hindi.Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa has condoled the death of Vijaya Naik and the president of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Sadanand Tanavade also wished speedy recovery of the Union minister."Shocked and pained to learn about the tragic death of Vijaya Naik in an accident. Wishing for the earliest recovery of Shripad Naik. Hope he is out of danger soon. Also, pray to Mahaprabhu Jagannath to give Shripad and family the strength to overcome this loss," Union minister of petroleum and natural gas and steel Dharmendra Pradhan said.Union road transport minister Nitin Gadkari said he is "anguished to hear about the demise of Vijaya Naik ji in a road accident. Praying for the quick recovery of Shripad Naik, may God give him and his family the strength to overcome the loss."(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-minister-shripad-naik-s-condition-stable-after-accident-says-goa-cm-101610421158137.html
12-01-2021||India||‘Cold day’ conditions likely over many parts of northwest India||Minimum and maximum temperatures have started to reduce in many parts of northwest India.Due to dry north or northwesterly winds, the minimum temperature is very likely to gradually fall by 2-4 degrees Celsius over most parts of northwest India during the next 3-4 days which is likely to cause “cold day”/ “severe cold day” conditions in many pockets of Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, northwest Uttar Pradesh and north Rajasthan during the next three days and “cold wave”/ “severe cold wave” conditions in pockets over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, northwest Uttar Pradesh and north Rajasthan during the next 3-4 days.Also Read: At 23.5° C, Mumbai records highest minimum temp in January since 2011Strong surface winds (with speed 15-25kmph) are very likely over the plains of northwest India during the next two days.On Monday, in Chandigarh, the maximum temperature was 12 degrees Celsius, 8.4 degrees below normal; Rohtak 13.5 degrees Celsius, 6 degrees below normal; Bathinda 14.4 degrees Celsius, 6.5 degrees below normal. In Delhi, the maximum temperature was 16.2 degrees Celsius, 3.8 degrees below normal. Day temperatures are likely to fall further on Tuesday.According to IMD, a “cold day” or “severe cold day” is considered based on two parameters—a minimum temperature of under 10 degrees Celsius and maximum temperature that is 4.5 degrees Celsius or 6.4 degrees below normal respectively. A “cold wave” occurs in plains when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and/or is 4.5 notches lesser than the season’s normal for two consecutive days. Cold wave is also declared when the minimum temperature is less than 4 degree Celsius in the plains. Witnessing a cold day and cold wave together means the gap between day and night temperatures was lower than normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cold-day-conditions-likely-over-many-parts-of-northwest-india-101610421023640.html
12-01-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Flight with Covid-19 vaccine leaves for Delhi||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.First flight ferrying Covid-19 vaccines departs from Pune to DelhiThe first flight ferrying Covid-19 vaccines from the Serum Institute of India’s (SII) in Pune departed at 8am and will land in Delhi at 10.15am, officials aware of the development said. Read moreNo chief guest this R-DayIndia has decided to go ahead with a truncated parade to mark Republic Day (January 26) without a chief guest, people familiar with the matter said. Read moreMaharashtra targets 50,000 shots on first day of vaccination driveThe Maharashtra government expects around 50,000 of its health workers to be inoculated on the first day of the world’s biggest Covid-19 vaccination drive, starting from January 16 across India. Read moreIndia vs Australia: 'Spoke to Ashwin, had a bit of laugh,' Tim Paine apologises for sledging incident during Sydney TestAustralia captain Tim Paine on Tuesday issued an apology for his misconduct on Day 5 of the 3rd Test against India in Sydney. Speaking to reporters, Paine admitted that he let the pressure get to him and said a few words he should not have said. Read moreFirst photo of Virat Kohli and Anushka Sharma’s baby girl takes internet by storm. See it hereThe first picture of Virat Kohli and Anushka Sharma’s daughter is here! Virat’s brother, Vikas Kohli, took to Instagram to welcome the new member of the family. Read moreSonakshi Sinha’s hand embroidered cape, kite pants set gleeful mood for the weekAdding all the missing energy and warmth to our weekday, Dabangg star Sonkashi Sinha served a radiant look from her sartorial closet which has set us swooning over her fusion style early morning. Read moreSony PlayStation 5 pre-orders begin today in IndiaSony’s much-awaited PlayStation 5 will finally be available for pre-orders in India today. Sony’s latest gaming console is scheduled to launch in India on February 2. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-flight-with-covid-19-vaccine-leaves-for-delhi-101610418879915.html
12-01-2021||India||No further extension to file income-tax returns: CBDT||The Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) on Monday rejected all representations for extending the deadlines to file income-tax returns (ITRs) on the ground that deadlines were already extended three times to provide relief to pandemic-hit individuals and corporate taxpayers.“Any further extension would adversely affect the return filing discipline and shall also cause injustice to those who have taken pains to file the return before the due date,” said an order of CBDT, which has been reviewed by HT.In a major relief to individual taxpayers (non-audit cases), the government on December 31 last year extended the deadline for filing ITRs from December 31 to January 10, 2021. The deadline for filing ITRs for tax audit cases was extended from January 31, 2021, to February 15, 2021.“It would also postpone the collection of revenue thereby hampering the efforts of the government to provide relief to the poor during these Covid times,” the CBDT order said. Various deadlines were extended for the third time on December 31, 2020, to provide relief to different category of taxpayers who had been badly hit by the Covid-19 pandemic. While the initial deadline for individual taxpayers was July 31, it was first extended to November 30, then to December 31 and finally to January 10, the order said. Similarly, deadlines were extended for corporate taxpayers and assesses who required to get their accounts audited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-further-extension-to-file-income-tax-returns-cbdt-101610420923385.html
12-01-2021||India||Farmers’ protest: No relief for commuters as multiple borders remain affected||Multiple borders of the national Capital with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh (UP) continued to remain closed for traffic movement on Tuesday due to the ongoing farmers’ protest against the three new farm laws.For those coming to Delhi from Uttar Pradesh, Chilla and Ghazipur is closed. The traffic police advised them to take routes passing through Anand Vihar, DND, Loni DND and Apsara borders which have remained mostly unaffected.The entry and exit points between Delhi and Haryana, passing through Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Piau Manyari, Saboli and Mangesh, have continued to remain closed.Also read | Amid farmers’ protests, govt plans to scale up Kisan e-martThe traffic police have advised commuters to take alternate route via Lampur Safiabad, Palla and Singhu toll tax borders.Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba and GTK road. It has been suggested to avoid Outer Ring Road, GTK Road and NH-44.The other border routes, such as the Delhi-Gurgaon and Delhi-Faridabad stretches, can be used for travelling between the two states.The ongoing farmers’ protest entered to day 48th on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-no-relief-for-commuters-as-multiple-borders-with-haryana-up-101610420476047.html
12-01-2021||India||National Youth Day 2021: History and significance of the day||National Youth Day is observed every year on January 12 to honour the teachings and ideals of Swami Vivekananda. Born on January 12, 1863, in Kolkata, Swami Vivekananda was a chief disciple of the 19th-century Indian mystic Ramakrishna and was a key figure in the introduction of the Indian philosophies of Vedanta and Yoga to the western world. Vivekananda founded the Ramakrishna Math and the Ramakrishna Mission.Since 1984, January 12 is observed as National Youth Day across the country. While taking the decision to mark Swami Vivekananda’s birth anniversary as the National Youth Day, the government said, “the philosophy of Swamiji and the ideals for which he lived and worked could be a great source of inspiration for the Indian youth.”The day is marked all over India at schools and colleges, with processions, speeches, music, youth conventions, seminars, Yogasanas, presentations, competitions in essay-writing, recitations and sports every year. But due to the ongoing coronavirus pandemic and the schools being shut, this year the celebrations will be different.As part of the celebrations, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the valedictory function of the second National Youth Parliament Festival (NYPF) at 10am. An official statement said the festival's objective is to hear the voice of the youth between 18 and 25 years of age, who vote and will join various careers in coming years, including public services.Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla, education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, and youth affairs and sports minister Kiren Rijiju will also be present on the occasion.The first festival of the NYPF was organised from January 12 to February 27, 2019, with the theme "Be the Voice of New India and Find solutions and Contribute to Policy”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/national-youth-day-2021-history-and-significance-of-the-day-101610420161702.html
12-01-2021||India||Farmers’ protest: No relief for commuters as multiple borders with Haryana, UP remain affected||Multiple borders of the national Capital with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh (UP) continued to remain closed for traffic movement on Tuesday due to the ongoing farmers’ protest against the three new farm laws. For those coming to Delhi from Uttar Pradesh, Chilla and Ghazipur is closed. The traffic police advised them to take routes passing through Anand Vihar, DND, Loni DND and Apsara borders which have remained mostly unaffected. The entry and exit points between Delhi and Haryana, passing through Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Piau Manyari, Saboli and Mangesh, have continued to remain closed. Also read | Amid farmers’ protests, govt plans to scale up Kisan e-martThe traffic police have advised commuters to take alternate route via Lampur Safiabad, Palla and Singhu toll tax borders.Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba and GTK road. It has been suggested to avoid Outer Ring Road, GTK Road and NH-44.The other border routes, such as the Delhi-Gurgaon and Delhi-Faridabad stretches, can be used for travelling between the two states.The ongoing farmers’ protest entered to day 48th on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-no-relief-for-commuters-as-multiple-borders-with-haryana-up-remain-affected-101610420082605.html
12-01-2021||India||First flight ferrying Covid-19 vaccines departs from Pune to Delhi||The first flight ferrying Covid-19 vaccines from the Serum Institute of India’s (SII) in Pune departed at 8am and will land in Delhi at 10.15am, officials aware of the development said.Spicejet’s flight SG 8937 is ferrying the first doses of the Covid-19 vaccines to Delhi. At least a dozen flights are scheduled to depart with doses of the vaccine on Tuesday. The first consignment to Delhi comprises 34 boxes weighing 1,088kg. “I am happy to share that SpiceJet has carried India’s first consignment of Covid vaccine today. The first consignment of Covishield consisting of 34 boxes and weighing 1,088 kg was carried from Pune to Delhi on SpiceJet flight 8937. We will be carrying multiple vaccine consignments to different Indian cities, including Guwahati, Kolkata, Hyderabad, Bhubaneswar, Bengaluru, Patna and Vijayawada, through the day today. SpiceJet is fully committed and prepared to transport the Covid vaccine both within and outside India. Today marks the beginning of a long and decisive phase in India’s fight against the pandemic and SpiceJet is proud to assist in the biggest vaccination drive in the history of mankind,” said SpiceJet chairman and managing director, Ajay Singh.The first doses of the Covishield vaccine were sent via three trucks from SII’s Pune campus early Tuesday morning for Lohegaon Airport. Also Read: Centre will bear cost of 1st phase of vaccination: ModiThe Centre will start vaccinating frontline workers against coronavirus disease from January 16. The Centre will bear the entire cost of vaccinating 30 million health care and frontline workers — employees across government departments, the police and civic bodies — at the start of the world’s biggest immunisation drive against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday.The Centre, last Friday, had issued guidelines for the packaging and transportation of the Covid-19 vaccines by air, directing airlines and airport authorities to ensure the vaccines are packaged in dry ice and refrigerated material in a bid to maintain low temperatures ranging between -8° C to -70° C essential for its transportation.The guidelines issued by the Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) stated that all scheduled operators, which are currently authorised to carry dangerous goods, may carry Covid-19 vaccines packed in dry ice, meeting regulatory requirements.Elaborating on the need to package the vaccines with dry ice, the DGCA noted that the temperature maintenance requirement for Covid-19 vaccines is reported to be varying from -8°C to -70°C and hence, the use of refrigerant material during the transportation becomes essential.“Though there may be different refrigerant options, the use of dry ice (Carbon Dioxide Solid) is the most commonly used, affordable and readily available refrigerant material available in the country for transportation of perishables by air. Dry ice continually sublimates (Dry ice that is solid, transforms into Carbon Dioxide gas (COz)) at temperatures higher than -78°C (-108.4°F) under normal atmospheric pressure. At reduced pressures, the sublimation rate of dry ice will increase while all other factors being the same,” it noted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-flight-ferrying-covid-19-vaccines-departs-from-pune-to-delhi-101610419602527.html
12-01-2021||India||Adani Green commissions 25 MW solar power plant in Uttar Pradesh's Chitrakoot||Adani Solar Energy Chitrakoot One Limited, a step down subsidiary of Adani Green Energy Limited (AGEL) on Monday said it has commissioned a 25 MW solar power plant in Uttar Pradesh’s Chitrakoot.This plant has a Power Purchase Agreement (PPA) with Noida Power Company Limited (NPCL) at ₹3.08/KWh. With this commissioning, AGEL’s total operational renewable capacity grows to 2,975 MW.“The plant will be connected to our state-of-the-art Energy Network Operation Centre (ENOC) that continuously monitors and analyses performance of 80+ solar and wind plants across diverse locations in India,” said Vneet S Jaain, MD and CEO Adani Green Energy Ltd.“Recently, AGEL also commissioned and announced a 100 MW solar power plant, despite ongoing pandemic backed by advance resource planning,” he added.With the commissioning of this project, AGEL, according to Jaain, has total renewable capacity of 14,795 MW including 11,820 MW awarded and under implementation projects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/adani-green-commissions-25-mw-solar-power-plant-in-uttar-pradesh-s-chitrakoot-101610418228645.html
12-01-2021||NA||LIVE| 2 more individuals test positive for new Covid-19 strain in Karnataka||India reported 12,584 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 167 related deaths in the last 24 hours, taking the country's tally to 10,479,179, according to the Union health and family welfare ministry. There are 216,558 active cases and 10,111,294 patients of the viral disease were discharged. India has been reporting less than 300 deaths for over two weeks now.The first consignment of Covishield vaccines left the Serum Institute of India in the wee hours on Tuesday ahead of the January 16 nationwide inoculation drive launch. A total of 14 flights were to leave from Pune airport with the vaccine vials weighing 14.592 tonnes in about 456 boxes. These vaccines would be carried in private air carriers and would be taken to destinations including two Chennai-bound, two Chandigarh-bound, two Kolkata-bound, and one each headed for Gandhinagar, Hyderabad, Vijaywada, Bhubaneswar, Guwahati, Bangalore, Patna, and Lucknow.Follow all the live updates here:Follow all the updates here:UK reports 45,533 new cases of Covid-19, 1,243 fatalities in the last 24 hoursThe United Kingdom on Tuesday reported a total of 45,533 cases of coronavirus on Tuesday, and 1243 total fatalities in the span of 24 hours, according to the British health ministry. Reuters reported that Tuesday marked one of the deadliest days in the country's battle against the coronavirus. 2 more individuals test positive for new Covid-19 strain in KarnatakaTwo people, both contacts of UK returnees, were found to be carrying the mutated strain of Covid-19, taking Karnataka's total tally of the new strain to 13, reported news agency PTI. Till date a total of 45 UK returnees and 26 of their primary contacts have tested positive for coronavirus on landing in Bengaluru.Italy records 14,242 new cases of Covid-19, 616 fatalities on TuesdayItaly witnessed a surge in its daily tally of Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, as the count went up to 14,242 from 12,532 the day before. The number of deaths recorded in the same time period too surged as 616 people succumbed to the infection, up from 448 fatalities recorded on Monday. Karnataka reports 751 new Covid casesKarnataka reported 751 new #COVID19 cases, 1,183 discharges, and 5 deaths today.Total cases: 9,28,806Total discharges: 9,07,729Death toll: 12,149Active cases: 8,909 pic.twitter.com/NY3ze887d8Delhi reports 386 fresh Covid-19 cases in last 24 hoursDelhi on Tuesday saw 386 new Covid-19 cases taking the total count of cases to 6,30,892. It was the third successive day when the national capital saw less than 400 new cases, reports ANI.Andhra Pradesh records 197 fresh Covid-19 casesAndhra Pradesh reports 197 new #COVID19 cases, 234 recoveries and 2 deaths today.Total cases 8,85,234Total recoveries 8,75,690Death toll 7133Active cases 2411 pic.twitter.com/EmltUvQphEMaharashtra logs 2936 new Covid-19 cases in last 24 hoursMaharashtra reports 2936 new #COVID19 cases, 3282 recoveries and 50 deaths today.Total cases 19,74,488Total recoveries 18,71,270Death toll 50,151Active cases 51,892 pic.twitter.com/hiZR4iU9hBOdisha govt increases cap to 200 people in marriage functionsOdisha Government allows marriage processions with a ceiling of 200 persons including the bride, bridegroom, priest, friends, relatives, members of band party, light and sound system etc. The state government said mandatory to follow Covid safety protocol including provision of wearing of masks, maintaining social social distracting, provision of thermal scanning and use of hand wash or sanitizer will be necessary, reports ANI.Tamil Nadu reports 671 fresh Covid casesTamil Nadu reports 671 new #COVID19 cases, 827 recoveries and 8 deaths today.Total cases 8,27,614Total recoveries 8,08,571Death toll 12,236Active cases 6,807 pic.twitter.com/CJJnnkAC2ZBharat Biotech announces deal for Covid vaccine supply to BrazilBharat Biotech announces that it has signed an agreement with Precisa Medicamentos for the supply of Covaxin to Brazil, reports ANI.Punjab received first consignment of Covishield vaccinePunjab: The first consignment of #COVID19vaccine 'Covishield' arrives in Mohali. #COVID19 vaccination's first phase will begin from 16th January. pic.twitter.com/vOqotYYvZ1First consignment of Covid vaccine Covishield lands at Andhra Pradesh Andhra Pradesh: The first consignment of #COVID19Vaccine 'Covishield' arrives in Vijayawada from Pune.The first phase of #COVID19 vaccination will begin from 16th January. pic.twitter.com/5joqWpKw8RBelgium fears increase in Covid spread in coming weeksBelgium could see an increase in daily cases of Covid-19 infections in coming weeks as more Belgians undergo tests on return from holidays, the government said on Tuesday, reports Reuters.Covid vaccine absolutely safe, immunogenicity has been established, says health ministryThere is a gap of 28 days between the two doses of Covid vaccine. The effectiveness of vaccine begins after 14 days of the inoculation, therefore it is important to keep in mind Covid appropriate behaviour. The vaccines are totally safe and immunogenicity produced by the vaccines have been established, said the health ministry.Health ministry says 5 key principles important for Covid innoculation programmeThe health ministry has also said that 5 principles are the most important for inoculation programme that will take more than 1.5 years. Those five principles are active people participation, experience from universal immunization and elections, existing healthcare services should not to be affected during the process, no compromise on scientific and other SOPs, orderly and smooth delivery of vaccines driven by technology. Only 2 states with more than active 50,000 Covid cases: Health ministryCase positivity is coming down. Last one week's case positivity rate has come down significantly. Only two states in the country with more than 50, 000 active Covid cases. Those two states are Kerala and Maharashtra, says health ministry.We make 70-80 million doses every month, says Serum's owner PoonawallaWe make 70-80 million doses every month. Planning is underway to see how many will be given to India and foreign countries. Health Ministry has made logistics plans. We also have partnership with pvt players for trucks, vans and cold storage, said CEO-Owner, Serum Institute of India, reports ANI.Will sell Covishield vaccine at ₹1000 in private market: SII's CEO PoonawallaWe've given a special price of ₹200 for the first 100 mn doses only to GoI on their request, that we want to support common man, vulnerable, poor, healthcare workers. After that we'll be selling it at ₹1000 in pvt markets, said Adar Poonawalla, CEO-Owner, Serum Institute of India, reports ANI.First consignment of Covishield vaccine lands at KolkataWest Bengal: The first consignment of Covishield vaccine by Serum Institute of India (SII), arrives at Kolkata airport.#CovidVaccine pic.twitter.com/MqsE81da7VBihar receives first consignment of SII's Covid vaccineBihar: The first consignment of Covishield vaccine arrived at Patna airport. pic.twitter.com/xSPzy4dWn5AstraZeneca files bid for vaccine approval: EU regulatorThe European Medicines Agency said Tuesday that AstraZeneca and Oxford University had filed a formal bid for authorisation for their coronavirus vaccine and that a decision could come by January 29."EMA has received an application for conditional marketing authorisation for a COVID-19 vaccine developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University," the Amsterdam-based regulator said in a statement.No rush to roll out Covid-19 vaccines in Hong Kong, advisers sayHong Kong is in no hurry to roll out Covid-19 vaccinations, according to government advisers, preferring instead to see what happens in other, harder-hit places. “We have the luxury of a bit of time to observe how the program is being rolled out elsewhere, especially on the safety side,” Lam Ching-choi, a medical doctor and member of the chief executive’s advisory Executive Council, said in an interview on Monday. “Our experts are not in a hurry to be the first to be doing a vaccination program. We’re finding a balance between not having the vaccine late, and having adequate supplies, and we have the luxury to know that the vaccine we’ve purchased is safe.”Karnataka receives first consignment of Covid-19 vaccinesThe first consignment of Covid-19 vaccines have arrived here on Tuesday, and the Karnataka government said it was committed to conducting the vaccination drive in a transparent way. According to official sources, the flight carrying the vaccines landed at the Kempegowda international airport here. Earlier in the day, Karnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar said 7.95 lakh Covishield vaccines were arriving. "... 7,95,000 vials of Covishield vaccine are arriving in the first consignment at around 11:45 this morning.. the arrival of the remaining of the total 13,9000 vails that the state will get, will be known in the later stages," he said.IndiGo has transported 900 kg of vaccine from Pune to Chandigarh and Lucknow: Spokesperson"In continuation of our support to the nation in its fight against COVID-19, IndiGo has transported 900 Kgs of vaccine from Pune to Chandigarh and Lucknow via flight 6E 6515 and 6E 882 respectively today. Starting from January 13, the vaccines will be transported from Mumbai to other cities basis the allocation," IndiGo spokespersonMalaysia's Pharmaniaga signs Covid vaccine agreement with China's SinovacMalaysia Pharmaniaga Bhd has signed an agreement with China's Sinovac to purchase ready-to-fill Covid-19 vaccines and later to manufacture the vaccine domestically, it said on Tuesday. Pharmaniaga said in a filing to the bourse that the company will carry out a fill-and-finish process of the vaccine in Malaysia, and will subsequently enter into local manufacturing, under license from Sinovac for its technology and know-how. "This will also help Pharmaniaga in long-term partnerships, including technology transfer to grow the sector in Malaysia," the company said.Telangana reports 301 new Covid-19 casesTelangana recorded a total of 301 new Covid-19 cases, 293 discharges and two deaths on Monday. The State Health Department said that the total count for the Covid-19 cases in the state increased to 2,90,309. The tally of discharges and deaths stand at 2,84,217 and 1,568 respectively. There are 4,524 active cases in the state.Taiwan reports two new domestically transmitted Covid-19 casesTaiwan on Tuesday reported its first locally transmitted cases of Covid-19 since Dec. 22 - a doctor in a hospital, who was treating an already infected patient, and a nurse. Until last month's domestic transmission the island had not reported any local cases since April 12, with the vast majority of infections in people coming to Taiwan from overseas.First consignment of Covid-19 vaccine arrives in AhmedabadGujarat: The first consignment of the #COVID19 vaccine arrives at Ahmedabad's Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International AirportGujarat Deputy chief minister Nitin Patel present at the airportTrack updates here - https://t.co/mSxoEn0371 pic.twitter.com/SZVQEEZXvyThe first consignment of the Covid-19 vaccine arrives at Ahmedabad's Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International Airport. Gujarat deputy chief minister Nitin Patel present at the airport to receive the consignment.First consignment of Covid-19 vaccine 'Covishield' reaches DelhiThe first consignment of Covid-19 vaccine 'Covishield' arrived at Delhi's Indira Gandhi International Airport from Pune on Tuesday morning. Covishield is among the two coronavirus vaccines in India that have been given approval for emergency use authorisation. SpiceJet on Tuesday carried India's first consignment of Covid vaccine 'Covidshield' consisting of 34 boxes and weighing 1,088 kilograms from Pune to Delhi, said Ajay Singh, Chairman and Managing Director, SpiceJet.Germany's confirmed coronavirus cases rise by 12,802The number of confirmed coronavirus cases in Germany increased by 12,802 to 1,933,826, data from the Robert Koch Institute (RKI) for infectious diseases showed on Tuesday. The reported death toll rose by 891 to 41,577, the tally showed.Vaccine movement begins, 4 airlines to fly 56.5 lakh doses from Pune to 13 cities on Tuesday: PuriToday @airindiain @flyspicejet @goairlinesindia & @IndiGo6E will operate 9 flights from Pune with 56.5 lakh doses to Delhi, Chennai, Kolkata, Guwahati, Shillong, Ahmedabad, Hyderabad, Vijayawada, Bhubaneswar, Patna, Bengaluru, Lucknow & Chandigarh.Four airlines will operate nine flights to transport 56.5 lakh doses of COVID-19 vaccine from Pune to 13 cities across the country on Tuesday, said Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri. Vaccine movement has started, he said on Twitter, adding that first two flights operated by "SpiceJet and GoAir from Pune to Delhi and Chennai have taken off".Singapore to open vaccination centersSingapore is setting up special centers to administer Covid-19 vaccinations daily to large groups of people, on top of allowing the jabs to be taken at clinics and other established health-care facilities. Those centers will be ready “soon,” the city-state’s chief health scientist Tan Chorh Chuan told The Straits Times in an interview.Japan emergency state to expand beyond Tokyo as Covid-19 cases climbJapanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga told a meeting of ruling party executives on Tuesday he would declare a state of emergency for the three western prefectures of Osaka, Kyoto and Hyogo to stem the spread of Covid-19, Kyodo news reported. Responding to pressure from Tokyo and three neighbouring prefectures in eastern Japan, Suga last week declared a one-month state of emergency for that region until Feb. 7.Portuguese President Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa tests positive for Covid-19Portuguese President Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa has tested positive for the novel coronavirus disease (Covid-19), although he has no symptoms. The test taken yesterday was negative, today's antibody test was also negative, but the results of another PCR test were positive, according to the president's website. All events scheduled for the coming days with the president's participation have been canceled. Presidential elections are to take place in Portugal on January 24, in which Sousa, who recently turned 72, intends to run again.China reports 55 new Covid-19 casesChina reported 55 new Covid-19 cases on Jan. 11, down from 103 cases a day earlier, the national health authority said on Tuesday. The National Health Commission said in a statement that 40 of the 42 local infections were in Hebei, the province surrounding Beijing and the worst-hit region in the latest spike in new cases. The number of new asymptomatic cases, which China does not classify as confirmed cases, rose to 81 from 76 cases a day earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/live-first-covishield-vaccines-consignment-leaves-serum-institute-of-india-101610416637776.html
12-01-2021||NA||Farm stir Updates| Bihar Cong to gherao Raj Bhavan to protest against laws||In what is being seen as a major relief to farmers, the Supreme Court on Tuesday put on hold the three controversial farm laws of the government- against which the farmers have been protesting near Delhi since November 26. The apex court has formed a four member committee which will hold talks with the farmers regarding the laws.A bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde said, “Implementation of the three laws stayed until further orders. Bobde said that the committee was being formed in order to get a clearer picture and added the bench was concerned about the validity of the laws along with protecting life and property of citizens affected by the agitation.Also Read| Supreme Court stays implementation of farm laws, forms 4-member panel"This committee will be for us. All of you people who are expected to solve the issue will go before this committee. It will not pass an order or punish you, it will only submit a report to us... The committee is part of the judicial process in this case. We are planning to suspend the laws but not indefinitely," the CJI said.Also Read| Listen to the voice of protesting farmersMeanwhile, the farmer leaders have welcomed the SC verdict but they said the protests would only be called off once the laws are removed. The leaders added that they don't want to take part in any proceedings before a committee appointed by the apex court, but a formal decision on this would be taken.Also Read| Who are the members of the committee set up by SC to resolve farm laws impasse?Eight rounds of talks have been held between the Centre and protesting farmers till now which remained inconclusive. The farmers have insisted on their demand of the repeal of the new laws whereas the Centre asked the former to provide an option other than repealing them.Follow all the updates here:No threat to Haryana govt, says CM Khattar after meeting Amit ShahFacing heat over the ongoing farm stir, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala said on Tuesday that there is no threat to the BJP-JJP coalition government and it will complete its full five year term.Bihar Cong to gherao Raj Bhavan to protest against lawsBihar unit of the Congress party said on Tuesday that it would gherao Raj Bhavan on January 15 to protest against the farm laws. All senior party leaders including sitting and former MPs, MLAs, MLCs will participate in the "Raj Bhavan gherao" programme on January 15, said Bhakta Charan Das- who is the newly appointed Bihar Congress in-charge. SC verdict against govt wishes, wanted farm laws to be implemented: ChoudharyUnion minister of state for agriculture Kailash Choudhary said on Tuesday that the Supreme Court’s verdict regarding the three new farm laws was against government’s wishes, adding that it wanted the laws to be implemented and not to be put on hold. However, he added that the Centre would accept the decision of the apex court to form a committee to resolve the impasse over farm laws.Members of panel set up by Supreme Court are pro-govt, says protesting farmersWith the Supreme Court announcing a stay on the implementation of the farm laws and the formation of a four member panel to resolve the standoff between the farmers and the Centre- protesting farmers said on Tuesday that the members of the panel and pro-government and had been justifying the laws.BJP govt in Haryana let party's central leadership down on stir: Union ministerSenior BJP leader and former Union minister Birender Singh said on Tuesday that the BJP-led government in the state of Haryana didn't address the farmers apprehensions effectively against the three farm laws, when they were yet to be passed by Parliament and the protest was just beginning. "If this issue is not resolved early, then it could have serious repercussions for the BJP-JJP government in Haryana in the long run." Singh said. NCP chief Sharad Pawar welcomes SC verdict on lawsNationalist Congress Party (NCP) President Sharad Pawar welcomed the Supreme Court's judgement on the three controversial farm laws and the setting up of a panel to resolve the impasse between the government and farmer unions. He said that the decision taken by the apex court would be a big relief for the Welcome SC verdict, but protests to continue: Farmer leadersAfter the Supreme Court's decision of keeping the three farm laws on hold, Farmer leaders said on Tuesday they welcomed the SC verdict but added that the protests would only be called off once the laws are removed. Supreme Court stays the implementation of three farms laws until further ordersWe will stay implementation of three farm lawsA four member committee to be formed with Harsimran Mann of Bhartiya Kisan Union, Ashok Gulati academician and two others: Supreme Court.Agricultural land is completely immune from any kind of damage: SG Tushar MehtaFarmers are being misled their lands will be taken away under contracts with companies. The law clearly states that the contract is with regard to crop ans not land, says SG Tushar Mehta.Bhartiya Kisan Sangh tells SC that it is not aggrieved by the legislations but needs assurance on MSPIt has close to 30 lakh farmers. They said they are acceptable for going before CommitteeConsortium of Indian Farmers association having 3 crore farmers said they too are willing to go to Committee but do not support stay of laws.Kisan Mahapanchayat claims over 10000 farmers at Rajasthan border not allowed to proceed to Haryana for protest. They too agree to go before Committee.SC issues notice to stop proposed tractor rally by farmers on Republic DaySupreme Court issues notice on the Delhi Police's application filed seeking to stop the proposed tractor rally by protesting farmers on Republic Day.SC takes note of an allegation by Salve that a banned organization is funding protestsIf there is infiltration by a banned organisation and somebody is making an allegation here before us, you have to confirm it. File an affidavit by tomorrow: CJI to Attorney GeneralWe will file an affidavit in this regard and place the IB records, says Attorney General.Farmers may apply for permission for protests at Ramlila Maidan or other locations: CJIWe will say in the order that farmers may apply for permission to the Delhi Police Commissioner for protests at Ramlila Maidan or other locations, says CJI.Senior advocates Dushyant Dave, HS Phoolka, Colin Gonsalves, who represents 400 farmers' bodies, haven't joined SC's proceedings todaySenior advocates Dushyant Dave, HS Phoolka, Colin Gonsalves, who represents 400 farmers' bodies, haven't joined Supreme Court's proceedings today. They were supposed to consult the farmers on formation of a committee and come back today, says senior advocate Harish Salve.Nobody should see any order from Court to be a political victory: Harish SalveNobody should see any order from Court to be a political victory. Any stay is an endeavor by court to bring confidence in process and cool down tempers. This may be a victory for fair play, says Harish Salve.This is not politics: SC to farmer unionThis is not politics. There is a difference between politics and judiciary and you will have to cooperate, says SC to farmer unions, reports PTI.We can't ask PM to go; he is not a party in the case: CJIAdvocate ML Sharma says, the farmers are saying many persons came for discussions, but the main person, the Prime Minister did not come.We cannot ask the Prime Minister to go. He is not a party in the case, says CJI, reports ANI.We are forming a committee so that we have a clearer picture: CJIWe are forming a committee so that we have a clearer picture. We don't want to hear arguments that farmers will not go to the committee. We are looking to solve the problem. If you (farmers) want to agitate indefinitely, you can do so, says CJI, reports ANI.We are concerned about validity of the laws: CJIWe are concerned about validity of the laws and also about protecting life and property of citizens affected by protests. We are trying to solve the problem in accordance with the powers we have. One of the powers we have is to suspend the legislation and make a committee. This committee will be for us. All of you people who are expected to solve the issue will go before this committee. It will not pass an order or punish you, it will only submit a report to us, says CJI, reports ANI.SC begins hearing challenging farm lawsSupreme Court begins hearing several petitions challenging the three farm laws passed by the Parliament and removal of protesting farmers from Delhi's borders. Advocate ML Sharma, who filed a plea challenging the farm laws, tells the court that farmers have said they will not appear before any committee to be constituted by the court, reports ANI.We will hold a core committee meeting after the Supreme Court's order: BKU spokespersonWe will hold a core committee meeting after the Supreme Court's order. After this, we'll discuss it with our legal team and decide what needs to be done: Rakesh Tikait, Spokesperson, Bharatiya Kisan UnionStir enters day 48 as impasse continuesDeadlock continues as the government is insistent on not repealing the laws while the unions are adamant on a total rollback.Delhi's borders remain blockedDelhi's borders with both Haryana and Uttar Pradesh remain blocked due to the ongoing farmers' agitation against the farm laws.Protesting farmers have been paid: BJP MP S Muniswamy"Farmers who are protesting at borders of Delhi have been paid and brought to the agitation sites. They are middlemen and fake farmers. They are eating pizza, burger and KFC products and have set up gym there. This drama should stop," says S Muniswamy, BJP MP from Kolar, Karnataka.SC order on pleas challenging farm laws todayThe Supreme Court will on Monday pronounce its order on a clutch of pleas challenging the constitutional validity of the three contentious farm laws, as well as of those seeking removal of protesters from various borders of Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-live-updates-january-12-2021-101610415929734.html
12-01-2021||India||3 trucks loaded with SII's Covishield vaccine leave Pune ahead of Jan 16 rollout||Three trucks loaded with the first doses of the Covishield vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) left from the Serum Institute of India (SII) building on the outskirts of Pune to the airport, from where they would be sent to various locations across India.Two of the trucks were marked Serum Institute of India and one of Kool-Ex Cold Chain Ltd, which has partnered with SII for the transportation of the vaccines. Deputy commissioner of police Namrata Patil cracked open a coconut to flag off the trucks. Patil was accompanied by SII employees who clapped as the trucks left the building amid heavy police cover."This is the first of the rollout of the vaccine. These trucks are airport bound. One is of Koolex company while two are of Serum Institute of India. We will be providing security for the trucks right up to the airport. The destination of these vials is not something we can comment on," Patil said.The Centre will start vaccinating frontline workers against the coronavirus disease from January 16. Covishield has been developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca and manufactured by the Pune based company.The trucks left the SII building at 4:55am behind a police escort vehicle with more police officials following it soon after. The unloading began at the cargo terminal of Pune International Airport at around 5:30am. A group of Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) officials was providing security to the cargo entrance of the airport as the boxes were unloaded one by one.Read more: Speedy distribution of vaccine a major challenge for global govts: WHO expertsThe vials are stored in what appear to be boxes made of white cardboard and are covered in a plastic layer. The boxes will be transported on multiple flights of private airlines throughout the day and are bound for cities in multiple states, according to an official at the cargo terminal of the Pune airport.A senior airport official confirmed that 14 flights were to leave from Pune airport with the vaccine vials weighing 14.592 tonnes in about 456 boxes. A Delhi-bound SpiceJet flight, which will leave Pune at 8:05am, will be the first aircraft to carry the boxes containing the vaccine vials. SpiceJet flight SG 8937 is scheduled to land in Delhi at 10:15 am, officials aware of the development confirmed.These vaccines would be carried in private air carriers and include two Chennai-bound, two Chandigarh-bound, two Kolkata-bound, and one each headed for Gandhinagar, Hyderabad, Vijaywada, Bhubaneswar, Guwahati, Bengaluru, Patna, and Lucknow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-trucks-loaded-with-sii-s-covishield-vaccine-leave-pune-ahead-of-jan-16-rollout-101610414772501.html
12-01-2021||India||Sputnik V vaccine found safe in Phase 2 clinical trials: Dr Reddy’s||Dr Reddy’s Laboratories has submitted Phase 2 safety data of the Russian Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine, Sputnik V, to India’s drugs controller general, the company announced on Monday.“The independent Data and Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) has reviewed the safety data from the phase 2 clinical trial of the Sputnik V vaccine and recommended the phase 3 recruitment and continue the clinical trial without any modifications… Further, the safety data has been submitted to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) for review and approval to continue phase 3 clinical trials,” said the company.The phase 2 study of Sputnik V was conducted on 100 subjects as part of the randomized, double-blind, parallel-group, placebo-controlled study in India. The DSMB concluded that no safety concerns were identified and the study has met the primary endpoints of safety.“The Indian clinical trial being conducted by Dr Reddy’s and RDIF is an adaptive design phase 2/3 trial. It is a bridging study to the larger global phase 3 study on 31,000 subjects. The phase 2 study in India showed a very good safety profile. This further reinforces our confidence in the safety of Sputnik V, which has now been administered to more than 1 million people in Russia and more than 300,000 people in Argentina. We are working closely towards fast-tracking the launch of the Sputnik V vaccine in India,” said G V Prasad, co-chairman and managing director, Dr Reddy’s Laboratories.Kirill Dmitriev, CEO of the Russian Direct Investment Fund, said, “The safety data from the phase 2 clinical trial from India is very positive, and confirms the safety profile of Sputnik V in the international markets. The Sputnik V consistently shows safety and high efficacy in international clinical trials as it is based on safe human adenoviral vector platform.”The clinical trials are being conducted by JSS Medical Research as the clinical research partner in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sputnik-v-vaccine-found-safe-in-phase-2-clinical-trials-dr-reddys-101610412398760.html
12-01-2021||India||No chief guest this R-Day||India has decided to go ahead with a truncated parade to mark Republic Day (January 26) without a chief guest, people familiar with the matter said. The decision was taken after British Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s last-minute decision to cancel his visit due to the spread of a mutant strain of the virus that causes Covid-19 in the UK.This will be the first time in at least five decades that the Republic Day celebrations, seen as a high point in India’s diplomatic calendar, will not have a chief guest. The last time the parade did not have a chief guest was In 1966 when Indira Gandhi was sworn in as prime minister on January 24 after the demise of Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri on January 11. There were two other years when the parade did not have a chief guest: 1952 and 1953.One official said the decision was taken on account of multiple reasons. “We did not want to put any foreign dignitary in an awkward situation,” the official said, underscoring that a last-minute acceptance of India’s invitation could be potentially embarrassing for the invitee back home as the head of state would be seen as a replacement. Since 1950, India has twice identified replacements after guests cancelled at the last moment.Although PM Boris Johnson publicly accepted India’s invitation, Downing Street later indicated his inability to attend the annual event marking the adoption of the Indian Constitution due to the rapid rise in Covid cases in the country.India was also aware that given the mutant virus’ impact on the UK, and elsewhere, there would be continued uncertainty about the visit right till the end. Since then, there have been reports of new strains that have been spotted in other countries such as South Africa and Japan. The South African variant, like the UK strain, is driving a surge of infections in the country. And the Narendra Modi government also did not want to take any risks, this official explained.Social distancing protocols due to the Covid-19 pandemic have already forced the government to opt for a truncated version of the parade, the highlight of the Republic Day celebrations that showcases India’s military might and cultural diversity.The parade will be shorter and end at National Stadium in the national capital Delhi rather than the Red Fort. The marching contingents will also be smaller, with 96 participants in each squad that was earlier made up of 144. Also, the number of spectators along Rajpath have been capped at one-fourth of the 100,000 in previous years. Children below the age of 15 will not be permitted at the parade.The plan to have a marching contingent of the Bangladesh army participate in the parade as part of the 50th-anniversary celebrations of the 1971 liberation war of Bangladesh is so far intact. This is only the second time that foreign soldiers will be marching down Rajpath as part of India’s biggest ceremonial event -- the first was the French in 2016. Fifty years ago, the Pakistan Army surrendered to the Indian Army paving the way for the formation of Bangladesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-chief-guest-this-rday-101610411651577.html
12-01-2021||India||SC advises Nagaland Lokayukta to resign||Nagaland Lokayukta Uma Nath Singh, the state’s anti-corruption ombudsman, was on Monday advised by the Supreme Court to step down from his position given the spate of controversies the former high court chief justice has been embroiled in.An SC bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde suggested to the Lokayukta’s lawyer that it is better to give up the post rather than demeaning himself and the offices that he has held in his career.“When there is no dignity in continuing, why go through all this and insist to continue at any cost?” the bench asked the former judge’s lawyer Vikas Singh, as it referred to the petition filed by the Nagaland government demanding that the Lokayukta be stripped of all his powers.The state government has sought removal of the Lokayukta, alleging various acts of impropriety and unjustified personal demands by him. Its petition contended that the Lokayukta has continued to work online from Delhi even though the chief secretary did not approve of this.Representing Nagaland in the court, its advocate general KN Balagopal submitted on Monday that the former judge’s assumption of office as Lokayukta had itself flouted the law because he did not discontinue his arbitration work despite it being an office of profit. Balagopal also produced records of cases pending before the Lokayukta.The Lokayukta’s lawyer, on his part, responded that it was because of the outbreak of Covid-19 that Singh had insisted on doing his work from DelhiBut this argument failed to cut any ice with the bench, which included justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian. “We don’t agree with you at all...”.The case was adjourned for a week to give the Lokayukta time to ponder over his willingness to call it quits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-advises-nagaland-lokayukta-to-resign-101610406688903.html
12-01-2021||India||Centre will bear cost of 1st phase of vaccination: Modi||The Centre will bear the entire cost of vaccinating 30 million health care and frontline workers — employees across government departments, the police and civic bodies — at the start of the world’s biggest immunisation drive against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday.According officials who did not want to be named, the cost for this phase could be around ₹10,000 crore.Modi hailed the two made-in-India vaccines that have received emergency use authorisation from the Drug Controller General of India — Serum Institute of India’s Covisheld and Bharat Biotech International’s Covaxin — as a matter of pride for India because the country doesn’t have to depend on expensive, imported antidotes to the viral disease.In his last meeting by video link with state chief ministers five days before the vaccination campaign gets underway, Modi said some more vaccines are in the pipeline and expected to arrive by the time India starts inoculating senior citizens and those with comorbidities.He also rebutted past criticism that India’s progress towards the vaccination drive had been slow. He cautioned states not to let rumours and misinformation to gain currency; many vested interest groups or even corporate rivals may try to derail India’s vaccination programmeIndia intends to vaccinate 300 million people in the first phase of the drive, turning its attention to people above 50 years of age and those below 50 with comorbidities, after administering the shot to health-care and front-line workers who are at the vanguard of the fight against the pandemic that has left how many people dead and affected in India.Monday’s meeting with the chief ministers marked the first time that the PM held out a categorical assurance that the Centre would pick up the bill for the vaccination of health-care and front-line workers -- the two groups that have worked untiringly in the past 10 months.“The total number of such personnel is around three crore. State governments will not have to bear any cost towards vaccinating these three crore people in the first stage. Centre will bear this cost,” Modi told the CMs.Citing the indigenously produced vaccines, the PM said: “Both vaccines are more cost-effective. Just imagine, if India had to depend on foreign vaccines, what would have been our situation?”According to officials who requested anonymity, the government has earmarked ₹50,000 crore to cover the vaccination campaign while the infrastructure and logistics of the universal immunization programme will be used to support the Covid-19 vaccine drive. According to officials, the vaccination will run parallelly to the regular immunization programme with different dates and slots for the two.The PM also underlined that India the made-in-India vaccines would go to neighbours as well as other friendly countries, adding: “We have to be more responsible.”There will be another interaction between the PM and the states before the vaccination of the elderly and those with comorbidities starts. It will be the most complex part of the campaign in terms of transportation of vaccines, outreach and the number of vaccination sites, including mobile centres that will be dispatched to difficult terrain.West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee argued that adequate scientific opinions should be obtained before confirming the safety and efficacy of both vaccines, while she also requested clarification on whether there might be any side-effects after vaccination, according to a statement released by the state government.“She submitted that optimal number of trials and fool-proof studies through such trials were needed before vaccinations were unequivocally advised in favour of both the vaccines,” it said.Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy, who too participated in the video conference, said the state government was well-prepared to roll out the vaccine.Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa said of the 30 million vaccinations beginning January 16, the state will get about 1.6 million doses in the first phase.“Health, revenue and police officials would get the first dose and after 28 days the second dose would be given to them. Already 235 centres across the state have been identified for this,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-will-bear-cost-of-1st-phase-of-vaccination-modi-101610406320398.html
12-01-2021||India||30 years later, charges to be framed against Malik, others||A special court on Monday ordered that charges be framed against separatist leader Yasin Malik and nine others for their alleged role in the kidnapping of Rubaiya Sayeed, daughter of then Union minister Mufti Mohammad Sayeed, in 1989.Special TADA court judge Sunit Gupta ordered that charges be framed against Yasin Malik, Ali Mohamad Mir, Mohammad Zaman Mir, Iqbal Ahmad Gandroo, Javed Ahmad Mir, Mohammad Rafiq Pahloo alias Nana Ji alia Saleem, Manzoor Ahmed Sofi, Wajahat Bashir, Mehraj-ud-Din Sheikh and Showkat Ahmad Bakshi.Rubaiya Sayeed, the younger sister of former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti, was kidnapped by the Jammu Kashmir Liberation Front from Nowgam in Kashmir on December 8, 1989. She was released on December 13.According to the Central Bureau of Investigation, the accused had abducted Rubaiya Sayeed to force the government to release five militants.Yasin Malik, who shunned terrorism to join politics in 1994, has been accused of playing a key role in the kidnapping that he and his associates allegedly executed.The court, after hearing public prosecutor Vijay Kumar Dogra and advocate MA Goni (both representing CBI) and the confessional statements of other accused, observed that sufficient grounds existed to presume that all the accused had committed offences. “Hence, charges are required to be framed against each of the accused persons, separately,” the court stated.In March last year, a court under the Terrorist and Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act, or TADA, had also framed charges against Yasin Malik and six others for their alleged involvement in the killing of four unarmed Indian Air Force (IAF) officials in 1990 in Kashmir.Malik is currently lodged in Delhi’s Tihar jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/30-years-later-charges-to-be-framed-against-malik-others-101610405826588.html
12-01-2021||India||Will win over 100 seats: Nadda at Assam rally||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president JP Nadda on Monday expressed confidence that the party would return to power in Assam, predicting that it would win over 100 of the 126 assembly seats in upcoming elections .Nadda addressed a “Vijay Sankalpa” (victory pledge) rally in Barak Valley’s Silchar, beginning the party’s campaign for the assembly elections, likely to be held in April-May.The BJP has given due recognition to Assam’s culture, language and identity, since coming to power in the northeastern state in 2016, Nadda said.“The task of protecting Assam’s culture, language and identity has been done well by the BJP governments at the Centre and the state and we will continue that. We have been sensitive about the rights of Assamese people,” said Nadda.Chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal, state BJP president Ranjeet Kumar Dass, senior minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and senior party leaders including general secretary (organization) BL Santosh and state in-charge Baijayant Jay Panda were also present at the rally.“The BJP has been working peacefully for the development of Assam, taking into consideration the interests of all communities. It has fulfilled their demands without harming others…Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah resolved the 50-year-old Bodo issue by signing a peace accord and bringing the militants to the mainstream. All stakeholders were taken into confidence and the accord ensured that their demands were given due recognition,” he said.Nadda also cited the proposed grant of scheduled tribe (ST) status to six communities and the smart fencing of border areas with Bangladesh.At the rally, the BJP chief targeted the Congress, alleging that there had was no progress in the state in the 15 years of Congress rule between 2001 and 2016.“During those 15 years, the state saw killings of 2,155 civilians and 284 security personnel and over 12,000 people were kidnapped. Over 51% area of the state was not covered by electrification and 56% homes didn’t have toilets. All that has changed in the past years,” he said.“During 10 years of United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government at the Centre, Assam received ₹50,000 crore in assistance. But since 2014, when the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) led by BJP came to power, the state has got ₹300,000 crore till date,” Nadda said.Reacting to Nadda’s statement, senior Congress leader Debabrata Saikia said, “Most of the development that took in Assam happened during the 15 years of Congress rule. Nadda seems to be unaware of it. He also seems to have no idea that crime rate in Assam hasn’t improved and the state has the highest rate of crimes against women.”The BJP president’s comments come close on the heels of the launch of several new regional parties in the state, which have accused the ruling party of not being sincere in safeguarding Assam’s ‘jaati’ (community), ‘maati’ (land) and ‘bheti’ (base).Two student organisations, All Assam Students Union (AASU) and Asom Jatiyatabadi Yuva Chatra Parishad (AJYCP), who were spearheading the anti-Citizenship Ament Act (CAA) protests in the state in December, 2019, have joined hands to form Assam Jatiya Parishad (AJP).Another organisation at the forefront of the anti-CAA stir, Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti (KMSS), has also formed a political party called Raijor Dal. The organisation’s leader, Akhil Gogoi, who is in jail since December, 2019, for his role in the violent protests, was named president of the new party last week.The BJP president, who arrived here on Monday on a two-day visit, is set to leave later in the day for Guwahati, where he will hold meetings with members of the party’s state unit core committee, election committee and other office bearers.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-win-over-100-seats-nadda-at-assam-rally-101610405614632.html
12-01-2021||India||Farm stir fanned by vested interests: Govt||he central government has in the Supreme Court blamed “vested interests” for instigating the ongoing farmers’ protests, maintaining that the recently enacted farm laws have in reality received “wide acceptance” throughout the country.In its affidavit filed hours after Monday’s hearing, the government told the court that the three legislations are a result of two decades of deliberations and that the demand to repeal them in entirety is “neither justifiable nor acceptable.”“The Acts have received wide acceptance throughout the country and, therefore, some farmers and others objecting to the law had put a condition of its repeal, is neither justifiable nor acceptable,” said the affidavit, filed by the agriculture ministry.The three Acts in question are The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act.Together, the laws will allow big corporations and global supermarket chains to buy directly from farmers, bypassing decades-old regulations. Farmers say the reforms would make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations and erode the government’s procurement system.The government submitted that the affidavit was prepared and filed “hurriedly” after the conclusion of the hearing on Monday during which the SC bench, led by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde, expressed its inclination to suspend the operation of the laws while questioning the consultation process and their efficacy.“This affidavit is filed only to remove a deliberate wrong perception created systematically by non-farmer elements present at the protest site and using media/social media, and to apprise this Hon’ble Court with true facts,” said the government.It claimed that “the farmers of the nation are happy” as they are given an additional option over and above the existing ones. “The agitation by/in the name of some of the farmers may, therefore, not be treated as reflection on the validity of the law or its efficacy and usefulness for the farmer community,” said the affidavit.The government said the agitation being limited to just one place in the country was an evidence that majority of farmers were not only happy with the legislations but found these legislations to be progressive and in their interest.The affidavit said that the government wished to also dispel “the erroneous notion that the protestors have peddled that the Central Government and the Parliament never had any consultative process or examination of issues by any Committee before passing of the laws.”Starting with the constitution of the Expert Committee in December 2000 to review the system of agricultural marketing and to recommend measures to make the system more efficient and competitive, the government adduced a brief history of various committees subsequently formed, recommendations made and consultations done with the states to augment its argument on adequate deliberation. “Government of India has been, thus, actively and intensively engaging with the States for about two decades to achieve the aforesaid objectives of reforms to provide accessible and barrier free market system for better price realization but states either showed reluctance to adopt the reforms...or made partial or cosmetic reforms,” asserted the affidavit.“The legislations are not hurriedly made but is a result of two decades of deliberations. The farmers of the nation are happy as they are given an additional option over and above the existing and, therefore, no vested right is taken away,” it said.According to the affidavit, talks with the farmers failed only because they insisted on repealing the laws as a precondition for talks while the government was ready to allay their apprehensions about the new laws by discussing it clause by clause.“As a responsible Government, it has taken all conceivable steps to ensure that specific grievances of some farmers who are agitating are discussed and sorted out so far as possible...,” read the affidavit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-stir-fanned-by-vested-interests-govt-101610402044333.html
12-01-2021||India||Put farm laws on hold, or we will, SC tells govt||The Supreme Court on Monday said it was “extremely disappointed” with the way the Union government was handling the controversy surrounding the three farm laws at the core of massive protests at the Capital’s borders, and indicated that these laws will have to be put on hold to create an atmosphere conducive for talks.A bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde asked the government if it was willing to pause the implementation of the laws; it said otherwise the court will do it, and also constitute a committee to examine the farmers’ grievances with the legislation.“Why there should be an insistence to implement a law at any cost?” the bench asked attorney general KK Venugopal, and urged him to come back with a reply if the government was willing to stay the operation of the three laws of its own accord, because the court would otherwise be inclined to do so through a judicial order.It also sought to confirm the consent of the farmers’ unions in joining the deliberations before the court-appointed committee, and asked their lawyer Dushyant Dave to consult the farmers and inform it on Tuesday, when the court will pass its order.On Monday evening, the government filed a counter affidavit blaming “vested interests” for instigating the farmers’ protests, and suggested that it was not going to repeal the laws — a demand it described as “neither justifiable nor acceptable”.Meanwhile, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, a platform of major farm unions that is leading the protest, said it was grateful to the top court for suggesting that the laws be put on hold but refused to be a part of a panel to scrutinise the laws because it is “unanimous in the decision that laws must be repealed forthwith”.The hour-long hearing on Monday witnessed sharp criticism of the government by the top court in handling the disputations over the recently enacted agricultural laws, which are meant to liberalise the farm economy, but which, the protesting farmers believe, will lead to monopolies controlled by big corporations while eroding the system of state-set minimum prices (MSPs).As soon as the hearing commenced before the bench, which also included justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, the A-G drew the court’s attention towards the next round of talks slated for January 15.But the bench retorted: “We don’t wish to hear all this.We are extremely disappointed with the way the government is handling this issue. We don’t know what kind of consultation went on before you brought this law. And since the last three-four times, you have been telling us we are talking; we are talking. What are you talking? How are you talking?”As Venugopal tried to elaborate that the consultation regarding these farm laws began in 2010 when the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA) was in power, the court shot back: “We understand what you’re trying to tell us but it won’t help the government to say some other government started this. We understand the kind of arguments you are trying to make. You should reserve it for when we start hearing this matter finally.”Rejecting the A-G’s submission that negotiations were still on, the CJI lamented that the court specifically asked the government during a hearing on December 17 if they were willing to put the laws in abeyance, but there was still no answer.“What is the pressing need involved in his? Hold this in abeyance. This matter is becoming worse and worse; people are committing suicides,calling names to each other, they are protesting in this cold weather. There is no social distancing. Old people, women and children are out in the cold without any safety. We don’t even know if they have food and water,” the court observed.“Our intention is to see if we can bring about an amicable solution to the parties,” stressed the bench, saying it would set up a committee, which could be headed by a former CJI and would comprise members from the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) and similar organisations, to hear representatives of both sides to discuss and resolve the dispute.At this, Venugopal said the government had no problem with constitution of the committee but a law could not be stayed in such a “drastic” manner when none of the petitioners had raised arguments on either lack of power with the Centre to frame these laws or violation of any fundamental right and constitutional provision.The bench, however, responded: “You are in this state because you haven’t been able to solve the problem. You have framed a law, which has resulted into strikes and protests which you should have solved. We read the talks are breaking down only because farmers want laws to be repealed while the government wants to discuss it clause by clause. We cannot wait. We will make the atmosphere conducive for talks. With so much jarring over this law, we will put it on hold so that talks can go on.”Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, also appearing for the government during Monday’s hearing, sought to emphasise that the laws were progressive, already operational and that a “vast majority” felt they were beneficial too.Some other farmers’ groups, such as Indian Kisan Union and Bharatiya Kisan Sangh, supported the S-G in saying that these laws were good for farmers and that they should not be suspended. The bench, however, said that this “vast majority” should also go to the committee and present its views since the court was “not an expert on agriculture or economics”.Representing a Delhi resident who complained against the blockades along the Delhi borders, senior counsel Harish Salve intervened during the hearing to state that the protesters should agree to shift and decongest now that the court is in favour of either staying the laws or at least the controversial clauses in it.To this, the bench said that it did not want any criticism that the court was slighting the right to protests and that the protests could carry on.“Right to protest should be exercised the way Mahatma Gandhi did it and the protest was on a much larger scale. Right to protest has to be exercised peacefully. We are not here to protect breaking of the law but we are trying to ensure no such incident takes place in future,” it said.It further observed: “The most serious question occupying the mind of this court is a possible loss of life and property. We have an apprehension that someday because of some incident, there will be a breach of peace.Each one of us will be responsible if anything goes wrong. We don’t want anybody’s blood or injury on our hands...who is going to be responsible if there is a bloodshed. We are constitutional court and we have a duty to protect people’s life and property. Who will be responsible if something serious happens tomorrow?”CJI Bobde asked Dave, HS Phoolka, Colin Gonsalves, Prashant Bhushan, and other lawyers representing the farmers’ unions, to make an appeal on his behalf to the old people, women and children to go back to their homes in the interest of their safety and health due to Covid-19.“Passions may be high at this time but you must send old, women and children back to their homes due to Covid, cold, etc. If the laws are stayed, there is nothing to fight for but to only talk,” said the bench.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/put-farm-laws-on-hold-or-we-will-sc-tells-govt-101610401152064.html
12-01-2021||India||Won’t be part of SC panel: Farm unions||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, a platform of major farm unions protesting three agricultural laws, on Monday said it was grateful to the Supreme Court for suggesting that the Union government put the laws on hold, but refused to be part of a panel proposed by the top court to scrutinise the laws.“While all organisations welcome the suggestions of the Hon’ble Supreme Court to stay the implementation of the farm laws, they are collectively and individually not willing to participate in any proceedings before a committee that may be appointed by the Hon’ble Supreme Court,” a statement by the protesting farm unions issued on Monday said.The Supreme Court on Monday said it was “extremely disappointed” with the way negotiations were being held between the Centre and the farmers over the three farm laws. It suggested a committee of experts to look into the laws “threadbare” and also suggested the government put the laws on hold.Farmers’ unions spearheading the fight against the farm laws said they “are unanimous in their decision that laws must be repealed forthwith”, the statement added.In what has been a tough political challenge for the Narendra Modi government, tens of thousands of protesting farmers have encircled the national capital for over a month, demanding the government scrap the three laws approved by Parliament in September to open agricultural markets.“Our demand remains the same. We want the laws repealed. We have discussed everything with our lawyers,” Darshan Pal, a senior farm union leader, said.The decision to not be a part of a court-proposed committee was taken in a discussion of top farm leaders and their lawyers including Balvir Singh Rajewal, Darshan Pal, Prem Singh Bhangu, Rajinder Singh Deep Singh Wala and Jagmohan Singh. The team of lawyers included senior advocates Dushyant Dave, Prashant Bhushan, Collin Gonsalves and HS Phoolka.Explaining the reasons behind the decision, Pal said: “Looking to the attitude and approach of the government, which they made it clear before the court today repeatedly, that they will not agree to a discussion for repeal before the committee.” The stand deepens a stalemate in negotiations between the government and farm unions.“We met our lawyers this evening at length and after deliberation on pros and cons of the suggestions of a (proposed) committee, we informed them (farmers’ lawyers) that we are unanimously not agreeable to go before any committee that may be appointed by Hon’ble Supreme Court today due to stubborn attitude of the government,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wont-be-part-of-sc-panel-farm-unions-101610398030115.html
12-01-2021||India||PM should apologise to farmers, says Oppn||The Congress on Monday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi should apologise to protesting farmers and repeal the three new agricultural laws, noting that the Supreme Court too had expressed its anguish and disappointment over the repeated failure of conciliatory talks and the government’s inability to find a solution.Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar, meanwhile, met Left leaders Sitaram Yechury and D Raja in New Delhi to discuss the Supreme Court observations.“We did discuss the Supreme Court order, informally. But the decision on what has to be done has to be taken by the farmers. They have to react to it. We stand by their demand for the repeal of the laws,” Communist Party of India general secretary Raja said.The meeting at Pawar’s residence came on a day the Supreme Court criticised the central government over its handling of the agitation.“We know that they have issued a statement. We will wait for their comprehensive reaction before making a comment,” Raja said.But the Congress upped the ante against the PM and the government after the top court’s observations. The party chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala also urged the the Supreme Court to register cases against Modi, home minister Amit Shah, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and his Uttar Pradesh counterpart Yogi Adityanath after taking note of their actions that, he said, had caused damage to public property.He said the central government and state governments have dug up roads and caused blockades on the national highways to stop the farmers from entering Delhi.“The Prime Minister should apologise not only to the families of 65 farmers who have sacrificed their lives but also to the 62 crore farmers of the country. He should talk to the agitating farmers and nothing short of it is acceptable to the annadatas (food givers),” Surjewala told reporters.The Congress spokesperson held the PM, the home minister and chief ministers of Haryana and UP directly responsible for the current agitation, saying they stopped farmers from coming to Delhi and expressing their opposition to the farm laws in a Gandhian manner.Nationalist Congress Party leader Jayant Patil said, This is a victory for farmers. It is now clear that the Centre has not handled the farmers’ agitation properly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-should-apologise-to-farmers-says-oppn-101610397606915.html
12-01-2021||India||Bird flu spreads to 10 states, govt says human threat low||Bird flu spread to 10 states on Monday with Delhi, Maharashtra and Uttarakhand confirming the viral outbreak, which experts said would be difficult to control because a large number of birds in the wild had been infected.The Central government moved to ease concerns of the infection spreading to humans through contaminated meat or chicken, saying that in India the disease had been spread mainly by migratory birds and added that the secondary spread to poultry birds had occurred only at a few places.“There are no scientific reports on transmission of bird flu to humans and consumers should not be scared,” minister for fisheries, animal husbandry and dairy Giriraj Singh told reporters on Monday, asking the states not to close wholesale markets or restrict the sale of poultry products.Delhi, Maharashtra and Uttarakhand joined Himachal Pradesh , where close to 4,000 migratory birds have died in Pong Dam, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat and Haryana in confirming bird flu cases.While transmission of the virus to humans is rare, it easily spreads among birds through droppings. “The entire water body gets infected with the virus, a reason for so many birds dying in Pong Dam in Himachal. Also, it spreads the disease from one species to another,” said Suresh Kumar, a scientist with the Wildlife Institute of India and migratory bird expert.Migratory birds reach India at wintering sites through the Central Asian flyway, which extends from the Artic in the north to Maldives in the south and from central China in the east to eastern Europe in the west. It is one of the eight major migratory bird flyways and least studied among all, said a report in Birdlife International, a global partnership of non-government organisations devoted to avian conservation.Asad Rahmani, former director of the Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS), said the birds from Central Asia, China, Mongolia and Siberia cover more than 5,000 kms to reach hundreds of wintering sites in the Indian subcontinent and some of them even fly to Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Sri Lanka.Close to 90% of the 370 identified species in the CAF reach the Indian subcontinent and spread across the country. “You can find Bar-headed Goose in Kaziranga and Pong Dam. They may enter India through two ends of Tibetan plateau. They are of same species but represent different populations,” Kumar said.Rahmani said that some of these migratory birds may be carriers of bird flu although they may not perish. Not much research has been done on bird diseases, and it would not be possible to say which birds carry which strain of bird flu, he added.Testing by Bhopal-based National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD) indicates that both the strains of bird flu came from migratory birds. H5N8, a sub-type of avian influenza found in poultry and wild animals, has been found in crows in Rajasthan, Uttarkand and Madhya Prades; the strain came from migratory birds. The other strain is H5N1, found in ducks in Kerala and the Bar-headed Goose in Himachal. While H5N8 transmission to humans is not known, there have been cases of H5N1 transmission to humans, although rare.“There is no way one can control bird flu in wild birds,” Kumar said, noting that it spreads from droppings in water bodies that are impossible to clean. “Poultry bird flu is easier to contain as all birds can be culled and cleaning operations can be completed in 90 days.”That could be a probable reason that Kerala and Haryana, where the virus was reported in poultry, were able to control bird flu and not Rajasthan, Himachal and Madhya Pradesh, where it was present in birds in the wild.On Monday, Madhya Pradesh’s animal husbandry director Dr RK Rokde said the latest reports had confirmed bird flu in pigeons, sparrows and herons, but morbidity was the highest among crows.“As of now, 1,300 birds have died of bird flu in about 35 districts of MP and spread of avian influenza has been confirmed in 18 districts,” said Rokde.In Rajasthan, bird flu reached Jaipur zoo, causing the death of three ducks and a black stork, forcing the authorities to close the bird section. Fowl deaths had earlier been reported from Kanpur zoo in Uttar Pradesh. The total bird deaths because of bird flu in a week doubled to 3,321 on Monday with the spread of aviation influenza to 15 of 33 districts of Rajasthan. Most of the birds that perished were crows.Apart from Sanjay Lake in Delhi, bird flu was confirmed in wild birds, mostly crows, in Maharashtra and Uttarakhand. An outbreak of avian influenza was reported among poultry in Parbhani district of Maharashtra while bird flu in crows was confirmed in Mumbai, Thane, Dapoli and Beed, officials said.In Uttarkhand, bird flu in crows has been confirmed from Pauri Gharwal district. In Gujarat, bird flu cases have been confirmed in crows in Surat and Vadodara districts, officials said.Rahmani said the only way to control bird flu infection from migratory birds was through satellite-based monitoring of major bird species and rapid information sharing between 30 countries on the Central Asian Flyway. Kumar said nine flagship migratory species including the Amur Falcon, Common Crane and Black Kite are monitored under an environment ministry’s programme.(With inputs from state bureaus and agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bird-flu-spreads-to-10-states-govt-says-human-threat-low-101610395088031.html
12-01-2021||India||Poultry sector predicts losses of over ₹1k-cr||A surge in avian influenza or bird flu, an outbreak that has now spread to 10 states, has decimated over three dozen large farms, shut down hundreds of hatcheries and upended supply chains as more poultry farmers confront the pervasive fear of its rapid spread.Even in states free from the avian flu so far, consumption of poultry has plunged, several stakeholders said.Regions where H5N8 cases have been confirmed are spread out across the country, forming a south-to-north arc, raising the threat for other central and eastern states, an official from the department of animal husbandry said.Samples of dead birds are piling up at the Bhopal-based National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD) as the epidemic tears through 10 states: Kerala, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Delhi, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh.“Our estimate is that business losses are to the tune of ₹1,500 crore. This includes layers, or poultry farms specialising only in egg production,” said Surinder Khanna,a former poultry development officer with the Haryana government and a consultant.Avian flu has significant economic impact. Poultry farmers are counting losses from devastated farms.“My farm is empty now. It is one of the six medium sized layers where 100% culling took place. Nearly 3,000 day-old chicks and 3,000 30-day-old chicken were culled, causing losses of ₹2,40,000,” said P. Suresh of Dynamix Poultry Cooperative in Kerala’s Allapuzha.According to Khanna and other analysts, an estimated half-a-million birds may have been culled so far, although no official figures are available. Industry figures show that a one-day-old chick sells for ₹45, while it costs poultry farmers ₹80-90 to raise a chicken for 30 days.Wholesale prices of chicken and eggs have crashed 80% and 60%, according to figures from the Poultry Federation of India.India’s poultry business runs largely on a contract model, whereby poultry firms enter into written contracts with raisers.“During outbreaks of bird disease, if affected population in a firm is more than 10%, which is usually the case in epidemics, farmers aren’t paid anything in accordance with contract terms,” Khanna said.Union minister for fisheries, animal husbandry and dairying Giriraj Singh told reporters on Monday that the Centre was “coordinating with states to implement a national action plan” and there was no need for panic.The flu has a domino effect in related supply chains. When chicken prices crash, they tend to bring down maize prices too, hurting farm incomes, said Abhishek Agrawal of Comtrade, a commodities firm. Maize is a major feed used for poultry, which consumes 14 million tonnes of corn annually.“Poultry consumption in eastern Indian states, unaffected by bird flu, has fallen by an estimated 70%,” said Rajesh Kumar Singh, the editor of industry poultry journal Pashudhan Praharee.According to official data, India’s layer farms produce 250 million eggs a day. The country produces 1.5 billion broilers a year, while 380 million chicken are raised annually for laying eggs.Poultry is one of the fastest growing segments of the agricultural sector in the country. While output of crops has seen a decadal rise at a rate of 1.5-2% annually, that of eggs and broilers has been rising at a rate of 8-10% annually, according to agriculture ministry data.India has among the highest incidences of bird flu outbreaks globally because it lies underneath three transnational flight paths of migratory birds, showing how difficult it is to prevent poultry diseases in the country.Bird flu epidemics have occurred 24 times in the country since the first outbreak in 2004. The last outbreak happened in 2016, when the flu infected poultry in Delhi, Kerala, Punjab and MP.Kerala and Haryana have completed several rounds of culling in accordance with national animal disease guidelines.Avian flu mostly comes from infected wild birds, which shed the virus in their faeces. In India, the disease mostly is spread by migratory birds, such as geese, ducks and shorebirds.Since 2004, compensation worth ₹400 crore from federal funds were given to poultry farmers who faced the epidemic, aside from financial aid from states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/poultry-sector-predicts-losses-of-over-1kcr-101610393225095.html
12-01-2021||India||SC seeks concrete measures from Centre on stubble burning||The Supreme Court on Monday asked the recently-constituted Commission for Air Quality Management in Delhi and Adjoining areas to submit an action plan to curb stubble burning this year.Finding the problem to repeat itself every year with no solution still in sight, a three-judge bench comprising Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde, Justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, “You come back with concrete measures being taken about stubble burning.”The Court was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by two young environmental activists led by Aditya Dubey. The PIL alleged that the spike in pollution caused due to stubble burning could increase health risks caused by Covid-19 leading to more deaths.Senior advocate Vikas Singh appearing for the petitioners said, “Stubble burning problem is over for last year (2020) but some concrete steps must be taken by the Commission.”Also read: China pulls back 10,000 troops from Ladakh theatreSingh told the Court that a detailed affidavit filed last month by the Centre detailed the work done by the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) since its formation by way of an Ordinance on October 28, 2020. “The affidavit makes no mention about the steps taken to curb stubble burning,” he added.On December 17, when the case was last heard, the CJI-headed bench had remarked, “We are not very satisfied” about the work done by the Commission. In October 2020, the Court had even formed a one-man committee headed by former Supreme Court judge, Justice Madan Lokur to report on farm fires after air pollution in Delhi deteriorated. To put in place a permanent mechanism against air pollution, the Centre issued an Ordinance forming the said Commission.The Commission, drawing members from Central ministries and representatives from neighbouring states, was expected to provide a consolidated and conjoint approach which included monitoring, tackling and research in air pollution. The body was even tasked with the responsibility of coordinating measures taken by Delhi’s neighbouring states to prevent factors causing air pollution. Stubble burning was one of the major causes of air pollution under consideration of the Commission’s radar.The affidavit filed jointly by the Centre and the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) disclosed about 50 teams being formed to monitor pollution on the ground. As per data furnished by the Commission, active farm fires in Punjab have been 44 per cent higher in 2020 (September 21-November 25) with 76,590 stubble fires as compared to same period in 2019 with 52,991 fires. Correspondingly, farm fires in Haryana saw a decline of 25 per cent over last year. In 2020, the state reported 5,000 stubble burning incidents compared to 6,652 in 2019.The Commission relied on the Ambient Air Quality Standards to show that in 2019, Delhi had 121 days and 63 days of ambient air quality for PM 2.5 and PM 10 levels as compared to 2018 when the corresponding figures were 98 days and 48 days.The affidavit further disclosed that on November 27 last year, the Commission held deliberations with Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI) and state governments of Punjab and Haryana on various measures to mitigate the issue of paddy crop burning. Scientists working in the field of agriculture proposed the use of PUSA-decomposer for microbial disintegration of agricultural stubble that could be an alternative to stubble burning. The Commission met various NGOs and civil society groups on this aspect, the deliberations of which are expected to come up in the subsequent affidavit to be filed by the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-seeks-concrete-measures-from-centre-on-stubble-burning-101610390356655.html
12-01-2021||India||Govt inks deal for 11 million Covishield doses with Serum Institute||The Indian government has sent the much-delayed purchase order for 11 million Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine doses to Serum Institute of India (SII), according to industry sources speaking on condition of anonymity. With that, the movement of vaccine shipments is likely to begin either by late Monday evening or early Tuesday morning to different states.A few million doses are likely to be shipped in one go from SII’s facility in Pune (Maharashtra).SII is the local manufacturer of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine that has been locally named Covishield. The cost of the vaccine to the government is Rs200 per vaccine vial for first 100 million doses. The deal is for procuring 11 million doses that are expected to cover the first phase of the vaccination drive to inoculate 10 million healthcare workers across the country.Also Read: IMA requests doctors to get vaccinated to counter vaccine misinformationThe government is keeping a margin of about 10% for wastage.The central government will bear the cost of vaccination for the initial 30 million individuals (health care and frontline workers). The state governments will not have to shell out money for this group. The Union finance ministry has already approved Rs480 crore for operational cost which is over and above the cost of the Covid-19 vaccine that central government is paying for.Adar Poonawalla, chief executive officer, SII, had earlier said that the company had offered the Indian government a special price of Rs200 for the first 100 million doses of Covishield, less than the $3 it had quoted earlier.In the private market, SII is likely to sell for a Rs1,000 per dose as MRP. The export price is expected to be between $3-5 depending on the different countries the company signs deals with.According to government sources, India is rolling out the world’s largest Covid-19 vaccination drive across the country on January 16.Close to 300 million high-risk people are on the government’s priority list; they will be vaccinated in the next seven-eight months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-inks-deal-for-11-million-covishield-doses-with-serum-institute-101610368069732.html
12-01-2021||India||Bird flu in Delhi: NDMC forms rapid response team for field inspections||Soon after the Delhi government on Monday declared that the national Capital is hit by bird flu, the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) set up a rapid response team to carry out field inspections to examine birds such as chicken, ducks or other migratory birds in NDMC area. The NDMC has also cordoned off the duck corner in Lodhi Garden due to the bird flu scare, officials said.NDMC controls 42.74 square kilometre area which is nearly 3% of Delhi’s total area. The area under the Council’s control mainly includes Lutyens Delhi, diplomatic area of Chanakyapuri, and residential areas of government officials such as Sarojini Nagar, East Kidwai Nagar, Gole Market.The NDMC region has a number of popular parks such as Lodhi Garden and Nehru Park. Civic officials said that any decision on closure of parks due to bird flu is yet to be taken.“We are yet to decide whether to close parks. A direction in this connection might be issued by today (Monday) evening. We have, however, advised visitors not to go near the duck corner in Lodhi Garden and have cordoned it off and sprayed mixed lime in and around the enclosure to reduce chances of virus infection,” an official said.The five-member rapid response team will work under the supervision of medical superintendent of NDMC’s Moti Bagh veterinary hospital. An order in this connection has also been issued. Details regarding actions taken by the three municipalities— North, South and East — are yet to come.Also read | Bird flu hits Delhi; culling begins at Sanjay Lake park, more to be shutAccording to the document, the rapid response team also has one veterinary surgeon (from veterinary hospital Moti Bagh), area sanitary inspector, senior statistical investigator and medical social worker.A senior NDMC official said that the team will visit different areas in the jurisdiction of the civic body to examine birds especially chicken, ducks, migratory birds and others and also take all necessary measures for prevention and control of avian flu in the NDMC area.The Delhi government on Monday said that the city is now affected with bird flu as eight of the 109 samples sent for testing were positive.The culling of live birds was immediately initiated from Monday morning in Sanjay Lake Park in Mayur Vihar Phase 2. The park had been declared an “alert zone” on Sunday after 17 more ducks were found dead in the green area. Officials said that the culling in more areas will follow soon.The scare of bird flu had engulfed the city last week when over 100 crows were found dead at parks in Mayur Vihar-3, Hastsal and Dwarka areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bird-flu-in-delhi-ndmc-forms-rapid-response-team-for-field-inspections-101610351573322.html
12-01-2021||NA||LIVE: Gujarat records 615 new Covid-19 cases, 746 recoveries, and 3 fatalities||The global number of infections due to the Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) surpassed 90 million as countries continued to report record spike in cases. The death toll also neared 2 million. The number of infections worldwide has doubled in just 10 weeks, according to a tally by John Hopkins University on Sunday. Covid-19 infections had hit 45 million as recently as late October.As of Sunday afternoon, John Hopkins counted 90,005,787 infections around the world.In the US, new cases fell for the second day in New York state, easing from a record. California’s average daily deaths rose to a new high. North Dakota, once one of the worst-hit states in the US, has gone two days without a death.Meanwhile, South Korea reported 451 new coronavirus cases over the past 24 hours, down from 665 the previous day. It was the smallest increase since the end of November. China, which reported a fresh outbreak over the week, confirmed 85 local confirmed coronavirus infections on January 10, including 82 in the northern province of Hebei, 2 in Liaoning and 1 in Beijing.Follow all the live updates here:Follow all the updates here:UK health minister says the pandemic has reached its 'worst point'UK's health minister Matt Hancock said at a press conference on Monday that with 32,294 people currently hospitalised in England due to Covid-19, the crisis has reached its "worst point", reported Reuters. With over 81,000 dead UK has the deadliest coronavirus toll in all of Europe.Indian healthcare manufacturer HLL Lifecare purchases 1.10 crore doses of Covishield from SIIHLL Lifecare Ltd has purchased 1.10 crore doses of Serum Institute of India's(SII) Covishield at ₹200 per dose. There's commitment to purchase further quantity of 450 lakh doses of Covishield by April 2021 at ₹200 per dose plus GST: Letter of Comfort of HLL Lifecare Ltd & SIIGujarat records 615 new Covid-19 cases, 746 recoveries, and 3 fatalitiesOn Monday the state of Gujarat recorded 615 new cases of Covid-19, and 746 total recoveries, taking the state's toll of active cases to 7,695. 3 patients succumbed to the virus pushing the death toll to 4,347, reported news agency PTI.Italy records 12,532 new cases of Covid-19, 448 fatalities on MondayItaly on Monday reported 12,532 new Covid-19 cases, marking a decline from the 18,627 fresh cases reported a day before. 448 deaths were also recorded, which took the total death toll in the country to 79,203 since the outbreak started, reported Reuters.Maharashtra records 438 new Covid-19 cases, 4286 recoveries, and 40 fatalities on MondayMaharashtra reports 2438 new #COVID19 cases, 4286 recoveries and 40 deaths today.Total cases 19,71,552Total recoveries 18,67,988 Death toll 50,101Active cases 52,288 pic.twitter.com/T8QdrajPp0First lot of Covid-19 vaccines to arrive in Gujarat on Tuesday: Deputy CMThe first consignment of the #COVID19 vaccine will arrive in Gujarat's Ahmedabad tomorrow morning: Gujarat Deputy CM Nitin Patel(file photo) pic.twitter.com/Cs0BxKwnjNGujarat's deputy chief minister, Nitin Patel, told news agency ANI that the state will be receiving its first batch of Covid-19 vaccines on Tuesday morning.First batch of Covid-19 vaccines to arrive in Kolkata on TuesdayThe first consignment containing around 70-80 lakh vials of Covid-19 vaccines is likely to reach Kolkata on Tuesday, a senior official of the state health department told news agency PTI. The official also added that four vehicles, five walk-in-coolers, and four walk-in-freezers have been readied for the ferrying and storing the vaccine vials.Kerala records 3,110 new Covid-19 casesKerala reports 3,110 new #COVID19 cases and 3,922 recoveries today.Total recoveries 7,47,389Active cases 63,346 pic.twitter.com/XUKlR4Bk86Rajasthan registers 429 new Covid-19 casesRajasthan reports 429 new #COVID19 cases, 568 recoveries and 2 deaths today.Total cases: 3,13,425 Total recoveries: 3,04,104Death toll: 2,736 Active cases: 6,585 pic.twitter.com/84CdYGkEuBNo one should be doubtful about the Covid vaccine: MP CM ChouhanThe scientists of India have proven that the vaccine is absolutely safe. It will build antibodies and immunity. No one should be doubtful whether they should get vaccinated or not: Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan, reports ANI.SII's Covishield vaccine to be dispatched early morning tomorrowSerum Institute of India (SII) produced Covishield dispatch likely to be early morning tomorrow, as per sources, reports ANI.All states, UTs should keep a check on vaccine-related rumors: PM ModiThe prime minister has also asked all the states and union territories to keep a check on Covid vaccine related rumors and misconceptions. Covid SOPs should also be kept in mind during the inoculation programme to control the spread of the virus.Upload all vaccine related data on CoWIN app: PM ModiThe prime minister also asked to register all Covid vaccine related data on CoWIN app. The app will also act as a reminder for second dose of the vaccine.Frontline workers to be vaccinated against Covid first: PM ModiPM Modi in address to chief ministers of the states said 3 crore frontline workers will be vaccinated first and the expense will be borne by the central government.SII receives vaccine order from govt; price to be ₹200 per dose: OfficialsSerum Institute of India (SII) has received purchase order from Government of India. The officials of SII said the vaccine would be available at the price of ₹200 per dose, reports ANI.Indonesia records 8,692 new coronavirus casesThe Covid-19 cases in Indonesia rose by 8,692 within one day to 836,718, with the death toll adding by 214 to 24,343, the Health Ministry said on Monday, reports ANI.Kool-ex Cold Chain in Pune ready to transport Covid vaccines from SIIKool-ex Cold Chain Ltd in Pune prepared to transport the Covid-19 vaccines from Serum Institute of India to other parts of the country, reports ANI.IMA requests all members to get vaccinated first to show Covid shots safety, efficacyIndian Medical Association (IMA) has requested all its 3.5 lakh members in 1800 local branches to voluntarily come out to get vaccinated first to show to the world that the vaccines are safe and efficacious: IMA pic.twitter.com/DHIs42lCKASection 144 imposed in Meghalaya's East Khasi Hills till Jan 17In order to curb the spread of Covid-19 infections, the district magistrate of East Khasi Hills imposed Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) in the district with effect from January 11 to 17.Number of people infected with new strain in India rises to 96The total number of persons found infected with the mutant UK strain of Covid-19 rises to 96, informed the Union health ministry.Upcoming week will be worst for UK, says chief medical adviser on Covid-19 situationThe next few weeks of the Covid-19 pandemic will be the worst as the new highly infectious variants of the virus rampage across the country, the British government’s chief medical adviser said today."The next few weeks are going to be the worst weeks of this pandemic in terms of numbers into the NHS (National Health Service)," Chris Whitty told local television. "What we need to do before the vaccines have had their effect, because it will take several weeks before that happens, we need to really double down."411 new Covid-19 cases in Thane, 8 more deathsWith the addition of 411 new Covid-19 cases, the infection count in Maharashtra's Thane district has reached 2,47,113, an official said on Monday.Eight more people have also succumbed to the viral infection, raising the death toll in the district to 6,028, the official said.Two more die in Jharkhan due to Covid-19Jharkhand's Covid-19 tally rose to 1,16,817 as 145 more people tested positive for the infection, a health department official said on MondayIndia reports 16,311 new Covid-19 cases, 161 deathsIndia reported 16,311 new Covid-19 cases, 161 deaths in the last 24 hours. With Monday's additions, the tally reached 10,466,595. The death toll was at 151,160.Global Covid-19 cases surpass 90 millionThe global tally of Covid-19 infections surpassed 90 million on Sunday, according to data from Johns Hopkins University (JHU).Joe Biden to receive second dose of Covid-19 vaccine todayUS President-elect Joe Biden will receive his second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine on Monday, his office announced, three weeks after his first injection was broadcast live on TV to boost public confidence in the jab.Brisbane lockdown to endAustralia’s Queensland state will lift the three-day lockdown in Brisbane after recording zero new coronavirus cases overnight, keeping in place some restrictions at shops and restaurants as well as public indoor mask requirements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-india-world-latest-news-covid-19-death-toll-january-11-101610328985194.html
12-01-2021||India||Madhya Pradesh: NMDC resumes diamond mining in Panna after forest department nod||Madhya Pradesh forest department has allowed National Mineral Development Corporation (NMDC) to resume operation of its diamond mine at Majhgawan in Panna district of Bundelkhand region, said an official.The operation was suspended as the environmental clearance for the mine came to an end on December 31, 2020, said the official.An order dated January 4, 2021, sent to field director of Panna Tiger Reserve by principal chief conservator of forest (PCCF), wildlife, Alok Kumar said, “The operation of diamond mine of National Mineral Development Corporation, spread in the area of 74 hectares in forest area of Gangau sanctuary of Panna, has continued for the past 50 years. The state government has extended the lease for the next 20 years and the matter of renewal of lease is pending before the State Wildlife Board and National Wildlife Board. In case of no new mining operation and no adverse impact on wildlife, the existing operation should be resumed till the clearance from the wildlife board.”Panna Tiger Reserve field director UK Sharma said, “The order to resume the operation of the mine has been released for existing mining operation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-nmdc-resumes-diamond-mining-in-panna-after-forest-department-nod/story-Y8bCqey5pAZccnrCAw5YsJ.html
12-01-2021||Today's||Data can be an asset for governance, growth and public welfare||Data is a critical component for measurable and actionable governance and policy perspectives, as well as for triggering innovation and growth. Data to enhance ease of living and efficiency has been addressed through several Government of India initiatives, including the Jan Dhan-Aadhaar-Mobile or JAM trinity, the Open Government Data Platform of India, and the National Judicial Data Grid. The report by the Committee of Experts on Non-Personal Data Governance Framework, led by the ministry of electronics and information technology (NPD Report), and the Data Empowerment and Protection Architecture (DEPA) paper released by NITI Aayog have built on the concept of data’s benefits. Data as a beneficial good is also covered in the Economic Survey 2019, which proposed that data gathered by governments on issues of social interest ought to be democratised in the interest of social welfare, or made a public good.The DEPA paper states how the architecture “flows from the Centre’s overarching position that data is primarily an economic good”. Its key goal is empowering individuals with control over their personal data, through a robust and dynamic regulatory, legislative, and institutional framework, supported by technology design for secure data-sharing. DEPA involves regulators across banking, securities, insurance, and pensions — namely, RBI, SEBI, IRDAI, PFRDA and the ministry of finance coming together. The DEPA platform’s availability as a public good allows market players across the financial and technology ecosystems as well as new entrepreneurs to have the chance to leverage and build on this digital platform. As the paper states, the problem is not that companies are benefiting from the data of individuals; the problem is that individuals and small firms do not benefit. The consent process of DEPA merits special mention, since it takes care of many of the potential concerns.Data, especially non-personal data, is a vital component for elevating transparency and good governance. The NPD Reportemphasises its importance from a public good perspective. At the intersection of big data and good governance, access to current big data sets also helps provide opportunities to quickly address issues in new technology-led solutions. The report lucidly sets out the “why” and to a large extent, the “how” to accomplish maximum benefit, with enough flexibility within, to accommodate and dynamically adjust to the ground realities from the legal, regulatory, and design principle components. When weighing the risks and rewards of using big data sets for good governance, what needs to remain contextual is that adequate protections are being afforded to the community and individuals. The utility of raw/factual data sets comprising anonymised user information data that is collected is also crucial. The data sharing purpose is extremely relevant for policy on governance.The recommendation that India should specify a new class of data at a national level, namely data of special public interest or high-value datasets, while also progressively identifying other priority sectors is important. Also insightful is the emphasis on the need for high quality India-relevant data sets in public good sectors to build on Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning systems. Meta-data-sharing too will spur innovation on an unprecedented scale and also promote and encourage the development of domestic industry and startups that can scale their data businesses.To ensure optimum governance outcomes, access to and utilisation of big data is going to be key. This will benefit Indian society from an ease of living perspective. It will also spur the overall achievement of ease of doing business along with world-leading innovation in India. This is what is contemplated by both DEPA and at a more macro-level, the NPD framework. These are important initiatives in this rapidly evolving landscape.Amitabh Kant is CEO and Desh Gaurav Sekhri Is OSD, NITI AayogThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/data-can-be-an-asset-for-governance-growth-and-public-welfare-101610462776989.html
12-01-2021||Today's||Handling the avian flu crisis | HT Editorial||2021 has started with an unprecedented bird flu epidemic in India, causing the death of thousands of wild and poultry birds in 10 states and bleeding the fast-growing poultry industry for a second time over the past year. In March-April 2020, the industry was hit by a 68-day lockdown and industries expected to recover the losses during the winter months. Prices of poultry products, the fastest growing segments of the agriculture sector, has dipped by 40-60 % in the past week as bird flu has spread from Pong Dam in Himachal Pradesh and Rajasthan, where the first cases were reported in the last week of December, to Delhi, Madhya Pradesh and Kerala. Migratory birds from faraway countries in the northern hemisphere such as Mongolia and Kazakhstan are said to have brought the virus to India in the 24th such instance since 2004. More than half of the world’s bird flu incidents take place in the Central Asian Flyway (CAF) that covers almost the entire Indian subcontinent, according to World Health Organization (WHO). Close to 90% of birds, migrating through the flyway, visit India’s wintering sites and some of them may be carriers of various avian diseases. The bird flu spreads through their droppings, contaminating the water bodies they visit. The death of crows in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Uttarkhand and ducks in Kerala show that the virus spread from the cross-border migratory birds to the domestic ones and eventually to the poultry. The Bhopal-based National Institute for High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD) confirmed this as it found same strain Avian Influenza (H5N8) in migratory and domestic birds. Experts say preventing bird flu is not possible as little research has been done on the virus-carrying capability of migratory birds in CAF. However, the spread can be contained if there is early sharing of information between the 29 CAF countries. For instance, the first bird flu death in the flyway was reported from the breeding sites in China in October-November, indicating that the disease was coming to India. Conservation and protection of migratory birds and their sites are covered under the Convention for Conservation of Migratory Species of Animals (CMS) but their health aspects are not. The United Nations and WHO should work with countries in the CAF region for disease surveillance of the migratory birds and India should do more sample checks at the wintering sites to catch the disease early.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/handling-the-avian-flu-crisis-hteditorial-101610461818610.html
12-01-2021||Today's||The BJP’s political pitch in Assam | HT Editorial||Assam is important to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) — not just because it is the biggest state in the Northeast but because it is seen as the gateway to the region. In the party’s worldview, Assam is a site of contestation between those seeking greater integration with the nation and those who have sought to retain a distinct, sub-national identity for Assam. It is also a state where the battle of demographics — between those who consider themselves indigenous and those who are seen as “outsiders”, primarily Muslims from Bangladesh — has been fought.And that is why BJP president JP Nadda’s visit to the state to prepare for assembly polls is significant. The BJP promised to deport immigrants in the 2016 election. Under the Supreme Court’s order, the National Register of Citizens was updated — but this process was flawed, had tremendous humanitarian consequences, and left all sides unhappy. To offset the exclusion from the NRC process, the BJP was seen to have brought in the Citizenship (Amendment) Act — but this riled Assam even more because the resentment is targeted at all outsiders, irrespective of religion, while the BJP was accused of creating room for entry of outsiders who may share the majority religious faith.But it speaks of how quickly politics evolves that while the issue of immigrants remains contentious, the BJP’s own campaign is focused on leadership, governance and alliances in sub-regions — the absence of a strong opposition helps. Even as it starts out as the favourite, the BJP must be careful in how it navigates the historical tensions on identity in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-bjp-s-political-pitch-in-assam-hteditorial-101610461817013.html
12-01-2021||Today's||Commit to a decade of climate resilience||What is common to Cuttack in Odisha, Guntur in Andhra Pradesh and Paschim Champaran in Bihar? In the past half-century, these districts (among many others) have witnessed a switch from being flood-prone to becoming drought-prone. Conversely, Nagaur in Rajasthan, Surendranagar in Gujarat and Aurangabad in Maharashtra are among the districts where the reverse has been observed.Administrative attention currently is focused on vaccine delivery and economic recovery. But the next economic crisis could be set off by a series of climate shocks. Between 1999 and 2018, the world faced at least 12,000 extreme weather events, resulting in losses of $3.54 trillion (in purchasing power parity terms). The planet is in trouble. Atmospheric concentrations of carbon dioxide (at 417 parts per million) are as high as they were four million years ago, with temperatures being 2-4 degrees Celsius warmer and sea levels 10-25 metres higher. In the worst-case scenario, by 2100, CO2 concentrations could reach levels last seen more than 50 million years ago. This rate of change does not give time for many organisms to adapt to a warmer climate. Human civilisation has never experienced warming of this kind.Despite the marginal and temporary fall in emissions due to the pandemic, 2020 was the warmest year ever recorded (tied with 2016). Temperatures could have been higher had it not been for the cooling impact of the La Niña event (a cool band of water forming in the Pacific Ocean every few years).India is witnessing severe pressures. Between 1970 and 2005, there were 250 extreme climate events; but there have been 310 such since 2005 alone. In that period, at least 55 districts have endured extreme floods and 79 districts have faced extreme drought annually. This means that every year, floods and droughts are affecting 97.5 million and 140 million people, respectively. Mitigating emissions has always tended to overshadow the climate agenda. But the Climate Adaptation Summit being planned for January 25-26 in the Netherlands can begin to reshape the conversation. Summit organisers plan to introduce an adaptation action agenda, allowing actors from different regions and sectors to propose adaptation initiatives. India could lead the world in committing to a decade of climate resilience, by proposing and promoting actions that investigate, inform and invest against risks and build resilience. Episodic and myopic approaches to disaster management will fall short unless buttressed by efforts to investigate extreme events in detail. We need to analyse their causes, their shifting frequency, the impact of climate crisis on their possible recurrence and the vulnerability of specific regions.This is why a climate risk atlas becomes necessary, connecting past trends to future scenarios by overlaying data on extreme events with climate modelling. This does not exist anywhere in the developing world, in effect forcing governments to fly blind. India can demonstrate how a detailed assessment of localised climate risks can lay the foundation for informed climate plans at national, state, district and city levels, preparing for extreme events, and accordingly identify the gaps in administrative capacity to respond.Second, climate risks need to be communicated to households and communities. A particularly grim drought or flash flood, with hundreds of thousands affected, might attract headlines for a few days or weeks. But how does a community prepare itself for climate variability? Like Chennai or Mahbubnagar, 40% of India’s districts have switched from being flood-prone to drought-prone and vice-versa. Information on climate risks needs to be salient and easily understood by households. Advance warnings, giving real-time information as disasters unfold, connecting people and businesses for post-disaster recovery are ways in which communities can become co-participants in a unified emergency response framework.Third, India must be at the vanguard of investing in cost-effective resilient infrastructure. Developing countries do not have the luxury of spending billions of additional dollars on climate-proof infrastructure. On paper, the incremental investments pay back when they avoid far greater losses from extreme events. But high upfront costs of already expensive capital assets make climate resilience a secondary priority. This is why India’s leadership of the Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure (CDRI) — with its focus on transport, power and telecom infrastructure — is noteworthy. The Climate Adaptation Summit can extend CDRI’s work on research, advocacy and technical support and include resilience financing. This would reduce the cost of finance by setting off investment in resilient infrastructure against avoided future losses.Building resilience is both prevention and cure. By 2030, the world has to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals, fulfil promises made under the Paris Agreement, and adhere to the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction. A common thread of resilience could tie their agendas together. India’s vulnerability to climate risks, growing experience with handling disasters, and new initiatives to strengthen infrastructure position it at the forefront for an adaptation action agenda.Arunabha Ghosh is CEO, Council on Energy, Environment and WaterThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/commit-to-a-decade-of-climate-resilience-101610461699043.html
12-01-2021||Today's||Opening the black box of marriage||There has been a debate recently over salaries for housewives. That politicians are taking it up is welcome. However, the reaction against it derives partly from an anxiety over commodification of what is seen as a labour of love, namely, a woman’s unpaid domestic and care work (UDCW) performed for her family.Yet, various components of women’s UDCW are already commodified through paid domestic work, sex work, care work and surrogacy. Once we suspend commodification anxiety, wages for housework (WFH) is neither an outrageous idea nor a utopian one. Instead, a movement for wages for housework that goes beyond salaries for housewives can shake the foundations of patriarchy and is worthy of serious debate.For one, India’s courts have developed a pathbreaking and robust “wages for housework” jurisprudence. My study of cases between 1968 and 2021 under the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988, reveals the consistent recognition by courts, including the Supreme Court (as recently as January 6), of the UDCW of deceased housewives. When approached by dependents for compensation for loss of services of housewives to the family, judges have quantified women’s UDCW to fix a notional monthly income, multiplied for her reproductive lifespan. This compensation is higher than an award for replacing her services or for loss of companionship.The labour of housewives is, thus, compensated alongside that of male workers. Judges drew on constitutional law (Article 15), international human rights law, and feminist economics to recognise UDCW, resulting in significant symbolic and material gains. Some judges glorified maternal altruism, reinforcing gendered expectations of women’s labour within hetero-patriarchal marital forms. But other judges spoke of the changing nature of the household where women earned outside the home, even more than their husbands. They put UDCW on par with work outside the home.Courts used various methods to measure pay, including the costs of replacement, the opportunity cost of UDCW, and women’s contribution to marriage as a partnership. But they pegged compensation to a woman’s motherhood status, number of children, age and educational qualifications generating poor intra-gender redistributive outcomes. Still, courts have moved beyond the threshold question of recognition for UDCW to addressing thorny questions of redistribution. Importantly, if courts can remunerate men for UDCW when housewives die, why not remunerate women for their UDCW when they are alive? Indeed, the Supreme Court (SC) in 2010 called on Parliament to introduce a community property regime (where income and property acquired by either spouse during a marriage belong to both partners) to compensate women’s UDCW upon divorce.The SC also took strong objection to census authorities listing homemakers alongside beggars and prisoners (considered unproductive) and not accounting for women’s unpaid subsistence work. Indeed, feminist economists have long shown how the census is riddled with enumerator and respondent biases. Women’s UDCW is not considered to be work, which is a definitional bias. Yet, we lament the declining female labour force participation rate (FLFPR). But if the WFH jurisprudence is taken seriously and the census measures the labour women actually perform — UDCW and subsistence work — we can puncture the seemingly urgent “problem“ of declining FLFPR and avoid holding up paid work as a panacea where decent jobs are already rare to come by.Finally, we must call out the subsidies that women’s UDCW provide to the State, capital and patriarchy. The WFH movement aimed to do this, by putting a price on housework to reject housework rather than lobby for salaries for housewives. Although WFH has been repackaged to demand universal basic income (UBI), I am not arguing for UBI. Instead, let us experiment with paying salaries to housewives.By the age of 30, 95% of women are married while divorce rates are only 2.6%. The 2011 census shows 160 million women with “household work” as their main occupation, and there are possibly more. Where a woman is faced with compulsory marriage, has difficulty realising equal inheritance rights over natal property, and has no access to community property upon divorce, wages for UDCW will improve her bargaining power, allowing her to exit marriage. A salary risks entrenching gendered stereotypes for sure; some husbands will demand more UDCW, but they do this anyway. We must open the black box of marriage to fundamentally restructure it for women’s economic empowerment.State-provided salaries for housewives can work alongside continued investment in public services, infrastructure and social protection policies and improved access to education, decent jobs and workplace protection. The government’s cash transfer of ₹500 for three months to poor women’s Jan Dhan accounts post-pandemic and focus on LPG provision suggest awareness of women’s role in managing households.Valuing UDCW will also have ripple effects for the millions of ASHAs, anganwadi workers, school teachers and domestic workers whose labour is viewed as an extension of UDCW, as “intuitively feminine” and, thereby, devalued and underpaid. Finally, every man who has swept, mopped or washed utensils through the pandemic likely has a newfound respect for women’s UDCW. If we do not recognise women’s UDCW now, then when? As Seema Nandy, a housewife, once observed (in response to the Kolkata mayor’s proposal to license sex workers), “We labour, that is why we eat, a license is what we need.”Prabha Kotiswaran is professor of Law and Social Justice at King’s College LondonThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/opening-the-black-box-of-marriage-101610461697323.html
