15-01-2021||Mumbai||CoWIN server slows down in Maharashtra, health dept faces trouble||(PLATechnical glitches slowed down Covid Vaccine Intelligence Network or CoWIN — an application developed by the central government to monitor and track the inoculation - a day before nationwide mass inoculation programme.As a result, confusion prevailed till late evening since registered healthcare workers failed to receive information about their vaccination centre and timing.Protocol mandates all health workers who are keen on getting the vaccine to register on the application. With the health department unable to receive the link to send messages to registered individuals, officials at vaccination centres were forced to call individual beneficiaries and provide the requisite information."Due to some technical glitches, the server of the Co-Win application has slowed down, Thus, we aren’t able to send the message to registered beneficiaries. Following which, we have created a WhatsApp group where all beneficiaries of respective districts have been added and we are sending a message to those groups informing them about the vaccination centres and timing," said Dilip Patil, state immunisation officer.Also read: 'Seek approval before initiating action against poll officials' - EC tells statesThis raised concern among the in-charge of the vaccination centres. “We have got the application but we haven’t got the link yet. We are personally informing healthcare workers about the timing of the vaccination,” said a dean of one of the BMC-run vaccination centres. “This might be the biggest hurdle tomorrow as we need to verify the details of the beneficiaries,” the officer added.On a regular basis, hospitals have to make a roster of their medical staff. Due to the confusion, hospital staffers had to wait till late night to make one. “We don’t know who will get called for the vaccination so we couldn't even make the roster of our duty till late night. There is so much of confusion,” said a doctor from BYL Nair hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cowin-server-slows-down-in-maharashtra-health-dept-faces-trouble-101610734927944.html
15-01-2021||Noida||Noida tops the chart as the most polluted city in country||Noida was the most polluted city in the country on Friday as the poor ventilation led by unfavourable weather spiked the pollution levels over seven times higher the safe limits. The city’s air, along with that of neighbouring Ghaziabad and Greater Noida, had turned severe on Thursday; again aided by calm wind and high local emissions. On Friday, Greater Noida was the third most polluted city in terms of air quality index (AQI) while Ghaziabad was the fourth most polluted. According to the weather analyst, meteorological conditions are expected to remain unfavourable for the next two days at least, which will reflect on the cities’ deteriorating air quality as particle pollutants will remain trapped in the air due to lower temperatures and foggy conditions. “The wind speed on Friday dropped further with peak speed reaching only 5 kmph. The weather condition may get even more harsh by Saturday, with mercury set to fall again. This would lead poor and unsupportive conditions for dispersion that may further increase the pollution levels,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, India Meteorological Department (IMD). He added that the weather conditions may improve by January 18 when the wind directions would change and temperature would increase. According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the air quality index (AQI) of Noida, on a scale of 0 to 500, on Friday was 475 –highest in the country – against 412 on Thursday. The AQI of Greater Noida was 464 against 410 a day earlier. The AQI of Ghaziabad was 458 against 429 a day earlier. An AQI between 101 and 200 is considered ‘moderate’, between 201 and 300 is ‘poor’, between 301 and 400 is considered ‘very-poor’ and above 400 is considered ‘severe’. The major pollutant or PM2.5 in the region also spiked to over seven times the standards. The average PM2.5 for Noida on Friday 425.37 microgrammes per cubic metres (µg/m³) against 321.39 µg/m³ on Thursday µg/m³. The average PM2.5 for Greater Noida was 402.37 µg/m³ against 277.97µg/m³ a day earlier. The PM2.5 level for Ghaziabad was 427.67 µg/m³ against 322.58µg/m³ a day earlier. The safe limit for PM2.5 is 60µg/m³. According to the System of air quality and weather forecasting and research (SAFAR), the AQI is likely to deteriorate further with region seeing year’s first prolonged extreme air pollution event. “Surface winds are calm and the minimum temperature is likely to fall further. The AQI is forecasted to deteriorate further and rapidly. SAFAR forecast reveals that AQI will continue to be in the severe category with increasing magnitude for 16-17 January. This is likely to be the first prolonged extreme air pollution event of 2021. Marginal improvement is expected only by 18th January but within the lower end of Severe to higher end of Very Poor. Relief is expected only thereafter which will be updated tomorrow,” said SAFAR on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-tops-the-chart-as-the-most-polluted-city-in-country-101610735022157.html
15-01-2021||Other||Ghaziabad: House guest arrested for molesting 4-year-old girl||Ghaziabad: The Ghaziabad police on Friday arrested a 27-year-old man who allegedly molested a four-year-old girl inside her apartment at a highrise in Raj Nagar Extension Township. The police, on the basis of a complaint given by the girl’s mother, registered an FIR for molestation and sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.The police identified the suspect as Saurabh Shail, who lived with the girl’s family and is from Ghaziabad itself. A video of him purportedly showing being thrashed by the girl’s father at their apartment went viral on social media.“I was with my husband in one of the rooms while our daughter was playing in another room. Suddenly, I heard her crying and when I went to her room, the suspect was touching her inappropriately. I grabbed my daughter and called my husband. After this, we called the police emergency number while some neighbours came for help,” the girl’s mother alleged in her complaint given to Sihani Gate police.“My daughter gets scared upon seeing him and I suspect he may have molested her previously as well,” she added. Based on the complaint, the Sihani Gate police registered an FIR against the suspect. “He was arrested by the police and an FIR was registered. He is a friend of the girl’s father and stayed with the family,” said Awaneesh Kumar, circle officer (city 2).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ghaziabad-house-guest-arrested-for-molesting-4-year-old-girl-101610735021792.html
15-01-2021||Other||Three fake UPSRTC buses seized, seven arrested||Ghaziabad: In a joint operation, the officials of the Uttar Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) and the Ghaziabad traffic police on Friday arrested seven persons who had allegedly painted private buses in colours of the UPSRTC, and were running operations between Meerut and Ghaziabad, pretending to be a government service. The police have registered an FIR at Link Road police station in this regard. The suspects were identified as Rahat Ali, Rajendra Kumar, Raees Ahmad, Mohammad Javed, Arif Ali, Mohammad Afzaal and Shan Mohammad, who are residents of Ghaziabad, Meerut and Hapur districts. They were booked under sections 419 (cheating by personation), 420 (cheating) and 482 (using a false property mark) of IPC. “They had been operating the buses for the past couple of months and got private 52-seater buses painted in the red and white scheme. They also painted monogram and slogans of the UPSRTC. With this, their buses looked similar to UPSRTC buses. The suspects were operating them from outside the Kaushambi metro station and charged between ₹30-100 for a trip to Meerut. They did not issue any tickets and packed buses to capacity despite the Covid-19 pandemic,” said AK Singh, regional manager (RM) of UPSRTC.Three buses have been seized so far. Whether the suspects ran more such buses is being investigated.Officials said that operators of UPSRTC buses, due to the pandemic, do not allow passengers more than the 52-seating capacity while private buses ferry as many passengers as their can, flouting Covid-19 protocols.The RM said that a trip to Meerut in a UPSRTC bus costs about ₹60 and it is estimated that each of the three private buses seized by the police minted about ₹10,000 per day. On an average day, a UPSRTC bus makes about ₹1,000 a day. The fleet makes about 80 trips. Each private bus allegedly run by the suspects made four-five trips a day, said officials.“Their general modus operandi was to ferry as many passengers as they could and charge them ambiguous amounts of money in the name of fare to Meerut. They revealed that on days when there was rush, they would charge more from passengers. They operated these buses up to the bus stand in Meerut before returning to Ghaziabad. Their operations also led to loss of revenue to government buses,” he added. Traffic officials said that those arrested were allegedly bus owners, drivers and conductors, and that more such raids will be conducted in coming time.“They have been operating for the past few months, usually from near the ISBT at Kaushambi, from where they would pick up passengers. After they were arrested, an FIR was registered against them at Link Road police station. We also seized the three buses. We are planning to conduct checking operations at other locations too,” said Ramanand Kushwaha, superintendent of police (traffic).The registration plates of two of the buses showed Meerut numbers while the third had a Ghaziabad number. “We will check the registration details with the help of the transport department,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/three-fake-upsrtc-buses-seized-seven-arrested-101610735021308.html
15-01-2021||Other||Annual census to be held at OBS with bird flu protocols||Noida: The Asian waterbird census (AWC) will be held at Okhla Bird sanctuary on January 17 with full health protocols as no cases or signs of bird flu had been so far detected in the sanctuary, officials said. The protocols require census takers to wear persona protection equipment. Ecologist from Wetlands International -- the organisation that had been conduction AWC in the city for past three years-- said that they had not noticed any symptoms of avian influenza among migratory birds at most of the wetlands in UP and Rajasthan so far. “Apart from Pong Dam lake in Himachal Pradesh, most of the wetlands where we had been visiting and conducting census are safe. So we have decided to go ahead with the annual census at Okhla bird sanctuary on January 17,” said TK Roy, ecologist and conservationist, AWC He added that the bird flu had been mostly detected among some terrestrial birds, but not among the migratory birds in the wetlands they had visited so far. “We have visited several wetlands including Sambar lake in Rajashtan, Sariska Tiger Reserve in Rajasthan, two lakes in Agra, Saman bird sanctuary in Etawah, Hastinapur wildlife sanctuary as well. All of them seemed safe,” said Roy. The Asian Waterbird Census is the annual international event held in India and Australia in January by the Wetlands International in association with the forest department. According to the divisional forest department, Gautam Budh Nagar while they are on alert and surveillance is on, it seems safe to hold the census. “Census will be held and forest department will provide all possible help to the volunteers. There will be however protocols for bird flu at place, which including wearing gears while going to certain areas of the sanctuary that is near lake area. Though no dead water bird or symptom of bird flu had been observed so far, we still have to be cautious,” said PK Srivastava, divisional forest officer, GB Nagar. Last year, the AWC held at OBS on January 11, 2020 counted total 8,776 birds of 62 species against 12,212 birds of 63 species in January 2019. The major attraction of resident and migratory birds includes --Graylag Geese, Bar-headed Geese, Common Teal, Northern Shoveler, Northern Pintail, Gadwal, Eurasian Coot, Black-tailed Godwit, Common Pochard, Ferruginous Duck, Painted Stork and Greater Spotted Eagle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/annual-census-to-be-held-at-obs-with-bird-flu-protocols-101610734964708.html
15-01-2021||Other||Koli held guilty in 12th Nithari murder case, employer Pandher acquitted||Ghaziabad: A Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court in Ghaziabad on Friday held prime accused in the Nithari murders Surinder Koli guilty but acquitted his employer Mondinder Singh Pandher in a case linked to the murders.The case is of the abduction, attempted rape and murder of a 20-year-old domestic help and destruction of evidence in the crime. Lawyers attached to the case said that the quantum of punishment is likely to be pronounced on Saturday. The infamous Nithari murders were believed to be committed between 2005 and 2006. In December 2006, skeletons were found in a drain near to a house in Nithari, Noida. Pandher is the owner of the house and Koli was his domestic help.The CBI registered 16 cases, charge sheeting Koli in all of them for murder, abduction, rape besides destruction of evidence, and Pandher in one for immoral trafficking. The Ghaziabad court, however, summoned Pandher in five other cases after several victims’ families approached it.In 11 previous cases, the court had found Koli guilty in all and had awarded the death sentence all of which are now pending appeal in higher courts. With Friday’s ruling, Pandher has been acquitted in two cases.The 12th case was regarding a murder that is believed to have happened on November 12, 2006.“Koli lured her into the house where he killed her. Her body parts and belongings were recovered in the investigation and the parents identified her clothes. Koli in his statements before a magistrate had also revealed her name. Later, DNA sampling of the remains and blood of victim’s parents also matched,” said JP Sharma, CBI public prosecutor. He said that the prosecution produced 38 witnesses in the case.The prosecution, during final arguments in all previous cases, had demanded death penalty for Koli while terming the killings as “rarest of rare”. Koli, a native of Mangrukhal village in Almora district of Uttarakhand, is representing his cases himself in the trial court and had been lodged in Dasna jail ever since he was arrested in December, 2006. Pandher is lodged in Dasna jail.“Of the six cases we now have only one case which is pending trial at Ghaziabad while the other cases are pending appeal before higher courts,” said Devraj Singh, Pandher’s lawyer at Ghaziabad court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/koli-held-guilty-in-12th-nithari-murder-case-employer-pandher-acquitted-101610734964190.html
15-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai businessman arrested for ₹31-crore GST fraud||The Maharashtra Goods and Services Tax (GST) department on Friday arrested a Vile Parle-based businessman for allegedly causing revenue loss of ₹31 crore to the state government by violating GST rules by fraudulently claiming input tax credit.Joint commissioner of Maharashtra GST, Sampada Mehta confirmed the development. The accused, Anuj Gupta, had shown estimated bogus purchases to the tune of over ₹272 crore and had availed input tax credit of more than ₹31 crore without actually buying any goods or services, according to the department.Input tax credit is an option that allows taxpayers to claim credit for taxes paid on purchase. Issuance of an invoice or bill without supply of goods or services and wrongful availment or utilisation of input tax credit on a bill or invoice without any supply of goods or services is a cognisable non-bailable offence. Gupta has a total of five firms — Savvy Fabrics, Shiv Textiles and Shakti Textile which are registered under Maharashtra Goods and Service Tax Act 2017, and Subhlene Fabrics and Shubhmangal Textile Industries which are registered in the Union Territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli. The two firms at Dadra Nagar Haveli have received a refund of more than ₹11 crore from the government.“With the help of Dadra Nagar Haveli GST officials, it was discovered that these companies physically possess only 20% of the total stock value claimed by them,” said a GST official.Various transporters have also told investigators that they have not transported any goods as shown in their name by these five firms.Gupta was produced before a magistrate and has been sent to 14 days of judicial custody. He is charged for the said offences which attract a punishment of imprisonment up to five years with fine as per the Goods and Services Tax Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-businessman-arrested-for-31-crore-gst-fraud-101610734963633.html
15-01-2021||Other||B.Ed student killed, friend injured in accident in Greater Noida||Greater Noida: A 23-year-old B.Ed student died while her classmate was injured when a cab allegedly hit their two-wheeler in Knowledge Park, Greater Noida on Thursday. The victims were rushed to a private hospital where doctors declared Manju Nagar dead. Her friend Neha, 22, is admitted to a hospital.Manju was a resident of Roja Jalalpur village in Greater Noida while Neha is a resident of Bisrakh. They were B.Ed students at Sharda University in Greater Noida. Manju’s uncle Nagendra said Manju had left home on her two-wheeler for her university Thursday morning. “She picked up her friend on the way and went to the Knowledge Park area. When they reached near the NASA roundabout, a speeding cab came from the wrong side and collided from the front,” he alleged.Manju and Neha were thrown off the scooter. A police team from Knowledge Park police station reached the spot and admitted them to a private hospital, where Manju was declared brought dead, while Neha is recovering.The police team detained the cab driver and seized the car. There was a passenger in the cab as well who told the police that the driver was allegedly talking to someone on the phone when the accident took place.Varun Pawar, SHO, Knowledge Park, said the police have not received any complaint in this matter. “We have detained the cab driver. The victim’s family was busy with the last rites. We will register a case once the complaint is filed,” he said.Ajit Kumar, a spokesperson for the university said: “At present, classes are not held and there is no compulsion for students to visit the campus. We are looking into the matter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bed-student-killed-friend-injured-in-accident-in-greater-noida-101610734962384.html
15-01-2021||Other||RERA orders FIR against Mathura developer||The Uttar Pradesh real estate regulatory authority (UP-Rera) has ordered an FIR against a developer for allegedly obstructing a government team from checking for illegal construction at his site in Vrindavan, Mathura.The authority, with the mandate to safeguard rights of homebuyers, also decided to impose a heavy penalty against the developer for selling flats illegally.“We had received a complaint that the developer had developed and started selling units in a realty project without obtaining a registration number from us. The developer also obstructed officials doing their job. Therefore, we have ordered filing of an FIR in Vrindavan,” said Rajive Kumar, chairperson, UP-Rera. “The penalty will be 10% of total project cost. We have started the process of imposing the penalty. Our team will calculate the total cost of the project to figuring out the penalty amount.”The UP-Rera team had visited the site on Wednesday. They had video recorded the incidents that followed. The developer’s staff at the site could be purportedly seen obstructing them with one heard saying, “How can you enter my premises ... I do not know what is Rera.” The video was later found published on social media.This is time the Rera had faced such resistance, an authority officials said. The developer was unavailable for comment.The confederation of real estate developers association of India said that no project should be sold out without approvals.“We do not appreciate the act of interfering in officials’ work. To restore the homebuyers confidence the promoters should comply with all rules of regulations,” said Subodh Kumar secretary of CREDAI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rera-orders-fir-against-mathura-developer-101610734961940.html
15-01-2021||Other||Noida, Great Noida, Yamuna Expressway authorities launch new plot schemes||NOIDA: Property buyers have multiple options to choose as the Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway authorities are offering new plot schemes. While the Noida authority has already launched a residential plot scheme, Greater Noida Industrial has come up with an IT plot scheme and the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida) will soon launch a small industrial plot scheme.In Noida, 341 plots have been launched.“These plots are located in developed sectors, including sectors 31, 39, 41, 43, 44, 46, 47, 49 and 51, among others. The scheme will be opened on January 21 and applicants can apply till February 12,” said Santosh Upadhayay, officer on special duty of the Noida authority. Applicants can apply on www.property.etender.sbi, said officials.The Greater Noida Industrial Development Authority (GNIDA) has one plot of 100 acres in Sector Techzone, and a 24.98 acres plot in Sector Knowledge Park-V in the city. These two plots are meant for mega IT-enabled projects, being offered with an aim to bring large investment to this industrial town.“Those who want to invest ₹100 crore or more in an IT-enabled project can directly apply to the chief executive officer’s (CEO) office or the Uttar Pradesh additional chief secretary (ACS) for a smooth allotment process. Once applied, the CEO or ACS will provide ease to investors, as per rules,” said Deep Chandar, the additional CEO of GNIDA. Apart from this, Greater Noida has already been running a scheme of plots meant for higher secondary schools, nursery schools, religious buildings and other institutional purposes. The motive of offering this scheme is to help ensure that more schools come up in the city, said officials.There are 29 institutional plots available under this scheme. They will be allotted via online interviews, after applicants submit their proposals which they can do online till January 20, 2021.The Yeida, on the other hand, is in the drafting stage of its industrial plot scheme.“The Uttar Pradesh government has asked us to come up with a small industrial plot scheme. We are working out the details and soon will launch the scheme for small investors who want to set up businesses along the Yamuna Expressway,” said Arun Vir Singh, CEO of the Yeida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/noida-great-noida-yamuna-expressway-authorities-launch-new-plot-schemes-101610734961307.html
15-01-2021||Other||Eight arrested in three separate cases in Greater Noida||Sector Beta 2 police arrested a goldsmith and three others on Friday for burglaries commited in Greater Noida. Vishal Pandey, additional deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said that the police had received complaints about burglaries in flats in Beta 2 in Greater Noida over the last one month. “We had registered eight cases and investigated them. On Friday, we received information about four suspects near Rampur roundabout. Finding them there, the police searched them and found stolen valuables on them, following which they were arrested,” he said. The suspects were identified as Sonu and goldsmith Suraj, residents of Mainpuri in UP, and Praveen and Chandan Sharma, residents of New Delhi. They lived on a rented accommodation in Surajpur area. The police found six silver coins, three gold rings, three pairs of earrings, four anklets, one managlsutra, among other valuables that they were planning to sell to Suraj and ₹42,000. The four suspects were produced in court and sent to judicial custody, Pandey said. In another case, Dadri police arrested three persons from an illegal fire cracker factory. The suspects were identified as Jai Bhagwan, Mahendra Pal and Ram Goptal. They were arrested from their hideouts in Mathurapur village. Two other accomplices, Akash and Manish managed to escape from the spot. Addl DCP Pandey said that the police seized five machines used in manufacturing fire crackers, 16 bags full of fire crackers, five drums, one pick-up van and one Mahindra Scorpio from their possession. “They had been illegally manufacturing fire crackers and selling them in NCR,” he said. A case has been registered against them under Explosive Substances Act. In the third case, a 25-year old man was arrested for his alleged involvement in robbing petrol pump employees ₹2 lakh in Beta 2 area on January 8. The suspect was identified as Arav Bhati alias Yogi, a resident of Sakipur in Surajpur. He was arrested near Dada roundabout in Beta 2 area. Police have recovered ₹1.75 lakh stolen money, a car and a countrymade gun from his possession. All the eight were produced in court and sent to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/eight-arrested-in-three-separate-cases-in-greater-noida-101610734903353.html
15-01-2021||Other||Noida: Seven arrested for blackmailing man||Noida: The police on Thursday arrested seven persons for allegedly blackmailing a man from Muradnagar in Ghaziabad. The suspects were identified as Matin, Rashid, Imran, Ashraf, Shabnam, Wakil and his wife Roshan – all in the age group of 30-40 years. The victim, Nusrat Ali, 30, is a resident of Kakrala village in Phase 2.Ankur Aggarwal, additional deputy commissioner of police, Noida Central, said that on January 14, Nusrat’s brother Toshif Ali had filed a complaint at the Phase 2 police station stating that his brother had received a call from someone a day before. “Nusrat had left his house in a car Wednesday evening but did not return home. Later at night, the family received a call from a woman – later identified as Roshan – demanding ₹2 lakh and threatening to file fake rape case against Nusrat if the demand were not met,” he said.The police registered a case against unknown persons under Section 342 (wrongful consignment), Section 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), and Section 389 (putting person in fear of accusation of offence, in order to commit extortion) of IPC.“Initially we suspected that this was a case of abduction. We sent a police team as decoy relatives of the victim in plain clothes. The team also carried some cash to lure the suspects into negotiation. The team reached spot and some of the suspects came there. When they saw the cash, they believed we were family members of the victim. They took us to the room where the victim was held hostage. The team then swung into action and nabbed all seven suspects from the spot,” said Anita Chauhan, SHO, Phase 2 police station.The police recovered three mobile phones allegedly used in the crime, ₹20,000 in cash and the victim’s car.Nusrat told the police that he had allegedly received a call from Roshan, upon which he came to Muradnagar Wednesday evening. “Roshan went to a room with the victim and got close. At the same time, the other suspects recorded them in mobile phones and started blackmailing him for money,” said the SHO. Police said that it appears the gang had allegedly been operational for the last six months. “We are investigating their crime records. The suspects were produced in court and sent to judicial custody,” said Chauhan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/noida-seven-arrested-for-blackmailing-man-101610734902455.html
15-01-2021||Noida||Conman in police uniform dupes trader of 30 kg silver||An Agra-based trader alleged that a man dressed in police uniform had stolen 30 kg of silver from him on Friday.Sushil Chauhan, owner of Shubham Traders, said that he had sent his driver Ajay Kumar to Delhi to bring a 210-kg silver consignment (sevenn silver ingots of 30 kg each) on Thursday,” he said.He was returning via Noida-Greater Noida expressway, when a man in uniform stopped him in Sector 93 at around 7am Friday. ”The driver believed the person to be as policeman and stopped the car for checking. The so-called policeman checked the silver consignment and said it was a counterfeit and that the driver should come to the police station for investigation,” he said. The man boarded the car and took the driver to sector 144. Rajesh S, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Zone 1, said that, as per the complainant, the man deboarded the vehicle there with one silver ingot and fled. “The driver realised fraud and informed him employer, who then informed police,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/conman-in-police-uniform-dupes-trader-of-30-kg-silver-101610734901937.html
15-01-2021||Other||Ghaziabad, GB Nagar to vaccinate first batch of 1000 healthcare workers at 10 centres||Starting Saturday 10.30 am, Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad will begin inoculating front line health care workers against Covid-19 with the Covishield vaccine.According to district officials, the state government had asked them to prioritise beneficiaries over 40 years of age and that a vaccine vial, once opened, should be administered in four hours.The pandemic, since March last year, had claimed 193 lives in the two districts and infected 51,700 people, till Friday. Around 99% of all cases had been cured and there were 481 active cases, according to latest release from the Uttar Pradesh health department.The vaccination drive will be conducted in 10 centres -- Gautam Budh Nagar six and Ghaziabad four (one more centre was added on Friday). Each centre will inoculate 100 people.The district administrations will hope that the lessons learnt during the dry run on January 5 will hold them in good stead during the actual drive. Every beneficiary has already been intimated about their date and time for the vaccine throught the Co-WIN app, a digital platform developed by the central government to track the vaccination drive.Ghaziabad chief medical officer Dr NK Gupta said that the vaccination will be administered at community health centre at Dasna, Santosh Medical College at Pratap Vihar, district women’s hospital and Yashoda Hospital at Kaushambi on Saturday. “The required number of vaccines vials has been sent to the centres,” Dr Gupta said, adding that the district has about 21800 healthcare workers. Priority to those over 40 yearsGovernment officials also said that the senior state officials on Friday held a video conference with all districts and said that of the first batch of vaccine received in the state, priority will be given to health care workers aged over 40 years while others will also get the shots once fresh batch of vaccine arrives further. On Thursday, Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar districts received 2884 and 2741 vials respectively, each having 10 doses, from the storage depot at Meerut. The sources said that the officials during the video-conferencing have also been told that once the vial gets opened at the vaccination centre, the doses should be administered within four hours. The vaccine, manufactured by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India, is required to be stored between 2°C and 8°C.“There are strict instructions that the beneficiaries must be administered vaccine as per their allotted scheduled number and no one would get any preference,” the above quoted official added. The list of six centres in Gautam Budh Nagar district has remained unchanged and the officials said that the vaccination will take place at Super Speciality Paediatric Hospital & Post Graduate Teaching Institute Noida, Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) Greater Noida, Sharda Hospital in Greater Noida, Kailash Hospital and two community health centres in Bhangel and Bisrakh. “The health department has successfully dispatched around 100 doses of vaccine at each place. We also held a video conference and discussed preparations for the vaccination exercise. The programme will be done smoothly,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate of GB Nagar. There are 24453 registered health workers in the district who would undergo vaccination in the coming days. Ajit Kumar, spokesperson of Sharda Hospital, said that the hospital received 11 vials on Friday. “We had a video meeting with government officials. The hospital management has been told to ensure proper safety of the campus and unwanted persons’ entry would be restricted,” he said further while adding that the vaccination program will be conducted from 8.30 am to 5 pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ghaziabad-gb-nagar-to-vaccinate-first-batch-of-1000-healthcare-workers-at-10-centres-101610734901315.html
15-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s CSMT redevelopment: 10 firms show interest; work likely to start in December 2021||Ten firms including Adani Railways Transport, Godrej Properties, Oberoi Realty have shown interest in the redevelopment of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT). The Indian Railways Stations Development Corporation (ISRDC), which will be undertaking the redevelopment work of CSMT at cost of ₹1,642 crore, had called for request for qualification (RFQ) in August 2020. The redevelopment work of the terminus is likely to start from December 2021 and is expected to be completed by 2025.RFQ is a process to shortlist and qualify applicants who will be asked to submit financial bids for the redevelopment.Firms which submitted RFQ include Adani Railways Transport, Godrej Properties, Oberoi Realty, ISQ Asia Infrastructure Investments, Kalpataru Power Transmission Ltd, Anchorage Infrastructure Investments Holdings Ltd, Brookfield Infrastructure Fund IV, Moribus Holdings Pte Ltd, and Keystone Realtors Pvt Ltd. After shortlisting companies under the RFQ, ISRDC will invite request for proposal (RFP), after which redevelopment of the terminus will begin. “The work on the redevelopment of the terminus will start by December 2021 or early 2022. A detailed project report (DPR) will be prepared and permissions required from the heritage committee will be sought. Initially, the work will be done on the outstation train side of the terminus and later on the suburban section,” said SK Lohia, managing director, IRSDC.CSMT will be redeveloped through the public private partnership (PPP) model. The redevelopment plan will involve construction of commercial spaces including restaurants and cafes along with vehicular parking for passengers inside the terminus.Segregation of outstation and local train passenger movements with the help of interconnecting decks has also been planned. Shifting of harbour railway platforms to P’D Mello entrance of the terminus will be undertaken as part of the redevelopment. ISRDC has also planned for the construction of an underpass for passengers near the present pre-paid taxi stand near the divisional railway manager’s (DRM) office at CSMT. This will be done by dismantling railway buildings that comprise the main reservation office and railway offices adjacent to DRM office. Additional holding area for passengers will be created at the P D’Mello Road entrance along with the current main entrance for the outstation terminus.The body will also be undertaking redevelopment work at Lokmanya Tilak Terminus (LTT), Kalyan, Andheri, Dadar, Borivli, Bandra Terminus and Thakurli railway stations in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-csmt-redevelopment-10-firms-show-interest-work-likely-to-start-in-december-2021-101610734843125.html
15-01-2021||Gurugram||Ahead of boards, private schools to call students for practical sessions||Private schools in the city have started calling students of board classes (classes 10 and 12) for practical sessions and revision, following clarity on the timeline of board exams. While some schools started practical sessions this week, other schools will be calling students in small batches for classes from next week. Education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank had earlier announced that CBSE board examinations for classes 10 and 12 will be conducted between May 4, 2021 and June 10, 2021. The practical examination will begin on March 1 and the results will be announced by July 15, 2021. Following the announcement, schools had said that they would initiate practical sessions from January. Schools across the country were closed in March last year amid the outbreak of Covid-19. Voluntary visits to schools for doubt-clearing sessions were initiated by the Haryana government in September ast year followed by regular classes from November 2 for students in classes 9 to 12. While most government schools saw students turning up for these sessions, private schools had largely continued with online classes. In November, the Haryana government decided to shut schools till November 30 amid a spike in Covid-19 cases among students of government schools. Government schools reopened from December 14 for students of classes 10 and 12 and from December 21 for classes 9 and 11. Delhi Public School, Sector 45, initiated practical sessions for class 12 students in batches from Thursday. The school has capped the number of visiting students at 12 to meet physical distancing concerns. “We are calling students in three batches, one each during morning, midday and afternoon. The sessions are nearly for two hours. While the practical sessions take up one-and-a-half hours, the remaining time is used by students for interacting with each other. We have kept some time for interaction since students are keen on meeting their teachers and classmates,” said Aditi Misra, school principal. Salwan Public School, Sector 15, started remedial classes and practical sessions for students on Friday. Only half the students from board classes were asked to visit the school on Friday. “Today being the first day, around half the students visited the school for sessions. We are expecting the strength to go up from Monday,” said Rashmi Malik school principal. She said that the requirement of a medical certificate was acting as a deterrent to an extent. “While we have our own indemnity bond and seek consent from parents, we are also seeking a medical fitness certificate as sought by the government. More students are likely to join after getting the health clearance,” said Malik. The school has capped the number of students in a single classroom at 15 in view of physical distancing norms. Students of different classes are only allowed in the lab in turns to avoid crowding. “We called two sections of class 10 today. These students were accommodated in four different classrooms so that there is ample physical distancing among students,” said Malik. She said that the school would monitor the feedback it receives from parents to these classes before taking a decision on calling students of class 9 and 11 for physical classroom sessions. “Today was only the first day. We will monitor the feedback next week. If everything is comfortable, we might start calling students from class 9 and 11 too since their exams are coming up,” said Malik. Nidhi Kapoor, the principal of Euro International School, said that the school will be starting classes for students in classes 9 to 12 from Monday. “Classes will take place from 10am till 2pm. We have mentioned students’ roll numbers on the desks and only a select number of students will stay in a classroom,” said Kapoor. She said that besides practical sessions, revision classes for theory subjects will also take place Monday onwards. Aparna Erry, principal of the DAV Public School in Sector 14, said that the school would be calling students from classes 10-12 from next Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/ahead-of-boards-private-schools-to-call-students-for-practical-sessions-101610734841331.html
15-01-2021||Gurugram||600 Covid-19 warriors to take vaccine jab||The district will kick off its Covid-19 vaccination drive with 600 front-line health care workers, who will take the jab on Saturday as part of the nationwide vaccine launch. While Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to connect with the vaccine beneficiaries of Wazirabad session site, among others, through a video conference, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar will connect with the health care workers of Medanta Hospital during the launch.At 10:30am after the vaccine launch by the PM, inoculation will begin at six vaccination session sites in Gurugram, said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer. “Appropriate arrangements have been made at all the six vaccination sites, including the government primary schools in Wazirabad, Daulatabad, Medanta Hospital in Sector 39, SGT Medical College in Chandu Budhera, urban primary health centre in Chauma and the primary health centre in Bhangrola. At each site, 100 front-line health care workers will be vaccinated.”He said that based on the requirement, vaccine doses will be supplied to the nearby cold-chain points set up at urban primary health centres. On Saturday morning, after 8:30am, required doses will reach the sites in a vaccine carrier. A single vial of Serum Institute’s Covishield vaccine has 10 doses. It will be given to all vaccination sites, except for Chauma where Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin will be provided. Each Covaxin vial has 20 doses. Only 0.5 ml will be given to a beneficiary as an intramuscular injection.“Covaxin beneficiaries will have to sign a consent form before the inoculation as per the directives issued by the Central government,” said Yadav. According to him, each site will get additional doses considering there can be 1.1% wastage of the vaccine due to breakage. The district on Thursday received over 49,150 doses of Covid-19 vaccine, comprising 44,950 doses of Covishield and 4,200 doses of Covaxin to inoculate 44, 950 healthcare workers in the next four weeks. Yadav along with deputy commissioner Yash Garg will be present at the Wazirabad session site and Medanta for the communication with the PM and CM. “At each site, preparation has been done for live telecast of the vaccine launch. At Wazirabad vaccination site, since PM is likely to interact with vaccine beneficiaries, a two-way communication system has been set up in an open area within the government school premises,” Yadav said.The vaccination will continue till 5pm where registered health care workers after verification on Co-WIN platform will get the inoculation. They will have to wait for 30 minutes in the observation area. From Friday evening many health care workers who are to be vaccinated started receiving SMS regarding date, time and location for the inoculation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/600-covid-19-warriors-to-take-vaccine-jab-101610734841785.html
15-01-2021||Gurugram||City air continues to remain toxic||Air quality in the city remained in the “very poor” category of the air quality index (AQI) for the second consecutive day on Friday, with 367 on the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) AQI bulletin as against 364 the day prior. While the AQI in Gurugram remained better than most other major NCR cities, experts warned that the AQI is likely to be higher than official figures, given the fact that two of the city’s four air quality monitors did not reflect any pollution data on Friday. Confirming this, Kuldeep Singh, regional officer, Haryana Pollution State Control Board(HSPCB), said, “Data from two monitors, one near the Gurugram Faridabad Road and another in Sector 51, would not have been considered in Friday’s AQI. The monitors are working, but due to some connectivity issue they have did not transmit any data to the central server. I will have it checked out.” Meanwhile, air quality around the HSPCB’s monitoring station in Vikas Sadan recorded “severe” air, with an AQI reading of 420 as of 4pm, while another on the Gurugram-Faridabad Road recorded an AQI of 343 (in the very poor category), as of 4pm on Friday. “If you average these out, you get an AQI in the upper end of the very poor category. But this is not a very accurate picture. Other, privately operated monitors across the city have also recorded severe air quality,” said Sachin Panwar, a city-based independent air quality scientist. Data from private monitors shows that this was indeed the case. According to one monitor located in Sector 57, the level of PM2.5 on Friday touched as much as 470ug/m3 (in the upper end of the severe category), while another in Sector 24 recorded PM2.5 levels as high as 456ug/m3. Yet another privately operated monitor in Sector 43 saw PM2.5 levels as high as 436ug/m3 at 12pm on Friday.As per the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR,”Air quality is likely to improve marginally but remain in Severe category on 16.01.2021 and 17.01.2021. The slow winds and ventilation conditions are extremely unfavourable for dispersion of pollutants which will lead to deterioration in air quality.” Meanwhile, the minimum temperature in Gurugram rose considerably to settle at 9 degrees Celsius on Friday morning, up from 4.9 degrees Celsius a day prior. The maximum temperature also increased slightly, touching 19 degrees Celsius, up from 18.2degrees Celsius a day prior, according to data from the IMD’s nearest weather station in Delhi’s Palam area. As per the IMD’s seven-day forecast for the region, shallow to moderate fog is expected to persist for another week, and may gradually dissipate as temperatures rise. The maximum temperature in Gurugram is expected to touch as much as 22 degrees Celsius in the next week, whereas the minimum is expected to hover around 10 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/city-air-continues-to-remain-toxic-101610734782325.html
15-01-2021||Gurugram||DTCP carries out sealing drive in Sun City||The department of town and country planning(DTCP) on Friday carried out a sealing drive in Sun City after complaints were lodged with department regarding illegal constructions. DTCP officials said that two properties were sealed after it was found during inspection that rules were flouted.RS Bhath, district town planner (enforcement), said that in one of the plots, the officials sealed four floors that were under construction. “In the second plot, the team found that construction was being carried out without any permission from the department. Action would be initiated against the owners and contractors under urban development rules. We will be conducting random inspections in the colony to check for such violations,” he said. The department also said that action against illegal guest houses operational in private colonies is being intensified. On Friday, the enforcement team sealed two large guest houses operational in Sushant Lok -1 after complaints were lodged by locals. The department estimates that there are around 1,500 guest houses that are still operational in the city and the department has repeatedly asked the owners to get them regularised. Bhath said that these guest houses were operating as commercial entities and hosting guests in violation of rules. “The guest houses cannot operate without getting a permission for CLU (change of land use) from the department. A new policy has already been notified for guest houses for registration. In case, the violators don’t follow rules more such sealings will be carried out,” said Bhath, adding that the drive was slowed due to lockdown caused by Covid -19 pandemic. In a related development, the state government on Thursday gave additional charge of DTP(planning) of MCG to Bhath, who also is the planning in-charge of GMDA and Municipal Corporation of Manesar. He also has the additional charge of DTP(enforcement) Gurugram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/dtcp-carries-out-sealing-drive-in-sun-city-101610734782806.html
15-01-2021||Gurugram||50% of Covid-19 vaccine doses to be reserved for second shot||Out of the 49,150 doses of Covid-19 vaccine — including both Covishield and Covaxin — allocated to the district, the health department will reserve 50 percent stock for the second dose until the next batch of vaccine is allocated by the Central government, said senior health officials. In the first phase, roughly 25,000 front-line healthcare workers will be vaccinated out of the total workforce of over 45,000, as both the vaccines have to be administered in two doses. Officials said that the plan is to inoculate all health workers with the first dose within the next four weeks. “The target is that by the time the first round is over, vaccine beneficiaries who got the inoculation in the first week can get the second dose on time. The current Covid-19 vaccine stock will be maintained in a manner until the next batch of vaccine arrives,” said Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary, mentioning the strategy will be applicable across all 22 districts of Haryana. The district health department has also prepared a micro plan for the vaccination drive from January 18 onwards, where every day over 4,600 health care workers will get the Covid-19 vaccine. “The inoculation will take place three times in a week — Monday, Thursday and Friday — at 46 session sites. At these sites,100 people will be vaccinated daily, who have worked in Covid-19 wards directly dealing with patients. Almost 50% of the vaccine will be reserved as per the plan is to inoculate only 25,000 front-line workers in the first phase,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer(CMO). Across Gurugram, over 44,950 health care workers have to be vaccinated, who are already registered on the Co-WIN platform. Of them, 43,070 include both private and public healthcare workers. Nearly 1,820 are those commissioned by the Central government, while 60 health workers are under the Armed Forces Medical Services (AFMS). Based on the count, the state health department on Wednesday allocated 44, 950 doses of Covishield and 4,200 doses of Covaxin. Yadav said that all health care workers will be inoculated in four weeks. For this, 46 vaccination sites will function in the first two weeks starting from January 18. At least 31 sites will function in third week while 28 will operate in the fourth week. “In at least 19 private hospitals, actively handling Covid-19 patients, 32 vaccination booths will be set up to inoculate front-line health care workers. Likewise, at the 14 public sites, government health care workers will get the vaccine jab,” Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer, said.On Friday, a district level Covid-19 task force meeting was held with the representatives of the private hospitals where the vaccination sites would be set up in the first week. At the identified sites, inoculation will start from 9 am onwards. An SMS will be sent to the beneficiary mentioning the date, time and location of vaccination. Yadav said, “At every session site, different teams of vaccination officers and vaccinators are finalised. Still, representatives from private hospitals should visit the sites where vaccination will be conducted on January 16. This would help in conducting hassle-free vaccination drive in their facilities.” He also directed the private hospitals to ensure health care workers should reach the vaccination site timely to avoid any chaos at the session site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/50-of-covid-19-vaccine-doses-to-be-reserved-for-second-shot-101610734781846.html
15-01-2021||Gurugram||MCG to end practice of manual scavenging||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has been directed to end the practice of manual scavenging and cleaning of septic tanks on an immediate basis — a release issued by the civic body on Friday stated.The direction was issued to the MCG by Yogita Swaroop, joint secretary, ministry of social justice and empowerment, during a loan fair organised by the civic body at Rangbhoomi Theatre in Sector 29. The loan fair was organised under the Safai Mitra Challenge and Swachhta Udyami Yojana launched by the union housing and urban affairs ministry.There have been 11 fatalities due to manual scavenging or cleaning of septic tanks since 2017.Although the civic body has two robots, two super-suction machines, two jetting machines, and nearly 20 suction tankers for cleaning sewers and septic tanks across the city, the practice is often carried out by the civic body’s outsourced sanitation workers during an emergency or in the absence of such machines. Taking cognisance of this matter, MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh, in an internal order issued a month ago, had directed his staff to ensure that the practice of manual scavenging and cleaning of septic tanks is completely eliminated and make estimates to procure necessary machinery accordingly. “Over the last few years, the MCG has gradually phased out the practice of manual scavenging and cleaning of septic tanks. However, in a few cases, especially during emergencies, we were informed that this practice was still being used. MCG officials have now been directed to stop this practice altogether even during emergencies, and use machines instead. We are making arrangements to procure adequate machinery,” said Singh.He further said that a team has also been constituted to prepare estimates and identify the total number of machines the MCG needs for this task and, subsequently, initiate the procurement process.Singh said that the MCG is also looking to carry out awareness programs to alert residents about the harms of this practice.“Residents can alert the MCG if they spot the practice of manual scavenging or cleaning of septic tanks at any point in the city so that we can immediately send out officials to stop the activity and take action against the violators. Our main objective is to save lives,” said Singh.MCG officials also announced that under the Central government’s sanitation scheme, entrepreneurs can obtain loans ranging from ₹5 lakh to ₹15 lakh at a four percent interest for a period of 10 years to procure necessary machinery to clean tanks and sewerage lines.“Financial assistance is being provided by the Central government for arranging mechanised sanitation equipment under the Swachhta Udyami Yojana to eliminate the practice of manual scavenging. The objective of the government is to protect people and raise their standard of living. The government aims to fully mechanise 100 urban local bodies in this matter. Training will also be provided by the government to sanitation workers regarding the operation of the machines. During the training, a one-time amount of ₹1,500 stipend will also be given,” said Swaroop.Naresh Kumar Malkat, secretary for the Haryana Nagar Palika Karamchari Sangh, and a sanitation supervisor in the MCG said that the scheme should also be applicable to workers.“Besides contractors, the MCG should also ensure that the scheme allows sanitation workers to procure small machinery on loan on their own. This way, they will have machines readily available and prevent them from entering manholes or septic tanks,” said Malkat.BOX: Fatalities due to manual scavengingJune 2018: Three workers died while laying a new sewerage line in Pataudi.May 2018: A 25-year-old sanitation worker died in Sector 9 after he had entered a manhole to save two co-workers, who were facing difficulty in breathing. The two co-workers survived the incident. However, the 25-year-old died after getting trapped in the loose soil and inhaling toxic gases.April 2019: Two workers died in Khandsa while cleaning a septic tank.October 2017: Cleaning of a septic tank in Khandsa claimed the lives of three workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-to-end-practice-of-manual-scavenging-101610734781269.html
15-01-2021||Mumbai||Be vigilant on institutions flouting norms, Bombay HC asks Maharashtra govt||The Bombay high court (HC) has asked the government to take due cognisance of mushrooming of schools and junior colleges that do not meet eligibility criteria and infrastructural norms, and said it expected the state to keep strict vigil on such institutions and crack its whip on officials who facilitate their functioning.The court also asked the government to crack down on persons running and operating such institutions.The court said that as it found that the petition which challenged an order of the education minister allowing Rao Educational Trust to operate five junior colleges was filed with vested business interest by a rival trust, it vacated an earlier stay on the implementation of the order and dismissed the petition along with all interim applications. A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, was hearing the petition filed by Manju Jaiswal, a Mumbai resident and trustee of an educational trust, seeking a stay on a December 18 order that allowed Rao Educational Trust time till academic year 2021-22 to comply with infrastructural norms for junior colleges as per the Maharashtra Self Finance School (Establishment and Regulation) Rules, 2020. The December 18 order had been passed by education minister Varsha Gaikwad wherein officials were directed to grant an index number to the trust so that 672 Class 12 students could appear for Higher Secondary Certificate (HSC) examination. Thereafter, a provisional index number was granted to five junior colleges run by the trust at Andheri, Borivli, Sion, Kharghar and Thane. Senior advocate Anil Sakhare, for Jaiswal, had sought cancellation of permissions granted to coaching classes for starting junior colleges as they failed to conform with eligibility and infrastructure norms and urged the court that the state be restrained from granting permissions to any new self-financed junior colleges. In light of this, the court had on January 4 restrained the state school education department from granting final permission to the five junior colleges. Advocate SC Naidu, for Rao Educational Trust, sought dismissal of plea and submitted that the petition was filed with vested interest and students enrolled in the colleges would be deprived of appearing in ensuing examinations. After hearing the submissions, the bench observed that the petitioner approached the court hiding her identity as she did not disclose that she was a treasurer of a rival education trust. The bench further said that it was pained by the conduct of petitioner of not disclosing her association with the rival trust. The court also observed that the directions issued by a previous bench in January 2020 asking the state to formulate rules for renewal and approval of proposals by educational institutions was complied with after new rules were framed in October 2020. The court then referred to the interest of the students in Maharashtra and the adverse impact of mushrooming schools and junior colleges, and said it was the responsibility of the state to keep strict vigil on all such institutions which were allowed to operate in breach of statutory requirements. The bench concluded, “If indeed the state wants to honour its obligations enshrined in part IV of the Constitution, it is the need of the hour that the state crack its whip on current officers and persons responsible for operating schools or junior colleges in breach of the rules.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/be-vigilant-on-institutions-flouting-norms-bombay-hc-asks-maharashtra-govt-101610734722650.html
15-01-2021||Gurugram||GMDA shelves plan to concretise Aravalli creeks||The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) has shelved its plans to concretise four Aravalli creeks lying upstream of Golf Course Road (GCR). Spillover from the creeks was identified as one of the major reasons for the unprecedented waterlogging on Golf Course Road last year. The plan to shelve the concretisation was taken at the recommendation of experts from the TERI School of Advanced Studies, who recently conducted a hydrogeological study of the area at the behest of the city-based NGO, IAmGurgaon. VS Kundu, CEO, GMDA, said, ‘We met with TERI last week and took their recommendation to retain these creeks as kachha (natural) drains. As per our detailed project report for drainage in Gurugram, which is still being executed, these channels were to be concretised as box drains. But since they are natural waterways that can aid in recharging groundwater, they will be left as is and cleaned thoroughly before the next monsoon. This will mitigate the risk of flooding on GCR.” An interim report produced by TERI in November last year recommended a range of sustainable solutions to conserve rainwater and prevent urban flooding of GCR and neighbouring localities. The measures include building recharge wells along the length of the Wazirabad bundh, establishing green corridors along existing drainage channels and reviving naturally existing catchment areas to hold run-off water during monsoon. TERI’s study, titled Blue Green Interventions for Addressing Flooding Along Golf Course Road and Neighbouring Sectors in Gurugram, was undertaken in the wake of unprecedented waterlogging in Gurugram on August 19, during which GCR was among the worst-affected areas. A central part of TERI’s study was the assessment of four drainage channels that originate in the Aravallis just above the GCR, and traverse its carriageway before draining into a water body that collects along the nearby Chakkarpur-Wazirabad bundh. The first of these natural creeks, which is also the lowest lying, runs through Sector 26, while the other three are located in sectors 42, 54 and 56. These are classified as creeks 1-4, respectively. As per the GMDA’s detailed project report for drainage, these creeks were to be concretised and covered. However, in its final report presented to the GMDA last week, researchers at TERI wrote, “It is to be noted that creating box drain drastically reduces the cross section and carrying capacity of the erstwhile channels, and also prevents groundwater recharge. This also adversely affects the natural greenery and biodiversity in the surrounding area of the channels.” Fauzia Tarannum, of the School of Regional Water Studies, TERI-SAS, said, “Leaving the drains as earthen structures is definitely a sensible step to take. Once cleaned up, they can play a significant role in mitigating flood risks and conserving rainwater in the project area. A large amount of waste and construction debris has been dumped in these creeks, and some restoration work has already begun. It will be important to ensure no further dumping of waste is allowed to take place there.” TERI’s final report also calls for increased protection of the Aravalli hills located upstream of the GCR. “Gurgaon is highly concretised. This is especially true along the GC Road, where the green belts have been sacrificed for road expansion and the projects along the GC Road have a high level of paved areas which generate higher levels of run-off,” the report states, adding that the Aravalli hills above the GCR are an important groundwater recharge area and a green zone for the city. “These should be earmarked as a forest and recharge zone where no construction is allowed, as any further construction and concretisation in the Aravallis upstream will increase the storm water run-off and increase the flood risk downstream,” researchers have noted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gmda-shelves-plan-to-concretise-aravalli-creeks-101610734723114.html
15-01-2021||Other||BJP drove MCDs to bankruptcy, alleges AAP, govt still owes MCDs ₹12,000cr, counters BJP||A day after the Delhi government said it would give ₹938 crore to the three municipal corporations of Delhi (MCDs) to pay employees salaries, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) criticised the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and said its leaders have driven the civic bodies to bankruptcy due to their rampant corruption.The BJP – which leads all three municipal corporations in the capital -- dismissed the allegations as “baseless” and said the money assured by the AAP government is not even one-third of what it actually owes the MCDs for the third quarter of the financial year 2020-21. “Despite knowing that the BJP-ruled MCD owes more than ₹6,000 crore to the Delhi government, we have released ₹938 crore because we do not want the MCD employees to suffer anymore. This money was meant for government departments and schemes. The Delhi government has given loans to the BJP-ruled MCDs several times in the past six years. But rampant corruption by BJP leaders have driven the MCDs to bankruptcy -- they cannot even pay their employees. The BJP should resign from the charge of the MCDs immediately,” said Atishi, AAP MLA from Kalkaji, at a press conference at the party head office in central Delhi on Friday.Employees of the three MCDs in Delhi – from teachers and doctors to horticulture staff and sanitation workers – have been on strike, on and off, for several months now, protesting against the delay/non-payment of salaries. On Thursday, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia had said the government would give ₹938 crore to the MCDs for payment of employee salaries.Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said: “The allegations by MLA Atishi are baseless. The party is misleading people by portraying as if the ₹938 crore is some sort of a “special grant”. The amount is actually less than one-third of what the Delhi government owes the three MCDs for the third quarter of 2020-21. The government owes ₹13,000 crore to the three MCDs in total.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-drove-mcds-to-bankruptcy-alleges-aap-govt-still-owes-mcds-12-000cr-counters-bjp-101610734661791.html
15-01-2021||Other||3,000 armed security personnel, private guards to keep an eye on vaccination centres||Nearly 3,000 armed security personnel along with civil defence volunteers and private security guards will form a security ring at 81 vaccination centres in Delhi, where 8,100 frontline medical warriors will receive vaccination doses on Saturday, as the world’s largest Covid-19 vaccination drive kicks start across the country.Four to five police personnel will remain present at each vaccination centre and their prime duty will be to maintain law and order and prevent people, whose names are not there in the list, gathering and insisting on getting vaccinated, senior police officers privy to the security arrangement plan said on Friday.Apart from security personnel, deployment of patrolling vans and emergency response vehicles (ERVs) will also be done around the vaccination centres to handle any untoward or emergency situations, which the police officers believe, is unlikely because the vaccination will be done in a “staggered way”. The monitoring of the vaccination drive will be done through CCTV cameras installed at the centres, the officials said. “Those going for the vaccination have got the time when they are required to be present at the concerned vaccination centres. Since only 100 people will be vaccinated at each centre and at different times throughout the day, the chances of over-crowding is minimal. So, the prime responsibility of our personnel will be to manage the queue and assist the staffers involved in giving the doses,” said Jasmeet Singh, deputy commissioner of police, central district which has nearly 40 vaccination centres under its territorial jurisdiction.Since the vaccination sites are at hospitals, police said the hospital’s private security guards will also be used apart from a security cordon being provided by the Delhi Police. In some bigger government hospitals, the staff of already existing police posts will be involved in the security arrangement. All concerned beat police staffers have been directed to carry out bike and foot patrolling in and around the vaccination centres.“Depending upon the situation and requirements, the number of police staff at the vaccination centres may be increased or decreased,” said DCP Singh.The city police have already been taking care of all the vaccine storage centres, the transportation of the vaccines from Delhi airport and further to vaccination centres. “We have round-the-clock and adequate deployment of security personnel at the storage centres,” said deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/3000-armed-security-personnel-private-guards-to-keep-an-eye-on-vaccination-centres-101610734661286.html
15-01-2021||Other||Three arrested for forging Covid-19 penalty receipts, pocketing fines||Three civil defence volunteers posted with the office of the sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) office of New Delhi have been arrested for forging Covid-19 penalty receipts issued to mask norm violators, and pocketing the fine amount, the Delhi Police said on Friday. The crime came to light on December 31, when one Prince (identified by his first name) and his friends were caught violating mask norms by the three suspects at Talkatora Stadium.The three claimed they were working on behalf of the New Delhi SDM to prosecute violators. “The two mask violators were fined ₹4,000 and asked to pay up. Since they did not have cash, they were provided a phone number to pay through PayTM,” said Eish Singhal, deputy commissioner of police (New Delhi). The three civil defence volunteers slipped away from the spot after receiving the money. But Pankaj said he suspected the veracity of the receipt, and approached the North Avenue police station.The police registered a case of cheating and approached the SDM office for help with the phone number on which the money was received. “We were informed that the number belonged to a civil defence volunteer named Sunny. We caught Sunny and at his instance his colleagues, Yashwant Rathi and Lucky,” Singhal said. The police’s probe revealed that the trio had been misusing their position as volunteers. “They had captured the photos of the original Covid-19 challan receipt and used it to obtain coloured printouts. They then went about visiting public places to target people without masks,” Singhal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/three-arrested-for-forging-covid-19-penalty-receipts-pocketing-fines-101610734604387.html
15-01-2021||Mumbai||BMC sub-engineer suspended, arrested for illegally taking money, exempting international passengers from quarantine||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Friday suspended a civic sub-engineer (architect) stationed at the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) for illegally taking money from international passengers landing in Mumbai and wrongfully exempting them from institutional quarantine. The civic administration also lodged a complaint against the employee, Dinesh S Gawande, with Sahar Airport police station, following which he was arrested by the police. A civic official said, “The sub-engineer has been suspended pending enquiry. A case has been lodged against him by the civic administration. We received information that the police arrested him.” Since December 21, 2020, BMC has been institutionally quarantining international fliers from the United Kingdom, South Africa, Italy, and other European and Middle Eastern countries who land in Mumbai to detect if they are infected by the new, more transmissible Covid-19 strain, which originated in the UK. So far, 49,362 passengers have been quarantined. To facilitate this, civic employees have been stationed at the airport in three shifts. BMC suspected that there were malpractices in the process of quarantining these passengers and informed the airport administration to discreetly monitor the process. The Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) at the airport was accordingly informed. The staff notices one civic employee and two other persons, who are not civic employees, have been taking bribes from international passengers. CISF then informed an official from BMC’s H-West ward, following which a surprise inspection was organised. BMC officials caught Gawande with some money and a fake stamp.The civic official quoted above said, “This sub-engineer also made a fake stamp to stamp the hands of passengers and send them home for quarantine.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-sub-engineer-suspended-arrested-for-illegally-taking-money-exempting-international-passengers-from-quarantine-101610734603803.html
15-01-2021||Other||DTC places order for 1,000 new buses; another promise delivered, tweets Kejriwal||The Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) has placed an order for 1,000 air-conditioned low-floor buses which, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said has happened for the first time in 12 years.“Congratulations Delhi! After 12 years of wait, orders have been placed by DTC to induct 1,000 low-floor AC CNG buses. All these buses will be on-road by Sept 2021. Delhi government is committed to a pollution-free Delhi by building a world-class public transport system,” Kejriwal tweeted on Friday.In another tweet he said, “With these 1,000 buses, (the) total DTC fleet (size) will increase to 4,760 and the total bus fleet of Delhi (DTC and cluster) will increase to an all-time high of 7,693. Despite several obstacles in procurement in the past years, our government has persisted and delivered.”The decision to induct 1,000 new buses in the DTC fleet was approved by the DTC board, chaired by transport minister Kailash Gehlot,on January 6.Gahlot said on Friday, “Despite many obstacles and hurdles, we have once again delivered. We have kept our promise. Expectedly, by May 2021, Delhi residents will have the first lot of these state-of-the-art buses which will be environment friendly, too, as they will be BS-VI compliant.”The tenders for the batch of 1,000 air-conditioned low-floor buses were first floated in 2019. The contract was signed in 2020 but there were delays because of Covid-19 and the revenue shortage that it brought about. The letter of intent was issued to the manufacturer after the board’s approval.The 1,000 new buses in the DTC fleet is part of the government’s larger plan to scale up Delhi’s existing bus fleet by 4,000 -- in DTC and the cluster network operated by concessionaires -- and also by introducing electric buses. Delhi, according to transport experts, needs at least 11,000 buses to cate to its population of nearly 20 million.In December, the DTC also issued a tender to create a real-time passenger information system (PIS), which will enable commuters to access information on bus routes, estimated time of arrival, fare, location of nearest buses which a passenger wishes to board, availability of seats and best options for interchange -- all on their mobile phones.The government has plans to have equipment fitted in the new buses to conform with the real-time PIS system, a senior official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dtc-places-order-for-1-000-new-buses-another-promise-delivered-tweets-kejriwal-101610734602341.html
15-01-2021||Other||City hospitals in mood for celebrations on eve of vaccine roll-out||Three women, who helm a leading private hospital in Delhi, one of the first to start treating the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients, are all set to mark a crucial milestone in their fight against the global pandemic -- the hospital is one of 81 centres in the national capital where the nationwide vaccination drive will kick off at 10.30am on Saturday. Their collective fight, the women managers said, is finally drawing to a close. The 250-bed Max Smart Hospital in Saket was converted into a dedicated Covid-19 centre on May 9 and now that the Covid patients are fewer and far between, the hospital has gotten the nod to restart non-Covid services in 102 beds. The hospital will start inoculating its staff members at one of the three sites on its premises on Saturday. “With the hospital ready to vaccinate its staff and open its doors to non-Covid patients, it feels like Covid-19 is finally coming to an end. We can see the light at the end of the tunnel. There were three phases in our fight against the infection. First, was in January, when we had first set up a screening centre; as the disease was not even in India people wondered what we were doing. Second, was when hospitals started getting overwhelmed with the number of Covid patients and people started following all precautions. And, the third, is this,” said Bindu Sharma, assistant general manager, Saket Max Smart Hospital. Nursing head Manju Devi said this was the beginning of the end of all struggles -- of staying away from loved ones; living in fear of contracting the deadly virus; of dealing with the loneliness felt by patients admitted to the Covid wards who could not speak to their family members. The team, led by medical superintendent Dr Sahar Qureshi, however, managed to save countless lives and will now be among the first ones in India to receive the vaccine shots. Her sentiments were echoed by Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director, Lok Nayak hospital. “It is like a long-awaited festival for us,” he said. Staff and technicians at Lok Nayak hospital worked till late evening on Friday to ensure that the vaccination drive on Saturday goes without a hitch. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will flag off the vaccination drive from the hospital at 12 noon. A doctor, a nurse, and a safai karmachari will receive the jabs in the presence of the CM, according to sources. Two large halls have been created in the middle of the out-paient seating space for the inoculation drive. Alternate seats on the blue coloured sofas have been crossed out using white medical tape to ensure social distancing between recipients. Another of at least three vaccination sites at the hospital has been set up on the first floor of the outpatient department. Two rooms with oxygen support and all emergency medications have been created at the site itself for managing any adverse event. The vaccines reached the hospital on Friday afternoon and were stored in deep freezers on the fifth floor of the same building, doctors said. “We are fully prepared for the vaccination drive and all our staff are very excited. They have been treating the very sick Covid-19 patients since last March,” said Dr Kumar. At Safdarjung Hospital, red arrows from the Ring Road gate marked the way to the vaccination site on the first floor of the old emergency building. The three room site was abuzz with activity on Friday afternoon. Across the road, Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan will flag off the drive at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences. India’s is one of the largest vaccination drives in the world and will immunise 300 million people across the country by August. Prime Minister will flag off the massive exercise through virtual conferencing at 10.30am on Saturday, when 81 sites in Delhi will start immunising their health care workers. Each centre aims to immunise 100 persons. The immunisation drives will happen on four days a week till everyone under the booth is covered; the booth will be reopened after 28 days to administer the second shot of the vaccine. There are around 300,000 health care workers – doctors, nurses, paramedics, safai karmacharis, security guards, and administrative staff of the health care facilities – who will be immunised in the first phase. This will be followed by an estimated 600,000 front-line workers (police, paramilitary staff etc), and 4.2 million people above the age of 50 years. Delhi has currently received 274,000 doses of the vaccine, which will cover less than half of the health-care workers. More vials are en route, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/city-hospitals-in-mood-for-celebrations-on-eve-of-vaccine-rollout-101610734601247.html
15-01-2021||Other||Three dead, two hurt in two separate fire incidents||Three persons, including a child, were killed in a fire that broke out in some shanties atop a scrap godown in west Delhi’s Kirti Nagar on Thursday night, the fire department said, adding that the deadly mishap was followed by another unrelated blaze at a multi-storey building in north Delhi’s Rohini, just hours later, in which two persons were injured. Firefighters, however, managed to rescue six others, who were stuck on the terrace, in the second incident.In the first blaze, the fore department received a call for help at 10.50pm and were informed that a fire had started at a furniture shop. But when the firefighters reached the scene, they found that the fire was at a scrap godown, constructed over a 100 square yard plot, and the building had three shanties above it, where people working in the godown lived, said Atul Garg, director, Delhi Fire Services. “Although we reached the spot within minutes of receiving the call, residents of nearby shanties were busy trying to control the blaze and had rescued most occupants from the shanties above. But we were told that a drunk man and a boy were still trapped inside. One local man even entered the burning building to rescue the trapped people, but ended up getting trapped himself,” said Mohit Kumar, station officer of Shankar Road fire station. The blaze raged on due to the presence of a large quantity of plastic and foam in the godown, Kumar said. The impact of the blaze was such that the roof of the godown collapsed in the midst of the firefighting operation. Deepak Purohit, deputy commissioner of police (west), said when the fire was doused and a search for survivors began, two charred bodies were found inside. “One was of a man in his 20s and the other was of a boy. They remain unidentified,” the DCP said.The authorities continued the search for survivors and found another body in a drain. The DCP said it was of the local man, Rohit (20), who worked as a driver. “It appears that Rohit got trapped in the blaze and ended up falling into the drain, adjacent to the godown,” Purohit said. He said the godown belonged to a 50-year-old man, Tony Mahto. “We have registered a case of culpable homicide not amounting to murder at the Kirti Nagar police station. Mahto is absconding and we are searching for him,” the DCP said, adding that the trigger appeared to be an electrical short-circuit. In the second incident, reported from a six-storey building in north Delhi’s Rohini just hours later, a 42-year-old woman and a firefighter were injured.Garg said the call about the blaze was received at 5.35am Friday and four fire tenders were rushed to spot. Garg said the blaze began on the ground floor which is used to store and pack goods for an e-commerce platform.Paras Kumar, the fire officer who led the operation, said the six-storey building in Rohini’s Sector 6 was constructed on a 32 square yard plot. “When the fire began on the ground floor and spread to the first floor, the occupants of the building ran to the balcony to escape the flames,” Paras Kumar said. The firefighters struggled to break open the locked doors of the building and by the time they could control the blaze, the flames had already consumed the ground and first floors. “We accessed the terrace where the occupants were trapped and rescued them through the two balconies of an adjacent building,” Paras Kumar said. A woman received burns to her limbs and a firefighter, Sunil, sustained injuries to his leg while trying to break into the building. The police are probing how the blaze started.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/three-dead-two-hurt-in-two-separate-fire-incidents-101610734421268.html
15-01-2021||Other||Ghazipur poultry market reopens even as bird flu scare looms||Poultry trade in Delhi was back to normal on Friday, with the Delhi government and the three municipal corporations removing all restrictions on trade, storage, processing of poultry products, and import from other states.On Thursday, the animal husbandry department had confirmed that avian influenza had not been found among poultry birds in the Capital.On Friday, the Ghazipur wholesale poultry market – which is the only authorised one for poultry in Delhi – opened after being temporarily shut since last Sunday as a preventive measure against bird flu after amid reports of dead ducks and crows being found in several locations across the city came in. So far, the infection has been found in ducks and crows in Delhi, but no other bird.All wholesalers and retailers could sell poultry on Friday, and they could get live birds and packaged chicken from outside Delhi too. There were no restrictions on restaurants serving chicken too.Traders, however, expressed concerns over declined demand, with a large section of people apparently avoiding consumption of chicken in the light of the avian influenza, cases of which has been confirmed in at least 10 states across the country so far. They also fear that a prolonged decline in demand will bring down the price of both raw and packaged chicken – a trend that Delhi has witnessed in earlier instances of bird flu in 2006 and 2016.Delhi’s daily demand is around 350,000 live birds a day. Most of the supply arrives from Haryana and Uttar Pradesh – both currently impacted by the outbreak.“The demand for chicken and eggs will witness decline. It happens each time there is a bird flu scare. Even though live birds that arrive at the authorised wholesale markers are medically examined on departure and arrival, there is fear among people. The decline often brings down prices. However, we are thankful to the administration that they have removed all restrictions on trade immediately after report came negative on samples taken from poultry birds,” said Iqbal Qureshi, a poultry trader and vice-chairperson of the wholesale poultry market in Ghazipur.Siddhant Wangdi, CEO at Meatigo.com, said: “Though raw chicken sales went down 10% over the past few days, other products such as pork, mutton and ready to eat products have substituted the lost chicken sales. All our products are sourced through a network of private farms, where not a single case has been reported in the past 30 days. So our chicken has always been and will always be safe. We would like to urge everyone to check the source of the chicken before buying it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ghazipur-poultry-market-reopens-even-as-bird-flu-scare-looms-101610734361256.html
15-01-2021||Other||12, including two Chinese nationals, held for floating malware apps on phone||Twelve people, including two Chinese nationals, have been arrested after raids across Delhi and the National Capital Region for luring Indian cellphone users into earning easy money by “liking” videos on social media platforms and “following” those accounts. The suspects main intention, police spokespersons claimed, was to install malware in these phones and installed banned software in them.The two Chinese women, Chaohong Deng Daoyong, 27, and Wu Jiazhi, 54, were arrested from Lajpat Nagar.“The suspects would use a malicious app to make phone users knowingly or unknowingly ‘follow’ social media accounts. This could be used later to manipulate and influence Indian users,” said Roy, adding that tens of millions of Indians had downloaded these “malicious” apps and there were at least 40,000 confirmed victims who had lost their money to this fraud within two months.Investigators claimed that two other Chinese nationals, who the police believe to be the kingpins of the racket, are on the run. “They moved out of India in early 2020,” said Roy.Roy said the fraud began when users started receiving WhatsApp messages containing encrypted URLs from international numbers. “These messages promised good, easy money in return for clicking the like button on social media platforms like Facebook, YouTube and Instagram, and for following social media accounts,” said the DCP.Clicking on the website link would lead to a link to download an app, Roy saidUpon registering on this app, users would receive social media videos to like and accounts to follow. They would be paid ₹6 for each such action. The number of tasks and amount paid for each action would rise substantially if the users opted for a “VIP membership”, by paying between ₹1,000 and ₹50,000.The DCP said the gang floated this fraud as a multi-level marketing scheme, in which users could earn a percentage of a money made by people referred by them.The police said tens of thousands of people ended up investing thousands of rupees each. Their earnings reflected in their accounts on the app, but was allegedly never handed over to their bank accounts.By doing this, the gang made crores of rupees which were routed to shell companies in which Indians as well as Chinese people were found to be directors. “The Indians who were made directors were people like accountants, office boys and drivers working for the Chinese people,” Roy said.Next, the social media accounts being promoted were being passed off as belonging to celebrities, but were actually freshly created accounts with unknown origin and ownership, the DCP said.“When these social media accounts would receive a large number of followers, they could later be used to manipulate and influence Indian social media users,” Roy said.While all this could be easily detected by the police, much more allegedly happened once the users downloaded the app. “The app would seek dangerous permission of users to discreetly install several software packages and apps. One of these apps was the QQ Browser app which belongs to the QQ family of apps banned by the Indian government in June last year,” said Roy.The DCP said that the app itself was a malware that would make users “follow” thousands of social media accounts without their knowledge.The website and app being used in the fraud were hosted to IPs found to be attached to Chinese companies, the DCP said.The police said they began probing this fraud after receiving complaint from a woman who lost R50,000 .Subsequently, on Wednesday, the police raided several places in Delhi-NCR to arrest the twelve suspects. The police have allegedly recovered ₹25 lakh in cash from them and froze several accounts containing nearly ₹4.75 crore of the duped amount||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/12-including-two-chinese-nationals-held-for-floating-malware-apps-on-phone-101610734301334.html
15-01-2021||Other||Every failed negotiation with govt strengthening our resolve, say protesting farmers at Singhu border||Farmer groups camped at Singhu border said more agitators were joining them daily to strengthen their protests and their plan to march to Delhi in tractors on January 26. Farmers said on Friday, the ninth round of talks also failed with the government and every failed negotiation had only further strengthened their spirit and has fuelled the ongoing agitation. Nothing less than repeal of the three contentious farm laws were acceptable to them, they said.Dr Darshan Pal, member of Samyukta Kisan Morcha, who is also the president of Krantikari Kisaan Union, Punjab, said farmers are coming in large numbers to all the border points of Delhi. “In Uttarakhand and Rajasthan, there are frequent tractor marches and a large number of farmers are reaching Delhi. The enthusiasm of farmers has increased due to the huge support we have received…this movement is fanning out across the nation. Under the banner of ‘Mumbai for Farmers’, the Maharashtra farmers’ organization, along with other progressive groups, are organizing a huge rally,” he said. Pal said, farmers in Bihar and Madhya Pradesh are continuing with an indefinite sit-in strike. “Kisan Delhi Chalo Yatra started from Odisha on January 15. The march will reach farmers at Delhi borders on January 21 after travelling via West Bengal, Jharkhand, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh. Kisan Jyoti March was started from Pune on January 12 and will reach Delhi on January 26,” the farmer leader said, adding that more than 500 farmers from Kerala have already reached the Shahjahanpur border. On Thursday, protest at Singhu border continued to be peaceful with farmer groups raising slogans, carrying out marches, cooking and distributing food at langars and delivering speeches. Manmeet Singh, a farmer from Jalandhar, who has spent almost ten days camping at Singhu border, said more people known to him have joined the protest since he left home. “Whoever I talk to, back home, say they are ready to come. Some, who had come left for their homes in December are again planning to come with more ration and cloths. They all plan to be here before Republic Day. Not everyone will march. We plan to support them from here by continuing the movement,” Singh said. Delhi Police continued to maintain their usual deployment with senior police officer ensuring round the clock presence at the posts that have been set up temporarily since the protests began. A senior police officer, who wished not to be named, said the deployment remained same as usual and will be stepped up as and when required. “The situation is being monitored continuously. We are also using drones for surveillance. So far, the situation is normal as farmers are continuing their protest peacefully,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/every-failed-negotiation-with-govt-strengthening-our-resolve-say-protesting-farmers-at-singhu-border-101610734181219.html
15-01-2021||Other||Sisodia launches Delhi govt’s Street Theatre and Performing Arts Fellowship||A year after it was announced, the Delhi government on Friday launched a year-long fellowship to promote street performance in the capital. Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia launched the Street Theatre and Performing Arts Fellowship for 500 artists.“Artists from Delhi, over the past few years, have been asking me to promote street art in Delhi. They pointed out that though there are concentrated cultural hubs like Mandi House, we need to expand culture to all parts of the city to give a platform to street artists to showcase their art,” Sisodia said.Abhinandita Mathur, advisor to deputy CM, said they plan to start the performances in February starting with a team of 10 artists performing every week at various public places in Delhi. These artists will also be starting their rehearsals at Delhi government schools which remain vacant in the evening beginning next week.“We did not want to confine street theatre to nukkad natak. This is why we have artists from diverse background including singers, dancers, and hip-hop artists. They are being trained by theatre experts who can put these art forms in the narrative and create performances on socially relevant topics. The fellowship is the brainchild of deputy CM and had gotten delayed due to the pandemic but we are glad it is starting now,” she said.“This [the fellowship] will create a taste for art and culture amongst the people of Delhi. There will be live art performances on the streets as we have created this fellowship to give an opportunity to the artists to express their art,” Sisodia said, adding that he noticed thriving street art culture while travelling to Europe and other Asian countries.The fellowship has been started by Sahitya Kala Parishad under the Department of Arts, Culture and Languages of Delhi government. While 500 artists have currently been selected for this fellowship, 500 more will be added in the future, the government said in a statement.“Delhi government is not only offering a means of livelihood to the artists but will work as a facilitator to empower the artists…We want people to get used to art in this city, so our city thrives in music, art and culture all year round,” Sisodia said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sisodia-launches-delhi-govt-s-street-theatre-and-performing-arts-fellowship-101610734121250.html
15-01-2021||Other||Dashboard cam helps police crack fatal Rajouri Garden road accident case, 1 arrested||A camera installed on the dashboard of a private car not only captured on tape a fatal road accident — in west Delhi’s Rajouri Garden — but also helped the police identify the vehicle, nab the errant driver and solve the case. The 29-year-old errant driver, Gunmant Singh was arrested on Saturday, two days after the mishap took place near the Rajouri Garden flyover. His Hyundai 1-10 car involved in the mishap was seized from his home in west Delhi’s Vishnu Garden. Singh is employed in the office of an architect in Delhi, the police said.Police said Singh had allegedly jumped the traffic signal and hit the scooter that 26-year-old victim, identified by his first name Sachin, was riding. The accident took place at around 3 am on January 12, when Sachin, who dealt in supply of cosmetic items, was returning home after work.Deputy commissioner of police (west) Deepak Purohit said the police control room had received a call that an unknown car had hit a scooter near Rajouri Garden flyover. A police team reached the mishap spot and found a scooter lying on the road in damaged condition while its rider was already shifted to a nearby hospital.“A case of rash and negligent driving causing hurt was registered and investigation was taken up. The injured man, Sachin, succumbed to his injuries on Saturday. The case was converted into negligent death causing death,” said DCP Purohit.During the probe, a senior investigator said, the investigating team scanned all the CCTV cameras installed around the mishap spot. However, none of the cameras had captured the accident or the offending vehicle. A list of vehicles seen in the cameras was prepared and its owners were contacted.“One such owner Saran, who works in a call centre and was driving his Baleno car, said that he had witnessed the mishap and everything was captured in the camera installed on the dashboard of his vehicle. We saw its recordings and found the entire sequence of events leading to the mishap as well as the colour and model of the car that had hit the scooter,” the officer said.The camera recording showed that the scooter rider was waiting for green light at the traffic signal. The car having the dashboard camera was next to the scooter. As the traffic signal turned green and the scooter rider moved ahead, a silver car that jumped the red light while coming from the right carriageway hit the two-wheeler at the road intersection. The scooter rider flung into the air and then landed on the road.According to the officer, the investigating team checked nearly 20 cameras install on the routes that the driver of the offending vehicle had taken after the mishap. “This technical effort helped us trace the offending vehicle and nab its driver,” the officer added.Ends||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dashboard-cam-helps-police-crack-fatal-rajouri-garden-road-accident-case-1-arrested-101610733941184.html
15-01-2021||Kolkata||Bengal ready for Covid-19 vaccination drive; CM to monitor exercise||West Bengal is all set for the much-awaited Covid-19 inoculation drive commencing from Saturday and Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee will supervise the exercise virtually from the state secretariat, an official said here.The chief minister is also likely to be present at the inauguration programme at one of the 210 centres in the state.Vials of Covishield, which arrived in the city from Pune's Serum Institute on Tuesday, have been ferried to cold chain facilities at the five medical colleges in Kolkata as well as other hospitals in the districts, the official said."The CM will be monitoring the vaccination process virtually from the state secretariat. She may be present at a government medical establishment during the inaugural of the vaccination process," he said.The vaccination centre where Banerjee will be present has not yet been fixed.A health department official said, "We have to go in tandem with New Delhi. We will be starting at 9 am and follow the proceedings in the capital."Adequate police personnel have been deployed around the vaccination centres as well as the cold chains to ensure safety of the vials.Around 90,000 frontline health workers at government and private hospitals have been enrolled for the first phase of the vaccination process in West Bengal.Kolkata has been allocated the highest number of 93,500 vaccines, followed by North 24 Parganas district (47,000) and Murshidabad (37,500).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-ready-for-covid-19-vaccination-drive-cm-to-monitor-exercise-101610730016538.html
15-01-2021||Patna||Sanitation worker, driver to be first in Bihar to get Covid-19 vaccine||Ram Babu, a sanitation worker from the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) would be the first among 4,64,160 healthcare workers in Bihar to take the first shot of vaccine against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on the inaugural day of the vaccination Saturday.Introducing him to the media at a presser on the eve of the launch of the vaccination programme, Bihar health minister Mangal Pandey said Babu would receive the vaccine’s first dose in the state in front of Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar at the IGIMS. Amit Kumar, an ambulance driver at the IGIMS, would be the second to be vaccinated, he added.The government has planned to vaccinate those above 50 years of age, having no co-morbidity, on the inaugural day of the vaccination.A total 300 session sites (vaccination centres), of which 259 were public sector institutions and 41 private, had been selected for vaccination on the inaugural day, said Pandey. The government would gradually scale up the number of session sites, but vaccination would be restricted to 100 beneficiaries per team at a session site.Also read: 'Seek approval before initiating action against poll officials' - EC tells statesPandey urged the media to help dispel any myth surrounding the two vaccines — Serum Institute’s Covishield and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin.“Both the vaccines have passed all international safety standards of trial and they are absolutely safe. It's a matter of pride for India to have its own vaccine,” said Pandey.He also urged beneficiaries not to become complacent after taking the first shot of the vaccine. A recipient who had taken the first shot will have to continue to maintain social distance, wear mask and continue handwashing habit. Antibody will develop after 14 days of taking the second shot of the vaccine. The gap between the two shots will be 28 days, added Pandey.The minister, however, evaded a direct response to the query whether beneficiaries could choose between Covishield and Covaxin, saying those who get the first shot of a particular vaccine would get its second shot as well on the 28th day. He assured the state had sufficient vaccines for its healthcare workers, to begin with.Earlier, Bihar’s principal secretary, health, Pratyaya Amrit, said those who do not enrol on the CoWin portal would not be vaccinated.He said frontline workers, comprising police and armed forces personnel, home guards, prisons staff, volunteers of disaster management department, civil defence, organisational and municipal workers, including outsourced municipal staff, could register on the CoWin portal till January 25. Their vaccination would be taken up in the second round.Prioritised population of 50 years and above or those younger than 50 years with co-morbidities like hypertension, diabetes, cancer, lung disease, etc., would have to self-register when the portal opens later, added Amrit.Giving a lowdown of the vaccination programme, which the government had meticulously planned, Amrit said syringes and vials would be properly disposed through the common bio-waste treatment facility (CBWTF) after vaccination.Fifteen districts were attached to the CBWTF facility at Muzaffarpur, 11 districts with the facility at Bhagalpur, six at Gaya and the remaining six districts with the facility at the IGIMS, Patna.He said vaccination would be done four days a week — Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday — in the state, excluding holidays.Amrit reiterated the need to follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour after vaccination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/sanitation-worker-driver-to-be-first-in-bihar-to-get-covid-19-vaccine-101610728884078.html
15-01-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab reports first suspected cases of bird flu, sends samples to Bhopal lab||After declaring itself as a ‘controlled area’ on January 8 with no transmission of bird flu, Punjab on Friday recorded its first suspected cases after samples collected from two poultry farms in Mohali district tested positive for avian influenza. The samples have been sent to a Bhopal-based facility for further confirmation even as bird flu has been reported in 11 states across India so far.An official told news agency PTI that the samples collected from the poultry farms in Dera Bassi area of Mohali district were initially sent for testing at Jalandhar’s Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory (RDDL). The samples were then sent to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases in Bhopal, the official added.Also Read| Ban on Delhi poultry markets lifted after samples test negative for bird fluThe Congress led-government in Punjab on Sunday had temporarily suspended testing for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) at the RDDL in Jalandhar and restored the laboratory for testing suspicious cases of bird flu. The state's health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu had said that Covid-19 testing operations at the laboratory had been suspended as more than enough testing capacity was available at a distance of one hour. “RDDL will revert to testing for Covid-19 once bird flu threat is over,” the minister added.Earlier, Punjab had imposed a complete ban on the import of live birds, comprising poultry and unprocessed poultry meat, for any purpose till Friday. The state government had also instructed officials to intensify sampling, testing and surveillance of suspected cases. Neighbouring states such as Haryana and Delhi have already reported bird deaths due to avian influenza.Meanwhile, the Union animal husbandry ministry said on Thursday that all state governments had started undertaking bird flu public awareness campaigns by the way of social media, newspapers and advertisements after the Centre had issued several advisories. It also requested the Union aviation ministry to allow uninterrupted transportation of samples for rapid testing in designated facilities.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-reports-first-suspected-cases-of-bird-flu-sends-samples-to-bhopal-lab-101610726254952.html
15-01-2021||Kolkata||TMC’s to send crack team to secure Matua votes ahead of Shah’s Bengal visit||The ruling Trinamool Congress in West Bengal will send a crack team, comprising party veterans and ministers, to try and secure the Matua vote-bank - a Dalit community - ahead of Union home minister Amit Shah’s visit to poll-bound state.While Shah is expected to camp in West Bengal in January-end and is likely to hold a rally at Thakurnagar, headquarters of the Hindu minority community Matuas on January 30, the TMC is planning to send its special team on January 22.The TMC team, comprising party MP Saugata Roy, state minister Bratya Basu and Jyotipriyo Mullick among others, would be visiting four assembly constituencies under the Bongaon Lok Sabha seat in North 24 Parganas where the Matuas are a deciding factor. These are seats reserved for the Scheduled Castes and have 80 per cent of more Matua population.“A team has been formed. We will hold meetings with the Matuas in four assembly seats. We have a long-standing relationship with them. We will speak to their leaders and members of the Matua community,” said Mullick.The Matua community is spread over at least 70 assembly seats in the state, comprising at least seven Lok Sabha constituencies. The community is the deciding factor in five assembly seats.Also read: 'Seek approval before initiating action against poll officials' EC tells statesIn the 2019 elections, the Matuas had extended their support to the BJP. Contesting on a BJP ticket, the sect’s young face, Shantanu Thakur, defeated his aunt, TMC’s Mamata Bala Thakur at, in the Bongaon seat.For the Matua community, which hosted Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s first election campaign in Bengal before the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, permanent citizenship is a longstanding demand. But with the BJP going soft on the issue, Thakur had recently expressed his disappointment.The TMC immediately stepped in with its overtures and Mullick went to the extent of inviting Shantanu Thakur to join the TMC. Later senior BJP leaders, however, stepped in to restrain Thakur from voicing his dissatisfaction.“They (Matuas) have certain demands. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has already met some of their demands. We also have some appeals to the community. But this should not be seen as a counter meeting just because Shah is coming. We have a long-standing relation and team will just revise and reactivate those bonds,” said Mullick.This is however not the first time that Shah would be visiting the Matua stronghold. On November 6, he had lunch with a Matua family in North 24 Parganas. The BJP, however, downplayed the TMC’s outreach.“Anyone can visit and do anything. But whatever needed to be done for the Matuas has been by Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” said Mukul Roy, BJP national vice president.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/tmcs-to-send-crack-team-to-secure-matua-votes-ahead-of-shah-s-bengal-visit-101610725158581.html
15-01-2021||Other||Gold worth over ₹36 lakhs seized at Chennai airport; one passenger arrested||Chennai Air Customs department on Friday seized 722 grams of gold worth ₹36.52 lakhs and arrested one passenger.The department arrested a 21 years old passenger, Manikandan Shankar, who arrived from Dubai by flight 6E66 at Chennai Airport. Three bundles of gold paste weighing 836 grams were recovered from the rectum of the passenger, according to a press statement from the Commissioner of Customs, Chennai International Airport.As per the statement, on extraction 722 grams of gold worth ₹36.52 lakhs were recovered and seized under the Customs Act.Further investigation is in progress, the Customs department said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gold-worth-over-rs-36-lakhs-seized-at-chennai-airport-one-passenger-arrested-101610724949330.html
15-01-2021||Noida||Just one new Covid-19 case in Noida since March||Uttar Pradesh's Gautam Buddh Nagar recorded just one new case of Covid-19 on Friday, the lowest single-day count since the outbreak of the pandemic in March, even as the district's infection tally reached 25,260, official data showed. The active cases in the district also came down to 217 from 238 the previous day, while its recovery rate reached 98.78 per cent, according to data released by the Uttar Pradesh Health Department for a 24-hour period.On the brighter side, 21 more patients got discharged during the period with the overall recoveries reaching 24,952, the fifth highest in the state.Gautam Buddh Nagar has a death toll of 91 with a mortality rate of 0.36 per cent. The recovery rate of patients stood at 98.78 per cent, the statistics showed.Gautam Buddh Nagar stands ninth among districts in the state in terms of active caseload and 28th in mortality due to the pandemic, it showed.Meanwhile, the number of active Covid-19 cases in the state came down to 9,581 from 10,080 on Thursday, while the overall recoveries reached 5,77,475 and the death toll climbed to 8,553 on Friday, data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/just-one-new-covid-19-case-in-noida-since-march-101610720281105.html
15-01-2021||Delhi||Covid-19 vaccine drive to start at 81 sites in Delhi tomorrow, CM to visit LNJP Hospital||Delhi is gearing up for Saturday’s vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), which will take place at 81 centres where the jabs will be administered to healthcare workers first. The exercise would kick off from the Delhi-government run Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan (LNJP) Hospital. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will visit the hospital and inspect the vaccination drive and will be accompanied by Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain.“Hon’ble CM Shri @ArvindKejriwal will visit the LNJP Hospital on Saturday, January 16 at 12 noon, to inspect the Covid vaccination drive of the Delhi government,” the Delhi chief minister’s office had tweeted.The 81 centres where the vaccine will be administered include six central government-run facilities which are the Safdarjung Hospital, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Kalawati Saran Children's Hospital, Dr Ram Manohar Lohia (RML) Hospital and two Employees’ State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) hospitals. The remaining 75 centres, spread across all the 11 districts of the national capital, include the GTB Hospital, Apollo Hospital, Max Hospital, Fortis Hospital and LNJP Hospital etc.Also Read| India's Covid-19 vaccination drive to begin tomorrowA senior official had told news agency PTI on Thursday that Serum Institute of India’s (SII) Covishield vaccine would be given at 75 centres while Bharat Biotech developed Covishield would be used at the remaining centres. Although there is no clarification regarding which six centres would give Covishield vaccines.Hon'ble CM Shri @ArvindKejriwal will visit the LNJP Hospital on Saturday, January 16 at 12 noon, to inspect the COVID vaccination drive of the Delhi government.Kejriwal had said on Thursday his government was fully prepared for the vaccine roll-out with more than 8,000 healthcare workers to be given doses every scheduled day. “The government has received in total 2.74 lakh doses of the vaccine so far from the Centre, which would be sufficient to cater to 1.2 lakh healthcare workers,” he had said while addressing a virtual press briefing. Kejriwal also said that each person would receive two doses and the Centre had provided 10 per cent extra stock in case of any mishaps.The vaccine would be given four days every week on Mondays, Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays. On Wednesdays, Fridays and Sundays, vaccines would not be administered as other regular vaccination work would be conducted.Delhi registered 295 new cases of Covid-19 on Friday and 10 more deaths, which pushed the overall tally to nearly 632,000. Friday’s case count has been the lowest since May 9, 2020, health minister Jain said adding that the positivity rate dropped to an all-time low of 0.44 per cent. The tally now includes 2,795 active cases, 10,732 deaths and more than 618,000 recoveries.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/vaccine-drive-to-start-at-81-sites-in-delhi-tomorrow-cm-to-visit-lnjp-hospital-101610716798836.html
15-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi's Covid-19 positivity rate at an all-time low of 0.44%: Satyendar Jain||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said on Friday the city has recorded lowest cases of the coronavirus disease since May 9 last year and that the positivity rate has dropped to an all-time low of 0.44%.Lowest number of cases recorded since 9th of May 2020.Positivity rate in Delhi has been dropped to all time low of 0.44%.Wear Mask and follow social distancing to keep yourself and your family safe. https://t.co/YNRY7Q59yB pic.twitter.com/yWMq5hfaRgThe Capital on Friday recorded 295 fresh Covid-19 infections, the lowest in more than eight months, which pushed the disease caseload to 631,884, news agency PTI cited the health bulletin. According to the health bulletin, the national capital had recorded 293 cases on April 26 last year.The death toll mounted to 10,732 with 10 new fatalities and the number of active cases in the national capital came down to 2,795 from 2,937 the previous day, the authorities said.According to the latest bulletin issued by the Delhi health department, the 295 fresh cases came out of 66,921 tests conducted the previous day, including 38,990 RT-PCR tests and 27,931 rapid antigen tests.This dip in Covid-19 numbers comes at a time when the national capital is all set for the roll-out of the Covid-19 vaccination exercise on Saturday at 81 centres with healthcare and frontline workers, who have been at the forefront of the fight against the pandemic, to be given the shots first. The inoculation drive will start from the state-run Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan (LNJP) Hospital, where chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and Satyendar Jain will be present.The 81 sites include six central government facilities -- All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Safdarjung Hospital, Dr Ram Manohar Lohia (RML) Hospital, Kalawati Saran Hospital and two ESI hospitals.The rest of the 75 centres, spanning all 11 districts of the Capital, include Delhi government-run facilities such as LNJP Hospital, GTB Hospital, Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital, DDU Hospital, BSA Hospital, Delhi State Cancer Institute, ILBS Hospital, and private facilities such as Max Hospital, Fortis Hospital, Apollo Hospital and Sir Ganga Ram Hospital.Kejriwal has said the Delhi government is fully prepared for the vaccination roll-out starting January 16, with more than 8,000 healthcare workers to be given the shots every scheduled day in the national capital. It is also prepared to receive, store and administer Covid-19 vaccine to 5.1 million priority category people in the city in the first phase of vaccination, Kejriwal had earlier said. After healthcare and frontline workers, people aged above 50 and those below 50 years but with co-morbidities will be inoculated, he added.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-covid-19-positivity-at-an-all-time-low-of-0-44-satyendar-jain-101610713454056.html
15-01-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow commissioner of police suspends 15 cops for dereliction of duty||Fifteen police personnel of Wazirganj police station were suspended by Lucknow commissioner of police (CP) DK Thakur on Friday for dereliction of duty, police officials said.Thakur confirmed that all 15 police personnel, including a sub-inspector, were suspended for remaining absent from their duty points at the Lucknow district and sessions court.He said they were suspended on the report of a court security committee which found them absent from their duty points.CP Thakur said the suspensions will send a strong message to police personnel over the issue of dereliction of duty.Another senior official said the list included a sub-inspector and fourteen head constables and constables. He said the sub-inspector was posted as in-charge of district judge court police outpost.Also read: Talks between govt, farmers' unions over farm laws end; next round on Jan 19The official said complaints regarding these police personnel were made in the past too and they were warned about their negligence. He said the security of the court is a priority following the high court’s order to ensure proper security at all district courts after multiple incidents of crime and attack on court premises in recent years.In February 2019, Advocate Jagnarayan Yadav was shot dead on a court campus in Basti district. Two assailants opened fire on him when he was working in his chamber.Three armed assailants shot dead an accused of the murders of property dealer and BSP leader Haji Ehsaan and his nephew Shadab in Najibabad on May 28, 2019, inside a courtroom in Bijnor district in front of the chief judicial magistrate. In June, first-ever woman president of UP Bar Council Darvesh Yadav was shot dead on Agra civil court premises, two days after her election to the post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-commissioner-of-police-suspends-15-cops-for-dereliction-of-duty-101610715225151.html
15-01-2021||Mumbai||Goregaon parents demand reduction of fees, protest outside school||Parents of several students studying at Yashodham High School in Goregaon protested outside the school on Friday demanding a reduction in the school fees for the current year, owing to the Covid-19 pandemic and the resultant lockdown. Parents assembled outside the school and demanded that the school waive-off at least some percentage of the total fees owing to the current situation. “We have been requesting the school to reduce fees at least for the current year considering that many of us are struggling to pay fees due to pay cuts and jobs losses. We hope that the school takes note of our demands. We are just asking for a reduction in the overall fees,” said a parent of a Class 5 student from the school. School officials said they were awaiting guidelines from the government in this regard. “Currently, the case concerning fee hikes by private schools is pending in the court and the matter is thus pending. We cannot decide to reduce fees in the absence of order either from the court or the education department. We have on the other hand allowed parents with genuine issues to pay in instalments and we have not even imposed a hike for the current year. Parents have been offered all the necessary support in this matter,” said Sunita Goenka, chairperson of the school’s governing body. Meanwhile, parents have decided to approach the education department in this matter. “We are collectively going to request the department to intervene in this issue. We are ready to pay fees for tuition but demand a reduction in the other heads,” said a parent. An official from the state education department said that the department is yet to receive an official complaint in this matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/goregaon-parents-demand-reduction-of-fees-protest-outside-school-101610713780239.html
15-01-2021||Delhi||Flying of UAVs, paragliders prohibited over Delhi ahead of Republic Day||The Delhi Police on Friday prohibited operation of "sub-conventional aerial platforms" including UAVs, paragliders and hot air balloons over the national capital from January 20 in view of Republic Day celebrations.The order issued by Delhi Police Commissioner S N Shrivastava said the directive will come into force on January 20 and will remain for a period of 27 days up to February 15, both days inclusive, unless withdrawn earlier.The order stated that certain criminal, anti-social elements or terrorists inimical to India may pose a threat to the safety of the general public, dignitaries and vital installations by the use of 'sub-conventional aerial platforms' like para-gliders, para-motors, hang gliders, Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs), Unmanned Aircraft Systems (UASs) among others."Therefore, the Delhi Police has prohibited the flying of sub-conventional aerial platforms over Delhi on the occasion of Republic Day and doing so shall be punishable under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code," the order said.The copies of the order should be affixed on the notice boards of the offices of all DCPs/Addl DCPs/ACPs, Tehsils, all police stations and offices of the all the municipal corporations, PWD, DDA and the Delhi Cantonment Board, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/flying-of-uavs-paragliders-prohibited-over-delhi-ahead-of-republic-day-101610712474071.html
15-01-2021||Lucknow||Ex-IAS officer, close aide of PM Modi named BJP candidate for crucial UP polls||Former Gujarat cadre Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer Arvind Kumar Sharma was named as one of the four Bharatiya Janata Party candidates for the biennial elections to the Uttar Pradesh Legislative Council (Vidhan Parishad). The party announced the first list of four candidates on Friday. The elections for 12 seats of the Council will be held on January 28.“The central election committee of the Bharatiya Janata Party has approved the names of Swatantra Dev Singh, Dr Dinesh Sharma, Laxman Prasad Acharya and Arvind Kumar Sharma as candidates for the upcoming biennial election for the Legislative Council in UP,” read a release issued by the BJP, according to the news agency ANI.The announcement by the BJP’s central election committee comes only a day after AK Sharma joined the party following his voluntary retirement from service early this week.State BJP president Swatantra Dev Singh, deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma and the party’s state unit vice-president Laxman Prasad Acharya are sitting members of the Legislative Council. Their terms, along with that of nine other members belonging to other political parties, is ending on January 30.Also read: India's Covid-19 vaccination drive to begin tomorrowThere is speculation in political circles that AK Sharma may be inducted in the Yogi Adityanath cabinet and be given a crucial portfolio. A major Cabinet reshuffle is on the cards in the state before the 2022 assembly elections, said people aware of the issue.“Certainly, the party has some big plans for Sharma. It will be naïve to believe that he sought VRS from the country’s elite service, when he still had about two years to retire, just to become an MLC,” said a senior BJP leader who did not wish to be named.UP BJP president Swatantra Dev Singh on Thursday had said AK Sharma would now play an important innings in the state government and the party.AK Sharma, a 1988 batch ex-IAS officer, belongs to the Mau district of eastern Uttar Pradesh. As a bureaucrat, he had worked for nearly 20 years with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Singh had said on the occasion of AK Sharma joining the party. Sharma is considered a close aide of PM Modi.“I was working as a secretary in the central government before taking voluntary retirement,” Sharma had said on Thursday. He was the secretary in the MSME ministry until he left the service on Monday. He was due to retire in July 2022.As per the notification issued by the Election Commission, the nominations for the biennial polls in which MLAs will cast their votes can be filed till January 18. The scrutiny of names will be done on January 19 and candidates can withdraw their name by January 21. The voting and counting will take place on January 28.In the 100-member UP Legislative Council, the Samajwadi Party (SP) has 55 MLCs, the BJP has 25, the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) eight, Congress and Nirdaliye Samooh (Independents’ group) have two MLCs each and Apna Dal (Sonelal) and Shikshak Dal have one MLC each. There are three other independent MLCs and three seats are vacant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/exias-officer-close-aide-of-pm-modi-named-bjp-candidate-for-crucial-up-polls-101610709804895.html
15-01-2021||Mumbai||'Matter must be probed’: Sharad Pawar on woman who accused NCP minister of rape||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar said on Friday the woman, who has levelled allegations of rape against party leader and Maharashtra minister of social justice Dhananjay Munde, must also be investigated after several politicians accused her of harassing and blackmailing them.“Yesterday, when I commented on the Dhananjay Munde issue, I had said that it was a serious issue. But at that time some facts were not in the public domain. I came to know that there were similar complaints against the same woman by different political leaders. So, it must be probed,” Pawar said, according to ANI.Also Read| ‘Fight from front’: BJP leader to Sharad Pawar after Dhananjay Munde ‘exposed'The 38-year-old woman has accused Dhananjay Munde of rape and claimed that Mumbai Police ignored her complaint. She wrote a letter to the Mumbai Police commissioner on January 10, saying that the NCP leader had raped her repeatedly in 2006. Munde denied the allegations and said that he was being blackmailed by the woman and her sister. But he acknowledged the fact that he was in a relationship with the accuser’s sister and has two children with her.We have full faith in Mumbai police. Let them do their investigation first. Whenever the fact in the investigation will come out, we will think of probable action. I want that an ACP-level woman officer should investigate this case, to bring out the facts: NCP Chief Sharad Pawar https://t.co/5rNU7vCzvI“We have full faith in Mumbai police. Let them do their investigation first. Whenever the fact in the investigation will come out, we will think of probable action. I want that an ACP-level woman officer should investigate this case to bring out the facts,” Pawar said.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has demanded Munde’s resignation with state unit president Chandrakant Patil saying the Maharashtra government is unlikely to take any action against Munde.However, leader of opposition and former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said that both sides had to be considered before making any demand. “We need to consider both the sides before making any demand. The party (NCP) and the chief minister should look into it,” Fadnavis said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/matter-must-be-probed-sharad-pawar-on-woman-who-accused-ncp-minister-of-rape-101610707760585.html
15-01-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand confirms first case of UK Covid-19 variant||Uttarakhand has reported the first positive case of the new UK variant of SARS-CoV-2 from Dehradun district."A 44-year-old man has contracted the new UK-strain of coronavirus," informed Dr Rajiv Dixit, District Nodal Officer, Covid-19 Control Room.After the contact tracing, it was found that he came in contact with some UK-returnees."This is the first such case found in Uttarakhand. The patient is being treated by a team of specialist doctors at Tilu Ratani Centre," the official said.In India, the number of people infected with the new UK variant of SARS-CoV-2 has mounted to 109, the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare had said on Thursday.Uttarakhand on Thursday reported 154 cases, taking the state's tally of total cases to 94,324.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-confirms-first-case-of-uk-covid-19-variant-101610705412526.html
15-01-2021||Patna||Upset with questions on Indigo manager murder case, Nitish tears into Opposition||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Friday morning appeared to be upset when questioned about the sensational murder of Indigo’s station manager Rupesh Kumar Singh. Nitish was at an inauguration function, when journalists sought his reaction to Rupesh murder case, eliciting a sharp response from the CM.“Do you know who killed Rupesh? Don’t link (the murder) it with law and order situation. Crime doesn’t happen after taking permission,” a visibly irked Kumar told media personnel.He suggested media should talk to the state’s police chief, Sanjiv Kumar Singhal, over the developments in Rupesh’s murder case probe.When informed that none of the top police officials, including the director general of police (DGP) were picking their official phones, the chief minister spoke to the DGP, asking him to provide details of investigation to the media.“I spoke with the DGP, a special investigation team (SIT) has been formed (to probe the murder case). Don't demoralise the police. Police is doing their job. If someone doesn't carry out their duty, action is taken,” he said.Kumar attacked the Opposition led by RJD and suggested that they should look at the crime record when they were in power in Bihar.“What used to happen before 2005? There was a lot of crime. Is it the same today?,” he asked and added, “Why don’t you ask those, whose 15-year stint saw the crime graph soar? It is not so today. Show the condition in those days.”Taking further jibe at RJD’s rule in Bihar, he said, “Pati-Patni rule was known for crime only and the scenario has changed now.”Defending the state’s crime record during his regime, the CM said that Bihar was ranked 23 in the country on number of crimes reported. He added that the law of the land was being followed in Bihar. “Police are finding out more information. A speedy trial will be done, so that stringent action is taken against the culprit on time. I have been assured by the DGP,” Nitish said.The Bihar CM also directed the DGP to ensure immediate arrest and tough action against the assailants. "I will not tolerate any kind of crime in Bihar. The police should not hesitate in taking strict action against criminals," Nitish said.Officials familiar with developments said that the CM was himself monitoring the developments in the murder case, which is being used by the Opposition parties to target him over law and order situation in the state.“I have been saying this repeatedly. He (Nitish Kumar) is a selected and a nominated CM. He has been selected and nominated by the BJP. Bihar had never seen two deputy CMs but now, we have two deputy CMs from a single party," said Tejashwi Yadav, leader of Opposition in Bihar Assembly.“Who is the maharaja of jungle raaj? Where is the PM now? The selected, nominated CM is a tired man. He is unable to run his department,” Yadav said, continuing his attack on the Nitish government.Rupesh was shot multiple times by bike-borne assailants outside his apartment in Punaichak area in the state capital on Tuesday evening. Rupesh left behind his wife and two children.Rupesh’s elder brother Nandeshwar Singh has sought a CBI inquiry into the murder, a job for his wife and arrangements for his children’s education.While talking to media persons at his Chhapra residence on Friday, Nandeshwar said that despite the chief minister's assurance, Patna police failed to make any breakthrough in the four days after the incident.“So, CM should hand over the case to the CBI, as we are not at all satisfied with the police inquiry,” he said and alleged that no police officer had bothered to apprise the family of any developments in the case.“Whatever information we are getting, is from the media,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/upset-with-questions-on-indigo-manager-murder-case-nitish-tears-into-opposition-101610704928062.html
15-01-2021||Other||SGPC airs Dhadi Diwan live from Akal Takht over FB||Devotees now have the opportunity to watch and listen to the Dhadi Diwan organised at Akal Takht with the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) airing it live online. Dhadis are traditional performers who sing ballads of war heroes with a sarangi, a stringed instrument, and a dhad, a small drum.The live streaming of the performance is being done on its Facebook page as of now with a smartphone. Professional equipment is being arranged, said an official of the apex gurdwara body. The move is being seen as the SGPC wanting to make use of information technology to spread principles of Sikhism and be present on all technology platforms. The ballads are sung at the highest temporal seat of Sikhs from 9am to 4pm daily under the tradition launched by sixth Sikh master Guru Hargobind, the founder of Akal Takht, to instil chivalry in the Sikhs and prepare them for fighting wars. The IT wing said that this telecast is drawing a good response from the public.“Dhadi performance is a rich tradition of Sikhism. In modern times, however, it is losing popularity especially among the young generation. To uphold the warrior spirit in the community, this tradition needs to be safeguarded. Efforts are being made to promote this tradition and airing it live from the Akal Takht Sahib is one such attempt,” said SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur.A dhadi performer and head of Sri Guru Hargobind Sahib Shiromani Dhadi Sabha, Giani Baldev Singh MA, said, “This telecast will not only promote the disappearing tradition but also uplift the standard of performance. We thank the SGPC for this initiative.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sgpc-airs-dhadi-diwan-live-from-akal-takht-over-fb-101610702619664.html
15-01-2021||Delhi||Court directs UP police to produce AAP MLA Somnath Bharti in Delhi||A Delhi Court has directed the Jail Superintendent of Uttar Pradesh and issued a production warrant for the appearance of Aam Aadmi Party MLA Somnath Bharti on January 18 before it in a matter related to the alleged assaulting case of security staff at Delhi's All India Institute of Medical Sciences in 2016.Somnath Bharti is currently stated to be in judicial custody in Sultanpur, Uttar Pradesh. Bharti was arrested in Uttar Pradesh on Monday under section 505/153 IPC for his alleged objectionable remarks on hospitals and the Uttar Pradesh government.Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Ravindra Kumar Pandey on January 14 issued a production warrant for the appearance of accused Somnath Bharti through DCP concerned.The court issued a production warrant in the matter after Advocate Mohd Irshad, who represented Somnath Bharti, has moved an exemption application in the matter informing that he is currently running in Judicial Custody in an Uttar Pradesh jail."The production warrant be sent and served by DCP concerned to the Jail Superintendent concerned where accused is currently running in the custody through Special Messenger considering the fact that next date of hearing is January 18, 2.15 pm and matter is at the stage of consideration / judgement. Jail Superintendent concerned is directed to produce the accused Som Nath Bharti without any fail on next date of hearing," Court said.The special court is now at the stage of passing judgement in a case registered against him and other accused under sections of rioting, damaging public property and obstructing a public servant from discharging his duty.The case was registered on the complaint of the chief security officer of AIIMS on September 9, 2016 following which a case was Bharti was also arrested from his office in south Delhi's Green Park.The Complainant accused Bharti and others of trying to encroach on government land and disrupting peace in the hospital. The officer said the MLA and about 300 of his supporters beat up security personnel who had asked them to leave the hospital premises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/court-directs-up-police-to-produce-aap-mla-somnath-bharti-in-delhi-101610700227007.html
15-01-2021||Patna||3 held in Bihar for gang raping minor, damaging her eyes, survivor critical||Three men, accused of gang raping a 17-year-old mute girl in Madhubani and also damaging her eyes, were arrested and remanded to 14-days judicial custody on Thursday.Krishna Mukhiya, Lakshmi Mukhiya and Ramavatar Mukhiya (all in their mid and late 20s) were presented in the court of special judge Satyaprakash for POCSO (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) Act cases. The police also presented seized evidence in the court.The survivor was gang raped and her eyes were damaged by the accused so that she is not able to identify the culprits. The girl was attacked on March 12 last year near Thumhani river adjacent to Harlakhi village, according to Prem Lal Paswan, the station house officer (SHO) of Harlakhi police station.A case was registered for voluntarily causing grievous hurt (Section 325), act with the intention to kill (307) and gang rape (376 D) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) besides Section 4, 8 and 12 of the POCSO Act. The survivor was currently undergoing treatment in the eye ward of Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital (DMCH)."There were serious injuries inflicted in the eyes. Due to swelling in the eyes her treatment was hampered. However, she was responding to treatment now," said Dr Alka Jha, HoD, eye ward of the hospital.Meanwhile, a joint team of All India Students Association (AISA) and All India Progressive Women's Association (AIPWA) reached DMCH to meet the survivor and her family.They alleged that cases of sexual assault and harassment abound in Bihar and survivors were not getting justice in the regime of chief minister Nitish Kumar. They demanded speedy trial against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/3-held-in-bihar-for-gang-raping-minor-damaging-her-eyes-survivor-critical-101610697694357.html
15-01-2021||Lucknow||Gujarat cadre IAS officer Arvind Kumar Sharma may be made minister in Yogi govt||Former Gujarat cadre Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer Arvind Kumar Sharma’s induction in the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has led to speculation of a Cabinet reshuffle in the Uttar Pradesh government after the biennial election to 12 seats in the UP Legislative Council is over.Considered a close aide of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Sharma joined BJP in a programme organised in the state unit office in Lucknow on Thursday. Indicating a major role for Sharma in the government, BJP state unit president Swatantra Dev Singh said Sharma has worked with the Prime Minister for 20 years and will play an important role in the state government and the party.After joining the BJP, Sharma thanked the Prime Minister and BJP national president and said, “I come from a backward village located in Mau district of eastern UP, I have no political background, the BJP has honoured me, I will do the task entrusted by the party”.A BJP leader said that Sharma is likely to file his nomination paper for the legislative council on Friday. The BJP has 310 MLAs and it is hoping to win at least 10 council seats with the support of ally Apna Dal and rebel BSP and Congress MLAs. Along with Sharma, the party has also cleared state unit president Swatantra Dev Singh, deputy CM Dinesh Sharma and senior leader Laxman Acharya for nomination to the council. The remaining six candidates will be announced after the approval of the party’s central committee. The legislative council election is scheduled for January 28.After the legislative council election, the Cabinet is likely to be expanded before the crucial 2022 Assembly election, said the BJP leader quoted above.The party is likely to utilise Sharma’s services in UP government since he has held top positions in the Gujarat government when Narendra Modi was the chief minister. Later, he moved to the Prime Minister’s Office after Modi became the Prime Minister in 2014. Before taking voluntary retirement, Sharma was handling the MSME (micro small and medium enterprises) department, key to PM’s plan for revival of the economy post Covid lockdown. Sharma has also handled Vibrant Gujarat projects.UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath had met PM Narendra Modi in Delhi on January 8, when Cabinet expansion and Sharma’s induction was discussed, the BJP leader added.Apart from inducting Sharma in the Cabinet, the party might move some ministers to the organization with the responsibility for elections. To maintain the caste and regional balance, some fresh faces are likely to be inducted in the Cabinet while some ministers of state are likely to be rewarded with promotion to the Cabinet rank, the BJP leader said.At present, there are 54 ministers in the UP Cabinet including the chief minister, 23 Cabinet ministers, 9 ministers of state (Independent Charge) and 22 ministers of state. Uttar Pradesh can have a maximum of 60 ministers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/gujarat-cadre-ias-officer-arvind-kumar-sharma-may-be-made-minister-in-yogi-govt-101610695502344.html
15-01-2021||Bangalore||Phase-2 of Bengaluru metro to be thrown open to public today||The six-kilometre long Southern Extension line under phase-2 of Bengaluru's Namma Metro train service is set to be thrown open to the public from Friday. The line runs between the Yelachenahalli and Silk Institute Metro stations and its launch is seen as a major relief to Bangaloreans from the issue of traffic congestion.On Thursday, Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri inaugurated the service via video conference from Delhi, while Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa was present on the site with other party leaders.Here is all you need to know about it:- The 6.6km-long stretch has six stops- Konanakunte Cross, Doddakallasandra, Vajrahalli, Thalaghattapura and Silk Institute.  - All stations of this line are going to have LED lights and rooftop solar power with a total of 1.2 MW capacity by March 2021.- For the convenience of passengers, each station on this line has eight escalators and four elevators.- The project, cleared by the Karnataka government in 2012 and the Central Government in 2014, was supposed to be completed by 2018, but it got delayed due to the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/phase2-of-bengaluru-metro-to-be-thrown-open-to-public-today-101610692669898.html
15-01-2021||Other||Pakistani intruder shot dead in Punjab’s Gurdaspur sector||The Border Security Force shot dead a Pakistan national infiltrating into Indian territory between the Kot Razada and Wadhai Cheema border outposts in Gurdaspur sector, BSF officials said on Friday. “The BSF personnel detected suspicious movement of an intruder from the Pakistan side near the barbed fence inside Indian territory at 8.45pm on Thursday. Sensing imminent threat, the troops opened fire and shot dead the intruder,” the BSF (Punjab Frontier) posted on Twitter. The deceased could not be identified as no proof of identity was recovered, BSF sources said. Sub inspector Sukhwinderjit Singh, the station house officer of Ramdas police station where the case is registered, said, “The 25-year-old Pakistan national wearing a white Pathani suit was trying to cross the fence illegally when he was shot dead by the BSF troops.” The BSF handed over the body to Punjab Police that sent it for autopsy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pakistani-intruder-shot-dead-in-punjab-s-gurdaspur-sector-101610692718663.html
15-01-2021||Jaipur||Boy run over by train while catching kite, youth’s throat slit by sharp string||Two people were killed and over 140 were injured during the kite flying festival in Rajasthan, held on the occasion of Makar Sankranti.While a 14-year-old boy was run over by a train in Kota, while attempting to catch a kite on the railway tracks, a young biker’s throat was slit by a sharp made in China string, used for kite flying.14-yr-old Kishore, a resident of the Mahatma Gandhi colony in Kota, was crushed under the wheels of an express train when he was trying to catch a kite on the Delhi-Mumbai railway track, passing near his house on Thursday evening."With his eyes glued to the kite, the boy did not see the approaching Awadh Express or hear its horn before he was hit by the speeding train," said a police official. Kishore died on the spot. His body was handed over to his family for last rites.Meanwhile, in another shocker, 25-year-old Lakshya Suthar’s throat was slit by a sharp Chinese kite-flying string while he was riding on a bike. Suthar died due to excessive bleeding.Nearly 140 persons, including 100 in Jaipur alone, are reported to have been injured in kite-flying incidents in the state on the occasion of Makar Sankranti.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/boy-run-over-by-train-while-catching-kite-youth-s-throat-slit-by-sharp-string-101610690884018.html
15-01-2021||Other||Punjab reports first bird flu cases with Mohali samples testing positive||Punjab on Friday reported its first case of avian influenza after samples collected from poultry farms in Mohali district tested positive. Officials at the Regional Disease Diagnosis Laboratory in Jalandhar said the samples received from Alpha Poultry Farm and Royal Poultry Farm at Behra village in Dera Bassi sub division of Mohali district were found positive by RT-PCR test. Laboratory joint director Dr Mohinderpal Singh said, “According to protocol, the samples have been sent to the High Security Animal Disease Laboratory in Bhopal for confirmation.” Neighbouring Himachal Pradesh has reported the death of more than 4,800 migratory birds at Pong wetland in Kangra district since the outbreak over the past month. Culling of 1.6 lakh birds is underway in Haryana’s poultry farm belt of Barwala in Panchkula district. LAB TESTING 800 SAMPLES FROM PUNJAB The Jalandhar laboratory has received more than 800 samples from various districts of Punjab. It has been testing 100-125 samples for bird flu daily. The Punjab government has declared the state a controlled area in view of the outbreak in neighbouring states and banned the import of live birds and unprocessed poultry meat. The state government had earlier sounded an alert with chief secretary Vini Mahajan ordering that sampling, testing and surveillance be stepped up to control the spread of the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-reports-first-bird-flu-cases-with-mohali-samples-testing-positive-101610687918248.html
15-01-2021||Lucknow||4 held for raping, trafficking 15-yr-old in Lucknow||Four men have been arrested for holding a 15-year-old minor girl captive in Lucknow for over 13 months, raping her and forcing her into prostitution, officials said on Thursday.According to officials, the incident came to light when the girl, after escaping, complained of stomach ache and was found to be pregnant.The girl came to Lucknow from Nepal in search of a job two years ago, the officials said. The main accused, who works as a guard at a school, lured her on the pretext of a job and allegedly raped her, they added.The girl’s parents have been working as marginal labourers in Lucknow for the past five years, they said.“The main accused took advantage of the girl and lured her with the prospect of a job. He took her to a few houses as a house help and began exploiting her sexually,” police officials said.The accused also allegedly forced her into prostitution, the officials said. The girl was able to identify three other men who raped her, the officials said.A search is on to nab the remaining accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/4-held-for-raping-trafficking-15-yr-old-in-lucknow-101610684393630.html
15-01-2021||Other||Raj Bhawan versus state govt: Haryana governor finds own govt opposing him||Haryana governor Satyadeo Narain Arya, the executive head of the state government, was left embarrassed after the state government termed his orders to extend the services of the general secretary of Haryana branch of Indian Red Cross Society ‘illegal’ before the Punjab and Haryana high court. As per Article 154 of the Constitution, the executive power of the state is vested in the governor. Appearing for the state government and secretary to the governor, Haryana advocate general (AG) BR Mahajan told a single judge bench of the high court that “the order passed is illegal and, therefore, the extension could not be granted.” The governor, who is the president of the Haryana branch of the Indian Red Cross Society, had on June 2 extended the term of DR Sharma as general secretary, Indian Red Cross Society and state secretary, St John Ambulance, Haryana State Centre, Chandigarh, until his superannuation on April 30, 2022. Chief Minister, ML Khattar is the vice-president of Haryana branch of the Indian Red Cross Society. The extension was subsequently challenged before the HC. While a single bench of the HC had on January 6 set aside the extension granted to Sharma stating it is clearly beyond what has been provided in the Staff Rules, 2017, a division bench headed by chief justice Ravi Shanker Jha on January 12 stayed the single bench’s order. “It is important to note here that the Haryana advocate general has taken a stand that the decision of the president of the society has not been ratified as required under rule 6 although a meeting of the managing committee has already taken place,” reads the January 6 HC order. When asked why the state government opposed the governor’s orders before the high court, the AG said the state merely reiterated the stand taken by the national body of the Indian Red Cross Society. “The national body has also taken a stand that the extension order passed was illegal,’’ said Mahajan. Advisor to the governor Akhilesh Kumar, on being asked about state government’s opposition to the governor’s orders, said, “As of now a division bench has stayed the orders of the single bench. We will have to deliberate on this extension matter. I will be able to comment only after discussing it with officers,’’ he said. Secretary to governor G Anupama refused to comment on the development. Anupama, who was also represented by the AG in the high court, is the senior-most officer manning the governor’s establishment. She is also an administrative secretary to the government. Officials familiar with the development said it is quite absurd that while representing the secretary to the governor, the AG committed the impropriety of terming the governor’s orders ‘illegal’. “Without going into the merits of the governor’s order, it is preposterous for the government machinery to take a contrary stance and that too in a trivial matter pertaining to a society,’’ said an official, who requested anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/raj-bhawan-versus-state-govt-haryana-guv-finds-own-govt-opposing-him-101610681977412.html
15-01-2021||Bhopal||Retd Air Force officer was drugged in MP before set on fire, 6 arrested||Six arrests have been made in the murder case of 53-year-old retired Indian Air Force officer Rajesh Sahu, whose semi burnt body was found in a car in Chhindwara district on December 27, according to police.The accused, including Naresh Gurjar, Ashok Agrawal and four others injected Sahu with a drug and later poured petrol over his car and set it on fire with him trapped inside, said Vivek Agrawal, superintendent of police (SP), Chhindwara.Police arrested the accused under section 302 (murder) of Indian Penal Code (IPC), said the SP.Sahu, who lived in Bhopal, left for Chhindwara on December 26 to see his parents who reside at Guraiya Marg in the city. However, his dead body was found in his car in a semi burnt condition, away from the road in a 20-foot deep ditch between Jhirpa and Rainikheda under Mahuljhir police station on December 27.“It took more than two weeks to nab the accused. The accused confessed to their crime and said they killed Sahu over a dispute over ₹5 crore that the deceased was demanding from Naresh Gurjar, one of the main accused. Naresh Gurjar, a resident of Bhopal, hatched the plan to kill Sahu with the help of Ashok Agrawal. The duo requested Sahu to take them to Chhindwara. Inside the car, they forcibly injected him with a drug that knocked him out. Then they poured petrol on his car and set it on fire to kill Sahu,” said the SP.According to the officer, the deceased and Gurjar used to deal in properties while Ashok Agrawal maintained the accounts. When Sahu checked the records he realised that he was supposed to get ₹5 crore from Gurjar. Since then he had been putting pressure on him to pay.The accused were arrested on the basis of their mobile phone locations and call records. Police are interrogating them and will produce them before a court on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/retd-air-force-officer-was-drugged-in-mp-before-set-on-fire-6-arrested-101610677322535.html
15-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi adds four Covid-19 deaths, least in 248 days||The Capital on Thursday reported four deaths due to the coronavirus disease, the lowest fatalities in a single day since May 11, or over eight months ago – a statistic that highlights how the outbreak has receded in Delhi with hours to go for the start of national rollout of the vaccine.So far, 10,722 city residents have died due to Covid-19.Also on Thursday, Delhi touched another landmark – the city reported just 340 cases from the over 70,000 samples tests in the city, coming to a positivity rate (the proportion of samples that test positive among those tested) to 0.48%, the lowest ever.“The positivity rate in Delhi has dropped to an all-time low of 0.48%. Wear a mask and follow social distancing to keep yourself and your family safe,” Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said on Twitter.Delhi reported the first case of the infection on March 2, with the first death coming on March 13 when a 68-year-old woman from west Delhi’s Janakpuri died after contracting the infection from her son who had travelled to Switzerland, Japan, and Italy.The seven-day average of daily deaths, also known as the death rate, is now at 11 fatalities, the lowest since May 21. The number of deaths has been declined drastically over the past few weeks. At the start of December, for instance, Delhi was reporting 91 deaths a day on average, according to the data shared by the Delhi government.The highest number of deaths due to Covid-19 recorded in a day was 131 on November 18 when Delhi saw its third and worst surge in the number of cases ever recorded.Experts said the trend in Delhi was largely in line with the Covid trajectory across the country.“The number of deaths and infections has gone down not only in Delhi but across India. If you look at the data from across the country, the number of cases has been going down steadily September onwards naturally, showing that a majority of the population has already been exposed to the infection. In Delhi, the surge in November was because of large-scale mixing of the infected and uninfected populations during festivals,” said Dr T Jacob John, former head of the department of virology at the Christian Medical College-Vellore.To be sure, Delhi has seen a much larger proportion of Covid-19 patients die than the national average. Delhi has a case fatality rate (proportion of confirmed Covid patients that die from the disease) of 1.7% against India’s average of 1.44%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-adds-four-covid-19-deaths-least-in-248-days-101610656601728.html
15-01-2021||Other||3 phases of vaccination will be completed in 3 months: Maharashtra health minister||State health minister Rajesh Tope, in an interview with HT on Thursday, said the number of vaccination centres was reduced to ensure the machinery would be set to sustain any reaction of the vaccine and handle it effectively. He said they would know only after two months when the general public can get the vaccine. The minister also said though they received fewer doses than expected, the Centre is expected to allot another consignment in the next few days. Edited excerpts:You have complained that the state has received fewer vaccine doses than required. What was the demand?We were expecting 1,750,000 vials to vaccinate 800,000 health workers in the first phase in the wake of the Centre’s direction that two doses of same vaccine should be given in the stipulated timeframe of 28-45 days. Against it, we have received 9,63,000 doses of Covishield and 20,000 of Covaxin. This would cover about 500,000 or over 55% of the health workers enrolled for vaccination. But we are sure the Centre will allot us second consignment of doses in the next 8-10 days.The state had to reduce the number of vaccination centres from 511 to 358 after Centre’s direction. Would it delay the vaccination drive?The reduction in the number of centres was a strategic move by the Central government as it wanted to implement the drive in a cautious and calibrated manner and without any haste. We want the mechanism to be robust to handle any untoward incident or Adverse Effect Following Immunisation (AEFI) effectively. We are expecting the first two phases of immunization of healthcare and frontline workers to be completed in a month. It could have been completed in 15 days, had we started with 511 centres. All three planned phases, including people above 50 years of age and comorbidities, will be completed in about three-and-a-half months.When is the general public expected to get the vaccine?During the video conference on Monday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi told us that there would a review of the drive once 60% of the two phases meant for healthcare and frontline workers are done with the vaccination. The clarity over availability of the vaccine for general public is expected in the next two months, when we are done with these phases.You have been talking about free vaccine for the poor….Yes, we are determined to do it. Actually, vaccination is the responsibility of the Centre and it should bear the cost of vaccine for poor. We have demanded it, but if the Centre does not concede, the state government will bear the cost for vulnerable people below the poverty line (BPL). Our 35% population is BPL and of it 50% or roughly 15 million people will need to be given vaccine for free. This section of society can’t afford the vaccine even if it is priced at ₹210-220. If they are left to bear the cost, they would opt to avoid it and end up becoming a source of infection.Another frequently asked question is if everybody needs to be vaccinated.We discussed this in our department and they are of the opinion that not all will have to get the vaccine doses. The population in the age group of 18-40 is considered healthy and can sustain the infection. Barring comorbid people, others can avoid taking the vaccine.People in areas with high percentage of infection will be given vaccine in routine course?Yes. People from the highly dense areas like Dharavi where a large population has antibodies, too, will be given vaccine as per the routine plan.There are doubts being raised over the efficacy of Covaxin. What is your take on it?Both the vaccines, Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin and Serum Institute’s Covishield, have been given emergency use authorisation in India. Covishield could complete phase-3 clinical trials as volunteers from other countries like the United Kingdom were involved in it. Covaxin is yet to complete its phase 3 trials and requires consent of the beneficiary. The third clinical trial needs it to be administered on 40,000 people to judge the reaction and efficacy. The indigenous vaccine will soon complete it. In fact, the technology and basis of Covaxin is more effective, we have been told. As such, both the vaccines are safe for use.Why is the government wary about health workers backing out from vaccination after enrolling for it?As there is reservation for vaccination among some health workers, there are people who ask us why they are not getting it in initial stages. There are reactions such as swelling, giddiness, uneasy feeling to abdominal pain in some people. We are ready to handle all such reactions. I would appeal to the health workers and other beneficiaries not to be afraid of it and come forward for the vaccination. Though Covid-19 cases are under control, they are still high in a few districts. What is the reason?Maharashtra’s weekly case fatality rate has dropped to 1.5%. We are the 10th number in the country in growth rate, which is 0.12%. Our doubling rate has gone to almost one year. The number of cases is reducing in the state, while in other states like Kerala, Punjab the growth rate is on the rise. In the past one month, our daily caseload ranged between 2500 and 3500. It is true that in some districts like Parbhani, Nagpur and Nandurbar, the positivity and case fatality rates are high for various reasons. We have asked the district administrations to increase the tracing, tracking and testing at local level to keep the deaths under control. Early referral of the infection can save lives and arrest the spread. We have also directed to increase the daily testing to 1.5 lakh so that the number of patients decrease further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/3-phases-of-vaccination-will-be-completed-in-3-months-maharashtra-health-minister-101610655934686.html
15-01-2021||Other||Maharashtra’s Palghar district gets 19,500 doses of Covishield vaccine||Palghar district received 19,500 doses of Covishield vaccine from the Serum Institute of India (SII), Pune, on Wednesday late evening, Dr Dayanand Suryavanshi, district health officer, Palghar, said. As part of the first phase of the mass vaccination drive, as per the recommendation of the World Health Organization (WHO), around 17,400 frontline workers, including government and private doctors, nurses, ASHA (accredited social health activist) and anganwadi workers of the health department, will get the doses, said Suryavanshi. The vaccination drive will commence on January 16. The doses have been stored in cold storage at the Central Medicine Centre in Palghar and four centres – Cottage Hospital (Dahanu), Sub-Medical Centre (Jawhar), Rural Hospital (Wada) and Varun Industrial Centre of the Vasai-Virar Municipal Corporation – said Dr Suryavanshi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maharashtras-palghar-district-gets-19-500-doses-of-covishield-vaccine-101610655633937.html
15-01-2021||Other||Allow us to reopen, coaching class owners in Maharashtra urge||With almost all businesses in the state being allowed to open in the last few days, owners of coaching classes in the city are now protesting the government’s delay in allowing them to reopen. On Thursday, several members of the Maharashtra Class Owners Association (MCOA) protested with a green band while conducting online classes, asking the government to allow them to reopen with certain standard operating procedures (SOPs) in place. Members of the MCOA said that despite requesting the government on multiple occasions, they were still awaiting a green signal to start operations. “We understand the risks involved after we reopen, and are equally concerned about the health of our staff and the children. However, classes have lost a substantial amount of revenue as enrolments have gone down by up to 70% this year. We also have rents to pay and with poor business, it is becoming difficult for us to sustain,” said Santosh Vaskar, a class owner and the president of MCOA. Classes protested by tying green bands on their wrists in their online classes and said that they would continue to do so until Saturday. “We have requested the government to come up with SOPs for us. In many parts of the state, the local administration has allowed classes to partially reopen, but in Mumbai, no decision has been taken yet, even as the schools are likely to start soon,” said Vaskar. Since September, members of MCOA have been meeting government officials and ministers, requesting them to allow the reopening of classes. In December, the Coaching Classes Teachers’ Federation, a pan-Maharashtra body of classes, wrote to the department urging them to allow classes to reopen. Officials from the education department said that they were awaiting instructions from the state government in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/allow-us-to-reopen-coaching-class-owners-in-maharashtra-urge-101610655454113.html
15-01-2021||Other||MBBS students enrolled in Chinese universities fear losing year||Twenty-three-year-old Rajesh P (name changed) would have been able to add the prefix of ‘Dr’ to his name after graduating from China’s Jilin University in July. However, Rajesh and several other final-year MBBS students studying in Chinese universities are staring at a bleak future as they stand to lose a year of their career. According to the rules in China, MBBS students have to immediately complete a 52-week physical internship in assigned hospitals after finishing their final-year course to be awarded their MBBS degree. While the first, second and third-year MBBS students are currently attending lectures online, the final-year students are at a loss, as their internship can only be completed once the lockdown restrictions are lifted. “I had started my medical internship last January at the First Hospital of Jilin University, when the Covid-19 situation in China started getting out of control. By February, our families back home started getting worried and most of the foreign students flew back home as the country was under severe lockdown restrictions,” said Rajesh, a Santacruz resident, who has been home since February 2020.“We’ve been writing to several authorities at the university as well as to the Indian Embassy in Beijing for help, but to no avail. Now, the situation in China is much better and we all are ready to abide by the quarantine rules to go back and complete our internship, without which, we stand to lose an entire year of our career,” added Rajesh.The Embassy of India in Beijing recently released a notification, stating that as of now, there stands no update on the situation. “With reports of resurgence of Covid-19 cases in China, authorities have further reinforced epidemic controls and restrictions on travel and entry into China. The suspension of visas of Indian nationals is an instance of enhanced controls. Chinese authorities have also denied permission for operation of any chartered flights between India and China, citing their strict control measures,” stated the notification.Another final-year MBBS student, Ishwari Chandran, studying in Zhejiang University at Hangzhou, China, returned to India last January for her winter break and has not been able to go back to finish her course since then. With only a semester and a year-long internship to go to get her degree, Chandran was also to graduate in July 2021. But the graduation of her batch of 25 students, seems to have been deferred indefinitely with foreign students yet to be permitted into the country. “I need to complete my 52-week internship. As I can’t return to China, our university has asked us to go ahead with our internship in any other country and submit proofs of completing it by March,” Chandran said. However, to pursue a medical internship in India, those studying abroad need to clear the Foreign Medical Graduates Examination (FMGE) held twice a year. “We missed the earlier round of exam held in the first week of December. The next round will be in June. What do we do till then?” said Chandran, who has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking relaxation in the FMGE rule for internships. Meanwhile, the Indian Embassy notification also stated that with the Chinese authorities repeatedly saying that the restrictions are unlikely to be relaxed in the coming months, students should continue education through online mode. “While the embassy is aware of the difficulty of undertaking courses in medicine in online format, students are advised to take note of the restrictions in place and make appropriate arrangements for continuing their education.”Neha S (name changed), a third-year MBBS student at Jianghan University, Wuhan, said, “We’ve studied two semesters online. Now we’ve been told another semester will be online. Medical students learn more from practical experience rather than theory. Other countries have started taking back foreign students but China hasn’t.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mbbs-students-enrolled-in-chinese-universities-fear-losing-year-101610655093864.html
15-01-2021||Other||Active Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra surge to 52,558||Maharashtra reported 3,579 Covid-19 cases on Thursday, following which its tally surged to 1,981,623. The toll has surged to 50,291 after the state reported 70 new Covid-19 fatalities. Of the 70 deaths, 44 occurred in the previous 48 hours, 11 were from last week. The remaining 15 deaths are from the period before last week. The case fatality rate in the state is at 2.54%. The state reported 3,309 recoveries on Thursday, taking the total number of recovered patients to 1,877,588 and the recovery rate to 94.75%. The active caseload in the state also rose marginally on Thursday from 52,365 to 52,558. The number of active cases had slipped below 50,000 on January 4, but later rose to 54,179 on January 10. Health department officials have attributed the surge in the active cases to delayed accounting of recoveries, as the daily cases have not shown any significant jump. In the past 24 hours, 61,104 samples were tested, after which the number of total tests rose to 13,623,298. The positivity rate stands at 14.55%.Meanwhile, Mumbai reported 607 new cases on Thursday, taking its Covid-19 tally of 301,081. Nine deaths pushed the toll to 11,221, even as the active caseload stood at 7,334.Pune district tops the list with the most number of active cases at 15,601, followed by Thane district, which has five municipal corporations and a district portion, with 9,910 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/active-covid-19-cases-in-maharashtra-surge-to-52558-101610654913392.html
15-01-2021||Other||Half of Mumbai’s population to be vaccinated in a year?||If the supply of the Covid-19 vaccine doses is adequate and timely, the civic body would be able to immunise around half of Mumbai’s 12.3 million population in a year, officials have stated. According to civic officials, the nine designated vaccine centres of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), with capacity to vaccinate 14,000-15,000 people each day or about 100,000 a week, would be able to vaccinate a little over five million citizens against Covid-19 in the next one year. Civic officials said the number of beneficiaries is expected to rise in the coming months once the vaccination for the general public starts, as the civic body will increase its capacity with additional supply of doses. BMC’s executive health officer Dr Mangala Gomare said, “The nine centres with a total of 72 booths have a capacity to vaccinate at least 14,000 people a day. Once the drive is launched, it will continue every day until the beneficiaries shortlisted for phase-1 are vaccinated. We’ve not received information on when phase-2 will start.”The nine centres are four major hospitals (King Edward Memorial Hospital, BYL Nair Hospital, Cooper hospital and Sion hospital), four peripheral hospitals (Bhabha Hospital in Bandra, VN Desai Hospital in Santacruz, Rajawadi Hospital in Ghatkopar and Bharat Ratna Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Hospital in Kandivli) and the Covid facility at Bandra-Kurla Complex.BMC plans to kick off its phase-1 of vaccinating 130,000 healthcare workers from Saturday at these nine centres. A dry run for the phase-1 of the immunisation process is expected to be undertaken on Friday.However, top civic officials are cautious about setting any deadlines. Additional civic commissioner Suresh Kakani said, “I can’t give a timeline as to when the entire city will be vaccinated or by when the general public will get the vaccine. It depends on factors such as availability of vaccine doses and also if private institutions are given permission for the immunisation. Without this information, it will be futile to decide on a timeline.”According to officials, citizens above 50 and those with comorbidities, who constitutes around 30% of the total 12.4 million citizens can be vaccinated in about four months, if the supply of the doses is adequate. “After this, we can start vaccinating those between 18 and 50 years. If we consider only BMC’s capability, a significant number of the population can be vaccinated in the next one year,” Kakani said, adding that there is no decision if the vaccine will be free.Meanwhile, Dr Madhav Sathe, former professor of microbiology at Nair Hospital, said the entire city can be vaccinated even in six months if private and government infrastructure are completely utilised. “We should wait for the results of the vaccines that will be administered to healthcare and frontline workers. Once they are out, I am sure it will boost citizens’ confidence,” he said. Dr Sathe added that the real challenge for India will be if the vaccine provides immunity against Covid-19 for less than a year. “This might create a new challenge of frequent vaccination. But I feel the vaccines will provide immunity for one-two years,” he added.Dr Om Shrivastav, who is part of the state’s Covid-19 task force, said, “Looking at the current pace of things, I think vaccines will be made available to general public soon. BMC can maintain a steady pace for the process by roping in private hospitals, in case they get permission from the state to do so.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/half-of-mumbai-s-population-to-be-vaccinated-in-a-year-101610654560952.html
15-01-2021||Other||Ludhiana MC opens utensil bank as alternative to single-use plastic||Residents will be now be able to borrow steel utensils while hosting large gatherings such as weddings, religious processions and langars free of cost as the civic body has setup a utensil bank to check the use of single-use plastic and thermocol cutlery, which is banned. To borrow the utensils residents must approach the municipal corporation through the area councillor. The utensils, once washed, can be returned to the MC facility in two days. The facility has been opened at the Zone C office of the municipal corporation and initially around 500 plates, glasses and spoons have been stocked. Swachh Bharat Mission state project director Puran Singh says, “Large quantities of single-use plastic and thermocol disposable waste is generated during social events. As the use of single-use plastic and thermocol has been banned by the Union and state governments, this initiative has been taken to provide an alternative to residents. The use of disposable cutlery results in littering and pollution, which defeats the Swachh Bharat Mission.” Not only is the use of single-use plastic bad for the environment but it also chokes the sewer lines. The MC is planning to initiate an extensive drive against banned products and an awareness drive to sensitise the people. Officials said if the facility at Zone C received a good response, more such facilities will be opened in other parts of the city. The MC will also approach corporate houses so that utensils can be purchased under the Corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiatives.MC sanitary inspector Jasbir Singh said, “The facility was opened in the last week of December. The utensils were used during a prayer ceremony organised by the MC to mark new year celebrations at the Zone D office on January 1. However, the initiative has so far garnered a tepid response from residents due to lack of awareness. The utensils are being provided free of cost on the recommendation of councillors or MLAs.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-mc-opens-utensil-bank-as-alternative-to-single-use-plastic-101610654074139.html
15-01-2021||Other||Ludhiana school suicide: 2 days on, DEO instructs all teachers to check classes before leaving||Two days after a 17-year-old girl was found hanging in the biology lab of her school in Gill village, the district education officer (DEO), elementary, Rajinder Kaur, has asked all school heads to take corrective measures to avoid such incidents in the future.The girl had stayed back in the school after classes on Monday, and her body was discovered by her schoolmates the next morning when they entered the lab.In a two-minute voice note sent to all school principals, headmasters, headmistresses and incharges of government schools, the DEO said that teachers taking the last period are to ensure that all students have left the room after class. The teachers can leave for the day only after thoroughly checking the classrooms. The guards or other school staff responsible for locking the rooms, including laboratories, should also make sure that no student is left behind after school. Further, it will be the responsibility of the teachers to open the classrooms in the morning and they can let the students in only after ensuring that the classrooms have been properly cleaned. “All school heads and teachers have made extra efforts to increase enrollment in our schools. And now it is our responsibility to take care of the children coming to study here,” said the DEO. She added that incidents such as the one that took place in the Gill village school can be avoided if school authorities and teachers are vigilant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-school-suicide-2-days-on-deo-instructs-all-teachers-to-check-classes-before-leaving-101610654013838.html
15-01-2021||Other||Mumbai Metro to extend services from Monday||Mumbai Metro One Pvt Ltd (MMOPL) will extend its Metro-1 (Versova-Ghatkopar) services from Monday (January 18). While the number of trains will be increased from 200 to 230, entry will also be eased for commuters as gates at both ends of the stations at Saki Naka, Marol Naka, Chakala and Western Express Highway (WEH) will be opened.The first train will leave Versova at 7.50am, while that from Ghatkopar is scheduled for 8.15am. The last train from Ghatkopar will leave at 10.15pm, while the last service from Versova will be at 9.50pm. After the lockdown restrictions were lifted, Metro-1 services resumed in October and trains were operated between 8.30am and 8.30pm. The timings were extended in December to 7.50am from Versova and 8.15am from Ghatkopar. The last trains were scheduled at 9.15 pm from Ghatkopar and 8.50pm from Versova. Officials from MMOPL had earlier said that the services would be increased based on the number of commuters. Currently, the daily ridership on Metro-1 is around 70,000. In March, before the Covid-19 pandemic hit the city, close to 4.5 lakh commuters travelled by Metro-1 on weekdays. Sources said unless the suburban railway services resume for all, the Metro ridership will remain low. Bicycles at more Metro stations from Saturday Mumbai Metro-1 authorities will extend bicycle services to Versova Metro station from Saturday. The services were started at Jagruti Nagar Metro station last year. Sources said that the facility will be extended to more stations in the coming weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbai-metro-to-extend-services-from-monday-101610653953878.html
15-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra cabinet committee gives a go-ahead to Mumbai’s Versova-Virar sea link||In a significant development, cabinet committee on the infrastructure of Maharashtra government on Thursday gave a go-ahead to the 43-km extension to the Versova-Bandra sea link till Virar. On Thursday, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray also directed the officials to submit a proposal on the Pune-Nashik semi high-speed rail corridor to the state cabinet. The decision of the committee came following a meeting held by Thackeray, on Tuesday with officials from the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) to review the Versova-Virar project that is expected to cost around ₹32,000 crore. The project will offer faster connectivity to Vasai-Virar regions and areas up to Dahanu and spur the growth of this area. According to a government official, who was part of the sub-committee meeting held on Thursday, the state road corporation will now go-ahead with the appointment of a consultant to prepare a detailed project report (DPR) on it. “A pre-feasibility report was undertaken for the project, which was also presented to the chief minister on Tuesday. Now, we will undertake the DPR,” the official said. According to the pre-feasibility report, which HT had highlighted earlier, the sea-link will be built with connectors at Charkop, Uttan, Vasai and Virar. The 4+4 lane main bridge will connect Versova to Virar with 3+3 lane connectors at these four locations. With the coastal road, the Bandra-Worli sea link, Bandra-Versova sea link and the Virar extension, the state is looking at reducing the travel distance from Nariman Point in south Mumbai to Virar (almost 30 km from Borivili) from the current three hours to one hour by car. The report also estimates 76,762 PCUs (passenger car unit) by 2026 on this extension. There are toll plazas proposed at every interchange. A one-way toll from Versova to Vasai at the time of commercial operations (2026) is estimated to be ₹814 for a car and ₹1,669 for a bus. In a meeting with officials from the Maharashtra Rail Infrastructure Development Corporation (MRIDC) on Thursday, chief minister Thackeray also directed authorities to present the proposal for a semi high-speed rail corridor between Pune and Nashik before the cabinet. The corridor is expected to cut the travel time between the two most important cities of the state from six to seven hours currently to two hours. The corridor is further expected to boost agriculture, tourism and industries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cabinet-committee-gives-a-go-ahead-to-mumbai-s-versova-virar-sea-link-101610653473585.html
15-01-2021||Chandigarh||State-of-the-art co-working space coming up at Chandigarh IT Park||To give impetus to startup ecosystem in the region, Society for Promotion of IT in Chandigarh (SPIC) in collaboration with the UT administration is setting up a state-of-the-art co-working space with 100 seats at IT Park here.The co-working space will comprise all the amenities, which are being offered in the private market. The set up will also be more cost-effective for businesses and will help to create a community of innovators, a UT official said.The space would cater to students and young entrepreneurs who have a workable idea that needs hatching and also for startups that do not have much capital to invest in a private office.With convenient hot desks instead of cubicles, the co-working space, which is coming up on roughly 5000-sq ft area on the third floor of the EDC building at IT Park, will be much more than a standard office, the official added.This space will have glass-walled private offices and write-on-the-wall conference rooms, separate video-conference room, with plenty of space for collaboration when teams get together.A high-quality interactive web portal will be created along with a list of mentors so that startups can then identify them, interact with them and gain guidance. The portal will also have a database of subject matter specialists, researchers, faculty, and venture capitalists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/stateoftheart-co-working-space-coming-up-at-chandigarh-it-park-101610653413586.html
15-01-2021||Other||GMADA extends Eco City-2 scheme till January 29||Keeping in view the demand of general public, Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) has extended the scheme for allotment of 289 residential plots at Eco City-2, New Chandigarh, till January 29. Originally, the scheme was scheduled to end on January 14.Sharing details, an official spokesperson of GMADA said the allotment price of the plots has been fixed at ₹25,000 per square yards (sq yd). The plots being offered have areas of 200 sq yd, 300 sq yd, 400 sq yd, 450 sq yd, 500 sq yd, 1,000 sq yd and 2000 sq yd.The scheme brochure can be purchased at a cost of ₹100 from the single-window service counter, PUDA Bhawan, Sector 62, SAS Nagar, or from branches of various banks (Kotak Mahindra Bank, AXIS Bank, IndusInd Bank, ICICI Bank, IDBI Bank, State Bank of India, AU Small Finance Bank, Bank of Baroda, Yes Bank and HDFC Bank) associated with the scheme. Applicants can also register on gmada.gov.in and payment can be made online in such cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gmada-extends-eco-city-2-scheme-till-january-29-101610653355655.html
15-01-2021||Other||Cow shelter inaugurated in Panchkula’s Sukhdarshanpur village||Proposed in 2018, the cow shelter in Sukhdarshanpur village was finally inaugurated on Thursday by Bharatiya Janata Party leaders here. However, with the dog pound yet to be ready, the promise of making the city free from the menace of stray animals remains incomplete.Even repeated instructions by Haryana Vidhan Sabha speaker and Panchkula MLA Gian Chand Gupta failed to expedite the process and the contractors continued to miss deadlines.The inauguration was done by Union minister Ratanlal Kataria while Gian Chand Gupta, newly elected mayor Kulbhushan Goyal, chairman of Madhav Gaushala Trust Kailash Mittal and others were present.Kataria promised a donation of ₹31 lakh for the maintenance of the cow shelter. “Gupta had promised in the party manifesto that the city residents will get respite from the problem of stray cattle and stray dogs. Finally, he has fulfilled his promise by inaugurating this cow shelter.”This shelter will be taken care of by Madhav Gaushala Trust.City mayor said, “It is our misfortune that cows have to stray on roads. Finally, the cow shelter has been readied. As in Punjab the government gives financial aid for the maintenance of cow shelters, similar request has been made to the assembly speaker.”He said that one would need ₹2-3 crore for the maintenance of the shelter. It was also announced that a gas plant and solar system will be installed at this plant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cow-shelter-inaugurated-in-panchkula-s-sukhdarshanpur-village-101610653354506.html
15-01-2021||Other||Ambala MP, MLA absent from oath ceremony of mayor, councillors||As the newly-elected mayor Shakti Rani Sharma and 20 councillors of the Ambala municipal corporation (MC) took oaths, local MP Rattan Lal Kataria and city MLA Aseem Goel remained absent from the ceremony at the auditorium of DAV Police Public School on Thursday.The tenure of the new MC House has started with bitterness as the senior BJP leaders didn’t share the stage with Haryana Janchetna Party (HJP)’s Shakti Rani and her husband Venod Sharma, despite them being the members of the House (without voting rights).Deputy commissioner Ashok Kumar Sharma confirmed that both the leaders were invited for the ceremony. Kataria wasn’t available for a comment, but his nephew Pulkit said over the phone, “He had many events scheduled, but he has been unwell for the last few days”. MLA Goel refused to comment.Mayor Sharma said, “There must be a reason behind their absence. It is not necessary for everyone to be present everywhere.”Meanwhile, 14 out of 20 councillors read their oaths in Hindi, five in English and one in Punjabi, administered by divisional commissioner Deepti Umashankar. Mayor Sharma took oath in English language.By the evening, senior Congress leader and newly elected councillor from ward number 5, Rajesh Mehta, joined HJP in the presence of party chief Venod Sharma at his residence. With this, the party has managed to bring its number equal to the BJP with eight members each, followed by Haryana Democratic Front and Congress with two each.Q&A with mayor Shakti Rani SharmaWhat will be your top priorities?The first thing we do when we reach our home is to clean the place. There is no mess, as most of you say, but we’ll try to work in a proper way and improve the system.How will you tackle the menace of corruption, as promised by your party during campaigning?Let us first get into the system and understand what needs to be done. How will you manage to bring funds for the MC? Will you introduce any new tax?Frankly speaking, I’ve to first understand the working of the corporation. I’ll seek advice from commissioner Parth Gupta and take the task forward.What about the appointment of senior deputy and deputy mayor?There is no notification on this yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ambala-mp-mla-absent-from-oath-ceremony-of-mayor-councillors-101610653354014.html
15-01-2021||Chandigarh||Prices of mutton, fish rise as people turn away from chicken in Chandigarh and around||As the demand for broilers has plunged and there is hardly any sale despite the prices going below ₹150 per kilogram, fish prices have increased by 21% and mutton’s by 27% owing to increased demand.Speaking about this, the president of the Sector-21 Meat Market Association, Ashish Kumar, said, “People think of mutton and fish as a safer option, due to which their prices have been rising steadily over the past week.”Kumar said that fish was priced at ₹330 per kg in the beginning and the price had now gone up to ₹400 per kg. Mutton went from ₹550 per kg to ₹700 per kg now. Kumar, however, added that the rise in prices would have happened regardless of the avian flu outbreak as people preferred to eat mutton and fish during peak winter season.Meanwhile, the price of broilers that had crossed ₹200 per kg around the start of the month is now between ₹140- ₹150 per kg, and sales continue to remain below half at the meat market in Sector 21.Prices up in Mohali, Panchkula as wellAs per Ricky, the owner of RS Chicken in Phase 5, Mohali, the sale of chicken in Mohali hasn’t been affected as much as in Chandigarh, however, the prices are dropping there as well. “We have had a 25% drop in the sale of chicken, but people prefer to buy mutton even here.“The price of mutton starts at ₹700 per kg here and some premium cuts can go for as high as ₹800-900 per kg.” He added that mutton curry cut had become the most-sold item in his shop.In Panchkula, people were preferring fish, as per proprietor of Bedi Chicken in Sector 2, Panchkula, Harsimran Bedi, who said, “People prefer boneless cuts of cold-water fish like Basa, which sells for ₹200 per 250 gram. The cheaper cuts of fish with bones don’t do that well.”Cooked chicken, eggs safe to consumeSaying that it was unfortunate that people weren’t buying eggs and chicken and the shopkeepers were suffering because of this, joint director of the UT animal husbandry and fisheries department, Dr Kanwarjit Singh, said, “It is safe to consume both chicken and eggs if they have been cooked over 70 degrees Celsius. Boiling them is the safest option. The strain of avian flu identified in Panchkula doesn’t spread easily and people can safely consume chicken or meat products that have been cooked properly,” he said, adding that grilled chicken may be avoided, but gravy dishes were okay to eat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/prices-of-mutton-fish-rise-as-people-turn-away-from-chicken-in-chandigarh-and-around-101610653293700.html
15-01-2021||Mumbai||Register FIR against NCP leader Dhananjay Munde, seeks petition||A right to information (RTI) activist has moved the Bombay high court seeking registration of first information report (FIR) against the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and social justice minister Dhananjay Munde for cheating the electoral process. The petition has claimed that as Munde did not disclose details of his two children in form 26 of his election affidavit, hence an FIR should be registered against him under section 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code. The petition is expected to come up for hearing in due course.The petition filed by Hemant Patil, a resident of Pune, who is also an RTI activist has stated that Munde, in his affidavit filed before the election commission for the 2019 general assembly election, had mentioned that he had only two daughters. The petition states that Munde has admitted on a social media site that apart from his wife and two daughters, he has a relationship with another lady since 2003 and had two children - a daughter and son from her. This fact, the petition states, had not been disclosed by Munde in his election affidavit.The petition states that Munde intentionally did not disclose the facts about this, and thus committed an offence under section 420 of the Indian Penal Code and various provisions of the Representation of People Act, 1951. Patil has claimed that after the fraud came to light, he had tried to lodge a complaint with the concerned police station at Parali and the superintendent of police at Beed, but they refused to take cognisance. Patil has averred that even the Directorate General of Police and the Chief Election Commissioner also failed to take appropriate action against Munde and hence the petition.The petition has prayed for directions to the concerned authorities to register an FIR against Munde for concealing and furnishing false information in form 26 of the election affidavit thus committing an electoral offence. The petition has also sought inquiry and investigation into his complaints. The petition is expected to come up for hearing in due course.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/register-fir-against-ncp-leader-dhananjay-munde-seeks-petition-101610653053312.html
15-01-2021||Mumbai||Nawab Malik’s son-in-law sent to NCB custody till January 18||The metropolitan magistrate court on Thursday remanded Sameer Khan, son-in-law of minority affairs and skill development minister Nawab Malik to Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) custody till January 18.Khan was arrested by NCB on Wednesday in connection with a drug case. Khan’s name cropped up in connection with the seizure of 200 kilograms of marijuana after the agency arrested British national Karan Sejnani from Khar and two sisters Rahila and Shaista Furniturewala from Bandra, on January 9.After the arrest, Khan was produced before the magistrate court where the special public prosecutor Atul Sarpande sought his custody for further investigation.Sarpande contended that during questioning of Sejnani, they came across several chat messages and exchange of money.The prosecution pointed out that Sejnani was developing a product that included tobacco, marijuana and CBD spray in it. “We have evidence to show that Khan was an investor in the business. We have recovered money trail to the tune of ₹7 lakhs exchanged between the two. They were in the process of making an agreement for their business,” Sarpande contended.The prosecution further contended that Sejnani has admitted this and claimed that they were making a herbal product.The allegations were denied by Khan’s lawyer Taraq Sayyed saying Khan was not aware of any of Sejnani’s activities. “The money was given to Sejnani as a loan, which he had returned. The WhatsApp chat messages were for the supply of cigarettes during the lockdown.”After hearing both the sides, the court remanded Khan to NCB custody till January 18. The court has also extended custody of other accused till January 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nawab-malik-s-son-in-law-sent-to-ncb-custody-till-january-18-101610652634557.html
15-01-2021||Mumbai||IIT-Bombay’s firm bags deal to supply drones for Indian Army||A start-up founded and incubated by the alumni of Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B), has signed a deal to build and supply advanced tactical drones worth ₹130 crore to the Indian Army. This is the biggest such order in terms of the contract value, for any Indian equipment manufacturer for drones.ideaForge, which beat top Israeli and Indian drone manufacturers to get the coveted contract, will be providing an undisclosed number of drones that can operate at higher altitudes, to the armed forces, the company announced on Thursday in a statement. A high-altitude variant of the company’s Switch UAV (unmanned aerial vehicle) will be delivered over a period of a year, the statement read. “An inspiring story of a start-up turning into an enterprise and creating world-class innovations and products. A real trail blazer,” Sanjay Jaju, joint secretary to Government of India at the department of defence production, tweeted. ideaForge was incubated in 2007 at the Society for Innovation and Entrepreneurship (SINE) at IIT-B by four alumni members—Ankit Mehta, Rahul Singh, Ashish Bhat and Vipul Joshi. While initially, they built hand-cranked chargers, the enterprise soon shifted gears to building a hovercraft and eventually entered the drone manufacturing market. The company is a licensed manufacturer of UAVs approved by the Ministry of Defence.Based in Mumbai, currently, the company offers seven UAVs that are used in a range of applications including mapping, traffic management, surveillance, crowd management and security. Some of these drones are already in use by the armed forces. The Switch UAV is a fixed-wing vertical take-off and landing UAV that can be deployed at high altitude and harsh environments for day and night surveillance in Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR) missions. It is man-portable and has the highest time on target compared to any other UAV in its class, said chief executive officer (CEO) Mehta, a dual degree holder in computer-aided design and automation from the 2005 batch of IIT-B. “The Switch UAV is a culmination of insights and knowledge we have gained over years of experience in helping the Indian Forces operationalise UAVs in their ranks. The trials saw about a dozen national and global players compete to meet the operational requirements. Switch UAV is the only product that cleared the Indian Army’s stringent product trials and surpassed expectations. It is a testimony of the fact that our systems are built like a bird and tested like a tank. Our systems are fully ready to serve nations that seek to protect their territorial sovereignty,” said Mehta hinting at the company’s plan for exporting the drones. “This is a classic example of how government-funded start-ups can help the country grow. We at SINE provided a seed fund to ideaForge from the grants we received from the government. It is now prudent that the government itself is reaping the benefits,” said Poyni Bhatt, chief executive officer, SINE.BOXThe Army has placed an order for the advanced high-altitude version of SWITCH UAV, a vertical take-off and landing drone. It is a fixed-wing hybrid Unmanned Aerial Vehicle. It’s features include:Advanced flight time with a range of 15 kmAround 2.6m long and 1.8m wide and weighs less than 6.5 kgHigher safety and simple operation with additional fail-safe redundanciesUsed for long-duration operations harsh environments for day and night surveillance in Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR) missions||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/iitbombays-firm-bags-deal-to-supply-drones-for-indian-army-101610652453456.html
15-01-2021||Chandigarh||Senate polls: HC fines Panjab University ₹50,000 for delay in response to ex-senators’ plea||The Punjab and Haryana high court has imposed a penalty of ₹50,000 on Panjab University for failing to file its reply to a petition challenging deferral of the senate elections. “One last and final opportunity is granted subject to payment of costs of ₹50,000, and will be a pre-condition,” read the order issued by justice Fateh Deep Singh on Wednesday, while deferring the matter to January 15. The court directions came on the petition by seven former Panjab University (PU) senators, seeking directions for continuation of the present varsity governing bodies, including the senate and syndicate, till their elections were held. The former senators had moved court on December 22 last year, seeking its urgent intervention, stating that in the absence of the senate and syndicate, there will be no administrative body left for decision-making and the varsity administration will “collapse”. The term of the senate, the apex governing body of PU, ended on October 31, and the syndicate’s term got over on December 31. But, the varsity deferred the senate elections twice in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Members of the syndicate, which is the varsity’s executive body, are elected from among the senators.In their December-22 plea, the petitioners had demanded holding of senate polls and quashing of the varsity vice-chancellor’s orders deferring the elections indefinitely. They had alleged that the political party at the Centre and people affiliated with it were deliberately delaying the polls. It was also demanded to examine whether the V-C could defer the elections of the senate without approval of the syndicate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/senate-polls-hc-fines-panjab-university-50-000-for-delay-in-response-to-ex-senators-plea-101610652333389.html
15-01-2021||Chandigarh||Senate elections: Vice-President’s office asks Panjab University for further course of action||The office of the Vice-President, who is the chancellor of Panjab University, has sought a proposal from the varsity on its further course of action with regards to senate elections.The proposal was sought in a letter addressed to PU vice-chancellor Raj Kumar on December 31. It came after the higher education department of the Union ministry of education asked the Vice-President’s secretariat to take up the matter with PU on conducting the senate elections or granting extension to the senate and syndicate.The term of the senate, the apex governing body of PU, ended on October 31 last year. But, the varsity deferred the senate elections twice in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The term of the syndicate, PU’s executive body, also ended in December 31. Its members are elected from among the senators. Hence, the university is now functioning without a governing body.PU wrote to UGC in NovemberIn November, the varsity had written to the University Grants Commission (UGC), with a copy to the Union ministry of education and secretary to the Vice-President, seeking a plan on the implementation of the National Education Policy (NEP-2020).As no fresh elections to the PU senate have been held so far, the former senators were apprehensive that the governing structure of the university may change due to the NEP-2020, which has recommended that a Board of Governors (BoG) be appointed as the governing body in higher educational institutions. Vice-President’s office had forwarded PU’s letter to the ministry of education for their advice.Responding on the matter on December 29, the ministry’s department of higher education stated that PU was an inter-state body corporate under Section 72 of the Punjab Reorganisation Act, and governed as per provisions of the PU Act, 1947.UGC has already informed the varsity that it may initiate governance reforms in accordance with provisions of the PU Act. However, these cannot be implemented without the approval of senate.“In view of the above, the matter may be taken up with PU to decide, in light of ground situation, further course of action for conducting the elections or granting extension to the senate/syndicate,” the ministry’s letter stated.Series of demands for immediate pollsEver since the PU senate elections were postponed – first in August and later in October last year – there have been a series of protests on the campus demanding immediate polls.Besides syndicate members, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Sukhbir Singh Badal have also written to the Vice-President Venkaiah Naidu asking him to direct the varsity to immediately conduct the senate polls.PU registrar Vikram Nayyar was not available for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/senate-elections-vice-president-s-office-asks-panjab-university-for-further-course-of-action-101610652213437.html
15-01-2021||Mumbai||Sharad Pawar questions composition of SC appointed committee on farm laws||The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar has questioned the composition of the committee appointed by the Supreme Court to discuss contentious farm laws and give their recommendations. Pawar welcomed the intervention in the issue by the Apex court but said that the members of the committee have supported the three farm laws in the past, thus farmers do not trust the committee. He said that the committee should have been independent in a true sense.The Supreme Court (SC) has formed a four-member committee to discuss the legislation with both farmers and the government and make recommendations to the court on Tuesday. It comprises Dr Pramod Kumar Joshi (agricultural economist, director for South Asia, International Food Policy Research Institute), Ashok Gulati (agriculture economist and former chairman of the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices), Bhupinder Singh Mann (national president, Bhartiya Kisan Union and All India Kisan Coordination Committee), and Anil Ghanwat (president, Shetkari Sanghatana).“I welcome the intervention made by the SC and express discontent over the way the Centre handled the farmers’ agitation. But if you see the composition of the committee, all the members have supported the farm bills at different points of time, in some or other way. This is the reason farmers do not have faith in the committee and believe that nothing will come out of the discussions with it, and I share the same view,” Pawar told reporters outside YB Chavan in south Mumbai on Thursday.“It would have been better if the central government would have understood the seriousness of the issue. An independent means, in a true sense, the independent committee should have been appointed,” said the former agriculture minister.Regardless of severe cold wave in Delhi, the farmers along with their families are protesting at Delhi borders since the last 50 days. They want the farm laws to be repealed by the central government, he added.On January 12, the SC stayed the implementation of the three contentious farm laws that have brought tens of thousands of protesting farmers to Delhi’s doorstep and constituted a four-member committee.But the farm unions are unimpressed and have insisted that the protest would continue. They have pointed out that all members of the court-appointed committee had previously indicated their support for the controversial laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sharad-pawar-questions-composition-of-sc-appointed-committee-on-farm-laws-101610651973477.html
15-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Students’ claims on fees are objectionable, says TISS||Less than a week after a group of students from the Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS) demanded the institute for a discount in fees for the upcoming semester, TISS management shared a detailed statement discrediting claims of students that the institute was ‘making profit’ by charging full fees from their students. Last week, a group of students from the institute released a statement against the institute’s decision of charging full fees from all, for the upcoming semester. Students said many institutes have considered the non-usage of several facilities on campus for the last eleven months of the lockdown and have reduced the fees for the upcoming semester, while TISS administration was still charging the full fees. “Statements by some student groups alleging that the institute is “profiteering from distress” and “privatising education” are highly objectionable and unacceptable,” said the statement released by TISS. It further added that not only has the institute reduced fees across courses, it has also not charged fine on delay in fee payment. “Fee is not charged for on-campus experience, but for imparting education. The online education is not on a free virtual platform, but the institute is paying for the software,” added the statement. The institute also highlighted how at present, only 45% students of the second semester batch and 27% students of the fourth semester have paid the fees. In a statement shared with media last week, the TISS Progressive Students Front had highlighted that since the classes have been conducted online for almost past eleven months, fees should be reduced accordingly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-students-claims-on-fees-are-objectionable-says-tiss-101610651740092.html
15-01-2021||Other||Vasai lawyer, teen held for hitting jogger with car, dumping him near ashramshala||A Mira Road-based lawyer, Birendra Mishra and his colleague, Varsha Mishra, 18, have been arrested by Waliv police for allegedly attempting to murder a jogger on Sunday morning.“Varsha was learning to drive with Mishra near Madhuvan, Vasai (East) when the car hit Indresh Yadav, 24, a resident of Vijay Residency, Fatherwadi, who was jogging at that time. Due to the impact, Yadav fell unconscious, and thinking he was dead, the duo accused picked him up and drove to Sasunavghar on the Vasai highway where they dumped him near an ashramshala and fled,” said Vilas Chowgule, senior inspector, Waliv police station.“An eyewitness saw the duo dumping Yadav and informed us. The victim was rescued and admitted to Orbit Hospital, Kashimira, with head and spinal injuries. After going through CCTV footage of the area, we identified the car and arrested both the accused under section 307(attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). They were produced before the Vasai court on Wednesday and remanded in police custody for five days,” said Chowgule.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vasai-lawyer-teen-held-for-hitting-jogger-with-car-dumping-him-near-ashramshala-101610651733241.html
15-01-2021||Other||Psychiatrist trained in Mumbai elected dean of UK college||Subodh Dave, who gained primary medical qualifications from the University of Bombay in 1992 (University of Mumbai since 1996) and moved to the United Kingdom (UK) for further psychiatric training, has been elected dean of the Royal College of Psychiatrists for a five-year term.The college, with a history of nearly two centuries, is the professional body responsible for supporting psychiatrists throughout their careers from training through retirement and in setting and raising standards of psychiatry in the UK.“The college is pleased to announce that the next college dean will be Professor Subodh Dave who received 43% of the votes in the first round, finishing with 57% of the votes in the third round (after votes had been re-cast),” the college said in a statement.There were four candidates for the dean’s election including Dave and Nandini Chakraborty of the University of Leicester.Dave, who promised to use his experience to develop a world-class training programme integrating neurosciences and social psychiatry, said that growing up in a working-class Mumbai neighbourhood provided early lessons in social adversity but also in the power of community.He, in a campaign statement, said: “On moving to the UK for further psychiatric training; deprivation and its impact on people’s mental and physical health struck me afresh, consolidating my values of social justice, equity and a humane, person-centred approach in psychiatric practice and training.”“My molecular genetics research background complements my understanding of the evidence of the role of social determinants, namely adverse childhood experiences, poverty and gender/race inequalities on physical and mental health outcomes,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/psychiatrist-trained-in-mumbai-elected-dean-of-uk-college-101610651433157.html
15-01-2021||Mumbai||Janhvi Kukreja murder: Accused had a violent streak, says Mumbai Police||The two accused arrested for killing 19-year-old Janhvi Kukreja at a party on New Year’s Eve have been remanded in judicial custody on Thursday. The accused, Shree Jogdhankar and Diya Padalkar, were earlier remanded in police custody for 13 days. The investigating officer of the murder case told the court that Jogdhankar had a previous criminal case against him for assaulting a pan shop owner a few years ago, which proves that he had a streak of violence. According to statements of Jogdhankar’s friends, he was short-tempered and got into fights often. “One of Jogdhankar’s friends said in his statement that he was not shocked when Jogdhankar came with cuts on his body as he got into fights earlier too,” said a police officer. Khar police had presented the post mortem report of Kukreja’s body stating that she had 48 wounds on her body including a skull fracture which led to her death. Officers suspect the railing on the staircase of the building was the weapon as the couple allegedly banged Kukreja’s head against it. The police have found blood stains on the railing. However, the forensic report is yet to confirm whether the blood was Kukreja’s. The post mortem report further stated that Kukreja had injuries on her legs caused by dragging, and injures on her hip due to fisticuffs. Advocate Trivankumar Karnani, for Kukreja’s parents, urged the court, “Maximum opportunity may be given to the police to complete custodial interrogation and we must not incapacitate them.” “Accused no 1 Shree Jogdhankar will be sent to Taloja jail and accused no 2 Diya Padalkar has been sent to Byculla jail,” added Karnani. Police sources also said that Yash Abuja, who had organised the party, had bought drugs from a supplier in Bandra for the party. The supplier was arrested by Khar police in a separate case with 150 grams of MD. “We are now waiting for medical reports of party attendees to confirm the consumption of drugs as we did not find any at the party or the murder spot,” added the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/janhvi-kukreja-murder-accused-had-a-violent-streak-says-mumbai-police-101610651253794.html
15-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Owner of popular tea brand targeted by sextortion gang on dating app||Marine Drive police registered a case based on the complaint of the owner of a popular tea brand who was trapped by the fraudsters on a dating app. The fraudsters had first recorded a nude video of the complainant and then uploaded the same on social media to extort money from him.The complainant is a 21-year-old resident of Marine Drive who looks after the tea brand segment of a company owned by his family.According to the police, earlier this year when the complainant was browsing through a dating app, he came in contact with a 25-year-old woman who identified herself as Riddhi Srivastava and the two started chatting. After a while, she asked the complainant for his mobile number.“On January 11, the complainant received a video call from the girl. During the conversation the woman tricked him to get naked. After some time, the complainant received a call from a person who threatened the complainant saying they have recorded his nudes and demanded money for not publishing the video on social media platforms,” said an officer from Marine Drive police station.The complainant then realised that he had been cheated by cyber fraudsters and discovered that Srivastava was actually a member of a sexortion gang, the officer added.As the complainant refused to pay the money, the accused uploaded the compromising photos on social media platforms in order to defame him. Following this, the complainant approached Marine Drive police.The police have registered a case under sections 384 (extortion) and 503 (threatening to defame) of the Indian Penal Code and other sections of the Information Technology Act. The police are in the process of obtaining details of the accused from the service provider.Recently, a superintendent rank officer of GST was also targeted in a similar manner. Both the cases are being investigated by Marine Drive police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-owner-of-popular-tea-brand-targeted-by-sextortion-gang-on-dating-app-101610651073252.html
15-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra government adds 1,388 ha of mangrove area in Thane as forest land||The Maharashtra government has notified around 1,388 hectare (ha) of mangrove area in Thane as forest land under section 4 of the Indian Forest Act (IFA), 1927. This has taken the state’s total reserved forest area tally to 16,700ha. In a gazette notification issued on Tuesday, the state revenue and forest department announced that 1,387.39ha of mangroves land across 14 villages in Thane has now been declared as deemed reserved forest area. “It’s positive news for the conservation of mangroves. This notified area is now deemed forest land. Following the legal process, revenue officials will visit these areas, and in time they will be notified as reserved forests,” said Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forests and an ex-officio executive director of the state mangrove foundation. The areas notified are from villages in Thane district and taluka.In another notification, the state has also notified 1,575.16ha of mangrove land along the Maharashtra coast that is likely to be handed over to the forest department for better conservation (under section 20 of IFA, 1927), almost 16 years after the Bombay high court (HC) directed the government to do so. These mangroves are in Raigad, Sindhudurg, Mumbai suburban and Thane districts. In 2005, in an interim order, the HC had said that all mangrove areas on government land were to be handed over to the forest department. The HC reiterated its order on September 18, 2018. However, while district bodies are yet to hand over 1,592.8ha, state agencies such as the Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT) have failed to transfer approximately 1,147ha falling under their jurisdiction to the forest department. In December last year, an environment group issued contempt notices to all Konkan district collectors, the Konkan divisional commissioner and JNPT for failing to hand over mangrove land under their jurisdiction, to the forest department. Last week, Vanashakti, an environmental NGO, filed a petition in the HC seeking immediate transfer of all mangrove lands to the forest department. Environmentalists, however, were upset that Uran was missing from the list of mangroves to be handed over to the forest department. “The list does not notify the mangroves of Uran and Navi Mumbai, where we have been highlighting the destruction of mangroves through illegal constructions,” said Stalin D, director of Vanashakti. “The reckless construction of roads straight on mangrove and marshy lands resulted in the highway developing huge cracks, which is a big lesson for the project proponents,” said BN Kumar, director, NGO NatConnect Foundation.Tiwari, however, said that discussions were on with government bodies such as Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA), Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (Mhada) and City and Industrial Development Corporation (Cidco) for transfer of ownership of mangrove areas to the forest department. “More such notifications are expected in the coming months,” said Tiwari.State environment minister Aaditya Thackeray, who held a meeting with the forest department on Thursday, tweeted: “I am happy to say that we have so far added 6,500 ha mangrove area to reserved forest land under section 20 of IFA, 1927, in less than a year. By June, we expect that it will increase to 10,000ha.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-adds-1-388-ha-of-mangrove-area-in-thane-as-forest-land-101610650954478.html
15-01-2021||Mumbai||Petrol price in Mumbai up to ₹91.32/l, diesel rises to record ₹81.60||Fuel prices in the city soared for the second consecutive day on Thursday, with the price of diesel at an all-time high. Price of one litre of petrol in the city was ₹91.32, and one litre of diesel was ₹81.60.The last hike in price, wherein diesel crossed ₹80 was in 2018 when it was priced at ₹80.10 a litre. On Wednesday, the fuel prices in the city crossed ₹90, with petrol costing ₹91.07 and diesel at ₹81.34 per litre.There has been an increase in fuel prices across metro cities in India after oil prices witnessed a rise throughout last week. Citizens have urged the Centre and Maharashtra government to reduce the fuel prices in the city. “Fuel prices have increased for the second day in a row this week. If the government does not do anything immediately, the price of petrol could cross ₹92 in Mumbai. The Central and state government should immediately take some action as the constant increase in fuel prices is difficult for residents financially as we are trying to recover from the pandemic,” said Ankita Sinha, an Andheri resident. In 2018, when fuel prices increased across cities in India, the Central government had reduced excise duty on petrol and diesel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/petrol-price-in-mumbai-up-to-91-32-l-diesel-rises-to-record-8160-101610650837578.html
15-01-2021||Mumbai||Cannot hear petitions challenging rejection of poll nomination forms: Bombay HC||Putting to rest questions on whether the high court (HC) was in a position to entertain petitions that challenge rejection of nomination forms by returning officers, a full bench of the Bombay HC has observed that it cannot do so in light of article 243-O (b) of the Constitution and cannot be considered in the scope of article 226 as well. The full bench comprising of chief justice Dipankar Datta, justice AS Gadkari and justice GS Kulkarni in their judgement have, however, held that allowing a challenge in a writ petition regarding rejection of nomination form to contest an election may not always amount to intervention, obstruction or protraction of the election. A division bench, while hearing petitions filed by disgruntled candidates whose nomination forms for Bhose grampanchayat elections in Solapur were rejected by the returning officer (RO), was informed that their nomination forms had been rejected arbitrarily and hence sought to set aside the same and to allow the candidates to contest the election or stay the elections till the petitions were decided. After hearing the petitions and on the objection to the maintainability of the petition by the state, the bench referred the petitions to a larger bench seeking clarity on whether such petitions could be heard by the HC. The questions before the larger bench were as follows: Whether a challenge in a writ petition to rejection of nomination form to contest an election and granting the relief claimed by setting aside such order of rejection would amount to intervention, obstruction or protraction of the election or is it a step to facilitate the process of completion of election? Second, whether rejection of nomination form would attract the provisions of article 243-O (b) of the Constitution of India? And third, which of the two previous orders of the court in similar cases represented the correct view in law? While the counsels for petitioners contended that courts could hear such petitions in the absence of proper redressal mechanism, the state held that as per the Constitution, the court could not hear the petitions as the redressal for the aggrieved candidates was in the form of election petition after the conclusion of elections. After hearing the submissions, the bench, however, held that such a petition could not be entertained in view of clearly applicable article 243-O (b) of the Constitution which provides that no election to any panchayat shall be called in question except by an election petition presented to such authority. The court also observed the lack of provision related to the appeal against rejection and said, “If indeed the issue is so serious that ROs are inefficient and incapable of discharging the solemn duty entrusted to them, it is for the state legislature to make appropriate provisions in the Maharashtra Village Panchayats (MVP) Act, 1958.” The full bench concluded its judgement stating that petitions against rejection of nomination papers prior to polls are not maintainable and the same ‘represents the correct view of law’. In light of this, the full bench directed the division bench to decide on the issue of the candidature of the petitioners in due course.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cannot-hear-petitions-challenging-rejection-of-poll-nomination-forms-bombay-hc-101610650653191.html
15-01-2021||Mumbai||Bird flu confirmed in Maharashtra districts of Beed and Nanded; state death toll soars to 3,378||Avian influenza, or bird flu, is spreading to more parts of Maharashtra. On Thursday, samples of poultry birds from Beed and Nanded districts tested positive for the virus. Pune’s Western Region Disease Diagnosis Laboratory (WRDDL) has confirmed the cause of the birds’ deaths in both districts to be the H5 strain of bird flu. The state laboratory also said crow samples from Nashik and Nanded districts had tested positive for bird flu.On Thursday, 382 bird deaths were reported from different districts in Maharashtra, pushing the count to 3,378 across the state. Of these, 331 are poultry birds (namely, chickens). This is in addition to nearly 15,000 poultry birds that were culled to contain the spread of avian influenza after cases of bird flu were confirmed in Parbhani and Latur districts. As of Wednesday, bird flu cases had been confirmed in Mumbai, Thane, Ratnagiri, Beed and Latur districts.“As soon as the samples confirmed bird flu, the district administration declared an alert zone within a 10-kilometre (km) periphery of the areas where mortalities of poultry birds and crows were reported in Beed, Nanded and Nashik districts,” said state animal husbandry commissioner Sachindra Pratap Singh.Of the 331 poultry bird deaths reported on Thursday, 110 are from Nagpur; 86 from Chandrapur; 50 from Satara; 47 from Latur; 25 from Gondia; 10 from Yavatmal; and three were reported in Raigad district. In addition, mortality has been observed in 44 other birds in Amravati, Solapur, Nashik, Yavatmal, Nandurbar, Pune and Jalgaon districts. Bird flu has led to mortalities in birds like herons, sparrows, parrots, crows and peacocks. Approximately eight peacocks died at Hinganghat in Wardha district, said officials.In Beed and Nanded, culling of birds will start only after receiving a confirmation from the ICAR-National Institute of High-Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD) in Bhopal, a nodal body for testing bird flu cases. Samples have already been sent to the national laboratory and results are awaited, Singh said.“The Centre has allowed implementing a containment plan in the respective districts if a report from the state laboratory comes positive for bird flu. However, it has restricted the administration from starting culling of poultry birds, saying it can be started only after receiving a confirmation report from ICAR-NIHSAD,” said Singh.Considering the seriousness of the situation, the state government on Wednesday empowered all district collectors to immediately implement containment plans if they suspect bird deaths are due to avian influenza.According to the containment plan prepared by the Centre, the local administration will cull poultry birds within a one-km radius of the particular poultry farm where bird deaths have been found due to avian influenza. A surveillance zone within a periphery of 10km will be created, which means no birds can be sold or purchase in this area. As a precaution, the particular village where the affected poultry farm is situated will be declared a prohibited area, which means no one can enter or come out of it, including local villagers. A medical team must be set up to examine locals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bird-flu-confirmed-in-maharashtra-districts-of-beed-and-nanded-state-death-toll-soars-to-3378-101610650533170.html
15-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Amid other leaders’ complaints, NCP won’t ask Munde to resign||State social justice minister and senior Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Dhananjay Munde may not have to quit from his post, amid allegations of rape by a woman. The NCP took the decision in a late-night meeting of core committee members as leaders from other parties alleged the same woman had tried to “honeytrap” them too, said insiders.Earlier in the day, NCP chief Sharad Pawar said the allegations against Munde were serious and the party will have to take a decision. However, he would discuss the issue with his senior colleagues before reaching a conclusion. Pawar’s statement was seen as an indication that the party leadership may ask Munde to tender his resignation. Munde said he was ready to accept any decision taken by the party. In a copy of a complaint uploaded on her Twitter handle, the woman mentioned that Munde made sexual advances towards her without her consent since 2006. “He (Munde) promised to get me launched as a singer in Bollywood,” the complaint states. Following the post, Munde issued a public clarification on his social media account and said that the woman and her sister, with whom he was in a relationship with, were blackmailing him since 2019. Her brother is also involved in the alleged conspiracy, he said. Pawar told reporters: “The allegations being made against Munde are serious. Being a political party, we will have to discuss it and take a decision considering everybody’s views. Munde has explained the matter in detail and it is my responsibility to convey it to the senior leaders and take the next step as soon as possible. I don’t think this should be delayed.”However, leaders from other parties, too, made similar complaints as Munde. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and former MLA Krishna Hegde accused the same woman of harassment for years and filed a complaint with the Amboli Police. “The woman used to call and say we are in a relationship, but I kept avoiding her. It started in 2010 and continued till 2015. I blocked her many times, but then she used to call me from another number. I didn’t know her intention, so I did some background check and found out things were not very right. But didn’t want to come out and say anything about a woman, as it also didn’t concern me because I never met her. But when this episode of Mr Munde came to the fore, I realised she is a serial offender. I felt this needs to be stopped and so registered an official police complaint,” Hegde said.The woman refuted the allegations on her Twitter handle. She said, “I was never involved in any honey trap activity as alleged. Infact Mr. Krishna Hegde started the conversation with me. He met me at the birthday party of Mr. Pratap SirNaik (MLA). The allegations made by Mr. Krishna Hedge is false, bogus and baseless.”Another leader Manish Dhuri from Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) also alleged the woman tried to honeytrap him by calling him to her flat in Andheri a few years ago. He felt that someone else was also present at the flat, and left her house. Dhuri also filed a complaint with the Amboli police. In view of the allegations, senior NCP leaders felt that asking Munde to step down without any investigation was not right. “There was a possibility that the same would be repeated with others as well,” said a senior minister, requesting anonymity.The meeting was held at Praful Patel’s residence in south Mumbai where state NCP chief Jayant Patil, Supriya Sule, Anil Deshmukh, Sunil Tatkare, Nawab Malik, Hasan Mushrif and Rajesh Tope were present. Later, Munde was also called to join the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-munde-may-have-to-step-down-ncp-chief-says-allegations-serious-101610649272985.html
15-01-2021||Other||Draped in PPE suits, farmers carry out fumigation drives at Singhu||Karanpreet Singh, 22, a resident of Chaklan village in Rupnagar district of Punjab, was scheduled to get married on January 1. Instead, the young farmer has been at Delhi’s Singhu border for the past 50 days and is among the protesters who haven’t returned to their homes even once. For over a fortnight now, Karanpreet has a new duty – carrying out fumigation drives at the protest spot.“What is the point of going back to our village if we lose our livelihood? We have postponed the wedding for now. We will not return till the three farm laws are repealed,” he said on Thursday while carrying a fogging machine across the protest spot stretching up to several kilometres. He is also a part of the security patrol team at Singhu protest site.Farmers from the Mianpur village in Rupnagar district of Punjab pooled in money to buy the fogging machine. Surinder Singh, 37, who has also been on the protest site since November 27, said, “We had operated similar machines in Punjab during Covid for sanitizing and fumigation purposes so we knew how to operate it. The villagers pooled in ₹31,000 to buy the machine and it has been here for two weeks now.”Surinder also said that they had decided to buy the machine after noticing the sanitation issues at the spot. “One of the major concerns that emerged during this agitation was maintaining sanitation and cleanliness. We have teams who engage in cleaning and sweeping of the roads. The fogging drive is carried out by the two of us,” he said. While the engine of the machine runs on petrol, the farmers mix diesel with the disinfectant to fumigate. The farmers insist that they have consulted with doctors in their village before taking upon the drive.Every day, the two farmers wear a PPE suit and carry the fogging machine along the seven-eight kilometre stretch on the Kundli highway twice a day. “To operate the machine for an hour, we need at least 90 litres of diesel along with the additional charges of disinfectant which brings the total cost to around ₹6,000 per day. Other villages from several districts of Punjab and Haryana came forward to help with these costs,” Surinder said.Chajju Ram, 65, a protesting farmer from Sisla village in Kaithal district of Haryana, said, “There are a lot of flies and mosquitoes around which caused discomfort and posed health risks. The fumigation has helped us.”Officials from North Delhi Municipal Corporation said in a statement that the Public Health Department is also carrying out fogging and fumigation at the protest spot at regular intervals to check the mosquito menace.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/draped-in-ppe-suits-farmers-carry-out-fumigation-drives-at-singhu-101610648192067.html
15-01-2021||Delhi||Nod for protest can’t be given as prohibitory orders in place, police inform HC||The Delhi Police told the Delhi high court that AAP MLAs Raghav Chadha and Atishi Marlena cannot be granted permission to protest outside the residences of home minister Amit Shah and lieutenant-governor Anil Baijal as political gatherings are prohibited by the state disaster management authority, DDMA, till January 31.The police also said their commissioner had taken out a standing order in 2018 with respect to the protests at important places in accordance to the orders passed by the Supreme Court. They added that prohibitory orders have been issued under Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) for the entire central Delhi where the two residences are located.The submissions of the police came in response to a plea by two AAP leaders, challenging the denial of permission by the police to hold protests outside the homes of Shah and Baijal.The matter was listed on Thursday before justice Prathiba M Singh but no hearing took place as the counsel for the police had sought an adjournment as the proceedings were to be held in person at the court. The counsel urged the court to list the matter for hearing via video conferencing.In their affidavit, the police have also said protests in the national capital can only be held at two locations -- Jantar Mantar and Ramlila Maidan -- which are designated for the purpose and nowhere else.However, in view of the DDMA notification of September 2020, which was extended from time to time and now stands extended till January 31, no political gatherings of any number of persons is permitted in the national capital.Both AAP MLAs wanted to stage a sit-in protest outside the residences of Shah and Baijal on December 13, 2020, to protest against the alleged misappropriation of funds by the North Delhi Municipal Corporation, but they were denied permission. They were detained by police the same day along with some other AAP leaders, for attempting to protest at the two sites.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nod-for-protest-can-t-be-given-as-prohibitory-orders-in-place-police-inform-hc-101610647892402.html
15-01-2021||Delhi||Govt schools flag concerns over teachers on Covid duty||With thousands of teachers still deployed on Covid-19 related duties across the city, officials at several government schools have raised concerns of staff shortage ahead of the school reopening next week, after a gap of 10 months.The Delhi government, on Wednesday, had allowed schools to call in students of classes 10 and 12 from next week so that they can prepare for the upcoming board examinations.According to the government teachers’ association, at least 10,000 to 12,000 of their colleagues are on Covid-19 duties, including door-to-door surveys, vaccination drive, and identification of travellers from abroad at the airport, among others. They include primary teachers, trained graduate teachers (TGTs), and postgraduate teachers (PGTs). While TGTs can teach up to class 10, PGTs are eligible to teach classes 11 and 12.Officials at several schools said it would be difficult for them to reopen when they are short of hands. The principal of a government school in west Delhi’s Madipur, on condition anonymity, said all their science, mathematics and social science teachers (TGTs) are currently on Covid duty. “We have one guest teacher each for science and mathematics, and there are four sections of class 10. We will have to divide one section into four in order to maintain social distancing. How can one teacher look after 16 sections? Besides, there is none available to teach social science,” the principal said.The principal of another government school in Karawal Nagar, also on condition of anonymity, said, “Twenty-eight of our 33 permanent teachers are currently engaged in Covid-related work. This time, the reopening of schools will require more staff as we will have to divide classes into smaller sections to maintain social distancing. We are struggling to figure out a way to make do with so few teachers.”Ajay Veer Singh, general secretary of government school teachers’ association, said they will write to the government to relieve teachers of classes 10 and 12 from Covid duty. “It will be a mere formality if schools reopen without sufficient staff. We can’t call students back to schools after 10 months and not have enough teachers to guide them.”Officials at the Delhi government’s education department said efforts are being made to help schools reopen amid the pandemic. “We are trying to provide all possible help to schools before they reopen. Guest teachers have also been provided in many districts to bridge the gap. The zonal and district education officials are also taking several measures to help schools,” one such official said, on condition of anonymity.Meanwhile, some deputy director education (DDE) offices have started asking schools for a list of teachers on Covid-19 who are required in schools. For instance, the DDE’s office of zone west-A has asked schools under its jurisdiction to provide such a list by Friday evening.Harpreet Kaur, principal of Sarvodaya Kanya Vidyalaya (SKV) in Tilak Nagar, said the school has provided the names of teachers they needed for reopening. “We welcome that the DDE’s office has sought details of the required staff from us.” At least 20 teachers from her school are in Covid-19 related work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/teachers-still-on-covid-19-duty-govt-schools-raise-concerns-over-school-reopening-101610647833290.html
15-01-2021||Delhi||‘Vehicles, unclean household fuels major CO sources’||New Delhi: Vehicular emissions and the use of unclean household fuels are the major sources of carbon monoxide (CO) in Delhi, a study conducted by the Union ministry of earth sciences and the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM) has found.The study, which focuses on the sources of CO in Delhi and Mumbai, recorded the levels of the pollutant during the Covid-19 lockdown — when vehicular movement, industrial operations and other financial activities were restricted severely — and compared it with emissions on regular days, when all of these sources were operational and contributing to emissions.The findings show that the total CO emissions in Delhi during the Covid-19 lockdown showed an 86.39% drop compared to regular days, as opposed to a 62.14% fall in Mumbai. It also showed that the biggest reason behind this reduction, especially in Delhi, was restrictions in traffic movement.In the Capital, CO emissions from vehicular movement fell from 31.01 gigagram/month (Gg/month) on regular days to just 3.1Gg/month during the lockdown. The use of unclean household fuel was the second biggest CO in Delhi contributor, adding 1.35 Gg/month when no curbs were in place. Notably, however, this number showed no deviation even during the lockdown.“The major sources of CO in Delhi were transport and household during normal time. Transport was completely shut during the lockdown except for vehicles from law enforcement agencies, emergency services and that of essential supply chains. Not more than 10% of total vehicles were on the road, as also cross-checked with the total sale of petroleum products,” the study reads.CO, a colourless and odourless gas, is highly toxic and produced by the incomplete combustion of fossil fuels, oil, coal, woods, and natural gas. Scientists said CO was more harmful than particulate matter, as it has the potential to persist in the atmosphere for a longer period and does not get washed away by rain as PM2.5 (particulate matter with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres) and PM10 (PM with diameter less than 10 micrometres) do.“Exposure to CO is particularly harmful for the elderly, children and people who suffer from medical conditions such as heart and lung problems. We have examined the scientific processes responsible for the variability in CO during the Covid-19 lockdown in two of the largest megalopolises of India and the role of transport in influencing its concentration during the lockdown, and to understand the role of biofuel emissions,” said Gufran Beig of System of Air Quality Forecasting and Research (Safar) at IITM, who headed the study.Beig added, “The CO data was collected from continuous Air Quality Monitoring Stations (AQMS) under the Safar network.”Another important observation made by the study was the contribution of CO levels in Delhi’s air from neighbouring states. The findings of the study showed that because of the Delhi’s landlocked geography and the long lifespan of pollutant, the sources from long-range transport also added to CO levels in the city.“CO has a long life and hence a significant contribution can come by the long-range transport from surrounding regions. The long-range transport of CO in Delhi, whereas wind reversal combined with emissions from slum clusters in Mumbai played a major role during the lockdown period,” the study said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vehicles-unclean-household-fuels-major-contributors-of-co-in-delhi-govt-study-finds-101610647832894.html
15-01-2021||Delhi||Spas allowed to reopen after almost a year by HC, with strict guidelines||The Delhi high court on Thursday allowed spas in the national capital to resume their operations, subject to a slew of guidelines to maintain social distancing. The court also said that the services offered by spas were similar to the salons that have already been permitted to function.Justice Pratibha M Singh also said that the livelihood of those working at the spas is getting affected for almost a year because of the closure and said that they can be allowed to operate with appropriate safeguards.According to additional standing counsel Anjum Javed of Delhi government, the court on Thursday ordered that spa employees maintain all the norms of social distancing and should thermally scan themselves every day. He said that the employees should be tested through RT-PCR every 15 days to rule out spread of Covid-19, in compliance of the court’s direction.A detailed order in this regard is yet to be uploaded on the website of the Delhi High Court.The court was hearing two pleas moved by several persons who run spas, which have been shut since the first lockdown was enforced in Delhi. They had contended that when a maximum number of businesses, like salons, gyms, restaurants and bars, have been granted permission to reopen and even Delhi Metro restarted, then why were spas being forced to stay shut.The petitioners have also claimed that the spas in other states were running with full safety measures.The government had earlier opposed the plea stating that the government has decided not to allow the services of the spas because of the increasing number of the Covid-19 infections in the city.Listing out reasons for not allowing the spas to re-open, the government had also said that while the final decision of Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) had not been received on the opening of spa, the L-G had declined to grant the permission/ modify status quo as the number of cases were increasing and no physical distancing is possible in the spas.The spa owners, in their pleas, had contended that even in salons, the six feet distance cannot be maintained while questioning the permission granted to salons to operate. They also alleged that the Delhi government was discriminating against them as only their businesses had not been permitted to reopen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/spas-allowed-to-reopen-after-almost-a-year-by-hc-with-strict-guidelines-101610647772036.html
15-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi airport gets genome sequencing lab to check for new virus strain||The Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGIA) on Thursday got its first genome sequencing laboratory, which will be used to test samples of all travellers who arrive in the country and test positive Covid-19 upon landing.The samples will be sequenced to identify and check for a mutant variant of the Sars-CoV-2 virus that was first detected in the United Kingdom in early December and is thought to be more contagious.So far, since flights between India and the UK resumed on January 8, at least seven returnees from the counrty have tested positive at the Delhi airport after they underwent a mandatory RT-PCR test on their arrival. India had, on December 23, suspended all flights to and from the UK up to December 31 in order to stop the arrival of the new. This ban was later extended till January 7.The portable testing laboratory has been set up near the multi-level car park at T3 by SpiceHealth, a health care firm that has tied up with Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR)-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (CSIR-IGIB), which is a constituent member of the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG) recently announced by the Union health ministry.The laboratory was inaugurated by Dr VK Paul, member, NITI Aayog and chairman, National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC).Dr Shekhar C Mande, director general of the CSIR, who was also present, said the launch of the genome-sequencing lab at the airports will be “a game-changer”. “I compliment SpiceHealth for being instrumental in introducing the dry swab direct RT-PCR testing developed by CSIR-CCMB, at SpiceHeath’s mobile labs,” he said.Avani Singh, CEO, SpiceHealth, said early detection will be crucial to stop the spread of new mutant viruses from potentially entering the country. We are working relentlessly with a range of authorities while offering them all possible support to implement this on-ground, she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-airport-gets-genome-sequencing-lab-to-check-for-new-virus-strain-101610647711919.html
15-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt gives ₹938 crore, says BJP ‘bankrupted’ MCDs||Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Thursday said the Delhi government would provide ₹938 crores to the three municipal corporations for paying salaries to their employees, adding that the civic bodies have gone bankrupt because of the corruption by councillors of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).Sisodia, who is also the finance minister of Delhi, said the BJP-led central government owes ₹11,500 crore to the MCDs but has not paid a penny because of a “lack of trust”. He said that the MCDs owe the Delhi government ₹6,276 crore but they are in no position to repay the amount.The BJP and the MCDs dismissed the allegations as “baseless” and said that the Delhi government owes them much more than what was announced on Thursday for the financial year 2020-21.“Seeing the suffering of the MCD employees, the Delhi government has arranged ₹938 crore. This money was meant for government departments and other schemes. I appeal to the employees to ensure that the money is not embezzled by MCD councillors. The BJP came to power (in MCDs) 14 years ago, and it has completely bankrupted the three municipal bodies. Now, only ₹12 crore are left in the bank accounts of North MCD, while East MCD has only ₹99 lakh in its account,” Sisodia said at a press conference.Thousands of employees of the civic bodies, mostly from the North corporation, are on an indefinite strike since January 7 against non-payment of their salaries for the last 3-5 months.Sisodia said the government arranged the money for the MCDs despite a shortage of funds.“The MCDs owe the Delhi government ₹6,276 crore. The BJP bankrupted the MCDs to such an extent that they don’t even have the money to pay their own employees. Now, we are the ones giving them money again, despite facing shortage of funds. The MCDs should get ₹11,500 crore from the Centre. But the BJP leaders in the Centre believe that it cannot be given to them because the leaders in charge of MCDs will embezzle the money. Even the Centre is not giving funds because of the rampant corruption and lack of trust despite CM Arvind Kejriwal writing on several occasions to the Union government to provide funds to the MCDs,” the deputy CM said.Sisodia said despite loss of revenue due to the pandemic and the fact that the government had no liability, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal ordered funds to be arranged because he believed that the employees must be paid for their work.He added, “The chief minister said that it is not the fault of the employees --- if they’ve worked, they should be paid. Therefore, he took this decision to help the employees and ordered that funds should be arranged. Even the Delhi government is short of funds. We’ve also had to stop many schemes to budget. However, ₹938 crore is being given for the salary of the employees, despite the Delhi government having no such liability.”While the MCDs have claimed that the Delhi government owes ₹13,000 to the civic bodies, the Aam Aadmi Party government has alleged misappropriation of funds to the tune of crores in the MCDs and maintained that it has paid all funds to the civic bodies.According to civic officials, there are around 1.5 lakh municipal employees in Delhi. The north corporation alone has a workforce of around 55,000 and it spends nearly ₹360 crore every month on salaries and pensions. There are nearly 35,000 employees in EDMC and its expenditure on salary is approximately ₹184 crore per month. The SDMC has about 45,000 staff and it spends nearly ₹210 crore on salaries every month.AP Khan, convener, Confederation of MCD Employees Union — an umbrella body of 45 unions of civic employees in three municipalities— said that the financial assistance being given by the state government was “not sufficient” and the agitating employees will go ahead with their plan of taking out a march from civic centre —headquarters of north and south corporations— to the Delhi Secretariat on Friday (January 15).“The government decided to release funds only after our ultimatum to gherao the secretariat and boycott the vaccination programme. It’s a small amount which will barely help the three civic bodies in releasing only one month’s salary. We want a permanent solution to the crisis. This move is only to divert our attention from the real issue of fund crunch in MCDs,” he said.The BJP leaders in MCDs said the government already owed the money and that the amount was not enough.Jai Prakash, mayor of North Delhi Municipal Corporation, said, “They have made this announcement to divert attention from agitating employees. The funds they are giving is already earmarked for the third quarter of the financial year 2020-21. They are yet to pay our dues for the second quarter. In the second quarter of the fiscal year 2020-21, we were supposed to get ₹1,024 crore from the government but got only ₹400 crore. ₹624 crore are still due. When will we get this amount?”East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) mayor Nirmal Jain said, “The Delhi government has decided to give ₹938 crore to all the three MCDs. If they further decide to deduct to adjust previous loans, as they claim, it will be reduced further and will literally serve no purpose,” Jain said.Anamika Mithilesh, mayor, South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) said, “The government is terrified because now the public knows that they are deliberately stopping funds of the municipalities. They have to pay our dues of ₹13,000 crore.”The commissioners of the MCDs did not comment on the matter.BJP leader and spokesperson RP Singh said the state government should first release the funds that it owes the MCDs. “The local government owes the corporations about ₹13,000 crore. Of the ₹13,000 crore, they have so far paid only ₹9,068 crore,” he said.Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said, “Firstly, the allegations are baseless and we condemn the kind of words the deputy CM has used for elected leaders in a press conference. The funds released by Delhi government are not even equal to one-third of the funds the Delhi government owes to MCDs for the current financial year. It is also irresponsible of him to say that the Central government is not giving to MCDs the per capita annual grant which it gives to most other civic bodies in the country because the Centre doesn’t trust municipal leaders. Truth is that the 14th Finance Commission on whose recommendations the Centre gives annual grant to civic bodies has kept Delhi’s municipal corporations out of its preview. The 14th Finance Commission’s recommendation says Union Territories which have local state government will not be eligible for the grant.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-govt-releases-rs-938-crore-for-mcds-say-bjp-s-corruption-has-rendered-civic-bodies-bankrupt-101610647352412.html
15-01-2021||Delhi||5th sero survey begins in Delhi, likely to last 10 days||State government officials have started collecting blood samples of over 27,000 people for a fifth round of the serological survey to assess the population’s exposure to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).This is the first serological survey being undertaken after the October round, and will likely reflect the surge in infections that took place in November, when Delhi saw its third and worst wave of Covid-19, when the Capital dealt with a severe spike in new cases and deaths. During that month, Delhi added its highest single-day case spike, adding 8,593 infections on November 11, as well most single-day deaths, logging 131 fatalities on November 18.The collection of samples began on Monday and is likely to last for 10 days.“Around 100 samples will be collected from each ward for the current round of the serological survey. This time, sample collection will take longer because of the vaccine roll-out,” said a senior official from Delhi’s health department.In the October round of the sero survey, the population level prevalence of antibodies against the Sars-Cov-2 virus increased only marginally from the previous round by 0.4%. This meant that there were only 4,000 infections per million population between early-September and mid-October.In the round before that, the recorded seroprevalence actually dropped four percentage points from 29.1% in August. This fall was likely due to a change in the technique of sample collection.However, the authors of the sero survey also warned of diminishing antibodies in those who had the infection months ago.“During the previous round of the survey, we realised that antibody levels were becoming undetectable in people who had the infection months ago. Some studies show that antibodies can last up to 90 days. So, this time around, we will be able to judge the exposure during the November surge,” said one of the researchers involved in the project, who asked not to be named.In June-end , 22.6% of the 21,000 people sampled had antibodies. This shot to 29.1% among the 15,000 people sampled in August, and then dropped to 25.1% among the 17,000 people sampled in September. In October, it had gone up to 25.5% with a sample size of 15,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fifth-sero-survey-kicks-off-in-delhi-101610647351930.html
15-01-2021||Delhi||Early lockdown in Delhi had less impact on air quality: Report||The first Covid-19 lockdowns led to significant changes in urban air pollution levels in Delhi and other major cities around the world, but the changes were smaller than expected, a new study by an international team of experts led by the University of Birmingham has concluded.Published in ‘Science Advances’ on Thursday, the researchers evaluated changes in ambient NO2 (nitrogen dioxide), O3 (ozone) and fine particle (PM2.5) concentrations arising from lockdown emission changes in 11 global cities: Beijing, Wuhan, Milan, Rome, Madrid, London, Paris, Berlin, New York, Los Angeles and Delhi after developing new corrections for the impact of weather and seasonal trends.The experts discovered that the beneficial reductions in NO2 due to the lockdowns were smaller than expected, after removing the effects of weather. They also found in parallel that the lockdowns caused (weather-corrected) concentrations of ozone in cities to increase.Scientists at Birmingham used machine learning to strip out weather impacts and seasonal trends before analysing the data: site-specific hourly concentrations of key pollutants from December 2015 to May 2020.The study also revealed that concentrations of PM2.5, which can worsen medical conditions such as asthma and heart disease, decreased in all cities studied except London and Paris.Lead-author Zongbo Shi of the University of Birmingham said: “Rapid, unprecedented reduction in economic activity provided a unique opportunity to study the impact of interventions on air quality. Emission changes associated with the early lockdown restrictions led to abrupt changes in air pollutant levels but their impacts on air quality were more complex than we thought, and smaller than we expected.“Weather changes can mask changes in emissions on air quality. Importantly, our study has provided a new framework for assessing air pollution interventions, by separating the effects of weather and season from the effects of emission changes,” the expert added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/early-lockdown-in-delhi-had-less-impact-on-air-quality-report-101610636612255.html
15-01-2021||Mumbai||NMIMS files complaint, forms panel to look into online harassment complaints from Mumbai students||Days after at least four female students of the Narsee Monjee Institute of Management Studies (NMIMS) complained about being harassed online during their exams, the management has set up a committee to look into the complainants. This matter came to light last week after some students of NMIMS took to Twitter to share screenshots of messages shared by proctors on the personal mobile phones of the female students. Four proctors working with Mercer Mettl, the online examination conducting company hired by NMIMS, was fired by the company after receiving reports of harassment. In a statement released late Tuesday night, a spokesperson for NMIMS said, “The university has formed a committee to resolve the issue. The deans have also spoken to students on the issue.” In their complaints to the institute, students shared screenshots of several messages and photos shared by some proctors after the exam on students’ personal phone numbers. In the current academic year, examinations for all education institutes had to be conducted online due to the ongoing lockdown and in most cases, colleges have hired an independent software company to conduct exams and proctor the same online. Mercer Mettl was hired by NMIMS and has been working with the institute for more than a year now. During exams, a student has to appear for the exam by keeping their computer camera on, to avoid any malpractices during the exam.Students also have to show his or her identity card at the start of the exam on the camera and shared that these accused proctors picked students’ mobile numbers from this identity card and contacted the students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nmims-files-complaint-forms-panel-to-look-into-online-harassment-complaints-from-mumbai-students-101610567364297.html
15-01-2021||World||Britain tightens borders to keep out new Covid-19 strains||Britain is tightening border controls to prevent new strains of Covid-19 coming into the country, suspending all the 'travel corridor' arrangements that had meant arrivals from some countries did not need to quarantine.The change comes into force at 0400 GMT on Monday and means all passengers must have a recent negative coronavirus test and transfer immediately into isolation upon arrival. The isolation period lasts for 10 days, unless the passenger tests negative after five days.Prime Minister Boris Johnson made the announcement during a news conference when he praised the country's vaccination programme, but he also warned: "What we don't want to see is all that hard work undone by the arrival of a new variant that is vaccine busting."On Thursday, Britain banned arrivals from South America, Portugal and some other countries over fears about a strain of the virus detected in Brazil.Britain has already felt the effects of mutations in the virus first hand. A strain first discovered in England has proved to be more transmissible and a major factor behind a spike in cases across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/britain-tightens-borders-to-keep-out-new-covid-19-strains-101610732299530.html
15-01-2021||World||Nearly 60,000 have fled Central African Republic violence: UN||The number of people fleeing violence in the Central African Republic has doubled in just a week to nearly 60,000, the U.N. refugee agency said on Friday, as post-electoral violence intensifies.CAR's government has been battling rebel groups seeking to overturn a Dec. 27 vote in which President Faustin-Archange Touadera was declared victor despite fraud claims."What's clear is the situation has...worsened," UNHCR spokesman Boris Cheshirkov told a U.N. briefing in Geneva."What we are hearing from (refugees) is some of them have been separated from loved ones, some have had loved ones killed, that the attacks have intensified," he added.When rebels moved on the capital Bangui on 13 January, 10,000 people arrived in a single day in the Democratic Republic of Congo across the Ubangui River, UNHCR said. Others have arrived in Cameroon, Chad and the Republic of Congo.Cheshirkov said access to many in the Democratic Republic of Congo was difficult and that the agency was seeking to mobilise more resources and arrange for the airlift of supplies."The situation is catastrophic. The government has to do something. There is a lack of food, water, and health care," Izato Nzege, the governor of North Ubangi province in Congo, told reporters on Thursday.The Norwegian Refugee Council also said on Friday that the unrest had caused disruptions to aid delivery, cutting off humanitarian aid to 2.8 million people in the former French colony.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nearly-60-000-have-fled-central-african-republic-violence-un-101610730324639.html
15-01-2021||World||WHO stops short of advising proof of COVID shots for travel||The World Health Organization's Emergency Committee on Friday refrained from advising proof of COVID-19 vaccination or immunity as a condition for international travel, citing "critical unknowns" regarding their efficacy in reducing transmission and limited availability.The 19-member panel of independent experts held their sixth meeting in a year under the chairmanship of French expert Didier Houssin, as the death toll from the pandemic neared two million.The experts issued a series of recommendations, which WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus accepted and sent to the U.N. agency's 194 member states, a statement said."At the present time, do not introduce requirements of proof of vaccination or immunity for international travel as a condition of entry as there are still critical unknowns regarding the efficacy of vaccination in reducing transmission and limited availability of vaccines," the WHO panel said."Proof of vaccination should not exempt international travellers from complying with other travel risk reduction measures," it added.The panel urged countries to monitor virus variants such as those identified by Britain and South Africa to assess the effects on the efficacy of vaccines, drugs and diagnostic tests.It called for promoting technology transfer to low- and middle-income countries with the potential capacity to accelerate global production of COVID-19 vaccines.Further research was also needed on "critical unknowns about COVID-19 vaccination efficacy on transmission, duration of protection against severe disease and asymptomatic infection" as well as the duration of immunity following infection or vaccination, and protection after a single dose, the panel said. (Reporting by Emma Farge and Stephanie Nebehay; Editing by Michael Shields)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-stops-short-of-advising-proof-of-covid-shots-for-travel-101610729992835.html
15-01-2021||World||Six EU nations express 'severe concern' over vaccine delays||Six European Union countries signed a letter to the European Commission on Friday to express "severe concern" over delivery delays for the coronavirus vaccine developed by BioNTech and Pfizer.Ministers from Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Latvia, Lithuania and Sweden said in their letter that the situation was "unacceptable" and "decreases the credibility of the vaccination process"."We are obliged to inform our public and the particular risk groups... that their vaccination will be delayed, regardless of the outstanding efforts by our governments to ensure timely delivery," the letter said."We request you to urgently engage with BioNTech/Pfizer to demand a public explanation of the situation and to stress the need to ensure stability and transparency of timely deliveries."It said officials in the six countries had been informed by BioNTech/Pfizer that deliveries would be "substantially reduced in the coming weeks"."Some were given the deadline of February 8, 2021, some were given no information on the duration of the intended decreased deliveries," it added.Lithuania earlier on Friday said that deliveries of the vaccine would be cut to 54,505 doses from the originally planned 108,810 doses over the next four weeks -- a reduction of nearly 50 percent.vab-dt/txwPFIZERBioNTech||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/six-eu-nations-express-severe-concern-over-vaccine-delays-101610726300012.html
15-01-2021||World||Biden appoints David Cohen once more as deputy CIA director||President-elect Joe Biden on Friday named former Deputy CIA Director David Cohen to reprise his role at the US intelligence agency as he continued to fill out top roles for his administration.Cohen previously served as the deputy director for the Central Intelligence Agency from 2015 to 2017 under Democratic then-President Barack Obama, when Biden served as vice president. Cohen would serve under longtime US diplomat William Burns, Biden's nominee for CIA director."Cohen is a national security, finance and legal expert," Biden's transition team said in a statement, noting his work leading "special projects on new technologies and how best to work with companies to advance the CIA's mission."The former lawyer also previously served as Under Secretary for Terrorism and Financial Intelligence at the US Treasury Department, where he dealt with terrorism financing and oversaw sanctions against countries such as Iran, Russia and North Korea.The president-elect's transition team also said New York City's emergency coordinator, Deanne Criswell, would lead the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), which oversees the federal government's response to wildfires, hurricanes and other disasters.Biden also picked one of his most closest confidants from his presidential campaign, Anita Dunn, to join the White House as a senior adviser.Dunn, who helped Biden prepare for debates and was a key influence on the campaign's planning and communication strategy, will be one of several political strategists with long personal ties with Biden who will now surround him in office.The transition also named deputy-level officials for the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the Office of Management and Budget.It also separately announced several more top leaders to help with Biden's COVID-19 response, including former Food and Drug Administration Commissioner David Kessler to help lead the vaccine effort.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-appoints-david-cohen-once-more-as-deputy-cia-director-101610726427839.html
15-01-2021||World||US imposes fresh sanctions on Iran in final days of Trump presidency||The United States on Friday imposed fresh sanctions on Iranian individuals and entities as Washington continues to step up pressure on Tehran in the final days of U.S. President Donald Trump's term before it ends Jan. 20.U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo in statements said Washington blacklisted seven entities and two individuals in sanctions related to the Islamic Republic of Iran Shipping Lines and Iranian shipping entities, as well as slapping sanctions on Iranian entities for activities related to conventional arms proliferation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-imposes-fresh-sanctions-on-iran-in-final-days-of-trump-presidency-101610727725125.html
15-01-2021||World||Eyes on Nancy Pelosi as Donald Trump's impeachment trial timing up in the air||The timing of President Donald Trump's impeachment trial could come into clearer focus on Friday when House Speaker Nancy Pelosi is expected to take questions about her next steps at a morning news conference at the U.S. Capitol.The Democratic-led House of Representatives voted 232-197 on Wednesday to impeach Trump on a charge of incitement one week after his supporters rampaged in the Capitol following a speech in which the outgoing Republican president urged them to fight Democrat Joe Biden's Nov. 3 election victory.Trump, the first president in U.S. history to be impeached twice, falsely claims he lost because of widespread voting fraud. He will likely be the first president to face an impeachment trial after leaving office.The trial could delay some of Biden's priorities after he is sworn in on Jan. 20, as the Senate would also be needed to confirm his Cabinet nominees and to pass the $1.9 trillion coronavirus stimulus package he is calling for.Ten Republicans joined Democrats in supporting impeachment, while others argued Trump's remarks were protected by the First Amendment of the U.S. Constitution, which defends free speech.His trial in the Senate cannot begin until the charge has been formally transmitted to that chamber. So far, Pelosi, a Democrat, has stayed mum on when she will do so.Representative Stacey Plaskett, one of nine Democratic impeachment managers who will argue the House's case against Trump, said on Friday that almost everything from witnesses to schedule for the trial had yet to be determined."We've been wondering what their convoluted argument is going to be," Plaskett told CNN, referring to possible legal arguments from the Trump team. The president's lawyers might try to argue that his speech to supporters on Jan. 6 was protected by the First Amendment."But not all speech is protected speech ... He would rather have our democracy fall apart than he would lose the presidency. That is what we are going to prove."Another impeachment manager, Representative Diana DeGette, said on Thursday that Pelosi was working with Republican Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell on when to transmit the article of impeachment to the Senate and trigger the start of the trial.According to Senate rules, the trial would start the day after the charge is sent over by the House. The last time the House voted to impeach Trump, in December 2019, Pelosi did not transmit the charges to the Senate for weeks.The earlier charges related to abuse of power and obstruction of Congress stemming from Trump's request that Ukraine investigate Biden and his son Hunter. The Senate in February 2020 voted to acquit Trump, keeping him in office.The Senate is scheduled to return to Washington on Tuesday, the day before Biden's inauguration.Some House Democrats say they favor Pelosi waiting to send the newest charge to the Senate, even as long as 100 days. But others want quick action to get the trial started.Biden has urged lawmakers not to allow Trump's impeachment trial to interfere with other priorities in his early days in office, such as approval of his Cabinet and proposed legislation. On Thursday, the president-elect unveiled a $1.9 trillion stimulus proposal designed to jump-start the economy and speed up the U.S. response to the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eyes-on-nancy-pelosi-as-donald-trump-s-impeachment-trial-timing-up-in-the-air-101610727204550.html
15-01-2021||World||Covid: China honours 'Bat Woman' of controversial Wuhan lab||China has honoured a virologist of a controversial Wuhan-based bio-lab, which was at the centre of Covid-19 storm, as a WHO team arrived at the Chinese city to probe the origins of the coronavirus.Shi Zhengli from the Wuhan Institute of Virology who has earned the moniker of 'Bat Woman' for her passionate research into bats and viruses was honoured as an "advanced worker of the Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS)", the state-run Global Times reported, citing a WIV announcement on Friday.Outgoing US President Donald Trump has alleged that the novel coronavirus emanated from WIV before it spread across the world and claimed millions of lives and shattered global economies.Ever since the virus outbreak came to light in Wuhan in December last, speculation has been rife on whether the viral strain originated from China's premier virology institute or from its nearby Huanan Seafood Market.Shi was honoured along with 20 advanced workers during the CAS 2021 annual work conference held in Beijing, said Liu Lijun, director of the National Commendation and Rewarding Office of the Ministry of Human Resources and Social Security.She was praised as adhering to the scientific values of innovation, serving the country and benefiting people, and fought hard and never flinched in the face of difficulties and challenges, the report said.Shi came under the spotlight of local and global media after Trump's allegation. Trump had asked China to permit the US to conduct a probe, which Beijing ignored.Curiously, after her name appeared in the local and foreign media early last year, Shi conspicuously disappeared for months amid rumours that she had defected to a western country.But she suddenly resurfaced in official Chinese media and denied reports of her defection to the West and questioned Trump’s allegation that the virus emerged from WIV."Trump's claim jeopardises and affects our academic work and personal lives. He owes us an apology," she was quoted by official media.Significantly, Shi's "honour" by CAS coincides with the arrival of the 13-member World Health Organisation (WHO) team to Wuhan on Thursday to probe the origins of Covid-19.The WHO experts are currently put up in a hotel in Wuhan to serve 14-day quarantine.Their site visits in Wuhan, where the virus first emerged in December 2019, are expected to include the WIV and the wet market, where the deadly virus was suspected to have been transmitted from live animals like bats to humans. The market remained closed and sealed since early last year.The WHO team's visit has become a bone of contention as Beijing, which questions the widely-held view about the virus' origins in Wuhan, delayed granting permission to it. China says the virus has appeared in many places in the world and it only reported first.Meanwhile, China on Friday permitted one of the two WHO experts, earlier barred from travelling to Wuhan for testing Covid-19 positive, to join his colleagues in the Chinese city.A British and a Sudanese scientist from Qatar tested positive for Covid-19 in Singapore, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian told a media briefing here on Friday.As a show of support to WHO, China has agreed to conduct the required tests again, he said“The results of the British expert showed negative but the Sudanese expert from Qatar still showed positive. So we have agreed for the British expert to travel to China,” Zhao said.“We will remain in contact with WHO on this relevant matter and jointly work towards greater cooperation on this origin tracing work,” he said.The WHO team includes virus and other experts from the US, Australia, Germany, Japan, Britain, Russia, the Netherlands, Qatar and Vietnam.Meanwhile, Covid-19 cases continue to rise in China after it managed to contain the virus earlier.China’s National Health Commission on Friday reported 144 new Covid-19 cases, of whom 135 were locally transmitted.Of the locally transmitted cases, 90 were reported in Hebei, 43 in Heilongjiang and one each in Guangxi and Shaanxi, the commission said.On Wednesday, China reported its first death due to coronavirus in eight months.Hebei province, bordering Beijing, continues to be the new hotbed for the spread of the virus. Several cities with millions of people in Hebei are under lockdown to prevent the spread of the virus. China has largely brought the virus under control through quick mass testing, stringent lockdowns and tight travel restrictions.China has so far reported 87,988 Covid-19 cases and 4,635 deaths due to the disease.According to Johns Hopkins University's coronavirus tracker, over 93,227,340 people have been confirmed with the disease across the world and more than 1,996,620 people have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-china-honours-bat-woman-of-controversial-wuhan-lab-101610725854855.html
15-01-2021||World||US plans fresh Iran sanctions related to metals, conventional arms||The United States plans to announce additional Iran sanctions on Friday related to conventional arms and to the metals industry, sources familiar with the matter said.The sources, who spoke on condition of anonymity, did not provide details on the sanctions, the latest in a series that US President Donald Trump has imposed on the Iranian economy to try to force Tehran into a new negotiation on curbing its nuclear program as well as its missile and regional activities.Trump in 2018 abandoned the Iran nuclear agreement that Tehran struck with six major powers in 2015 to rein in its nuclear program in return for relief from US and international sanctions that had crippled its economy.When he walked away from the deal, Trump said he was open to negotiating a much wider pact that would seek more extensive constraints on Iran's nuclear program as well as limits on its development of ballistic missiles and its sponsorship of militias in regional nations such as Iraq, Lebanon and Syria.The Republican president's administration plans to unveil the new sanctions five days before Trump is to hand over the White House to Democratic President-elect Joe Biden. Biden has said he will return to the 2015 pact if Iran resumes strict compliance with it. The State and Treasury Departments did not immediately respond to requests for comment on the announcement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-plans-fresh-iran-sanctions-related-to-metals-conventional-arms-101610725710530.html
15-01-2021||World||Pentagon says US has dropped to 2,500 troops in Afghanistan||The U.S. military has met its goal of reducing the number of troops in Afghanistan to about 2,500 by Friday, a drawdown that may have violated a last-minute congressional prohibition.The reduction could complicate matters for the incoming Biden administration, which must determine how to handle a Trump administration commitment to the Taliban to remove all U.S. military, intelligence and contractor personnel from Afghanistan by May as a move to spur peace negotiations. Those talks are in an early stage.Senior U.S. commanders are skeptical of the Taliban's stated commitment to peace, although they have said they can accomplish their mission in Afghanistan with 2,500 troops.Christopher Miller, in his final days as the acting secretary of defense, announced on Friday the 2,500 troop level, saying it brings the United States “closer than ever to ending nearly two decades of war.” He said the U.S. remains in position to “ensure that Afghanistan is never again used to harbor those who seek to bring harm to the United States of America.”President Donald Trump, who ordered the reduction in November, when there were about 4,000 U.S. troops in Afghanistan, aid Thursday that troop levels in Afghanistan had reached a 19-year low, although he did not mention a troop number. Last February his administration struck a deal with the Taliban to reduce American troop levels in phases and to go to zero by May 2021. It is unclear how the incoming Biden administration will proceed.President-elect Joe Biden, who has advocated keeping a small counterterrorism force in Afghanistan as a way to ensure that extremist groups like al-Qaida are unable to launch attacks on the United States, faces a number of questions on Afghanistan. One is how and whether to proceed with fledgling peace talks between the Taliban and the Afghan government..Trump in his brief statement alluded to his longstanding desire to get out of Afghanistan entirely.“I will always be committed to stopping the endless wars,” he said, referring to U.S. wars that have dragged on in Afghanistan since 2001 and in Iraq for much of the period since 2003.Although senior military officials had cautioned against speedy troop reductions in Afghanistan, Miller announced on Nov. 17 that he was implementing Trump's order. As a result, military commanders scrambled to pull more than 1,500 troops out of the country in the last few weeks. At Trump's order, commanders also cut U.S. troop levels in Iraq to 2,500 from about 3,000 in the same period. Miller confirmed Friday that the Iraq drawdown had been completed.The Afghanistan decision was seen by some as unnecessarily complicating the decision-making of the incoming administration. Trump at the time had refused to acknowledge that he had lost the election and would be ceding to Biden on Jan. 20. Some in Congress, including fellow Republicans, opposed Trump's decision.Under the National Defense Authorization Act passed by Congress two weeks ago, the Pentagon was explicitly forbidden to use money from this year’s or last year’s budget on reducing the number of troops below 4,000 — or below the number that was in the country the day the bill was finalized, which was Jan. 1. Trump vetoed the measure, but both the House and Senate voted to override his veto.The defense legislation provided two conditions under which the Pentagon could get around the prohibition -- a presidential waiver or a report to Congress assessing the effect of a further drawdown on the U.S. counterterrorism mission in Afghanistan and the risk to U.S. troops there. As of Thursday the Pentagon had met neither of those conditions.In his statement Friday, Miller made no mention of this statutory prohibition. However, a spokesman, Maj. Robert Lodewick, said Trump signed a waiver of the legislative prohibition, stipulating that the drawdown was important to U.S. national security interests. Earlier in the week, Trump had not yet signed the waiver, meaning it came after the drawdown had been completed.Miller said Friday the Pentagon is planning for additional troop reductions to zero by May, adding that “any such future drawdowns remain conditions based.”The legislative prohibition on completing the drawdown put the Pentagon in a bind, coming weeks after it had begun the drawdown.“Convention dictates that reducing troop levels, associated equipment and adjusting associated force protection requirements across a country-wide combat zone is not something that can be paused overnight without increasing risk to the force and core mission goals,” Lodewick said.The main reason for concern about a too-quick troop withdrawal is what the Pentagon sees as continued high levels of Taliban violence against the Afghan government. Some U.S. officials have questioned the wisdom of fully withdrawing, in accordance with the February 2020 agreement with the Taliban, if violence remains high.The U.S. invasion of Afghanistan in October 2001 was aimed at overthrowing the Taliban regime, running al-Qaida out of the country and laying the groundwork for a global “war on terrorism.” It turned into something more ambitious but less well-defined and became far more costly in blood and treasure. During Biden's time as vice president, the U.S. pushed U.S. troop totals in Afghanistan to 100,000 in a failed bid to compel the Taliban to come to the negotiating table. When Trump took office four years ago there were about 8,500 troops in the country, and he raised it to about 13,000 that summer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pentagon-says-us-has-dropped-to-2-500-troops-in-afghanistan-101610723946896.html
15-01-2021||World||Joe Biden urges swift action on giant aid plan with Republicans wary||President-elect Joe Biden’s $1.9 trillion economic relief proposal serves as the opening salvo in a legislative battle that could be prolonged by the go-big price tag and the inclusion of initiatives opposed by many Republicans.Biden’s hand was bolstered by Friday’s release of US retail sales data for December, which showed a third straight monthly decline as the pandemic sapped activity. The results indicated that the biggest part of the US economy -- consumer spending -- took a step back last quarter.“It’s not hard to see that we’re in a once-in-several-generations economic crisis,” Biden said Thursday night in unveiling his plan. “We have to act and we have to act now.”The package has elements that would likely appeal to enough moderate Republicans to gain favor in the Senate -- including a $400 billion effort to contain the coronavirus and speed the economy’s reopening, as well as $1,400 in additional direct stimulus payments.Other parts are set to spur partisan warfare, including Biden’s proposals to more than double the federal minimum wage to $15 an hour, provide large-scale aid for state governments and offer higher unemployment benefits through September.Negotiations could end up producing a smaller bipartisan package in the coming weeks, followed by a larger budget bill later in the year with Democratic priorities. Biden said he plans to unveil a second major package, aimed at longer-term economic rebuilding, at a joint session of Congress next month.Republican Senator Marco Rubio of Florida kicked off calls for breaking the relief plan into pieces, tweeting that since Biden served in the Senate for more than 35 years “he knows the plan he outlined tonight can’t pass ‘quickly.’” Rubio called for proceeding with the $1,400 stimulus checks first.While it’s possible Democrats might find ways to get the bulk of the package through the Senate with just majority support, “it looks more likely that the need to find bipartisan support might constrain the size of the package,” Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analyst Alec Phillips wrote in a note to clients. Still, Goldman boosted its forecast for near-term fiscal stimulus to $1.1 trillion from the $750 billion it had predicted before Biden’s roll-out.Biden has several advantages in the struggle, including an ability to bypass Senate Republicans on some of the items using a special tool called budget reconciliation.Enjoying unified Democratic control of Congress, Biden will also have the White House bully pulpit to put pressure on Congress to act. He has offered his plan as a way for the nation to come together to provide relief to impoverished Americans after the unprecedented mob violence in the Capitol last week, and amid the record spike in deaths from the pandemic.“Unity is not a pie-in-the-sky dream, it is a practical step to getting things done,” Biden said Thursday. “The very health of our nation is at stake.”The looming trial of outgoing President Donald Trump is set to prolong the partisan tensions of recent weeks. Unless incoming Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer and Republican leader Mitch McConnell strike agreement on procedures, it could prevent a floor vote on Biden’s cabinet nominations and legislation for weeks, though it wouldn’t delay committee work.If Biden can’t get a deal on the whole bill, provisions such as stimulus checks and a $400-per-week boost to unemployment insurance could be put into a budget bill and passed with just 50 votes. There is a debate about whether the minimum wage could also be raised that way.The incoming president is a veteran of dealing with McConnell, who may be willing to horse-trade for his priorities like Covid-19 liability protections for employers or an extension of business tax breaks.Many economists are anticipating a robust period of growth in the US once vaccinations get the virus under control and normal commerce resumes, but a rough road remains. The drop in retail sales last month came alongside the first decline in monthly payrolls since April. Unemployment remained mired at 6.7%.Things could worsen in the coming months. Some extra support measures for small businesses and the unemployed passed by Congress in December run out in March, and a federal eviction moratorium expires at the end of January.What Bloomberg Economics Says...“Given the urgency of the current crisis and the desire to achieve passage in the administration’s first 100 days, we expect a narrower package to ultimately emerge -- in the vicinity of $1 trillion. That figure could be enough to push economic growth above 5% this year, compared with our current baseline of 3.5%,” said Andrew Husby, economist.The US Chamber of Commerce said in a statement Thursday it “welcomes the introduction of President-elect Biden’s American Rescue Plan,” and singled out praise for the vaccination focus, while omitting comment on the minimum-wage increase.Kevin Brady, the top Republican on the House Ways and Means Committee, said the package was bad for businesses. “Special interests and liberals are cheering. The jobless and Main Street are left shaking their heads.”But leading Democrats praised the plan.Schumer and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi pledged in a statement to work quickly to put “Biden’s vision into legislation that will pass both chambers and be signed into law.”Congressional Democrats will have their own asks. Incoming Senate Finance Committee Chairman Ron Wyden indicated he wants the plan tweaked to tie unemployment benefits to unemployment rates. “I look forward to taking the lead on a proposal that puts a stop to needlessly lurching from crisis to crisis, and gives jobless workers the certainty that they will be able to buy groceries and make rent,” he said in a statement.Major liftThe bill would dedicate $350 billion for state and local governments, well beyond the $160 billion for such funding included in a bipartisan compromise that never made it into the December package.Biden is also seeking to boost refundable tax credits for those with low-income and children while substantially expanding paid family and medical leave.All of this will be a major lift for Congress to complete by the mid-March expiration of expanded unemployment benefits for gig workers and the long-term jobless, which has created a benefits cliff.The new administration is under pressure not to allow a repeat of the eight-month standoff that held up the last round of economic relief.One advantage: the departure of a volatile Trump, who changed his positions frequently in the talks and ultimately sat on the sidelines after losing the November election -- only to threaten a veto of the passed bill at the last minute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-urges-swift-action-on-giant-aid-plan-with-republicans-wary-101610722518474.html
15-01-2021||World||Man convicted in 3 killings to be last executed under Trump administration||The last federal inmate facing execution before President Donald Trump leaves office was sentenced to death for the killings of three women in a Maryland wildlife refuge, a crime that led to a life sentence for the man who fired the fatal shots.Dustin Higgs, 48, who is scheduled to be executed on Friday at the federal prison in Terre Haute, Indiana, says nobody alleges he pulled the trigger. His lawyers have argued it is “arbitrary and inequitable” to execute Higgs while Willis Haynes, the man who fatally shot the women in 1996, was spared a death sentence.The federal judge who presided over Higgs' trial two decades ago says he “merits little compassion.”“He received a fair trial and was convicted and sentenced to death by a unanimous jury for a despicable crime,” U.S. District Judge Peter Messitte wrote in a Dec. 29 ruling.Defense attorneys won temporary stays of execution this week for Higgs and another inmate, Corey Johnson, after arguing that their recent Covid-19 infections put them at greater risk of unnecessary suffering during the lethal injections. But higher courts overruled those decisions, allowing the executions to go forward, and Johnson was executed Thursday night.Shawn Nolan, one of Higgs’ attorneys, sees a clear political agenda in the unprecedented string of federal executions at the end of Trump’s presidency. Higgs is scheduled to be executed five days before President-elect Joe Biden’s inauguration. A spokesman for Biden has said the Democrat is against the death penalty and will work to end its use.“In the midst of the pandemic and everything that’s going on right now in the country, it seems just insane to move forward with these executions," Nolan said recently. “And particularly for Dustin, who didn’t shoot anybody. He didn’t kill anybody.”Higgs' Dec. 19 petition for clemency says he has been a model prisoner and dedicated father to a son born shortly after his arrest. Higgs had a traumatic childhood and lost his mother to cancer when he was 10, the petition says."Mr. Higgs’s difficult upbringing was not meaningfully presented to the jury at trial," his attorneys wrote.In October 2000, a federal jury in Maryland convicted Higgs of first-degree murder and kidnapping in the killings of Tamika Black, 19; Mishann Chinn. 23; and Tanji Jackson, 21. His death sentence was the first imposed in the modern era of the federal system in Maryland, which abolished the death penalty in 2013.Higgs was 23 on the evening of Jan. 26, 1996, when he, Haynes and a third man, Victor Gloria, picked up the three women in Washington, D.C., and drove them to Higgs’ apartment in Laurel, Maryland, to drink alcohol and listen to music. Before dawn the next morning, an argument between Higgs and Jackson prompted her to grab a knife in the kitchen before Haynes persuaded her to drop it.Gloria said Jackson made threats as she left the apartment with the other women and appeared to write down the license plate number of Higgs’ van, angering him. The three men chased after the women in Higgs' van. Haynes persuaded them to get into the vehicle.Instead of taking them home, Higgs drove them to a secluded spot in the Patuxent National Wildlife Refuge, federal land in Laurel.“Aware at that point that something was amiss, one of the women asked if they were going to have to ‘walk from here’ and Higgs responded 'something like that,'” said an appeals court ruling upholding Higgs’s death sentence.Higgs handed his pistol to Haynes, who shot all three women outside the van before the men left, Gloria testified.“Gloria turned to ask Higgs what he was doing, but saw Higgs holding the steering wheel and watching the shootings from the rearview mirror,” said the 2013 ruling by a three-judge panel of the 4th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals.Investigators found Jackson’s day planner at the scene of the killings. It contained Higgs’s nickname, “Bones,” his telephone number, his address number and the tag number for his van.The jurors who convicted Haynes failed to reach a unanimous verdict on whether to impose a death sentence. A different jury convicted Higgs and returned a death sentence after a separate trial. Gloria pleaded guilty to being an accessory after the fact to the murders and was sentenced to seven years in prison.Higgs has argued that his death sentence must be thrown out because jurors failed to consider it as a “mitigating factor” that Haynes was convicted of identical charges but sentenced to life in prison. The appeals court concluded that rational jurors could find that Higgs had the dominant role in the murders even though Haynes indisputably was the triggerman.In their clemency petition, Higgs’ lawyers said Gloria received a “substantial deal” in exchange for his cooperation“Moreover,” they wrote, “significant questions remain as to whether Mr. Gloria received the additional undisclosed benefit of having an unrelated state murder investigation against him dropped at the urging of federal officers to protect his credibility as the star witness. A federal death verdict should not rest on such a flimsy basis.”Chinn worked with the children’s choir at a church, Jackson worked in the office at a high school and Black was a teacher’s aide at National Presbyterian School in Washington, according to the Washington Post.On the day in 2001 when the judge formally sentenced Higgs to death, Black's mother, Joyce Gaston, said it brought her little solace, the Post reported.“It’s not going to ever be right in my mind,” Gaston said, “That was my daughter. I don’t know how I’m going to deal with it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/man-convicted-in-3-killings-to-be-last-executed-under-trump-administration-101610722537317.html
15-01-2021||World||Trump administration takes final swipes at China and its companies||The Trump administration took another swipe at China and its biggest firms on Thursday, imposing sanctions on officials and companies for alleged misdeeds in the South China Sea and imposing an investment ban on nine more firms.The moves come just days before Trump steps down and President-elect Joe Biden takes office.Executives of state-owned enterprises, officials of the Chinese Communist Party and military, along with oil giant CNOOC face new restrictions for allegedly using coercion against states with rival claims in the South China Sea.Senior U.S. officials told reporters on Thursday the new CNOOC restrictions would not apply to crude, refined fuels and liquid natural gas and do not apply to existing joint ventures with CNOOC that do not operate in the South China Sea.Nine Chinese firms were added to the Pentagon's list of companies with alleged ties to the Chinese military, including planemaker Comac and phone maker Xiaomi Corp.Those companies will be subject to a new US investment ban which forces American investors to divest holdings of the blacklisted firms by Nov. 11, 2021.Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian said in Beijing on Friday that China firmly opposed the new sanctions. "This action is against the trend of the times and is against its self-touted market competition and international economic trade rules," he said.In a statement later on Friday, China's Ministry of Commerce said the United States was using "all kinds of excuses" to suppress Chinese companies and urged Washington to correct its wrongdoings.The Biden transition team did not immediately respond to a request for comment.Shares in Xiaomi closed down 10% on Friday, against a 0.4% drop in the Hang Seng index, while CNOOC listed arm CNOOC Ltd fell 1.1%.China says US exploiting state powerThe United States has long opposed China's territorial claims in the South China Sea, a potentially resource-rich area that is also a trade route. Washington accuses Beijing of intimidating states such as Vietnam and the Philippines that have rival claims there.China accuses Washington of trying to destabilize the region by sending warships and planes to the South China Sea."The United States stands with Southeast Asian claimant states seeking to defend their sovereign rights and interests, consistent with international law," Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said in announcing the sanctions.Pompeo said Washington was imposing visa restrictions on executives of Chinese state-owned enterprises and officials of the Chinese Communist Party and navy.The sanctions were directed against those "responsible for, or complicit in, either the large-scale reclamation, construction, or militarization of disputed outposts in the South China Sea, or use of coercion against Southeast Asian claimants to inhibit their access to offshore resources."CNOOC 'intimidates China's neighbours'The Commerce Department accused CNOOC of harassing and threatening offshore oil and gas exploration and extraction in the South China Sea to drive up the political risk for its rivals, including Vietnam.Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross said CNOOC acted as "a bully for the People’s Liberation Army to intimidate China's neighbors" and the Chinese military "continues to benefit from government civil-military fusion policies for malign purposes."Ross's department added CNOOC to an "Entity List" that requires firms to be granted a special license before they can receive exports of high-tech items from U.S. suppliers.Chen Weidong, the Beijing-based founder of independent consultancy DFS Energy, said CNOOC had very limited exposure to U.S. expertise.The company "may still need some components and equipment like logging tools from the U.S. but that is not hard to replace and China may need to catch up in manufacturing by itself," Chen said.A second oil executive close to CNOOC said the offshore giant has increasingly turned to private local companies for services and the blacklist also could benefit engineering and equipment providers in Europe.Chinese aviation firm Skyrizon was added to a Military End-User (MEU) List over its ability to develop military products including aircraft engines, restricting its access to U.S. exports.Aside from Comac and Xiaomi, the Pentagon added Advanced Micro-Fabrication Equipment Inc (AMEC), Luokung Technology Corp, Beijing Zhongguancun Development Investment Center, GOWIN Semiconductor Corp, Grand China Air Co Ltd, Global Tone Communication Technology Co Ltd and China National Aviation Holding Co Ltd to the list.AMEC said it had no ties to China's military and the measures will have "no substantial impact on operations and production".Xiaomi said the company "is not owned, controlled or affiliated with the Chinese military" and it would take an appropriate course of action following the order.China's last week published new rules for countering laws and restrictions imposed by foreign countries.The Trump administration has pulled some punches against Beijing in its final days as the Treasury Department has eased hardline policies sought by other U.S. agencies.On Wednesday, it scrapped plans to blacklist Chinese tech giants Alibaba, Tencent and Baidu, amid pushback from Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, who is seen as more dovish on China, sources said.On Thursday, Treasury also issued a general license exempting U.S. securities exchanges from the investment ban for transactions with newly blacklisted Chinese companies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-administration-takes-final-swipes-at-china-and-its-companies-101610722086770.html
15-01-2021||World||Joe Biden is told trump may be Going but Trumpism lives on in Brazil||Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro’s government, which embraced both the Trump administration and its core ideals, wants President-elect Joe Biden to know that it’s not about to reverse course in response to the change of U.S. leadership.Instead, it expects Biden to realize that Brazil and the U.S. have many shared interests, including promoting democracy and security in Latin America, and are not on opposite sides regarding the environment, according to Foreign Minister Ernesto Araujo.“We hope that the new U.S. administration perceives our government for what it really is, for what the Brazilian people are and stand for,” Araujo said in an interview at his office in Brasilia on Thursday. “Both sides must make an effort for mutual understanding.”That type of mutual comprehension came easily with Donald Trump, not only because of his friendship with Bolsonaro but because Trump understood that Brazilians made a choice by electing the former army officer as their president, Araujo said. In exchange for Brazil’s alignment with U.S. positions, Trump lifted a ban on fresh-beef imports from the Latin American country, supported its bid to join the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, and signed deals for cooperation in defense and space exploration.Brazil, as Latin America’s largest economy, does more trade with the U.S. than any other country except China. Yet Bolsonaro has been publicly at odds with Biden since he threatened Brazil in a campaign debate with “significant economic consequences” if it didn’t act to preserve the Amazon. People familiar with Biden’s plans said in December that he would lead a united Western front to put pressure on Bolsonaro to adopt stricter environmental policies, following two years of international outrage over the spread of fires destroying the rainforest.Araujo, however, said that environmental concerns are overblown by local and international media. Brazil remains in the Paris Agreement, he said, and has made an important offer to bring forward its carbon neutrality goal in exchange for $10 billion a year from developing countries. He said that with the U.S. set to rejoin the global accord, there will be more money on the table for such payments.Conservatives SilencedBolsonaro, who styled himself a Brazilian version of Trump, publicly supported his candidacy and was one of the last world leaders to congratulate Biden for his victory. Last week, as rioters invaded the U.S. Capitol, the Brazilian president repeated claims that there had been “a lot of fraud” in the U.S. vote as well as during his own 2018 election -- which he claims he should have won in the first round of voting.Araujo declined to comment on the fraud allegations but said that concerns over voting systems in the U.S., Brazil and other countries are legitimate and must be addressed. He condemned the violence in Washington last week but cautioned that it can’t be used as an excuse to muzzle conservative voices around the world.“As much as nothing justifies the invasion, nothing justifies the curtailment of freedom of speech,” he said, criticizing Twitter Inc’s decision to ban Trump from the platform and accusing the company of removing thousands of his own followers for no clear reason. “It’s become a witch hunt,” Araujo said.The minister didn’t rule out the possibility that the type of protests seen in Washington could happen elsewhere, including in Brazil’s 2022 presidential election.“When people feel suffocated in their capacity to speak and hear, this can lead to serious problems in any country,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-is-told-trump-may-be-going-but-trumpism-lives-on-in-brazil-101610721242253.html
15-01-2021||World||Chinese authorities ask people to cut down on travel as Covid rises again||China reported the highest daily tally of Covid-19 cases in 10 months for Thursday, official data showed on Friday as authorities appealed to citizens to cut down on non-essential travel during the upcoming Chinese New Year (CNY) holidays when hundreds of millions visit their home towns.A total of 144 new Covid-19 cases were reported for January 14, the National Health Commission (NHC) said, with the numbers pushed up by 90 locally transmitted infections in the worst-hit northern province of Hebei.The new outbreak is centred in provinces in north and northeast China where more than 28 million people are currently under a strict lockdown.Of the new confirmed cases, 84 were in the provincial capital Shijiazhuang, including five previously reported asymptomatic cases. The other six cases were reported in the city of Xingtai, official news agency, Xinhua reported.By the end of Thursday, there were 553 locally transmitted confirmed cases and two imported cases being treated in hospitals in Hebei.Thursday’s 144 cases marked the highest daily increase since 202 cases were reported on March 1 last year.China on Thursday reported the first Covid-19-related death since May last year.Central authorities have appealed to the public to cut down on non-essential travel and restrict gatherings as the country gears up to celebrate the CNY or Spring Festival in February.Li Wenxin, deputy general manager of China National Railway Group, on Friday said that the pre-sale of railway tickets before the Spring Festival has dropped by nearly 60% compared with the same period in the previous year.It is expected that the national railway passenger flow during the Spring Festival transport will be reduced to 296 million passengers.The operator previously predicted that China would see 407 million railway passenger trips during the travel rush, state media reported.“As the Covid-19 pandemic rages globally, China faces sporadic and cluster cases, meaning that the epidemic prevention and control situation remains very severe and complicated,” said Lian Weiliang, deputy director of the National Development and Reform Commission, China’s top planning body.Meanwhile, China exported 224.2 billion masks between March and the end of December in 2020 to assist the international community in fighting Covid-19, official data showed.Among the exported masks, a total of 65bn are for medical use, according to the General Administration of Customs (GAC).The country has exported 773 million medical protective suits and 2.92bn pairs of surgical gloves during the same period to protect disease control personnel in the global fight against Covid-19.China also exported 1.08bn nucleic acid testing kits to provide support for Covid-19 test work worldwide and 271,000 ventilators in 2020.“We have capitalised on our position as the first country to take the lead in work resumption and the largest supplier of anti-epidemic materials,” said GAC spokesperson Li Kuiwen was quoted as saying in a Xinhua report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinese-authorities-ask-people-to-cut-down-on-travel-as-covid-rises-again-101610720560762.html
15-01-2021||World||New Brazilian coronavirus variant: What we know so far||A new variant of the coronavirus has been discovered in yet another part of the world. This time the mutated virus variant has been found in Brazil. Following the discovery of the new variant, the UK has proactively taken steps by imposing travel bans on various South American countries. British transport minister Grant Shapps said the new variant is significant enough to ban flights from South American countries as a leading scientist said that the variant has been detected in Britain. The country has also imposed travel bans on Portugal, given its travel links with Brazil.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19The World Health Organization (WHO) has, however, said that it is normal for viruses to mutate, however, the more it spreads, the more opportunities it gets to change.Here's what we know about the coronavirus variant in Brazil:1. The latest mutation of the virus was first detected in four people arriving in Japan's Tokyo from Amazonas in Brazil.2. Japan’s National Institute of Infectious Diseases (NIID) has said that the new variant comes from the B.1.1.248 lineage of the deadly virus and has 12 mutations, including N501Y and E484K, in its spike proteins. Spike proteins in a virus act as the main enablers to enter the host cell.3. NIID also said that the N501Y mutation is the same that was found in the UK strain of coronavirus called VOC-202012/01 implicated to increase transmissibility.4. The E484K mutation, also found in the South African variant, is said "to be an escape mutation from a monoclonal antibody which neutralize SARS-CoV-2 (Covid-19)". Research shows that this means it may be able to escape the antibodies provided by the vaccine.5. This particular mutation has been called "the most worrying of all" by Ravi Gupta, a professor of clinical microbiology at the University of Cambridge, according to The Independent6.The institute also said that a variant isolate with E484K belonging to B.1.1.248 was found in Brazil on January 6, but this variant is not similar to one identified in Japan.Also Read | UK, South Africa, Brazil, US: Variants of SARS-Cov-1 virus found so far7. A leading British virologist has said there are two different types of Brazilian variant and the one detected in Britain is not the cause of concern. "There are two different types of Brazilian variants and one of them has been detected (in the UK) and one of them has not," Wendy Barclay, the head of the department of infectious disease and chairperson in influenza virology at Imperial College London, was quoted as saying by Reuters.8. She also added, like the UK and South African variant, the new Brazilian variant is a cause 'of concern' and would be 'traced very carefully', as reported by Reuters.9. While there is no clear evidence of a vaccine being effective against the newfound variant, Pfizer and BioNTech have said that their shots work against N501Y mutation in the UK strain, as reported by The Independent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-brazilian-coronavirus-variant-what-we-know-so-far-101610719214917.html
15-01-2021||World||Joe Biden picks familiar faces for top roles at FEMA, CIA||President-elect Joe Biden is nominating New York emergency department commissioner Deanne Criswell to serve as the Federal Emergency Management Agency administrator and has tapped former CIA deputy director David Cohen to return to the agency in the same role he served during the Obama administration.The picks, along with a trio of other new nominations confirmed to The Associated Press by the Biden team, come as the president-elect is putting a premium on experience, and perhaps familiarity, as he looks to fill out top positions at federal agencies with less than a week to go before his inauguration.Biden also is tapping former Food and Drug Administration Commissioner David Kessler to help lead the Covid-19 vaccine drive. Kessler has been advising Biden as a co-chair of his advisory board on the coronavirus pandemic.The pick of Kessler comes after Biden on Thursday called the Trump administration’s rollout of coronavirus vaccines a “dismal failure” and says he will unveil his own plans on Friday to speed up inoculations.Criswell, who also spent more than five years in top posts at FEMA during the Obama administration, is the first woman nominated to head the agency, whose primary responsibility is to coordinate responses to major disasters inside the United States that require federal attention. Nancy Ward served as the agency's acting administrator in the early months of the Obama administration before his pick, Craig Fugate, could be confirmed.Cohen, who was deputy CIA director from 2015 to 2017, has traveled the world for years tracking money flowing to terror groups, such as the Islamic State group, and other bad actors on the international stage. His work directing the Treasury Department’s intelligence unit earlier in his career earned him the nicknames of “financial batman” and “sanctions guru.”In 2019, Cohen, who has been leading the financial and business integrity group at the law firm WilmerHale, made a cameo appearance on the HBO series “Game of Thrones.”Nominees are required to disclose details of their finances and complete ethics agreements as part of the confirmation process. Once confirmed, federal ethics laws can require the officials to recuse themselves from working on issues that could impact their previous business interests.Biden throughout the 2020 campaign lashed at President Donald Trump, saying he eroded public trust in government. Biden pledged his team will abide by “the highest ethical standards.”Cohen is not a registered lobbyist, but his firm does millions of dollars in lobbying work each year on behalf of clients that include the Beer Institute, Sinclair Broadcast Group, Walgreens and American Financial Group.The president-elect is also nominating Shalanda Young, the top staff aide for the House Appropriations Committee, to serve as deputy director at the Office of Management and Budget and Jason Miller, who was deputy director of the White House National Economic Council in Obama's administration, to serve as deputy director for management at the agency.Young brings a wealth of Capitol Hill experience in budget policy — and politics — to the budget office, along with close relationships with powerful House Democrats like Speaker Nancy Pelosi. Miller was steeped in manufacturing policy in the Obama administration, including an update of automobile fuel efficiency standards.Biden is tapping Janet McCabe, an environmental law and policy expert who spent more than seven years as a top official at the Environmental Protection Agency during the Obama administration to return to the agency as deputy administrator.“Each of them brings a deep respect for the civil servants who keep our republic running, as well as a keen understanding of how the government can and should work for all Americans,” Biden said of his picks in a statement. “I am confident that they will hit the ground running on day one with determination and bold thinking to make a meaningful difference in people’s lives.”Criswell has served as New York City’s emergency management commissioner since June 2019. In her earlier work at FEMA, Criswell served as the leader of one of the agency’s National Incident Management Assistance Teams and as a federal coordinating officer. In New York, part of her duties included leading the coordination of the city’s emergency response to the Covid-19 pandemic.Between her stints at FEMA and in New York, Criswell was a principal at Cadmus Group, a firm that provides homeland security management consulting and training services for federal, state and local government agencies and private sector companies. The company made about $68 million between the time she joined the firm in 2017 and when she left in June 2019, according to a tabulation of contract spending data from the site USASpending.gov.She also served as the head of the Office of Emergency Management for the city of Aurora, Colorado. Criswell also served in the Colorado Air National Guard, including 21 years as a firefighter and deputy fire chief with deployments to Qatar, Afghanistan and Iraq.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-picks-familiar-faces-for-top-roles-at-fema-cia-101610716386572.html
15-01-2021||World||Alarm in UK over fake news prompting non-whites to reject Covid vaccination||Many people from Indian, Asian and other non-white communities have been rejecting Covid-19 vaccines due to fake news about what they contain and their effect, prompting authorities to secure a “major commitment” from social media companies to clamp down on such material.The Boris Johnson government has launched an information campaign in over 600 publications, including those that have high proportions of ethnic minority readerships, translating core messages in various languages to allay concerns over the safety of the vaccines.“Letting vaccine disinformation spread unchecked could cost lives. We take this issue extremely seriously and have secured a major commitment from Facebook, Twitter and Google to tackle it by not profiting from such material, and by responding to flagged content more swiftly,” the health department said.“We continue to work closely with social media firms to promote authoritative sources of information so people have access to vaccine facts not fiction,” it added.Various studies have concluded that there is clear evidence that non-whites have been disproportionately affected by the virus with higher rates of infection, higher rates of serious disease and mortality. Vaccine-related fake news include disinformation that the jabs contain animal products or alcohol. As of January 13, the highest death toll among non-white patients was that of the ‘Indian’ group (1,453) in hospitals and care homes, according to NHS England.Nadhim Zahawi, minister responsible for Covid vaccine deployment, said: “Vaccines save lives and it is vitally important that everyone is confident to take up the offer of a vaccine”.“We recognise the importance of raising awareness of the myriad benefits of vaccination within Black, Asian and minority ethnic (BAME) communities, who are known to be more at risk from Covid-19. The NHS provides targeted advice and public information about the vaccination process to build awareness about its benefits.”A recent survey commissioned by the Royal Society of Public Health suggested that 57% of the non-white communities would be happy to have the coronavirus vaccine, compared to over 70% of the rest of the population.As of January 14, the number of people vaccinated with the first dose was 2,918,252 and 437,977 received the second dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/alarm-in-uk-over-fake-news-prompting-non-whites-to-reject-covid-vaccination-101610716482311.html
15-01-2021||World||Communications surveillance can come under security law: Hong Kong security chief||Hong Kong's security chief said on Friday that police surveillance of communications can come under the city's national security law, potentially giving officers broader powers of interception.John Lee, speaking at an online Legislative Council meeting on security, said the Committee of Safeguarding National Security would have oversight over such surveillance operations."If it involves crimes endangering national security, they will be dealt with the rules and mechanisms established under the National Security Law," Lee said."There are strict regulations on how to deal with the results obtained, when to destroy them, report changes in circumstances ... and the police must report to the National Security Commission to supervise the implementation of these rules."Beijing imposed the national security law on its freest city in June, punishing what it broadly defines as secession, sedition, terrorism and collusion with foreign forces with up to life in jail.Western governments and human rights groups are concerned that the security law is being used to crush dissent in the Chinese-ruled city. Authorities in Hong Kong and Beijing say the law is necessary to bring stability to the former British colony after a year of anti-government demonstrations.While Lee gave few more details of what the surveillance mechanisms would be under the security law, he said such operations would not be subject to rules under the financial hub's existing Interception of Communications and Surveillance Ordinance, under which law enforcement officers must obtain prior approval.Lee said in cases involving the confidentiality of information within the legal profession and lawyers' clients, those matters would be reported to judges and left for them to decide.About 100 people have been arrested under the security legislation so far, with some activists saying their phones have been checked or confiscated by authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/communications-surveillance-can-come-under-security-law-hong-kong-security-chief-101610708530579.html
15-01-2021||World||UK imposes travel restrictions amid worries of new variant||Britain’s government has banned travel from South America and Portugal to ensure a new variant of Covid-19 found in Brazil doesn’t derail the country’s vaccination program, although there are no signs the variant has reached the UK.Transport Secretary Grant Shapps said the ban, which took effect Friday morning, was extended to Portugal because many people who come to Europe from South America travel through Portugal.“We don’t have cases at the moment, but this is a precautionary approach,” Shapps told the BBC. “We want to make sure that we do everything possible so that vaccine rollout can continue and make sure that it’s not disturbed by other variants of this virus.”The announcement comes just a few weeks after many countries banned travel from the UK following the discovery of another variant of the virus that is more contagious than earlier varieties and has been blamed for a sharp rise in infections and deaths related to Covid-19. There is no indication, however, that the variant reacts any differently to the vaccines.But Portuguese Foreign Minister Augusto Santos Silva said the UK’s decision was “without logic” and said he would seek clarification from his British counterpart.“Suspending flights from Portugal with the argument of the connections between Portugal and Brazil is, with all due respect, completely absurd,” he said in an interview published online by the newspaper Diario de Noticias.The UK is ramping up its mass vaccination program as the government seeks to protect the country’s oldest and most vulnerable residents before easing a third national lockdown.More than 2.9 million people have received at least one dose of vaccine. Britain plans to give the first dose to more than 15 million people, including those over 70, frontline healthcare workers and others who are particularly vulnerable to the virus, by the middle of February.“We’re so close now that we want to make sure we do absolutely everything possible to give us the best chance of beating this virus, which is why it’s important that we do act quickly on these things,” Shapps said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-imposes-travel-restrictions-amid-worries-of-new-variant-101610714350224.html
15-01-2021||World||Indonesia quake kills 35, injures hundreds: What we know so far||A powerful earthquake hit the Indonesian island of Sulawesi early on Friday, killing at least 35 people, injuring hundreds and severely damaging buildings. Many are said to be trapped under debris after the 6.2-magnitude quake hit the island at around 1:28am (Jakarta time). The island was hit by a huge quake and tsunami two and a half years ago that killed thousands of people.What we know so far:1.The epicentre of the 6.2 magnitude earthquake was on land 6km northeast of Majene city, at a depth of 10km, as per Indonesia's Meteorology, Climatology and Geophysics Agency (BMKG).2. The earthquake killed 35 and injured hundreds in Majene and the neighbouring city of Mamuju. Around 15,000 people have fled their homes for safety, as per the country's disaster agency, reported news agency Reuters.3. The disaster agency had earlier reported 637 people injured in Majene and two dozen in Mamuju.4. While there were no alerts, BMKG's director Dwikorita Karnawati warned citizens of the possibility of aftershocks and another quake that can trigger a tsunami.5. There had been at least 26 aftershocks, with Friday's quake preceded by a quake of 5.9 magnitude the previous day, Reuters reported Karnawati as saying.6. Rescue work has begun with Indonesian Red Cross Team looking for survivors in the rubble and providing them with necessary first aid.7. More than 300 homes and two hotels were damaged by the natural disaster of such massive magnitude. The earthquake and aftershocks had also destroyed a hospital and the office of a regional governor, where authorities said many people were stuck under the rubble of collapsed buildings, reported Reuters.8. Critical medical and relief supplies are sent to the quake-affected areas by plane and land by the Indonesian Red Cross team. Ambulance crews have been sent with 92 additional volunteers, clean water tankers and production units, tarpaulins for shelter, face masks with 200 family relief kits to aid survivors of the devastating tragedy.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indonesia-quake-kills-35-injures-hundreds-what-we-know-so-far-101610713326533.html
15-01-2021||World||Travel ban over Brazil's Covid variant precautionary, says UK transport minister||A Brazilian variant of the coronavirus is significant enough to justify stopping flights from South America as a precaution, British transport minister Grant Shapps said on Friday, as a leading scientist said it had been detected in Britain.Britain will ban arrivals from South American countries and Portugal because of concerns over a new Brazilian variant of the coronavirus.The Brazilian variant shares some characteristics with those found in Britain and South Africa, which are believed by scientists to be more transmissible but not to cause more severe disease."As with the variant that we saw in Kent (southern England)or the one in South Africa, it's significantly enough of interest to us just to take this precautionary approach of stopping all those flights from Brazil (and) South America," Shapps told Sky News."Our scientists aren't saying that the vaccine won't work against it... (but) we do not want to be tripping up at this last moment (of vaccine rollout) which is why I took the decision as an extra precaution to ban those flights."Shapps later said scientists believed vaccines would work on the Brazilian variant, going further than the government's chief scientific adviser Patrick Vallance.Vallance on Wednesday said there wasn't evidence vaccines wouldn't work but said the Brazilian variant was more of a risk and "we don't know" if it would affect the immune response.A leading British virologist said the Brazilian variant had been traced in Britain."There are two different types of Brazilian variants and one of them has been detected (in the UK) and one of them has not," Wendy Barclay, virologist at Imperial College London, told journalists, adding it was "early days" in the understanding of the variants.Along with UK and South African variants, the Brazilian variant is "of concern" and would be "traced very carefully," she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/travel-ban-over-brazil-s-covid-variant-precautionary-says-uk-transport-minister-101610712329221.html
15-01-2021||World||Russia to reopen schools as Covid-19 case tally passes 3.5 million||Russia will fully reopen schools across the country from next week and the second wave of the Covid-19 outbreak may have passed its peak, authorities said on Friday, as the national case tally passed the 3.5 million mark.Teenage schoolchildren were switched to remote, online learning in October as part of a set of targeted restrictions to curb the spread of the virus that stopped well short of a stringent lockdown like Russia imposed in spring.All schools are now reopening apart from 10 of them that have been specially quarantined, Education Minister Sergei Kravtsov was quoted as saying by Interfax news agency.Natalya Pshenichnaya, an official at the Rospotrebnadzor consumer watchdog, said the epidemic appeared to be stabilising overall despite localised discrepancies."...We can assume that the infection peak has already passed," she was quoted as saying by Interfax.Authorities have detected around 1,500 mutations of the coronavirus since the pandemic began, Anna Popova, Rospotrebnadzor's head, was quoted as saying.Russia, which has the world's fourth-highest number of Covid-19 cases, plans to begin mass vaccinations next week.The country has two registered vaccines and is expected to approve a third one in the next several days, according to Popova.Earlier on Friday, authorities confirmed 24,715 new infections in the last 24 hours. Officials also reported 555 new deaths, taking the official death toll to 64,495.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russia-to-reopen-schools-as-covid-19-case-tally-passes-3-5-million-101610712095957.html
15-01-2021||World||International Covid-19 vaccine poll shows higher mistrust of Russia, China shots||People across the world are generally likely to say yes to getting a Covid-19 vaccine, but would be more distrustful of shots made in China or Russia than those developed in Germany or the United States, an international poll showed on Friday.The survey, conducted by the polling company YouGov and shared exclusively with Reuters, found Britons and Danes were the most willing to take the Covid-19 vaccine when it becomes available to them, while the French and Poles were more likely to be hesitant.The poll was based on questions put to almost 19,000 people.It also found that willingness to take the Covid-19 vaccine has been improving in many countries in recent weeks, just as shots developed by companies in the United States, Russia, China, Germany and Britain were starting to be delivered and administered in countries across Europe, North America and Asia.In Britain, 73% of people said they would get vaccinated, while in Denmark the number was 70%.In the United States, however, just less than half of those surveyed said they would be willing to have a Covid-19 vaccine, a figure that has remained broadly stable since July.More than a third of people surveyed in Poland and almost half in France - 37% and 48% respectively - said they would say no to a Covid-19 shot if offered it.WAIT AND SEEConfidence among populations about vaccines will be a key factor in governments' efforts to curb the rate of infections in the year-long SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus pandemic, which has infected more than 92 million people worldwide and killed at least 1.98 million.A study published by vaccine confidence researchers in November found that conspiracy theories and misinformation fuels mistrust and could push Covid-19 shot uptake rates below levels needed to protect communities against the disease.Friday's YouGov poll found that, while sizeable minorities in many countries said they would not take the Covid-19 vaccine now, most gave their reason as preferring to wait and see if the vaccines were safe, and few were driven by entrenched "anti-vaxxer" views.In France, for example, the proportion of the population saying they'd refuse the vaccine because they were "opposed to vaccines in general" was highest at 9%, but still far lower than the percentage who would reject a Covid-19 vaccine specifically.With Covid-19 vaccine production and delivery beginning to ramp up, the YouGov poll also surveyed attitudes to compulsory Covid-19 vaccination - a policy under discussion by some governments to try and get as many people as possible immunised.Such a move was most popular in India at 77%, Indonesia at 71% and Mexico at 65%. Britons were split, with 40% supportive and 42% opposed, Americans tended to oppose the idea, at 46% compared with only 29% who would back mandatory vaccinations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/international-covid-19-vaccine-poll-shows-higher-mistrust-of-russia-china-shots-101610711719540.html
15-01-2021||World||US rioters sought to 'capture and assassinate' lawmakers at Capitol: Prosecutors||US prosecutors now believe supporters of President Donald Trump planned to "capture and assassinate elected officials" in their siege of the Capitol building last week, according to a new court filing.The filing, submitted by Justice Department lawyers late Thursday, sought the detention of Jacob Chansley of Arizona, the QAnon conspiracy theorist pictured in the riot dressed as a horned shaman at the desk of Vice President Mike Pence."Strong evidence, including Chansley's own words and actions at the Capitol, supports that the intent of the Capitol rioters was to capture and assassinate elected officials in the United States government," prosecutors said of the January 6 siege.They said Chansley, 33, left a note for Pence at the dais in the Senate Chamber where the second-in-command had been standing just minutes before, which read: "it's only a matter of time, justice is coming."The filing gives further insight into the FBI probe on the day of chaos at the center of American democracy, which left elected officials holed up fearing for their lives and at least five people dead, including one police officer.It comes as authorities lay charges against individuals involved in the riot, including a man who flew the confederate flag inside the building, a man who wore a "Camp Auschwitz" sweatshirt and a US Olympic swimming gold medalist.Chansley is due to appear in court on Friday.Prosecutors said he is a regular drug user and likely has mental health problems."Chansley has spoken openly about his belief that he is an alien, a higher being, and he is here on Earth to ascend to another reality," the filing read.Prosecutors requested he be detained as he "poses serious risks of flight and danger to the community."Chansley subscribes to QAnon, the far-right conspiracy theory blamed for fueling a section of Trump's supporters at the Capitol building.Social media platforms have started cracking down on its followers, who believe Trump is waging a secret war on a liberal cult of Satan-worshipping pedophiles.In a bipartisan vote, Trump was impeached Wednesday for "incitement of insurrection" by egging on a huge crowd of his supporters to march on Congress.The center of Washington was in lockdown early Friday as more than 20,000 armed National Guard troops were mobilized after officials warned of the threat of more violence at the presidential inauguration of Joe Biden on January 20, as well as in state capitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-rioters-sought-to-capture-and-assassinate-lawmakers-at-capitol-prosecutors-101610707730794.html
15-01-2021||World||Nepal approves AstraZeneca Covid vaccine for emergency use||Nepal on Friday granted approval for AstraZeneca's COVISHIELD vaccine against the novel coronavirus in the country."Conditional permission has been granted for emergency use authorization of COVISHIELD vaccine against Covid-19 in Nepal," a statement by the country's Department of Drug Administration said.Nepal has reported 266,816 cases and 1,948 deaths from Covid-19 so far, according to official data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nepal-approves-astrazeneca-covid-vaccine-for-emergency-use-101610707935160.html
15-01-2021||World||Covid-19: Japan seeks mid-February Pfizer vaccine approval, says health minister||Japan’s health minister said he’s hoping Pfizer Inc.’s coronavirus vaccine will be approved by mid-February under an accelerated process.The comments from Norihisa Tamura came after Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga reiterated this week that the government was preparing to start the inoculation program in late February, and added that local governments were readying vaccination centers.“We need to do it as fast as possible,” Tamura said Friday in an interview with Bloomberg at his offices in Tokyo. “If all goes well, I would like to see the approval in about mid-February.”Data from overseas has already been examined, while information from Pfizer’s trials in Japan is set to arrive before the end of this month and will be analyzed to reach a final decision, he said.Japan is set to begin its vaccination process about two months later than the U.S., because of its requirement for extra trials conducted on Japanese people. The vaccines will be provided free of charge, and medical personnel will get top priority, followed by the elderly. Suga, 72, has said he will be among the first to receive the vaccine.The government has sealed a contract for 120 million doses of the Pfizer BioNTech vaccine, enough for 60 million of the country’s 126 million population, by the end of June. Pfizer is the only company so far to have applied for emergency approval for its vaccine, but Japan also has contracts with Moderna Inc., AstraZeneca Plc and Novavax Inc.Clinical trials in Japan of the Moderna vaccine will be conducted from late January, with second doses to be completed in early March, and blood samples sent to the U.S. a month after that, Tamura said. The Moderna vaccine may benefit from the accelerated process used for the Pfizer version, with the application accepted before the Japan trial data is submitted, Tamura said.Asked about the U.K. plan to roll out single doses of vaccines to more people before administering second doses, Tamura said Japan was not thinking of following suit but would be monitoring the results.A poll carried out by the Yomiuri newspaper in December found that 84% of respondents wanted to be vaccinated, but only 15% wanted to receive their dose immediately. The remaining 69% said they were in no rush.Japan has so far recorded just over 4,000 deaths from the coronavirus, compared with about 86,000 in the U.K., whose population is approximately half the size.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-japan-seeks-mid-february-pfizer-vaccine-approval-says-health-minister-101610703229142.html
15-01-2021||World||China builds new quarantine center as coronavirus cases rise||A city in northern China is building a 3,000-unit quarantine facility to deal with an anticipated overflow of patients as Covid-19 cases rise ahead of the Lunar New Year travel rush.State media on Friday showed crews leveling earth, pouring concrete and assembling pre-fabricated rooms in farmland outside Shijiazhuang, the provincial capital of Hebei province that has seen the bulk of new cases.That recalled scenes last year, when China rapidly built field hospitals and turned gymnasiums into isolation centers to cope with the initial outbreak linked to the central city of Wuhan.China has largely contained further domestic spread of the coronavirus, but the recent spike has raised concerns due to the proximity to the capital Beijing and the impending rush of people planning to travel large distances to rejoin their families for country’s most important traditional festival.The National Health Commission on Friday said 1,001 patients were under care for the disease, 26 of them in serious condition. It said that 144 new cases were recorded over the past 24 hours. Hebei accounted for 90 of the new cases, while Heilongjiang province farther north reported 43.Nine cases were brought from outside the country, while local transmissions also occurred in the southern Guangxi region and the northern province of Shaanxi, illustrating the virus’ ability to move through the vast country of 1.4 billion people despite quarantines, travel restrictions and electronic monitoring.Shijiazhuang has been placed under virtual lockdown, along with the Hebei cities of Xingtai and Langfang, parts of Beijing and other cities in the northeast. That has cut off travel routes while more than 20 million people have been told to stay home for the coming days.In all, China has reported 87,988 confirmed cases with 4,635 deaths.The spike in northern China comes as World Health Organization experts prepare to collect data on the origin of the pandemic after arriving Thursday in Wuhan, where the coronavirus was first detected in late 2019. Team members must undergo two weeks of quarantine before they can begin field visits.Two of the 15 members were held up in Singapore over their health status. One of those, a British national, was approved for travel Friday after testing negative for the coronavirus, while the second, a Sudanese citizen from Qatar, had again tested positive, the Foreign Ministry announced.The visit was approved by President Xi Jinping’s government after months of diplomatic wrangling that prompted an unusual public complaint by the head of WHO.That delay, along with Beijing's tight control of information and promotion of theories the pandemic began elsewhere, added to speculation that China is seeking to prevent discoveries that chisel away at its self-proclaimed status as a leader in the battle against the virus.Scientists suspect the virus that has killed more than 1.9 million people since late 2019 jumped to humans from bats or other animals, most likely in China’s southwest.Former WHO official Keiji Fukuda, who is not on the team, cautioned against raising expectations for any breakthroughs from the visit, saying that it may take years before any firm conclusions can be made.“China is going to want to come out avoiding blame, perhaps shifting the narrative, they want to come across as being competent and transparent,” he told The Associated Press in an interview from Hong Kong.For its part, the WHO wants to project the image that it is “taking, exerting leadership, taking and doing things in a timely way," said Fukuda.In Wuhan, street life appeared little different from other Chinese cities where the virus has been largely brought under control.In a riverside park, senior citizens gathered to drink and dance while residents had praise overall for the government's response to the crisis.“Other countries are not very supportive and don’t pay attention to the pandemic, people go out arbitrarily, and they hang out and gather together, so it’s especially easy for them to be infected," resident Xiang Nan said. “I hope they can stay home, and reduce traveling ... don’t let the pandemic spread further anymore."China is also pushing ahead with inoculations using home-developed vaccines, with more than 9 million already vaccinated and plans for 50 million to have the shot by the middle of next month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-builds-new-quarantine-center-as-coronavirus-cases-rise-101610706003320.html
15-01-2021||World||Iran’s Revolutionary Guard holds ballistic missile drill amid tensions||Iran’s paramilitary Revolutionary Guard forces on Friday held a military exercise involving ballistic missiles and drones in the country's central desert, state TV reported, amid heightened tensions over Tehran’s nuclear program and a US pressure campaign against the Islamic Republic.In the first phase of the drill Friday morning, the Guard’s aerospace division launched several surface-to-surface ballistic missiles against simulated enemy bases, state TV reported. It said the drill included Zolfaghar and Dezful solid-fuel ballistic missiles. Bomb-carrying drones were also deployed. The Dezful, a version of the Zolfaghar, has a 700-kilometer (430-mile) range and 450-kilogram (992-pound) warhead.Iran has missile capability of up to 2,000 kilometers (1,250 miles), far enough to reach archenemy Israel and US military bases in the region. Last January, after the US killed a top Iranian general in Baghdad, Tehran retaliated by firing a barrage of ballistic missiles at two Iraqi bases housing US troops, resulting in brain concussion injuries to dozens of them.In recent weeks, Iran has increased its military drills. On Wednesday, Iran’s navy held a two-day short-range missile drill in the Gulf of Oman. On Saturday, the Revolutionary Guard held a naval parade in the Persian Gulf. A week earlier, Iran held a massive drone maneuver across half the country.Tensions are again rising in the waning days of the administration of President Donald Trump, as Iran ramps up pressure on the West over the US sanctions campaign against the Islamic Republic.Trump in 2018 unilaterally withdrew the US from Iran’s nuclear deal, in which Tehran had agreed to limit its uranium enrichment in exchange for the lifting of economic sanctions. Trump cited Iran’s ballistic missile program among other issues in withdrawing from the accord.When the US then increased sanctions, Iran gradually and publicly abandoned the deal’s limits on its nuclear development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/irans-revolutionary-guard-holds-ballistic-missile-drill-amid-tensions-101610704822849.html
15-01-2021||World||China's monetary policy to support 2021 economic recovery||China's monetary policy will provide the support needed for its continued economic recovery in 2021, a vice governor at the People's Bank of China (PBOC) said on Friday.Backed by tough coronavirus containment measures and emergency relief for businesses, the world's second-largest economy has largely recovered to pre-pandemic levels, but a resurgence of infections worldwide and in parts of China is keeping policymakers cautious."The prudent monetary policy will be more flexible, targeted and appropriate, and will continue to maintain the necessary support for the economic recovery," Chen Yulu told a news conference, adding the central bank will prioritise policy stability and avoid making sudden shifts.Speaking at the same briefing, the head of the PBOC's monetary policy department Sun Guofeng said current interest rate levels are appropriate and the central bank will use various policy tools to ensure reasonably ample liquidity.The central bank has rolled out a raft of measures, including cuts in interest rates and reserve ratios since early-2020 to support the virus-hit economy, but it has shifted to a steadier stance in recent months as the recovery solidified.At a key agenda-setting meeting in December, Chinese leaders pledged to maintain proactive fiscal policy and make monetary policy flexible and targeted.China's weighted average corporate lending rate was 4.61% at the end of 2020, down 51 basis points from a year ago, Chen said, reflecting authorities' goal to bring down borrowing costs for cash-strapped businesses. He said China's consumer prices are likely to rise moderately this year.The central bank will continue to reduce corporate borrowing costs in 2021, Sun added.Policy sources told Reuters in December that while the PBOC would scale down support for the economy in 2021, fears of derailing a recovery are likely to prevent it from tightening monetary policy anytime soon.Chinese banks made a record 19.63 trillion yuan ($3.03 trillion) in new loans in 2020, up 16.8% from 2019.Sun also said that two-way fluctuations in the yuan currency will become normal going forward.The central bank will keep the yuan basically stable at a reasonable level, Sun said, reiterating the central bank's current stance.The yuan gained nearly 7% against the US dollar in 2020 and has continued to rally into the new year, though there have been signs recently that policymakers are growing uneasy over its rapid gains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinas-monetary-policy-to-support-2021-economic-recovery-101610704826273.html
15-01-2021||World||US retains Lashkar’s terror tag, casts a shadow over Pak’s chances at FATF||The US administration has reviewed and retained the Foreign Terrorist Organisation (FTO) designation for the Lashkar-e-Tayyiba along with seven other groups including the Pakistan-based Lashkar-i-Jhangvi, a US State Department statement has said. The Lashkar-e-Tayyiba was first notified as a terror group by the United States in December 2001.The US State Department order comes ahead of the Financial Action Task Force meeting next month that will assess the progress made by Pakistan to curb terror financing. The global watchdog didn’t seem to agree with Islamabad’s pitch that it was taking concrete steps to fix gaps in its laws to check terror financing and should be taken off the grey list. At the end of the last review in October, FATF president Marcus Pleyer cautioned that Pakistan could not take forever to deliver on its commitments and repeated failure to deliver would result in the country being put in the blacklist.Pakistan was put in FATF’s grey list in 2018 after the global money laundering and terrorist financing watchdog pointed out failing to control terror financing and money laundering.But Islamabad is yet to take any concrete action and the Pakistani deep state continues to support terrorist activities in India and Afghanistan. Over the last month, however, Pakistan has gone on an overdrive to impress the FATF.Last week, a Pakistani court sentenced Lashkar-e-Tayyiba commander Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi to 15 years jail in a terror-financing case. Another judge issued arrest warrants for Jaish-e-Mohammed chief Masood Azhar, who Pakistan has claimed for years was not in Pakistan.New Delhi has, however, pointed out that neither of the two designated terrorists had been charged for terrorist acts. Pakistan’s “farcical actions” appeared to be aimed at an upcoming review by the FATF of the country’s efforts to counter terror financing, India’s external affairs ministry Anurag Srivastava said in response, pressing for “credible action” against Pakistan against terror groups.The US State Department decision to continue treating the Lashkar-e-Tayyiba as a terror organisation, an Indian official said, suggests that it is as potent as ever despite cosmetic steps taken by Islamabad.The order comes weeks after Pakistan convinced the UN Security Council 1267 sanctions committee to let Lashkar’s Zaki-ur Rehman Lakhvi withdraw Pakistani ₹1.5 lakh from his bank accounts. Last year, Pakistan had secured a similar concession for Lashkar chief Hafiz Saeed, also a UNSC designated terrorist.The new State Department order has also expanded the Foreign Terrorist Organisation order to cover new aliases for the Pakistan-based Lashkar-i-Jhangvi. The terrorist designations of Lashkar-i-Jhangvi (LJ) and ISIL Sinai Peninsula (ISIL-SP) have been amended to include additional aliases, the department spokesperson said in a statement.FTO and Specially Designated Global Terrorists designations seek to deny these terrorist organisations the resources to plan and carry out terrorist attacks. Among other consequences of designations, all of the groups’ property and interests that are within the United States or that come within the United States or that come within the possession or control of U.S. persons, are blocked, and U.S. persons are generally prohibited from engaging in any transactions with them. In addition, as designated FTOs, it is a federal crime to knowingly provide, or attempt or conspire to provide, material support or resources to them, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-retains-lashkar-s-terror-tag-casts-a-shadow-over-pak-s-chances-at-fatf-101610703867075.html
15-01-2021||World||PIA plane 'held back' by Malaysian authorities over UK court case||A Pakistan International Airlines plane has been held back by Malaysian authorities over a British court case, the airline said on Friday, adding that it would pursue the matter through diplomatic channels.The Boeing 777 aircraft was seized after a court order, an airline spokesman said, and alternative arrangements were being made for passengers due to fly back to Pakistan."A PIA aircraft has been held back by a local court in Malaysia taking a one-sided decision pertaining to a legal dispute between PIA and another party pending in a UK court," a PIA spokesman said in a statement.The national carrier in a statement described the situation as "unacceptable" and said it had asked for support from Pakistan's government to raise the matter diplomatically.The company did not say where the plane was being held. The spokesman told Reuters that the matter related to an arbitration case over payments being heard in a UK court. Further details of the case were not immediately available.Malaysian authorities did not immediately respond to a request for comment.With more than $4 billion in accumulated losses, PIA was already struggling financially when flights were grounded last year due to the pandemic.As it resumed operations in May, a domestic PIA flight crash in Karachi killed 97 of 99 people on board.Pakistan’s aviation industry was then hit by a scandal in which pilots were found to hold “dubious” licences – prompting a number of countries to ban PIA from operating flights in their jurisdictions.The airline was banned from flying to the European Union for six months over safety compliance concerns under a ban still in place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pia-plane-held-back-by-malaysian-authorities-over-uk-court-case-101610703545046.html
15-01-2021||World||Indonesia quake kills at least 35, injures hundreds||A powerful earthquake killed at least 35 people and injured hundreds on Indonesia's island of Sulawesi on Friday, trapping several under rubble and unleashing dozens of aftershocks as authorities warned of more quakes that could trigger a tsunami.Thousands of frightened residents fled their homes for higher ground when the magnitude 6.2-quake struck 6 km (3.73 miles) northeast of the town of Majene, at a depth of just 10 km, shortly before 1.30 a.m.The quake and aftershocks damaged more than 300 homes and two hotels, as well as flattening a hospital and the office of a regional governor, where authorities told Reuters several people have been trapped under the rubble."Praise be to God, for now OK, but we just felt another aftershock," said Sukri Efendy, a 26-year-old resident of the area.As many as 35 people have been killed in Majene and in the neighbouring district of Mamuju, with more deaths likely to be confirmed as rescue workers fan out, said Darno Majid, the chief of the disaster agency in West Sulawesi.The heightened seismic activity set off three landslides, severed electricity supplies, and damaged bridges linking to regional hubs, such as the city of Makassar.Initial information from the national disaster mitigation agency showed 637 injured in Majene, and two dozen in Mamuju.No tsunami warning was issued but the head of Indonesia's Meteorology and Geophysics Agency (BMKG), Dwikorita Karnawati, told a news conference that aftershocks could follow, with a possibility that another powerful quake could trigger a tsunami.There had been at least 26 aftershocks, she said, with Friday's quake preceded by a quake of 5.9 magnitude the previous day.Pictures of the aftermath appeared on social media as the head of the disaster agency and social affairs minister prepared to visit.Videos showed residents fleeing to higher ground on motorcycles, and a young girl trapped under rubble as people tried to shift debris with their hands.President Joko Widodo offered condolences to the victims in a video statement, urging people to stay calm and authorities to step up search efforts.Key tasks for officials are restoring telecoms and bridge links and ensuring delivery of tents, food and medical supplies, said West Sulawesi provincial government spokesman Safaruddin.About 15,000 people have fled their homes since the quake, the disaster agency has said, with the coronavirus pandemic likely to complicate aid distribution."It is certainly one of the most challenging, this (disaster) was one of our fears and now we are putting all of that planning and protocols into place," said Jan Gelfand, head of the International Federation of Red Cross in Indonesia.Straddling the so-called Pacific Ring of Fire, Indonesia is regularly hit by earthquakes.In 2018, a devastating 6.2-magnitude quake and subsequent tsunami struck the city of Palu, in Sulawesi, killing thousands.A 9.1-magnitude quake off the north of Sumatra island triggered a tsunami on Boxing Day in 2004 that lashed coastal areas of Indonesia, Sri Lanka, India, Thailand and nine other nations, killing more than 230,000 people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indonesia-quake-kills-at-least-35-injures-hundreds-101610701357994.html
15-01-2021||World||Russia to announce exit from Open Skies Treaty: Report||Russia will announce its exit from the Open Skies treaty in the coming days, a pact that allows unarmed surveillance flights over member countries, the Kommersant newspaper cited unnamed official sources as saying on Friday.Russia will exit the treaty six months after notifying other members of its departure, unless it changes its mind in the interim, Kommersant said.The United States left the arms control and verification treaty in November, accusing Russia of violating it, something Moscow denied.Russia has raised concerns that, despite the U.S. exit, Washington could potentially retain access to overflight intelligence gathered by allies who remain members in the treaty.Kommersant said Moscow had tried to get guarantees from other countries that they would not share such intelligence with Washington, but had not been given any assurances.The report about Russia's possible departure from the treaty comes ahead of U.S. president-elect Joe Biden's Jan. 20 inauguration.New START, the last remaining major nuclear arms control treaty between Moscow and Washington, is set to expire next month. Biden has said he's keen to renew it, but it remains unclear for how long.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russia-to-announce-exit-from-open-skies-treaty-report-101610701677257.html
15-01-2021||World||Dubai-based Indian teenager helps recycle 25 tonnes of e-waste||A Dubai-based 15-year-old Indian girl has launched a campaign, which helped in the recycling of 25 tonnes of electronic waste in the Gulf nation, according to a media report on Friday.Riva Tulpule, a student of grade 10, got the idea to start the campaign while clearing out drawers filled with broken devices in 2016, the Gulf News reported.While shifting to a new house a few years ago, Tulpule found lots of disused electronics while helping her mom clear out drawers. This sparked the beginning of her campaign ‘WeCareDXB’ that she said has collected over 25 tonnes of e-waste for recycling in over four years, the report said."I had asked my mom why we can’t we just dispose the items we don’t need. She told me they need to be tacked in a special way but we were not sure exactly how to go about it. So that made me curious and I decided to do some research into it, which led me to this cause," Tulpule was quoted as saying by the report.She said many people just dump old devices and appliances in the general waste as they are not aware of the options for recycling them.Raising awareness through social media and word of mouth, WeCareDXB has enlisted volunteers — students, professionals, the general public — to collect the items for recycling e-waste.Tulpule, a student of GEMS Modern Academy, got in touch with Dubai-based EnviroServe, an electronics recycler and processor, to hand over the collected items.In December last, she held her latest collection round, rallying friends and the wider community to drop off over 2,000 broken laptops, tabs, mobile phones, printers, keyboards and other items. Over 60 students from 15 schools had signed up for the 10-day campaign.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/dubaibased-indian-teenager-helps-recycle-25-tonnes-of-ewaste-101610701122944.html
15-01-2021||World||Committed to orderly transfer of power, safe Inauguration: Mike Pence||Outgoing US Vice President Mike Pence said that the outgoing administration was committed to an orderly transfer of power and a safe inauguration ceremony of the new president.Speaking at a meeting with the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), Pence, as quoted by Sputnik said, "We are committed to an orderly transition and to a safe Inauguration. The American people deserve nothing less."The outgoing vice president said that the transfer of power must be done in a way that is consistent with US traditions and that "gives honor to the American people."More than 7,000 National Guard troops have been deployed in the city since the January 6 breaching of the Capitol building. Some 2,000 are tasked with overseeing security at the inauguration itself, while an estimated 20,000-strong force will be spread out across the city to quash any perceived security risks.Sputnik reported that the inauguration ceremony itself will be devoid of public attendance and much of Washington DC's monuments and squares will be closed off.Biden would be sworn in on January 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/committed-to-orderly-transfer-of-power-safe-inauguration-mike-pence-101610700576015.html
15-01-2021||World||Norway says Covid-19 vaccines may be too risky for elderly, terminally sick||Norway says there are risks that Covid-19 vaccinations may be too risky for the very old and terminally sick, after 23 people died within a short time of receiving their first shot.Of those deaths, 13 have so far been autopsied with the results suggesting that common side effects may have contributed to severe reactions in frail, elderly people, according to the Norwegian Medicines Agency.“For those with the most severe frailty, even relatively mild vaccine side effects can have serious consequences,” the Norwegian Institute of Public Health said. “For those who have a very short remaining life span anyway, the benefit of the vaccine may be marginal or irrelevant.”Norway has so far given at least one dose to about 33,000 people, focusing on those considered to be most at risk if they contract the virus, including the elderly. Most of the shots given are from BioNTec/Pfizer, with the Moderna vaccine now also being administered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/norway-says-covid-19-vaccines-may-be-too-risky-for-elderly-terminally-sick-101610700562188.html
15-01-2021||World||Kim Jong Un unveils new submarine missile threat as Donald Trump exits||North Korea held its second major military parade in three months to mark a rare party meeting, showing off nuclear advances including a new submarine-launched ballistic missile as Donald Trump leaves office.Kim Jong Un’s regime held the parade in Kim Il Sung Square in central Pyongyang on Thursday evening to mark the end of its first Party Congress in five years, the state’s Korean Central News Agency said. The delegates approved plans to bolster a sanctions-hit economy that last year likely headed to its biggest contraction in two decades.The parade, broadcast on state television Friday afternoon, appeared to be smaller than an October military march, at which North Korea unveiled what was likely the world’s largest road-ready intercontinental ballistic missile, designed to carry multiple nuclear warheads to the U.S.One of the longest-range weapons unveiled at the latest parade was the Pukguksong-5, a new version of a submarine-launched ballistic missile. North Korea last tested a Pukguksong-3 in October 2019, which had an estimated range of 1,900 kilometers (1,200 miles) -- capable of striking its arch-enemy Japan.“The world’s most powerful weapon, submarine-launch ballistic missile, entered the square one after another, powerfully demonstrating the might of the revolutionary armed forces,” KCNA said Friday. Last week, the regime said it would modernize its nuclear warheads and ballistic missiles, as well as enhance its ability to launch quick and devastating strikes.The show of force demonstrated the progress North Korea has made on its nuclear program in the face of Trump’s unprecedented move to meet Kim face-to-face in an effort to neutralize one of the U.S.’s biggest security threats. Kim last week signaled a challenge to Biden, saying he would focus on “subduing” the U.S. and continuing to enhance his nuclear capability to ensure North Korea’s “autonomic development.”The parade featured thousands of goose-stepping soldiers marching in tight formations as Kim watched -- clad in a black leather trench coat and fur hat on a night that temperatures dipped below freezing. Using a multitude of cameras, including shots with drones, the program also showed throngs of North Korean citizens waving flags and flowers to columns of tanks, armored vehicles and ballistic missiles while an orchestra performed through the festivities.North Korea has the “world’s strongest weapon,” a news presenter said, as the state’s KCTV unveiled its new Pukguksong-5, adding the “power of North Korea will reach to the universe.”North Korea said this month that its weapons plans include making smaller and lighter nuclear weapons, proceeding with the development of large warheads and improving the ability to strike targets within 15,000 kilometers (9,320 miles) -- capable of reaching all of the continental U.S. Kim is seeking to develop solid-fuel intercontinental ballistic missiles, while strengthening intelligence-gathering capabilities with satellites.“If hostile forces compromise the security of our state, we will preemptively mobilize our strongest offensive forces to thoroughly punish, and protect the safety of our country and people,” Kim Jong Gwan, People’s Armed Forces Minister, said in an address.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kim-jong-un-unveils-new-submarine-missile-threat-as-donald-trump-exits-101610700108335.html
15-01-2021||World||Donald Trump blacklisting jolts China’s ambitions to take on Boeing||A U.S. move to increase pressure on Chinese companies could threaten the nation’s ambitions to compete with Boeing Co. and Airbus SE.The Trump administration’s addition of Commercial Aircraft Corp. of China, better known as Comac, to a Defense Department list of companies with alleged Chinese military ties comes just days after a breakthrough in the state-backed jet manufacturer’s effort to win customers when an Indonesian airline agreed to buy its planes.A spokesperson for Comac had no immediate comment.If President-elect Joe Biden doesn’t reverse the move, American investors will be prohibited from buying securities of companies on the list, and will have to divest their holdings by November. That won’t impact Comac because it’s not publicly traded, but other companies Trump initially put on such lists -- including Comac shareholder Aviation Industry Corp. of China -- have since found themselves targets for more severe sanctions, including curbs on access to American technology.That could be potentially crippling for Comac, which relies on American imports for its jet engines and other parts, according to Shukor Yusof, founder and aviation analyst at Endau Analytics.“China doesn’t have the domestic capability to provide the necessary components so they’re very much reliant on U.S. components,” Yusof said.Parts RelianceComac’s C919, a narrow-body alternative to Boeing’s 737 model and Airbus’s A320, is in its test phase. About 60% of the main suppliers to the C919 are American companies, according to a report by the Center for Strategic & International Studies, a Washington-based think tank.“The engines are the hardest part,” Bloomberg Intelligence senior analyst George Ferguson said. “There are only two and both have American leads: GE and Raytheon.”If Comac were shifted to the U.S. Commerce Department’s Military End-User List, which sees companies denied access to American technology without specific permission, it would be “impossible” to source engines for the C919 without a waiver from the U.S. government, Ferguson said.After being blacklisted as having military links in December, China National Offshore Oil Corp., or Cnooc, was shifted to the Military End-User List on Thursday. AVIC, a state-owned conglomerate that owns part of Comac, was first identified as military-linked in June and by year-end the group and several of its subsidiaries had been moved to the Military End-User List.First OrderHong Kong-based China Aircraft Leasing Group Holdings Ltd. on Jan. 8 said it would provide Indonesian airline PT Transnusa Aviation Mandiri with 30 ARJ21 regional jets, making the carrier the first airline outside China to fly Comac planes.China Aircraft Leasing declined to comment on the most recent developments while Transnusa Vice Chairman Leo Budiman said Comac’s blacklisting won’t affect the carrier’s plans.“If the pandemic situation is improving, we are hoping to start receiving deliveries of the aircraft starting next year,” Budiman said in a phone interview Friday.Transnusa is waiting for regulatory clearance to operate the ARJ21 -- developed as a competitor to Embraer SA’s E-Jets -- in Indonesia, including a decision that the fleet will have the necessary infrastructure for maintenance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-blacklisting-jolts-china-s-ambitions-to-take-on-boeing-101610698936096.html
15-01-2021||World||Washington made a fortress for inauguration after US Capitol riot||The week before Joe Biden’s inauguration, downtown Washington looks like a city preparing for war.A huge swath of the city core is blocked off, patrolled by uniformed National Guard forces as part of a buildup not seen since the Civil War. And the U.S. capital is getting even more fortified as federal, state and local officials brace for a worst-case scenario of violence tied to the Jan. 20 inauguration.More than 25,000 law enforcement, military and intelligence personnel have been activated to provide security in Washington leading up to President-elect Biden’s swearing-in, a ceremony that will have far less pomp than in the past because of the Covid-19 pandemic and last week’s deadly riots at the Capitol.Behind the scenes, federal agents, prosecutors and analysts are racing to track and disrupt active plots in what some say is the greatest security challenge since the days after the Sept. 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, according to current and former U.S. officials.“We’re concerned about the potential for violence at multiple protests and rallies planned here in D.C. and at state capitol buildings around the country in the days to come,” FBI Director Christoper Wray said in a security briefing on Thursday. “It could bring armed individuals within close proximity to government buildings and officials.”Insurrection? Sedition? Incitement? D.C. Riot Guide: QuickTakeA bulletin by the FBI and other agencies this week warned that extremists targeting the inauguration may exploit the aftermath of the Jan. 6 Capitol breach by conducting attacks to destabilize and force a larger conflict in the U.S., according to a person familiar with it. The bulletin also warned that the siege of the Capitol will be a “significant driver of violence” in the future, the person said.More than 100 people involved in the riots -- which led to at least five deaths -- have been charged with crimes so far, with more expected.Efforts to uncover active plots include searching social media, monitoring online chat sites, arresting individuals identified in the Capitol riots and interviewing suspects and witnesses, two U.S. officials said.The Justice Department also has started making preemptive arrests: An Illinois man was arrested on Jan. 12 for threatening to kill Democrats during the inauguration. Capitol Police have warned that anyone trying to “unlawfully gain access” to the Capitol Complex will be subject to “an appropriate use of force and arrest.”Trump Confronts Political Future With Burden of Historic RebukeA presidential inauguration is always a highest-tier security affair, but agencies amplified and accelerated their operations following the Capitol siege, which was led by Trump supporters trying to disrupt the certification of Biden’s Electoral College victory by Congress.The Secret Service is in charge of inauguration security and has activated a command center -- officially known as the Multi-Agency Coordinating Center -- to bring together federal, state and local agencies.More than 20 public safety agencies are involved in the security planning, including law enforcement, fire and rescue and emergency medical services, according to the Secret Service.The FBI has command centers at its headquarters and its Washington Field Office and is leading the Joint Terrorism Task Force to share intelligence and threat information between agencies, including with the Capitol Police, Park Police and the Metropolitan Police Department.‘No Regrets’: A Capitol Rioter Tells His Story From InsideAlong with the physical fortification of the Capitol, the D.C. government has closed a large section of the city to traffic, shut down subway stations and detoured public buses. The National Mall, the traditional gathering point for crowds on inauguration day, may also be closed under a plan being considered by the National Park Service.Outside Washington, the FBI established command posts in all of its field offices across the country and has encouraged state and local officials to share any intelligence they pick up about threats. The FBI and Justice Department have stood up a strike force to pursue charges of sedition against anyone who carries out attacks.Companies have joined the effort. Delta Air Lines Inc. is barring checked firearms on Washington-bound flights through Jan. 20, except for law enforcement officers. Airbnb Inc., the largest home-rental service in the U.S., said it is canceling all reservations in the Washington area next week.While the Capitol appears to be fortified for the days ahead, concern has mounted that extremists will focus attacks outside the security perimeter, on so-called soft targets, in Washington or in state capitals, one official said.Threat to StatesLaw enforcement officials say there’s specific intelligence that planned, large-scale activities are expected to occur in California, Colorado, Michigan, Nebraska, Utah and West Virginia starting this weekend. National Guard troops have been activated in most states.“It’s a tenuous situation,” said Frank Straub, a former federal official who now directs the National Police Foundation’s Center for Mass Violence Response Studies. “We have to recognize at this time in our history we do have a very real, very credible and very animated domestic extremist and terrorist threat.”Some groups have called on members to overwhelm law enforcement and protection efforts with large numbers and have been encouraging people to undertake armed protests at all state capitols. Others have signaled to their members to stand down, and to avoid Washington.Analysts warned the situation is straining security resources.Congressional Staff Reckon With Safety Well Beyond Inauguration“We’ve reached a flashpoint in terms of security and law enforcement challenges,” said Frank Figliuzzi, former FBI assistant director for counterintelligence. “I hear federal agents say they cannot handle this; they don’t have the tools. We better pay attention to them.”The amount of information the FBI has collected is dizzying, including more than 140,000 pieces of digital media related to the attack on the U.S. Capitol.”The volume of information out there is significant, but we’ve been pushing that information as rapidly as possible to all of our relevant law enforcement and intelligence partners,” Wray said.One of the unique challenges that law enforcement agencies confront is that threats are coming from U.S. citizens.For almost two decades, the primary focus for intelligence and law enforcement agencies has been hunting foreign terrorists and a handful of individuals in the U.S. who were radicalized by their propaganda.Trump Disavows Violence, Says Free Speech Under Assault (Video)The siege on the Capitol laid bare a growing threat that is likely to redefine counterterrorism and counterintelligence efforts for years to come: the potentially thousands of U.S. citizens who are motivated to violence by domestic politics and the words of American politicians.In some cases, the agitators may even be supported by law enforcement officers who have sworn to protect the country, according to current and former officials.“If some of those who protect us are actually planning against us, the security challenge becomes even greater moving forward,” said Figliuzzi, the former FBI official who’s the author of a new book, “The FBI Way: Inside the Bureau’s Code of Excellence.”Even determining who might be planning events -- and who’s just blustering -- can be murky.‘Keyboard Bravado’“We have to separate the aspirational from the intentional and determine which of the individuals saying despicable things on the Internet are just practicing keyboard bravado or they actually have the intent to do harm,” Steven D’Antuono, assistant director in charge of the FBI’s Washington Field Office, told reporters on Jan. 12.Justice Department officials say they’re not taking any tools off the table when it comes to trying to prevent future violent acts and charge those who carried out attacks.“We have plenty of federal resources at our disposal; plenty of federal charges to address all of this conduct,” said Michael Sherwin, acting U.S. Attorney for the District of Columbia. “We’re looking at, and treating this, just like a significant international counterterrorism or counterintelligence operation.”For more articles like this, please visit us at bloomberg.com©2021 Bloomberg L.P.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/washington-made-a-fortress-for-inauguration-after-us-capitol-riot-101610697827166.html
15-01-2021||World||Study suggests minorities should be designated vulnerable to Covid-19||Researchers writing in a British medical journal are recommending that ethnic minorities should be considered “extremely vulnerable” to Covid-19, a distinction that could give groups hard-hit by the pandemic earlier access to potentially life-saving vaccines.This suggestion is one of six made by the authors of an analysis published Friday in The BMJ. They say “systemic racism” is the fundamental cause of higher coronavirus mortality among ethnic minority communities.People from these communities were twice as likely to die from Covid-19 than the UK's white majority population during the first wave of the pandemic, according to researchers from St George's, University of London, Harvard University, the University of Manchester and Imperial College London.“Based on these things, I think it is absolutely clinically, and from a public health point of view, justified to prioritise people to mitigate their risk of mortality from Covid,” Dr Mohammad Razai, one of the report's authors, told The Associated Press. “When you place them in the extremely vulnerable category everything else will follow from that...including vaccination.”People from Black and South Asian backgrounds were more likely than white British people to live in deprived areas. This combined with increased levels of chronic disease and a greater preponderance of people in high-risk jobs who were unable to work from home led to higher rates of infection, hospitalisation and admission to intensive care units, the study found.In addition to including ethnic minority communities in the extremely vulnerable category, the study recommends that authorities work with these groups to develop Covid-19 prevention programmes, prepare legally binding plans to decrease occupational exposure, and accelerate prevention programmes targeting diseases such as high blood pressure and diabetes that disproportionately affect minority communities and are linked to more severe illness from Covid-19.The findings come as countries around the world ramp up mass vaccination programmes, touching off lobbying by individuals and interest groups who want preferential access to the shots. So far, most countries have given priority to older people, who account for the vast majority of Covid-19 deaths, and the healthcare workers battling the pandemic.In Britain, the government has set a goal of delivering a first dose of vaccine to everyone over 70, as well as frontline healthcare workers, nursing home residents and anyone whose health makes them especially vulnerable to the virus, by the middle of February.But as syringes are being plunged into arms at hundreds of doctors' offices, pharmacies, hospitals and mass vaccination sites and hospitals, the jockeying continues. Teachers, police officers and prison officers are among those arguing that they should be moved up the priority list because their public-facing jobs put them at greater risk.The authors of the BMJ study say the data clearly show that public health officials should give special consideration to members of ethnic minority communities.“We must prioritise people who are extremely vulnerable," Razai said. “And if people over 80, over 70 are more prone to getting (Covid) and they are in that extremely vulnerable category, so should people from ethnic minority communities based on the risk assessment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/study-suggests-minorities-should-be-designated-vulnerable-to-covid19-101610697141742.html
15-01-2021||World||WHO-led team in China will start meetings online from quarantine||A World Health Organization-led team investigating the origins of Covid-19 are to begin virtual meetings with their Chinese hosts from a hotel in China's Wuhan, where the pandemic first emerged, on Friday.Their arrival at the city in central China on Thursday was disrupted by the absence of two members who failed coronovirus antibody tests in Singapore."Team now undergoing the mandatory 14 days quarantine & being treated very well by our hosts. Work begins today, day 1, in teleconf. mtgs w/ China team," tweeted team member Peter Daszak, a zoologist.The driveway and parking lot of the boutique hotel where the team are staying was cordoned off with tape on Friday and security personel stood guard at the entrance.The team's arrival in Wuhan came as China is on alert over a resurgence of coronavirus cases in its northeast.The United States, which has accused China of hiding the extent of its initial outbreak a year ago, has called for a "transparent" WHO-led investigation and criticised the terms of the visit, under which Chinese experts have done the first phase of research.Dominic Dwyer, an Australian virologist on the team, said he and the other scientists were trying to keep the politics surrounding the trip aside."There's always politics with this sort of scenario but one of the things that Covid-19 has shown us is if you have good science, you then inform the politics," he said."You want to fill the scientific vaccuum with the answers so that people can make more informed and, therefore, presumably more sensible decisions."The WHO has said the two absent team members are being re-tested for antibodies. The team of 15 had all tested negative for the disease prior to leaving their home countries, and underwent further testing while in transit in Singapore.Dwyer said the itinerary for the rest of the trip was still to be sorted out but he hoped to visit research institutes, hospitals and the market where the first human cases of the disease were detected in late 2019. "Getting an understanding of how they (markets) work physically by seeing them is helpful because one's trying to work out how viruses might have come into the market from outside...and spread within the market, or parts of the market, and then spread to the community," he said.The team are not allowed to mingle while in quarantine, so will be holding all meetings virtually."It's in the room for two weeks," said Dwyer. "The rooms are a good size and they've given everyone exercise equipment and meals are delivered," adding he had some weights, a skipping rope and a yoga mat||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/wholed-team-in-china-will-start-meetings-online-from-quarantine-101610695663028.html
15-01-2021||World||Biden to unveil coronavirus vaccine distribution plan as cases soar||President-elect Joe Biden will on Friday outline his plan to ramp up vaccinations against Covid-19 as he prepares to take office amid soaring infection rates and an early rollout by the Trump administration he called "a dismal failure."Biden has promised to take more serious action to curb the virus than his predecessor, President Donald Trump, and get 100 million vaccine shots into the arms of Americans during his first 100 days in office."The vaccines offer so much hope ... but the vaccine rollout in the United States has been a dismal failure thus far," Biden said in remarks late on Thursday as he unveiled a $1.9 trillion stimulus plan to tackle the virus and revive the pandemic-hit economy.The Democrat, who takes office on Wednesday, is expected to set out in more detail his plan to stem the coronavirus that has killed more than 385,000 people in the United States and infected nearly 7% of the population.He will set out the plan on Friday afternoon near his home in Wilmington, Delaware.In announcing his stimulus proposal, which includes $20 billion for vaccine distribution as well as $50 billion for coronavirus testing, Biden pledged to "move heaven and earth" to vaccinate more Americans."This will be one of the most challenging operational efforts we've ever undertaken as a nation," Biden said.The Trump administration had aimed to give vaccine doses to 20 million Americans by the end of 2020, but fell far short of that target.Only 11.1 million coronavirus shots had been administered as of Thursday out of more than 30 million doses distributed to states, according to data from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.Federal officials largely left states to manage distribution, resulting in big differences in vaccination rates even as daily deaths hit new records.The Trump administration said this week it was releasing millions of Covid-19 vaccine doses it had been holding back for second shots and urged states to offer them to all Americans over age 65 or with chronic health conditions in an effort to speed up distribution. The administration says it expects to reach 1 million shots a day by the end of next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-to-unveil-coronavirus-vaccine-distribution-plan-as-cases-soar-101610694232928.html
15-01-2021||World||Xi Jinping asks Starbucks' Schultz to help repair US-China ties||President Xi Jinping is asking former CEO Howard Schultz of Starbucks to help repair US-Chinese relations that have plunged to their lowest level in decades amid a tariff war and tension over technology and security.A letter from Xi to Schultz reported Friday by the official Xinhua News Agency was a rare direct communication from China's paramount leader to a foreign business figure. Schultz opened Starbucks' first China outlet in 1999 and is a frequent visitor.Xi wrote to Schultz “to encourage him and Starbucks to continue to play an active role in promoting Chinese-U.S. economic and trade cooperation and the development of bilateral relations,” Xinhua reported. No text of the letter was released.Xinhua gave no indication whether the letter reflected an initiative to ask American corporate leaders to help change policy after President-elect Joe Biden takes office next week.Economists and political analysts say Biden is likely to try to revive cooperation with Beijing over North Korea and other political issues. But few changes on trade are expected due to widespread frustration in Washington over China's human rights record and accusations of technology theft.The Cabinet press office didn't immediately respond to questions about what Xi wanted Schultz to do and whether he contacted other American business leaders. Schultz, who was Starbucks CEO until 2017 and chairman until 2018, led an aggressive expansion that made China its biggest market outside the United States. Starbucks says it has more than 4,700 stores and 58,000 employees in almost 190 Chinese cities.Schultz said in 2019 that he was considering running for president as an independent but later dropped that.Xinhua said Xi was responding to a letter from Schultz that congratulated the Chinese leader on “the completion of a well-off society” under his leadership, Xinhua said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/xi-jinping-asks-starbucks-schultz-to-help-repair-us-china-ties-101610693108050.html
15-01-2021||World||Rare sedition charge gains interest after Capitol attack||A Civil War-era sedition law being dusted off for potential use in the mob attack on the US Capitol was last successfully deployed a quarter-century ago in the prosecution of Islamic militants who plotted to bomb New York City landmarks.An Egyptian cleric, Sheikh Omar Abdel-Rahman, and nine followers were convicted in 1995 of seditious conspiracy and other charges in a plot to blow up the United Nations, the FBI's building, and two tunnels and a bridge linking New York and New Jersey.Applications of the law making it a crime to conspire to overthrow or forcefully destroy the government of the United States have been scant. But its use is being considered against the mob that killed a police officer and rampaged through the US Capitol last week.Michael Sherwin, acting US attorney for DC, has said “all options are on the table,” including sedition charges, against the Capitol invaders.“Certainly if you have an organized armed assault on the Capitol, or any government installation, it's absolutely a charge that can be brought,” said Andrew McCarthy, a former federal prosecutor who secured convictions at Abdel-Rahman's 1995 trial.The challenge, he said, is whether prosecutors can prove people conspired to use force.“In our case, conspiracy was a layup because of the nature of the terrorist cell we were targeting. In this case, can they show conspiratorial activity or was it one of these things that spontaneously combusted, which makes conspiracy harder to prove?” McCarthy said.Karen Greenberg, director of the Center on National Security at the Fordham University School of Law, said sedition charges in an attack against the center of US government are even more appropriate than in the New York bombing plot.“Of course we should use it here. That's what this is, seditious conspiracy,” she said.Prosecutors had scant evidence against Abdel-Rahman when they arrested him months after a bomb exploded in February 1993 at the World Trade Center, killing six people.Then-Manhattan U.S. Attorney Mary Jo White went to Washington to convince the FBI and Attorney General Janet Reno that Abdel-Rahman should be charged with seditious conspiracy, a law enacted after the Civil War to arrest Southerners who might keep fighting the US government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/rare-sedition-charge-gains-interest-after-capitol-attack-101610692413725.html
15-01-2021||World||Joe Biden's team starts @PresElectBiden while clashing with Twitter||Joe Biden’s transition team flipped the switch on a new Twitter account for the president-elect on Thursday night, while clashing with the social media company over its decision to deny the incoming administration millions of existing White House followers.Biden’s transition opened @PresElectBiden in order to start building a following for one of the official accounts the new president will inherit at noon on Jan. 20: @POTUS. In a change in practice from 2017, when President Donald Trump entered office, Twitter Inc. plans to reset both the @POTUS and @WhiteHouse official accounts to zero followers for Biden.The two accounts currently have a massive audience -- nearly 60 million followers combined, though there is overlap. Trump got a head start in 2017 when he inherited about 12 million followers of @POTUS from President Barack Obama’s tenure, plus millions of followers from other official accounts. Though Trump used his personal account, @realDonaldTrump, as his primary social media mouthpiece throughout his presidency, Biden’s aides think it’s unfair Twitter isn’t handing over followers along with the official accounts.“They are advantaging President Trump’s first days of the administration over ours,” Rob Flaherty, the transition’s digital director who will be director of digital strategy in the Biden White House, said of Twitter. “If we don’t end the day with the 12 million followers that Donald Trump inherited from Barack Obama, then they have given us less than they gave Donald Trump, and that is a failure.”Biden’s personal account, @JoeBiden, has about 24 million followers -- tens of millions fewer than @realDonaldTrump, before Twitter permanently suspended the account last week after the president egged on supporters who broke into the U.S. Capitol.Twitter views the new @PresElectBiden as an accommodation for the incoming president that helps resolve the dispute over the official accounts. Followers of the temporary handle will be transferred to @POTUS on Inauguration Day. A Twitter spokesperson who asked not to be named confirmed the plans, saying the company’s goal was to support the archiving and transition of accounts across administrations.Biden’s existing @Transition46 account will take the @WhiteHouse handle at noon Jan. 20. The Biden team is also launching @FLOTUSBiden for the incoming first lady, Jill Biden, @SecondGentleman for Vice President-elect Kamala Harris’s husband, Doug Emhoff and @PressSecPsaki for Jen Psaki, the incoming White House press secretary. Harris’s official Senate account, @SenKamalaHarris, will take the @VP handle on Inauguration Day.Official White House and presidential tweets must be archived at the end of each administration to comply with the Presidential Records Act. Twitter said it is too technically difficult to copy or roll over the millions of followers from the Trump White House accounts to Biden’s official accounts. But two transition officials privately expressed skepticism, pointing to other social media platforms’ handling of the change in administration.Both Facebook Inc. and its subsidiary Instagram will duplicate the millions of followers currently following Trump administration accounts for the new Biden White House accounts, while archiving the Trump accounts. That’s a large, built-in audience for the president-elect that will include many people who aren’t Biden supporters -- people his team are eager to reach. The incoming administration will also inherit the followers of the Trump White House’s official YouTube channel.“There is value in being able to communicate with an audience that doesn’t agree with us,” Flaherty said.©2021 Bloomberg L.P.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-s-team-starts-preselectbiden-while-clashing-with-twitter-101610690866953.html
15-01-2021||World||US charges MIT professor with grant fraud over hidden Chinese ties||A professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who specializes in nanotechnology research was arrested on U.S. charges that he failed to disclose his ties to the Chinese government when seeking federal grant money.Federal prosecutors in Boston on Thursday charged Gang Chen, a Chinese-born mechanical engineer and nanotechnologist, with defrauding the U.S. Department of Energy when seeking grants and failing to disclose a foreign bank account on a tax return.Following his arrest, the Federal Bureau of Investigation executed search warrants at his home in Cambridge and office at MIT, where he is the director of the MIT Pappalardo Micro/Nano Engineering Laboratory.Chen was later released on bail. MIT in a statement said it was "deeply distressed" by the arrest. Chen's attorney, Robert Fisher, said the 56-year-old "loves the United States and looks forward to vigorously defending these allegations."The case is the latest to emerge from a U.S. Justice Department crackdown on Chinese influence within universities amid concerns about spying and intellectual property theft by the Chinese government.Of the FBI's 5,000 active counter-intelligence investigations, nearly half are China-related, said Joseph Bonavolonta, who oversees the agency's Boston field office.Prosecutors said Chen was involved in various efforts to promote China's technological and scientific development, including acting as an "overseas expert" for the Chinese government at the request of its New York consulate.Prosecutors said he received money from various Chinese entities and helped review and assess grant applications for the National Natural Science Foundation of China (NNSFC), which operates similarly to U.S. grant-funding agencies.But prosecutors said he never disclosed his work for the NNSFC or other Chinese affiliations when he applied for Energy Department grants.Since 2013, various federal agencies have awarded more than $19 million in grants to fund Chen's research, prosecutors said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-charges-mit-professor-with-grant-fraud-over-hidden-chinese-ties-101610688881800.html
15-01-2021||World||8 people killed, thousands flee in Indonesian earthquake||Eight people were killed and thousands evacuated after a 6.2 magnitude earthquake struck Indonesia’s West Sulawesi in the early hours Friday, according to the national disaster mitigation management.At least 637 people were injured from the quake that damaged a hotel, the governor’s office, several homes and a local health facility, the agency known as BNPB said in a statement. About 15,000 people were relocated to 10 locations. It also caused power blackout, disrupted mobile phone networks and cut off road access.The Asian country’s 18,000 islands sit along the Pacific’s “ring of fire” zone of active volcanoes and tectonic faults, making it prone to earthquakes. The tremor rocked West Sulawesi at 1:28 a.m. Jakarta time on Friday, with epicenter of the quake located 6 kilometers northeast of Majene sea at a depth of 10 kilometers. It didn’t generate a tsunami.“Residents are still advised to stay away from buildings and beaches” for fear of collapse and a tsunami could still occur in possible aftershocks, Dwikorita Karnawati, Indonesia’s head of Meteorological, Climatological, and Geophysical Agency said in a briefing.Indonesia’s state energy holding company PT Pertamina Persero reported no meaningful damages to its fuel distributors in Majene and nearby facilities.The state power firm PT Perusahaan Listrik Negara said it has deployed 123 personnels to restore power, according to a statement. As many as 872 electricity distribution substations were impacted by the quake, and half of them has been normalized.State-air navigation operator AirNav Indonesia sent backup personnels and communication equipment to reinforce airplane guide because the quake had damaged air traffic controller building at Tampa Padang airport in Mamuju. The navigation services are being transferred to Makassar, South Sulawesi, for the time being, Spokesman Yohanes Harry Douglas Sirait said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eight-people-killed-thousands-flee-in-indonesian-earthquake-101610688712480.html
15-01-2021||World||Biden announces USD 1.9 trillion Covid-19 stimulus plan to revive US economy||US President-elect Joe Biden has announced a USD 1.9 trillion coronavirus relief package to tackle the economic fallout from the pandemic, including direct financial aid to average Americans, support to businesses and to provide a boost to the national vaccination programme.The relief package, announced on Thursday, includes USD 415 billion focused on combating the Covid-19 pandemic, over USD 1 trillion in direct aid to individuals and families and USD 440 billion in assistance to businesses.It includes USD 1,400 in additional stimulus cheques to Americans, an extension for key unemployment programmes from mid-March to the end of September and an increase in weekly additional unemployment assistance from USD 300 to USD 400 and increasing the federal minimum wage to USD 15 an hour over time.Biden’s proposal also sets aside USD 20 billion for a national vaccination programme and USD 50 billion to scale up coronavirus testing.“It’s not hard to see that we are in the middle of a once-in-several generation economic crisis within a once-in-several generation public health crisis. A crisis of deep human suffering in plain sight. And there is no time to wait,” Biden, who is set to be sworn in as the 46th President of the US on January 20, said in a televised address from his hometown, Wilmington in Delaware.“We have to act and act now. This is what the economists are telling us. More importantly, it is what the values we hold in our hearts as Americans are telling us. A growing chorus of top economists agree that, in this moment of crisis, with interest rates at historic lows, we cannot afford inaction,” he said.The US is the worst affected country from the pandemic with 23,308,712 people hit with the coronavirus, according to the Johns Hopkins Coronavirus tracker.In just one year, nearly 400,000 Americans have lost their lives due to this deadly virus, and millions of Americans — through no fault of their own — have lost the dignity and respect that comes with a job and a paycheck, he said.Some 18 million Americans are still relying on unemployment insurance and some 400,000 small businesses have permanently closed their doors.Announcing details of the American Rescue Plan, he said this will tackle the pandemic and get direct financial assistance and relief to Americans who need it the most.Biden said that in the first appearance before a Joint Session of Congress, he will lay out a Build Back Better Recovery Plan.“It will make historic investments in infrastructure and manufacturing, innovation, research and development, and clean energy. Investments in the caregiving economy and in skills and training needed by our workers to compete and win the global economy of the future,” Biden said.The rescue and recovery plan, Biden said, is the path forward with a seriousness of purpose, a clear plan with transparency and accountability with a call for unity that is equally necessary. Unity is not a pie-in-the-sky dream, it is a practical step to getting things done, he said.“As we work to keep people from going hungry, we will also work to keep a roof over their heads to stem the growing housing crisis in America. Approximately 14 million Americans have fallen behind on rent, many at risk of eviction,” he said.“I am asking Congress to do its part by funding rental assistance for 14 million hard-hit families and tenants. It will also be a bridge to economic recovery for countless mom and pop landlords,” he said, adding that his rescue plan will also help small businesses that are the engines of our economic growth and economy as a whole. They are the glue that holds communities together.President Donald Trump signed a USD 900 billion relief bill last month, which included supplemental unemployment benefits extended to mid-March.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-announces-usd-1-9-trillion-covid-19-stimulus-plan-to-revive-us-economy-101610686101970.html
15-01-2021||World||Capitol Hill riots: More than 100 individuals arrested for violence, says FBI||US security agencies have arrested more than 100 individuals for their criminal activities in last week's siege of the Capitol and are monitoring “an extensive amount of concerning online chatter” ahead of President-elect Joe Biden’s inauguration on January 20, FBI Director Christopher Wray said.The violence on January 6 by outgoing President Donald Trump's supporters temporarily halted the counting of Electoral College votes and resulted in the deaths of five individuals, including a police officer.“We and our partners have already arrested more than 100 individuals for their criminal activities in last week's siege of the Capitol and continue to pursue countless other related investigations,” Wray said during a meeting with Vice President Mike Pence.“And those help not only prevent those individuals from any effort to repeat that kind of activity but also should serve as a very stern warning to anybody else who might be inclined to try to engage in that activity,” he said.Wray also said that law enforcement was aware of and monitoring “an extensive amount of concerning online chatter” ahead of President-elect Biden’s inauguration next week, but added that authorities were having to sift through “what’s aspirational versus what’s intentional.”The FBI, he said, is looking at individuals who may have an eye toward repeating that same kind of violence that was seen at the Capitol Hill last week.“I mean, from January 6 alone, we've already identified over 200 suspects. So we know who you are, if you're out there, and FBI agents are coming to find you,” he said.It was Wray's first public appearance since rioters stormed the Capitol.The Justice Department also announced on Thursday evening that the FBI had received more than 140,000 tips identifying rioters and had opened about 200 subject case files.Pence thanked the FBI's aggressive posture on bringing to justice those who desecrated the seat of the democracy last week.“As the president made clear yesterday, we are committed to an orderly transition and to a safe inauguration, and the American people deserve nothing less," Pence said. PTI LKJ NSA||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/capitol-hill-riots-more-than-100-individuals-arrested-for-violence-says-fbi-101610685990843.html
15-01-2021||World||3 dead, 24 injured after 6.2 magnitude earthquake strikes Indonesia||At least three people have died and 24 been injured after a 6.2 magnitude earthquake struck Indonesia's Sulawesi island, the country's disaster mitigation agency said on Friday.The epicentre of the quake was six kilometres (3.73 miles)northeast of the city of Majene, at a depth of 10 kilometres.Several thousand panicked residents fled their homes to seek safety after the quake, which did not trigger a tsunami warning but was felt strongly for about seven seconds, the statement said.The disaster mitigation agency said a hotel and the office of the West Sulwesi governor were severely damaged, and electricity supplies were also down.Hours earlier, a 5.9 magnitude earthquake struck in the same district on Thursday damaging several housesStraddling the so-called Pacific 'ring of fire', Indonesia, a nation of high tectonic activity, is regularly hit by earthquakes.In 2018, a devastating 6.2 magnitude quake and subsequent tsunami struck the city of Palu, in Sulawesi, killing thousands of people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/3-dead-24-injured-after-6-2-magnitude-earthquake-strikes-indonesia-101610673476900.html
15-01-2021||World||Trump administration takes final swipe at China days before Biden's inauguration||The Trump administration in its waning days took another swipe at China and its biggest firms on Thursday, imposing sanctions on officials and companies for alleged misdeeds in the South China Sea and imposing an investment ban on nine more firms.The moves will further increase tensions with China, Washington's strategic rival in Asia, days before President-elect Joe Biden takes office on Wednesday. The Biden transition team did not immediately respond to a request for comment.Executives of state-owned enterprises, officials of the Chinese Communist Party and military, along with oil giant CNOOC will face new restrictions for allegedly using coercion against states with rival South China Sea claims.Senior U.S. officials told reporters on a call Thursday the new CNOOC restrictions will not apply to crude, refined fuels and liquid natural gas and do not apply to existing joint ventures with CNOOC that do not operate in the South China Sea.Nine Chinese firms were added to the Pentagon's list of companies with alleged ties to the Chinese military, including planemaker Comac and phone maker Xiaomi Corp.Those companies will be subject to a new U.S. investment ban which forces American investors to divest holdings of the blacklisted firms by Nov. 11, 2021.In its response, the Chinese embassy referred to Jan. 7 Foreign Ministry comments accusing Washington of "pinning political and ideological labels on economic and trade issues and exploiting its state power to crack down on foreign companies, under the pretext of national security."The United States has long opposed China's extensive territorial claims in the South China Sea, a potentially resource-rich area that is also a strategic trade route. Washington accuses Beijing of intimidating states such as Vietnam and the Philippines that have competing claims there.China accuses Washington of trying to destabilize the region by sending warships and planes to the South China Sea."The United States stands with Southeast Asian claimant states seeking to defend their sovereign rights and interests, consistent with international law," Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said in announcing the sanctions.Pompeo said Washington was imposing visa restrictions on executives of Chinese state-owned enterprises and officials of the Chinese Communist Party and navy.He said the sanctions were directed against those "responsible for, or complicit in, either the large-scale reclamation, construction, or militarization of disputed outposts in the South China Sea, or use of coercion against Southeast Asian claimants to inhibit their access to offshore resources."The restrictions could also apply to immediate family members, he said.The Commerce Department accused CNOOC of harassing and threatening offshore oil and gas exploration and extraction in the South China Sea, "with the goal of driving up the political risk for interested foreign partners, including Vietnam."President Donald Trump's administration has kept up pressure in its final days, targeting what Washington sees as Beijing's bid to use corporations as a means to harness civilian technologies for military purposes.Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross said CNOOC acted as "a bully for the People’s Liberation Army to intimidate China's neighbors" and the Chinese military "continues to benefit from government civil-military fusion policies for malign purposes."Ross's department added CNOOC to an "Entity List" that requires firms to be granted a special license before they can receive exports of high-tech items from U.S. suppliers.Chinese aviation firm Skyrizon was added to a Military End-User (MEU) List over its ability to develop military products including aircraft engines, restricting its access to U.S. exports.Aside from Comac and Xiaomi, the Pentagon added Advanced Micro-Fabrication Equipment Inc, Luokung Technology Corp, Beijing Zhongguancun Development Investment Center, GOWIN Semiconductor Corp, Grand China Air Co Ltd, Global Tone Communication Technology Co Ltd and China National Aviation Holding Co Ltd to the list.Representatives of the Chinese firms did not immediately respond to requests for comment.On Wednesday the Trump administration scrapped plans to blacklist Chinese tech giants Alibaba, Tencent and Baidu, four people familiar with the matter said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-administration-takes-final-swipes-at-china-and-its-companies-101610671694891.html
15-01-2021||World||North Korea holds huge military parade as Kim vows nuclear might||North Korea rolled out developmental ballistic missiles designed to be launched from submarines and other military hardware in a parade that punctuated leader Kim Jong Un’s defiant calls to expand his nuclear weapons program.State media said Kim took center stage in Thursday night’s parade celebrating a major ruling party meeting where Kim vowed maximum efforts to bolster his nuclear and missile program that threatens Asian rivals and the American homeland to counter what he described as U.S. hostility.During the eight-day Workers’ Party congress that ended Tuesday, Kim also revealed plans to salvage the nation's economy amid U.S.-led sanctions over his nuclear ambitions, pandemic-related border closures and natural disasters that wiped out crops.The economic setbacks have left Kim nothing to show for his ambitious diplomacy with President Donald Trump, which derailed over disagreements in exchanging sanctions relief and the North’s denuclearization steps, and pushed Kim to what is clearly the toughest moment of his nine-year rule.Kim’s comments are likely intended to pressure the incoming U.S. government of Joe Biden, who has previously called the North Korean leader a “thug” and accused Trump of chasing spectacle rather than meaningful curbs on the North’s nuclear capabilities. Kim has not ruled out talks, but he said the fate of bilateral relations would depend on whether Washington abandons its hostile policy toward Pyongyang.The Korean Central News Agency on Friday released photos of Kim wearing a black fur hat and leather trench coat, smiling widely and gesturing from a podium as thousands of troops and civilian spectators filled Kim Il Sung Square, named after his grandfather and North Korea's founder.The agency said spectators roared as troops rolled out the country’s most advanced strategic weapons, including submarine-launched ballistic missiles it described as the “world’s mightiest.”Photos released by state media showed trucks transporting missiles that appeared to be either newly developed submarine-launched ballistic missiles or modified versions of previously tested systems.The agency also said the parade featured other missiles that could “pre-emptively and completely destroy any enemy outside of our territory.” But it wasn’t immediately clear whether the description was referring to intercontinental ballistic missiles.During its previous military parade in October, the North unveiled what appeared to be its biggest-yet ICBM. The country’s previous long-range missiles demonstrated a potential ability to reach deep into the U.S. mainland during flight tests in 2017.It wasn’t immediately clear whether Kim delivered a speech during the parade. North Korean state TV hasn't released footage of the event, and the South Korean and U.S. militaries haven't yet provided assessments of the weapons displayed by the North.During the party congress, Kim unveiled plans to pursue more sophisticated military assets, including longer-range ICBMs that could potentially target the U.S. mainland more reliably, new tactical nuclear weapons and warheads, nuclear-powered submarines, spy satellites and hypersonic weapons.It’s unclear whether the North is fully capable of acquiring such systems. While the country is believed to have accumulated at least dozens of nuclear weapons, outside estimates on the exact status of its nuclear and missiles programs vary widely.But the North has been developing submarine-launched ballistic missile systems for years. Acquiring an operational system would alarm its rivals and neighbors because missiles fired from submerged vessels are harder to detect in advance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/north-korea-holds-huge-military-parade-as-kim-vows-nuclear-might-101610672499118.html
15-01-2021||World||Capitol riot: National Guardsman first known current serviceman to be charged||Jacob Fracker, an off duty police officer charged in connection with the violent riots at the U.S. Capitol, is a member of the Virginia National Guard, an official said on Thursday, becoming the first known person currently in the military to be arrested over last week's events.President Donald Trump’s supporters stormed the U.S. Capitol on Jan. 6, forcing lawmakers to flee the inner chambers of the building, fearing for their lives.On Wednesday, the Department of Justice said Fracker, along with another off duty police officer, Thomas Robertson, were charged after they were photographed inside the Capitol "making an obscene statement in front of a statue of (Revolutionary hero) John Stark."On Thursday, the Virginia National Guard said Fracker is a corporal in the State's Guard and serves as an infantryman."The Virginia National Guard will conduct an investigation into the matter, and we will be able to release more information when that is complete," it said in a statement.Fracker was not on duty with other members of the Virginia National Guard helping protect President-elect Joe Biden's Jan. 20 inauguration, the Guard added.The disclosure, first reported by Military.com, comes the same day a senior official said there had been an increase in extremism in the United States military over the past year.Five people including a police officer died as a result of the attack on the Capitol. The assault marks a critical moment for extremists who have seized on false claims, spread by Trump, that the U.S. election system is fraudulent and rigged."I think there is an increase (in extremism) based on the societal increases," the senior official, speaking on the condition of anonymity, told reporters.The official added there was also an increase because of more reporting in the military, and said the military was tracking down leads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/capitol-riot-national-guardsman-first-known-current-serviceman-to-be-charged-101610672047786.html
15-01-2021||World||In first, UN rights body to vote on president after standoff||The UN Human Rights Council will this week hold an unprecedented secret ballot to pick its president after China and others blocked a candidate from Fiji considered a rights champion, sources and analysts said."There has been a standoff," a source close to the council who asked not to be named told AFP. "It is a very, very messy situation."The dispute could underscore growing jostling in the top UN rights body by countries intent on steering it away from criticising nations over alleged abuses of individual rights and towards focusing on advances in economic and social rights.The council's presidency rotates each year between regions and is typically agreed by consensus within each regional group.This year, though, the Asia-Pacific group (APG) due to take the helm failed to agree on a candidate -- or even on holding a vote within the group.That means the council, which for the first time in its 15-year history began the year with no president, will on Friday hold an unprecedented vote among all 47 members.Sources close to deliberations said China, Russia and Saudi Arabia and others balked at the widely-expected appointment of Fiji's ambassador, and orchestrated an opposing candidacy.Among the official objections was that Fiji had presented its candidacy too early, prior to elections of this year's council members, but rights groups said the opposition was likely driven by the Pacific island nation's outspokenness on rights issues."They would say that Fiji is too pro-Western," Marc Limon, head of the Universal Rights Group think-tank, told AFP."But I think in reality, their problem is that Fiji is pro-human rights, and has taken strong positions on the council."A senior Chinese diplomat rejected allegations that China had opposed Fiji or urged others to do so, insisting this was a "misinterpretation of our position".Asking not to be named, the diplomat stressed that China could "accept any of the three candidates" now on the ballot.Russian and Saudi Arabian representatives did not respond to a request for comment.'Active' president? The Asia-Pacific group had been expected last month to anoint Fiji's ambassador Nazhat Shameem Khan, who served as vice president last year and was long the only candidate in the race.But just days before the expected announcement on December 7, Bahrain announced the candidacy of its ambassador Yusuf Abdulkarim Bucheeri."We understand... that Bahrain came forward after being encouraged by states including China, Saudi Arabia and Russia," Phil Lynk, head of the International Service for Human Rights, told AFP.While the standoff over a largely procedural position might seem surprising, he said there appeared to be concern that Fiji's strong stance on a number of issues since joining the council in 2019 might have raised concerns that Khan would be an "active" president.The president mainly oversees council meetings, but is also in charge of appointing the independent experts who investigate countries' alleged rights abuses, and can determine how hard to crack down on cases of state intimidation against those who cooperate with the body.Concerns over a strong council president may also have been exacerbated ahead of a year when the United States is expected to return, after outgoing President Donald Trump withdrew in 2018, analysts said.'Very sad'Ken Roth, head of Human Rights Watch, said the objection to Fiji was "a transparent effort to handicap the Human Rights Council.""They prefer somebody like Bahrain, which is effectively a stooge of the Saudis, and hardly has any interest in promoting human rights, because Bahrain is a severe abuser itself," he told AFP.Bahrain representatives did not respond to a request for comment.Both Fiji and Bahrain met with opposition from several countries, so a call was put out for a third candidate and Uzbekistan entered the fray.None of them meanwhile managed to garner consensus support, forcing Friday's unprecedented vote before the full council.The Chinese diplomat voiced frustration at the situation, adding that his country had urged all sides to "show flexibility.""This is the first time that one regional group cannot reach agreement on a single candidate to nominate to the Human Rights Council," the diplomat said."That is very sad."After all of the back-and-forth, observers said Fiji was expected to carry Friday's vote."Looking at the membership leanings, Fiji is likely to win," the source close to the council said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/in-first-un-rights-body-to-vote-on-president-after-standoff-101610671330863.html
15-01-2021||World||'Twitter, Facebook repeatedly mishandled Trump': Wikipedia founder||Twitter and Facebook repeatedly mishandled Donald Trump as he pushed baseless claims, including his assertion that US presidential election he lost was rigged, Wikipedia founder Jimmy Wales told AFP.The two social media giants indefinitely suspended Trump after his supporters stormed the US Capitol on January 6, an attack on the seat of democracy that on Wednesday led to Trump's second impeachment.Wales told AFP in an interview to mark Wikipedia's 20th anniversary on Friday that responsibility for the unprecedented events in Washington rested "100 percent at the feet of Donald Trump".But he said Twitter and Facebook had consistently "struggled with misinformation, disinformation" peddled by the firebrand former New York real estate tycoon who is due to leave office next week."With Donald Trump, they did a poor job of dealing with him for a very, very long time," Wales said. "He was clearly spreading disinformation, he was clearly being abusive to people."Eyeballs v knowledgeIn the 20 years since it was founded, Wikipedia is now one of the most popular websites in the world, with in excess of 55 million articles in 300 languages. It is read more than 15 billion times every month.It is also, as Wales first envisaged, "a world in which every single person on the planet is given free access to the sum of all human knowledge".The internet entrepeneur's decision in 2003 to make the site non-profit is one reason he believes Wikipedia has not faced the same backlash and difficult decisions as Twitter or Facebook."They (social media platforms) have a business model that says, 'We need as many eyeballs as possible, we need as many page views as possible'," the 54-year-old said."Now it's also damaging for their brand. So they have to deal with that. But I think they're going to struggle."Facebook and Twitter have become closely associated with the deeply divisive culture wars in the United States and the spread of misinformation worldwide.In contrast, Wikipedia is considered one of the last examples of early web utopianism, supporters say.In the early 2000s, though, falsehoods and user vandalism on Wikipedia sparked a debate on web regulation.But the online resource is now more likely to be held up as an example of the best the internet has to offer, the American-British entrepreneur says."I always say, we were never as bad as they said we were and we're not as good as they think we are," he said."But we still know Wikipedia isn't perfect. We still have a lot of work to do."'Building it to last'Wales is also aware Wikipedia is fundamentally different from social media platforms."We have a very clear mission to create an encyclopaedia. So everything we do we judge against that standard," he said."(That is) a very different mission statement from a social network that says, come and post what you think, post your opinions."Because the truth is, lots of people have really horrific opinions."Wales admits that Wikipedia still has challenges to overcome, and has faced questions about the diversity of the thousands of "Wikipedians" -- the community of editors and administrators who keep the site running.In 2021, Wikipedia will implement a uniform code of conduct with corresponding sanctions against insults and harassment, which have targeted minority groups within the community in the past, across all 300 of its different language versions.Wales said formulating the code of conduct "did take longer than it should have", but that was because the community was so large "it takes a long time to work through things and get buy-in and understanding".The goal for the next 20 years, though, will be remarkably similar for the first two decades.In 2006, Wales set the goal of having 100,000 entries in Wikipedia for every language with more than one million speakers."We're still at least 20 years from that," he said.He hopes, ultimately, that he has created an institution that will endure, like Britain's Oxford University -- the oldest in the English-speaking world, which can trace its roots back to the late 11th century."We really do focus on how do we build an institution that can last," said Wales. "We really want to be that type of thing in society for a long time to come."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/twitter-facebook-repeatedly-mishandled-trump-wikipedia-founder-101610669960746.html
15-01-2021||World||Trump impeachment trial likely to begin shortly after Biden's swearing-in||President Donald Trump’s historic second impeachment could go to trial as soon as Inauguration Day, with U.S. senators serving not only as jurors but as shaken personal witnesses and victims of the deadly siege of the Capitol by a mob of his supporters.Trump is the only president to be twice impeached, and the first to be prosecuted as he leaves the White House, an ever-more-extraordinary end to the defeated president’s tenure.In pursuing conviction, House impeachment managers said Thursday they will be making the case that Trump’s incendiary rhetoric hours before the bloody attack on the Capitol was not isolated, but rather part of an escalating campaign to overturn the November election results. It culminated, they will argue, in the Republican president's rally cry to “fight like hell” as Congress was tallying the Electoral College votes to confirm he'd lost to Democrat Joe Biden.The trial could begin shortly after Biden takes the oath of office next Wednesday, but some Democrats are pushing for a later trial to give him time to set up his administration and work on other priorities. No date has been set. Already National Guard troops flood the city and protect the Capitol amid warnings of more violence ahead of the inaugural. It's a far different picture, due to the COVID-19 pandemic as well as the threats of violence, from the traditional pomp and peaceful transfer of power.Whenever it starts, the impeachment trial will force a further reckoning for the Republican Party and the senators who largely stood by Trump throughout his presidency and allowed him to spread false attacks against the 2020 election. Last week's assault angered lawmakers, stunned the nation and flashed unsettling imagery around the globe, the most serious breach of the Capitol since the War of 1812, and the worst by home-grown intruders.“The only path to any reunification of this broken and divided country is by shining a light on the truth,” said Rep. Madeleine Dean, D-Pa., who will serve as an impeachment manager.“That’s what the trial in the Senate will be about," she told The Associated Press on Thursday.Trump was impeached Wednesday by the House on a single charge, incitement of insurrection, in lightning-quick proceedings just a week after after the siege. Ten Republicans joined all Democrats in the 232-197 vote to impeach.Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell is open to considering impeachment, having told associates he is done with Trump, but he has not signaled how he would vote. McConnell continues to hold great sway in his party, even though convening the trial next week could be among his last acts as majority leader as Democrats prepare to take control of the Senate.No president has ever been convicted in the Senate, and it would take a two-thirds vote against Trump, an extremely high hurdle. Two new senators from Georgia, both Democrats, are to be sworn in, leaving the chamber divided 50-50. That will tip the majority to the Democrats once Kamala Harris takes office. The vice president is the tie breaker.But conviction of Trump is not out of the realm of possibility, especially as corporations and wealthy political donors distance themselves from his brand of politics and the Republicans who stood by his attempt to overturn the election.Sen. Lisa Murkowski, R-Alaska, said Thursday, “Such unlawful actions cannot go without consequence.” She said in a statement that the House responded “appropriately” with impeachment and she will consider the trial arguments.At least four Republican senators have publicly expressed concerns about Trump’s actions, but others have signaled their preference to move on. Sen. Tom Cotton, R-Ark., issued a statement saying he opposes impeachment against a president who has left office. Trump ally Lindsey Graham of South Carolina is building support for an alternative of launching a commission to investigate the siege.Ahead of opening arguments, Democratic Rep. Eric Swalwell of California, another impeachment manager, suggested senators will be asked to focus on their own experiences the day of the attack.“You don’t have to tell anyone who was in the building twice what it was like to be terrorized,” Swalwell said.The riot delayed the tally of Electoral College votes that was the last step in finalizing Biden’s victory as lawmakers fled for shelter and police, guns drawn, barricaded the doors to the House chamber.A Capitol Police officer died from injuries suffered in the attack, and police shot and killed a woman. Three other people died in what authorities said were medical emergencies.Under Senate procedure, the trial is to start soon after the House delivers the article of impeachment. The soonest the calendar has senators back in session is Tuesday.House Speaker Nancy Pelosi has not said when she will take the crucial next step to transmit the impeachment article to the Senate. After Trump’s first impeachment, in 2019, she withheld the articles for some time to set the stage for the Senate action.Biden has said the Senate should be able this time to split its work, starting the trial and working on his priorities, including swift confirmation of his Cabinet nominees.On Inauguration Day, the Senate typically confirms some of the new president’s Cabinet, particularly national security officials. Biden’s choice of Avril Haines as director of national intelligence will have a hearing Friday by the Senate Intelligence Committee.“We are working with Republicans to try to find a path forward,” said Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer’s office.Biden ally Sen. Chris Coons, D-Del., said the tension among Democrats is over moving ahead quickly on impeachment or focusing on the president-elect's other priorities. “We are balancing,” he said on CNN.Holed up at the White House, watching the impeachment proceedings on TV, Trump released a video statement late Wednesday in which he appealed to his supporters to refrain from any further violence or disruption of Biden’s inauguration.“Mob violence goes against everything I believe in and everything our movement stands for," Trump said.He was first impeached by the House in 2019 over his dealings with Ukraine, but the Senate voted in 2020 to acquit.In making a case for the “high crimes and misdemeanors” demanded in the Constitution, the four-page impeachment resolution relies on Trump’s own language spreading falsehoods about the election. It also seeks to prevent him from ever holding public office again.Judges across the country, including some nominated by Trump, have repeatedly dismissed cases challenging the election results, and former Attorney General William Barr, a Trump ally, has said there was no sign of widespread fraud.While some have questioned impeaching the president so close to the end of his term, there is precedent. In 1876, during the Ulysses Grant administration, War Secretary William Belknap was impeached by the House the day he resigned, and the Senate convened a trial months later. He was acquitted.___Associated Press writers Kevin Freking, Andrew Taylor, Alan Fram, Zeke Miller and Jonathan Lemire contributed to this report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-impeachment-trial-likely-to-begin-shortly-after-biden-s-swearingin-101610670886795.html
15-01-2021||World||Biden swearing-in: Security ramped up, Washington to close metro stations||The nation's capital and cities across the country ramped up security ahead of U.S. President-Elect Joe Biden's inauguration, amid warnings of possible political violence even after the Jan. 20 swearing-in.Delta, Alaska, American, and United Airlines announced on Thursday they will not allow travelers flying to Washington area airports to check firearms on its flights before the inauguration.Delta chief executive Ed Bastian told CNBC his airline had placed passengers on a no-fly list for their involvement in disruptive incidents that, for example, targeted Republican U.S. Senator Mitt Romney.National railroad service Amtrak also said it would be implementing heightened security measures, including the deployment of additional police officers on trains.The actions follow the storming of the U.S. Capitol last week by supporters of President Donald Trump and disturbances on flights and at airports. Officials have warned of plans for armed protests in Washington and all 50 states.In his first public appearance since the Jan. 6 attack, Vice President Mike Pence said: "We're going to ensure that we have a safe inauguration and that President-Elect Joe Biden, Vice President-Elect Kamala Harris are sworn in as the new president and vice president."FBI Director Christopher Wray said he was "concerned about the potential for violence at multiple protests and rallies planned here in DC and at state capitol buildings around the country."Biden has asked Lisa Monaco, his pick for deputy attorney general and former President Barack Obama's counter-terrorism adviser, to serve as a temporary homeland security adviser leading up to the inauguration.In Washington, the perimeter of a high fence surrounding the Capitol was pushed out to encompass the U.S. Supreme Court and the Library of Congress.Nearby roads were closed, some businesses said they would shut down next week, and the city's public transportation agency said it was closing certain metro stations and rerouting bus lines from Friday through Jan. 21.The National Park Service said a decision had yet to be made on whether to close the National Mall running from the Capitol to the Lincoln Memorial. The park service closed the Washington Monument to tours and Mayor Muriel Bowser asked visitors to stay away from the city.Law enforcement officials have warned of potential violence beyond the U.S. capital. In Ohio, Governor Mike DeWine said on Thursday the statehouse and state office buildings in downtown Columbus would be closed from Sunday through Wednesday.BEYOND INAUGURATIONMary McCord, head of the Justice Department's national security division under former President Barack Obama, warned the threat could remain well beyond the inauguration."You will see a resurgence of activity and planning and extremists' threats. So I don't think this problem is going away with this president leaving the White House," McCord said.The U.S. House of Representatives on Wednesday voted to impeach Trump on charges of incitement after his supporters rampaged through the Capitol, leaving five dead, following a speech by the Republican president reiterating his false claim that Biden, a Democrat, beat him because of widespread fraud.Federal authorities have arrested dozens of people as part of their investigation into the Capitol assault. A congressional official said the Senate Intelligence Committee will probe law enforcement agencies' handling of intelligence that preceded the attack once Democrats take control of the Senate.More than 30 House Democrats, including lawmaker Mikie Sherrill, have asked the acting House and Senate sergeants-at-arms and the acting head of the Capitol Police for visitor logs, videos and other information about who was in the building that day.Sherrill, who has accused Republicans of inciting the pro-Trump mob, said she saw colleagues leading groups on "reconnaissance" tours of the Capitol the day before the Jan. 6 attack.(Reporting by Doina Chiacu, Susan Heavey, David Shephardson, David Lawder, Mark Hosenball, Andy Sullivan, Andrea Shalal in Washington, Barbara Goldberg in New York and Tracy Rucinski in Chicago; Writing by Makini Brice; Editing by Heather Timmons and Alistair Bell)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-swearing-in-security-ramped-up-washington-to-close-metro-stations-101610670584781.html
15-01-2021||World||Joe Biden unveils $1.9 trillion plan to stem virus and steady US economy||President-elect Joe Biden is unveiling a $1.9 trillion coronavirus plan Thursday to turn the tide on the pandemic, speeding up the vaccine rollout and providing financial help to individuals, states and local governments and businesses struggling with the prolonged economic fallout.Called the “American Rescue Plan,” the legislative proposal would meet Biden's goal of administering 100 million vaccines by the 100th day of his administration, while advancing his objective of reopening most schools by the spring. On a parallel track, it would deliver another round of aid to stabilize the economy while the public health effort seeks the upper hand on the pandemic, said aides who described the plan ahead of a speech by Biden on Thursday evening.It includes $1,400 checks for most Americans, which on top of $600 provided in the most recent Covid-19 bill would bring the total to the $2,000 that Biden has called for. The plan would also extend a temporary boost in unemployment benefits and a moratorium on evictions and foreclosures through September.And it shoehorns in long-term Democratic policy aims such as increasing the minimum wage to $15 an hour, expanding paid leave for workers, and increasing tax credits for families with children. The last item would make it easier for women to go back to work, which in turn would help the economy recover.The political outlook for the legislation remained unclear. In a joint statement, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer praised Biden for including liberal priorities, saying they would move quickly to pass it. But Democrats have narrow margins in both chambers of Congress and Republicans will push back on issues that range from increasing the minimum wage to providing more money for states, while demanding inclusion of their priorities, such as liability protection for businesses.“Remember that a bipartisan $900 billion #COVID19 relief bill became law just 18 days ago,” tweeted Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas.The emergency legislation would be paid for with borrowed money, adding to trillions in debt the government has already incurred to confront the pandemic. Aides said Biden will make the case that the additional spending and borrowing is necessary to prevent the economy from sliding into an even deeper hole. Interest rates are low, making debt more manageable. The aides spoke on condition of anonymity to describe the plan ahead of his speech Thursday night.Biden has long held that economic recovery is inextricably linked with controlling the coronavirus. “Our work begins with getting Covid under control,” he declared in his victory speech. “We cannot repair the economy, restore our vitality or relish life’s most precious moments until we get it under control.”The plan comes as a divided nation is in the grip of the pandemic’s most dangerous wave yet. So far, more than 385,000 people have died of Covid-19 in the U.S. And government numbers out Thursday reported a jump in weekly unemployment claims, to 965,000, a sign that rising infections are forcing businesses to cut back and lay off workers.Under Biden's multipronged strategy, about $400 billion would go directly to combating the pandemic, while the rest is focused on economic relief and aid to states and localities.About $20 billion would be allocated for a more disciplined focus on vaccination, on top of some $8 billion already approved by Congress. Biden has called for setting up mass vaccination centers and sending mobile units to hard-to-reach areas.The plan provides $50 billion to expand testing, which is seen as key to reopening most schools by the end of the new administration's first 100 days. About $130 billion would be allocated to help schools reopen without risking further contagion.The plan would fund the hiring of 100,000 public health workers, to focus on encouraging people to get vaccinated and on tracing the contacts of those infected with the coronavirus.There's also a proposal to boost investment in genetic sequencing, to help track new virus strains including the more contagious variants identified in the United Kingdom and South Africa.Throughout the plan, there's a focus on ensuring that minority communities that have borne the brunt of the pandemic are not shortchanged on vaccines and treatments, aides said.With the new proposals comes a call to redouble efforts on the basics.Biden is asking Americans to override their sense of pandemic fatigue and recommit to wearing masks, practicing social distancing and avoiding indoor gatherings, particularly larger ones. It's still the surest way to slow the Covid-19 wave, with more than 4,400 deaths reported just on Tuesday.Biden's biggest challenge will be to “win the hearts and minds of the American people to follow his lead,” said Dr. Leana Wen, a public health expert and emergency physician.With the backing of Congress and the expertise of private and government scientists, the Trump administration has delivered two highly effective vaccines and more are on the way. Yet a month after the first shots were given, the nation's vaccination campaign is off to a slow start with about 10.3 million people getting the first of two shots, although more than 29 million doses have been delivered.Biden believes the key to speeding that up lies not only in delivering more vaccine but also in working closely with states and local communities to get shots into the arms of more people. The Trump administration provided the vaccine to states and set guidelines for who should get priority for shots, but largely left it up to state and local officials to organize their vaccination campaigns.“This is going to entail coordination at all levels, as well as resources,” said Dr. Nadine Gracia, executive vice president of the nonpartisan Trust for America's Health. “There is a commitment the (incoming) administration has articulated to address the needs of communities.”Biden has set a goal of administering 100 million shots in his first 100 days. The pace of vaccination is approaching 1 million shots a day, but 1.8 million a day would be needed to reach widespread or “herd” immunity by the summer, according to a recent estimate by the American Hospital Association. Wen says the pace should be even higher — closer to 3 million a day.It's still unclear how the new administration will address the issue of vaccine hesitancy, the doubts and suspicions that keep many people from getting a shot. Polls show it's particularly a problem among Black Americans. “It's important to acknowledge the reasons why it exists and work to earn trust and build vaccine confidence in communities,” said Gracia.Next Wednesday, when Biden is sworn in as president, marks the anniversary of the first confirmed case of Covid-19 in the United States.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-unveils-1-9-trillion-plan-to-stem-virus-and-steady-us-economy-101610670296900.html
15-01-2021||World||Global temperatures in 2020 among highest on record: WMO report||Global temperatures in 2020 were among the highest on record and rivaled 2016 as the hottest year ever, according to international data compiled by the World Meteorological Organization and released on Thursday.The heat came even as a global economic slowdown from the Covid-19 pandemic cut deeply into emissions from fossil fuels, adding evidence that carbon dioxide concentrations already in the atmosphere have set the planet on a warming track.The WMO report included data from the U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) and the UK Met Office, both of which ranked 2020 as the second-warmest year on record, as a cooling trend called La Niña failed to tame global temperatures. NASA, whose data was also included, said 2020 tied with 2016 as the warmest year on record.The news is "yet another stark reminder of the relentless pace of climate change, which is destroying lives and livelihoods across our planet," U.N. Secretary General António Guterres said. "Making peace with nature is the defining task of the 21st century."WMO said the differences in average global temperatures among the three warmest years, 2016, 2019 and 2020, were indistinguishably small. The average global temperature in 2020 was about 14.9 C (59 F), or about 1.2 C above the 1850-1900 pre-industrial level. That approached the preferred 1.5 C lower limit of temperature increase the 2015 Paris Agreement on climate sought to avert.All five datasets surveyed by WMO showed that 2011-2020 was the warmest decade on record, and NOAA said the seven warmest years since record-keeping began in 1880 have occurred since 2014.There is at least a one-in-five chance that the average global temperature will temporarily exceed that limit by 2024, according to a WMO analysis, led by the UK Met Office.Greenhouse gas emissions in the United States, the second- leading source of the pollution after China, fell more than 10% last year, the largest drop in the post-World War II era, as the coronavirus crippled the economy, the Rhodium Group said this week.The dip should not be seen as a guarantee the United States can easily meet its pledge under the Paris agreement to cut emissions by 28% by 2025. President Donald Trump pulled the United States from the accord, but President-elect Joe Biden has promised to rejoin after taking over on Jan. 20.The WMO, a U.N. agency, relied on data from observing sites and ships and buoys from NOAA and NASA and the United Kingdom’s Met Office Hadley Centre and the University of East Anglia’s Climatic Research Unit.It also tapped datasets from the European Centre for Medium Range Weather Forecasts and its Copernicus Climate Change Service, and the Japan Meteorological Agency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/global-temperatures-in-2020-among-highest-on-record-report-101610669879374.html
15-01-2021||NA||LIVE: Health minister reviews preparedness for Covid-19 vaccination drive||India is a day away from beginning what will be the world's largest vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), on January 16. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch the immunisation drive in India, where authorities have given emergency use authorisation (EUA) to two vaccines: Oxford University-AstraZeneca's Covishield, and Hyderababd-based Bharat Biotech International Limited's Covaxin. Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) will manufacture Covishield here.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageIndia has the second-highest caseload of Covid-19 in the world, behind the United States. The national tally currently stands at 10,527,683, as per the Union health ministry's dashboard on Friday. The US, meanwhile, has more than 23 million cases and over 387,000 deaths, as per the Johns Hopkins University coronavirus tracker. Brazil, the third worst-hit country, has a tally exceeding 8.3 million of which more than 207,000 people have lost their lives.Follow all the updates here:All travel corridors in UK in view of new Covid strainsIn the wake of new strains of Covid-19, UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson closed all travel corridors will be on Monday. Health minister reviews preparedness for nationwide Covid-19 vaccination driveUnion Health Minister Harsh Vardhan reviewed preparations for the launch of the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive scheduled to begin on January 16 and visited the dedicated Covid control room set up at the Nirman Bhawan premises of the health ministry.Delhi govt to scale down Covid, ICU beds as cases fallIn view of the drop in new Covid-19 cases, Delhi Government orders 115 private hospitals to scale down Covid and ICU beds, news agency ANI reported.6.3 crore domestic air passengers in 2020, 56 pc lower than 2019: DGCAA total of 6.3 crore domestic passengers travelled by air last year, 56.29 per cent lower than 2019, Indian aviation regulator DGCA said on Friday.The impact of the coronavirus pandemic continues to be felt on the Indian aviation sector as the regulator said that only 73.27 lakh people travelled by air domestically in December last year, which was 43.72 per cent lower than in the corresponding period of 2019.Delhi's Covid-19 caseload rises by 295 fresh cases.Delhi's Covid-19 caseload rises by 295 fresh cases. The number of total cases now stands at 6,31,884. Death toll reached 10,732 after 10 new fatalities.Nepal approves AstraZeneca vaccine for emergency useNepal on Friday approved AstraZeneca vaccine for emergency use, news agency Reuters rported citing government. "Conditional permission has been granted for emergency use authorization of COVISHIELD vaccine against Covid-19 in Nepal," a statement by the country's Department of Drug Administration said as per Reuters report.Pakistan to reopen secondary, higher secondary schools from Jan 18Pakistan announced on Friday that all secondary and higher secondary level schools in the country will reopen from January 18, nearly two months after the educational institutions were closed due to the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic.Russia's Covid-19 tally crosses 3.5 millionRussia records 24,715 new Covid-19 cases and 555 deaths. Total cases reach 3,520,531 including 64,495 deaths.Secondary, senior secondary schools in Pakistan to open from January 18Pakistan's education minister Shafqat Mahmood announced on Friday that all secondary and higher secondary level schools in the country will reopen from January 18.Photo ID needed for registration at vaccination site, says health ministry#IndiaFightsCorona You need a photo ID for your registration which will be verified at the vaccination site, It is mandatory to carry the same ID at the vaccination site get the vaccine. #DoGajKiDooriMaskHaiZaruri #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/4PpazaAZczYou need a photo ID for your registration which will be verified at the vaccination site: Health ministry.Covishield to be administered in 75 hospitals in Delhi on January 16Delhi govt decides Covishield will be administered at 75 govt and private hospitals on Saturday, while Covaxin will be administered at six hospitals run by the Centre.Puducherry's Covid-19 tally nears 38,600Puducherry records 28 new Covid-19 cases as tally reaches 38,595. Death toll stays at 640 after no new fresh fatality recorded.Covid-19 cases cross 290,000 in TelanganaTelangana recorded 202 new Covid-19 cases and two deaths in last 24 hours. Tally reaches 291,118 including 1,574 deaths.Germany's Covid-19 tally reaches 2 millionGermany's Covid-19 tally reaches 2,000,958 with 22,638 new infections. Death toll reaches 44,994 after 1,113 deaths.India registers 15,590 new Covid-19 cases and 191 deathsIndia's Covid-19 tally rises to 10,527,683 with 15,590 new cases. 191 fresh fatalities take death toll to 151,918.188 new Covid-19 deaths and no new death in ThailandThailand records 188 new Covid-19 cases and no new deaths. Tally rises to 11,450 including 69 deaths.Andaman and Nicobar's Covid-19 tally rises to 4,976Andaman and Nicobar Islands log seven new Covid-19 cases. Tally mounts to 4,976 including 62 deaths.No new Covid-19 death in JharkhandJharkhand reports 144 new Covid-19 cases and zero fatalities in past 24 hours. Total tally at 117,384 including 1,048 deaths.184,962,401 samples tested for Covid-19: ICMR184,962,401 samples tested for Covid-19 in India till 14 January 2021. 730,096 tests on 14 January 2021: Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)10-day curfew announced in Brazilian provinceNorthern Brazil's Amazonas province announced a 10-day curfew on Thursday in a bid to slow the spread of the coronavirus, as cases soar and hospitals run out of beds and oxygen.144 new Covid-19 cases in mainland ChinaMainland China reports 144 new cases of Covid-19. Tally reaches 87,988 while death toll unchanged at 4,635.No new Covid-19 case in MizoramNo new Covid-19 case in last 24 hours in Mizoram. Tally stands at 4,310 including 96 active cases, 4,205 discharges and nine deaths.J&K receives first batch of Covid-19 vaccineJammu and Kashmir: The first consignment of 2540 dosages of covid vaccine reached Kathua, yesterday. The first phase of vaccination will begin on January 16. pic.twitter.com/yrC48XZAs7The first batch of J&K's Covid-19 vaccine dosage reached Kathua on Thursday.Brazil crosses 8.3 million Covid-19 casesBrazil records 67,758 new Covid-19 cases and 1,131 deaths. Tally reaches 8,324,924 including 207,095 deaths.1,248 new Covid-19 deaths in UKUK reported 1,248 new deaths due to Covid-19 on Thursday, down from a record high of over 1,500 on the previous day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-india-world-latest-news-covid-19-death-toll-january-15-2021-101610668571400.html
15-01-2021||World||Trump impeached again, this time with bipartisan support||Donald Trump on Wednesday became the first American president to be impeached twice, with several Republicans joining the Democrats this time.The US House of Representatives voted 232-197 to pass the resolution impeaching him, with 10 Republicans joining Democratic lawmakers to deliver the president a historic rebuke for inciting a mob of supporters to storm the US Capitol on January 6 to prevent a joint session of Congress from certifying President-elect Joe Bien’s election victory.“Today in a bipartisan way, the House demonstrated that no one is above the law, not even the president of the United States, that Donald Trump is a clear and present danger to our country,” House Speaker Pelosi said before signing the article of impeachment to make the second impeachment official.The House will now transmit the article of impeachment to the Senate for a trial, to either convict the president or acquit him. But there are no timelines on when that will happen.Republicans, who control the chamber, have no plans of recalling it from recess till January 19. Democrats take charge of the Senate then, and Trump’s trial is likely to take place after he had left office, and Biden will be in White House. A conviction will disbar Trump from holding federal office, imperilling his plans to run again in 2024.Trump joined a tiny group of impeached US presidents on December 18, 2019, when the action was taken on him for misusing the powers of his office to force a foreign nation — Ukraine — to investigate a political rival, Biden. The two impeachments before were of Andrew Johnson in 1868 and Bill Clinton in 1998. Richard Nixon had escaped becoming the third in 1973 by resigning before the House voted. In just 19 months since the first, Trump had earned himself an unprecedented second impeachment.Trump has been largely out of sight and disengaged since January 6, except for a trip to Texas and has not reacted to the impeachment till late evening. But he released a video message denouncing the attack on the Capitol. “I want to be clear; I unequivocally condemn the violence we saw last week. Violence and vandalism have absolutely no place in our country and no place in our movement,” he said, and went on to appeal for peace, in the wake of heightened security warnings about armed protests between now and Biden’s inauguration.Trump did not utter a word about the impeachment or the Senate trial up next.Though Trump still has seven more days left of his term, he appears to have largely checked out of governance. All eyes are now, thus, on pardons that he is expected to grant. Questions are being asked if he will pardon himself, his adult children, Personal lawyer Rudy Giuliani or anyone else.President-elect Biden, who has sought to stay above Trump’s efforts to overturn the election that led to his impeachment, said, “Today, the members of the House of Representatives exercised the power granted to them under our Constitution and voted to impeach and hold the president accountable. It was a bipartisan vote cast by members who followed the Constitution and their conscience.”The bipartisan vote, with 10 Republicans breaking with the president, is also a reflection of the turmoil in the Republican party. In the December 2019 impeachment, Republicans had voted as a block in Trump’s support. Now, the party is torn between those who cling to Trump, mostly to not anger him or his base, and others who see an opportunity here to move the party away from the president’s divisive brand of politics that has cost them control of Congress, with Democrats set to take the Senate, and the White House.Trump’s allies, mostly hardliners, called for the resignation of Liz Cheney, the No 3 House Republican who led the group that voted for the impeachment motion.But Cheney, who is the daughter of former vice-president Dick Cheney, is not capitulating. “I’m not going anywhere. This is a vote of conscience,” she told POLITICO about the impeachment vote, which was not whip-enforced. “It’s one where there are different views in our conference. But our nation is facing an unprecedented, since the civil war, constitutional crisis.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-impeached-again-this-time-with-bipartisan-support-101610602466171.html
15-01-2021||India||Assam village sets example, holds fake buffalo fight to uphold SC ban||For centuries, buffalo fights have been an integral part of the post-harvest Magh Bihu celebrations across Assam. But a 2016 Supreme Court ban on animal fights during religious and cultural festivals affected this traditional sport.However, residents of Japisojia village in Sivasagar district of Assam devised a way to preserve tradition while upholding the apex court’s ban by holding fake buffalo fights with men wearing a costume and headgear representing the animal.Two men covered themselves with a piece of black cloth with the one in front wearing a head gear shaped like a buffalo’s head and indulged in a mock fight with another fake buffalo.Like in traditional buffalo fights, the fake buffaloes were egged on by their handlers to fight well amid cheers from hundreds of villagers who had gathered at the paddy fields on Friday to witness the sport.Also read: 'Seek approval before initiating action against poll officials' - EC tells statesUnlike the village in Sivasagar, buffalo fights were held at several places in Assam on Friday - the first day of Magh month - despite the SC ban. However, the events were held unofficially.The biggest event in the state was held at Lakshmi Nath Bezbaruah Kshetra in Ahatguri of Morigaon district where thousands of people gathered to witness over hundred buffaloes take part in fights.“Buffalo fights on Magh Bihu are part of Assam’s tradition for centuries. We will keep holding this event every year to carry forward that tradition,” one of the organizers of the Ahutguri event told a local television channel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-village-sets-example-holds-fake-buffalo-fight-to-uphold-sc-ban-101610734544591.html
15-01-2021||India||After protests, Goa CM announces relocation of IIT project from Melaulim||PANAJI: Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant on Friday announced that the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT)-Goa campus that was to be set up at Melaulim village would be shifted to another place in the state. The decision caps more than six months of protests largely by the residents of Melaulim village who had refused to concede land and had set up a blockade at the entrance to the site refusing to allow government surveyors to enter the village to demarcate the land. On January 6, at least 12 policemen and several villagers were injured when both the groups had clashed as the police attempted to clear the blockade set up by the villagers. “We wanted the IIT project in Sattari so that the region is developed. (Health minister and MLA from Valpoi in Sattari Vishwajit) Rane also tried to explain (to the villagers). We had also invited the villagers for discussion, but they wouldn’t relent,” Sawant told reporters. On Friday, elected representatives from the neighbouring villages in Sattari submitted a formal request to the CM asking him to shift the project elsewhere. “The whole idea to bring the IIT to Sattari was for the development of Sattari and the development of the whole taluka and the neighbouring talukas. But if the people do not want the IIT in Sattari, I would like to make a humble request to please take a decision to shift the IIT out of Sattari and from Shel Melaulim,” the representation signed by around half a dozen district panchayat members, said. Bowing to the request of the elected representatives of the villages, Sawant said, “This government listens to the people. The government has decided to shift the project from Sattari to another place in Goa. We will be informing the IIT officials and a future decision will be taken to honour requests made by the elected representatives. Both me and health Minister had no personal interest in going ahead with the project.”Notably, on Tuesday, in a letter to CM, Rane had urged him to drop the proposal for an IIT campus at the village.“I want to assure the people of Sattari that for as long as I’m in politics and the representative of this area, we will not allow anyone to even put a single stone in place for the IIT because the people don’t want it,” Rane had said. In May last year, the Goa government had formally transferred around 10 lakh sq. mts land in Melaulim village in North Goa, for setting up of IIT-Goa. Functional since 2014, the IIT Goa has been functioning from a temporary campus at the Goa Engineering College.Melaulim village falls in an eco-sensitive zone but hasn’t been formally declared so with notifications not being formally issued. The land on which the IIT is scheduled to come up is revenue land belonging to the government, but the villagers have said that situation has persisted only because they did not have the required documentation to prove that they have rights over it.Two sites previously identified by the state government, in Canacona and Sanguem sub districts, for setting up of a permanent campus for IIT were scrapped, in face of protests from local residents.Villagers have opposed the project claiming that they are dependent on the land for their sustenance including cashews, betel nut and other agricultural produce.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-protests-goa-cm-announces-relocation-of-iit-project-from-melaulim-101610734662888.html
15-01-2021||India||CBI ‘bribe-for-relief’ racket was running since 2018, finds probe||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has found that a “bribe-for-relief” racket was being run in the agency since 2018 by leaking confidential case related information to some companies being investigated for bank fraud, people familiar with the development said. The agency has identified bribes worth ₹55 lakh paid to two of its officers– Deputy Superintendent of Police , R K Rishi ( ₹30 lakh) and Inspector Kapil Dhankad ( ₹25 lakh) – in lieu of favours extended to at least three companies. In all, nine persons have been named in a First Information Report, including four CBI officers: Rishi (deployed at CBI academy); Dhankad (who is posted in Bank Securities and Fraud Cell BS&FC of CBI); DSP R K Sangwan (posted in Special Crimes Unit) and Stenographer in BS&FC , Sameer Kumar Singh. Two advocates, Arvind Kumar Gupta and Manohar Malik have also been named along with Mandeep Kaur Dhillon (additional director of a company, Shree Shyam Pulp & Board Mills Pvt Ltd); and Sujai Desai and Udai Desai of Mumbai based company Frost International Pvt Ltd. According to the FIR, reviewed by HT, the four CBI officers, along with the two advocates, and certain other accused have been “compromising the integrity of investigation of certain cases on extraneous pecuniary considerations”. Both Shree Shyam Pulp & Board Mills Pvt Ltd (SSPBML) and Frost International are being investigated by CBI for defrauding banks. The case against Frost International was registered in August 2020 for cheating 14 banks of over ₹3500 crore. The CBI FIR states that “in the case of SSPNML, R K Sangwan, who was previous investigating officer of the case, offered and paid a bribe of ₹10 lakh in cash on behalf of Mandeep Kaur to Inspector Kapil Dhankad”. “On his part, Dhankad conveyed confidential information relating to the investigation of this case to R K Sangwan, with an intention to favour the accused”. It adds that R K Rishi paid ₹10 lakh bribe to Dhankad on behalf of Desais of Frost International. Rishi himself received ₹15 lakh twice through advocates Malik and Gupta (having their offices in Defence Colony, Delhi), to extend favours to a Chandigarh based company against which a corruption case was being investigated by CBI, the FIR said. “In this matter, Dhankad twice received ₹2.5 lakh from Gupta for having brokered the deal through Rishi.” The agency FIR says that “details of investigation of many other cases including confidential notes and directions have been communicated by (Sameer Kumar) Singh to Sangwan and Rishi on pecuniary considerations to protect the interests of the accused”. The two DSPs , R K Rishi and R K Sangwan, facilitated the bribes by leaking the information to the companies, said an officer, speaking on condition of anonymity. “The leak of sensitive case related information like raids, status of investigation, filing of charge sheet etc helps accused persons in destroying the evidence. There is a possibility that more officers are involved in the scandal as CBI investigations are monitored at various levels and documents are usually kept in respective branches. It is to be seen how Singh was leaking the documents without anyone’s knowledge,” said another CBI officer who didn’t want to be named. CBI is investigating the magnitude of the racket, as it could be much bigger considering large number of bank fraud cases are under investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-bribe-for-relief-racket-was-running-since-2018-finds-probe-101610734662302.html
15-01-2021||India||Mumbai logs AQI of 190, breathes cleanest air so far this year||Mumbai inhaled its cleanest air this year on Friday as westerly winds blowing from the north west of India cleared pollutants dispersed in the air. An overall air quality index (AQI)—a pollutant measuring indicator— of 190 was measured today, which was in the moderate category for the first time in 2021.Air quality had remained in the poor to very poor category since the beginning of January owing to low temperatures. On January 8, the AQI was the worst at 317 (very poor) for this year. However, with the onset of westerly winds, the air has cleared up.AQI was calculated by the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) as the average of indices recorded at 10 locations in the city and suburbs. SAFAR categorises AQI levels for PM2.5 in the 0-50 range as good; 51-100 as satisfactory; 101-200 as moderate; 201-300 as poor; 301-400 as very poor and above 400 as severe.“Winds blowing from the north and west have cleared the air of pollutants. If the wind continues, air quality will remain moderate for the next couple of days, despite a drop in temperatures. However, without the winds, air quality may become worse,” said a spokesperson from SAFAR. Navi Mumbai, however, recorded very poor air with the AQI being measured at 350. Along the western suburbs, Malad had the worst air with an AQI of 211 (poor).Both day and night also turned pleasant on Friday as temperatures dropped significantly in the city providing relief from week-long heat conditions. At Santacruz, the minimum temperature dropped to 19.5 degrees Celsius, two degrees above normal. The Colaba observatory of the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) recorded a minimum temperature of 21 degrees Celsius. While this was 2 degrees above normal, the minimum temperature was much lower than Monday’s minimum temperature of 23.5, the highest in a decade.Maximum temperatures remained below normal in the city. Santacruz reported a maximum temperature of 31 degrees Celsius, which was 0.8 degrees below normal. At Colaba, the maximum temperature dropped a degree below 30 degrees Celsius and was 1.1 degrees below normal.“IMD had forecast that temperatures would drop from Friday for the next few days as westerly winds have started blowing over parts of the state. Since, parts of north west India are under the influence of a cold wave, north-westerly winds from these parts are colder,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general of western region, IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-logs-aqi-of-190-breathes-cleanest-air-so-far-this-year-101610733998885.html
15-01-2021||India||TMC MP Satabdi Roy voices dissent, Abhishek Banerjee steps in to solve crisis||Less than a month after former Trinamool Congress (TMC) minister Suvendu Adhikari joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) along with six “disgruntled” sitting MLAs and a Lok Sabha member, the ruling party suffered a jolt on Friday when Satabdi Roy, the three-time Lok Sabha member from Birbhum and a former star of Bengali cinema, voiced dissent against the leadership and spoke of “taking a decision”.The speculations started on Thursday over a post on a Facebook page of the Satabdi Roy Fan Club. The post, which Roy on Friday said was written by her, mentioned that she was unable to connect with voters in her constituency as she was not being invited to TMC programmes since the 2019 polls.For the first time, TMC’s youth unit president and chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee stepped in to solve the crisis. He sent party spokesperson Kunal Ghosh to bring Roy to his office on Camac Street in south Kolkata and held a two-hour meeting on Friday.“I discussed the problems I had with our leader Abhishek Banerjee. I conveyed to him the grievances I had. He said he will solve all the problems,” Roy said after emerging from the meeting at around 8.45 pm.“I am not going to Delhi. At this moment it is necessary that we all stay in the party. I am not a politician. I came to politics because of Mamata Banerjee, I am with her,” she added, referring to her earlier statement that she would be going to Delhi on Saturday. This triggered speculations that she might meet some important BJP leader.When asked whether any BJP leader contacted her, Roy smiled and said, “Yes.”The political drama started on Thursday when people noticed the Facebook post.“In the new year, I am trying to take some decision so that I can give my whole time to you. I am grateful to you. You have supported me since 2009 and sent to me to the Lok Sabha. I hope I will continue to receive your love in the future. I became an MP much later. Long before that it was Satabdi Roy whom you loved. I will try to do my duty. If I take any decision, I will announce it at 2 pm on January 16, 2021,” the Facebook post said.Roy told the media that she would fly to Delhi on Saturday. This led to rumours that she would meet Union home minister Amit Shah. “As an MP, I can always meet Shah. But I am not saying that I will join the BJP,” Roy said on Friday afternoon, hours before meeting Abhishek Banerjee.This became a major embarrassment for the party as Roy was the only leader who walked alongside chief minister Mamata Banerjee at the grand roadshow in Birbhum’s Bolpur town on December 29, nine days after the Union home minster held a roadshow at the same spot.TMC leaders made desperate attempts to talk to Roy. Party spokesperson Kunal Ghosh even rushed to her residence. “I called her up and said she should not leave the TMC. She expressed her unhappiness over certain organizational issues in Birbhum district,” said Saugata Roy.TMC leaders who spoke to her told HT that Roy was annoyed with some local leaders in Birbhum and alleged that they were bypassing her in every decision-making process and inviting the TMC’s Bolpur Lok Sabha MP Asit Mal to all party meets while ignoring her. TMC’s Birbhum unit president Anubrata Mondal, however, denied the charges saying Roy never complained to him.BJP state president Dilip Ghosh and national vice-president Mukul Roy - both of whom were in Delhi on Friday -- said in the morning that the BJP had not contacted Roy.Though the TMC managed to stop Roy from leaving, the party was in an uncomfortable position because of state forest minister Rajib Banerjee who has been avoiding most government and party programmes since September. Banerjee said in a social media post that he would go live on Saturday, leading to speculations that he too might voice his dissent in public. Since September, the minister has been speaking against a section of leaders in Howrah district.On Friday, Shyamal Adak, the administrative head of the Haldia civic body in East Midnapore and a leader known to be close to Suvendu Adhikari resigned from the TMC. He, however, left the media guessing about his next move.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-mp-satabdi-roy-voices-dissent-abhishek-banerjee-steps-in-to-solve-crisis-101610732196523.html
15-01-2021||India||Woman sanitation worker to get first vaccine jab in Chhattisgarh||A 53-year-old woman sanitation worker will be the first person to receive a COVID-19 vaccine shot in Chhattisgarh as the inoculation drive will start at 97 centres in the state on Saturday.The vaccination drive will cover over 2.67 lakh healthcare personnel and frontline workers in its first phase, state's mission director for the National Health Mission Priyanka Shukla said.Tulsa Tandi, a sanitation worker at Dr B R Ambedkar Memorial Hospital in Raipur, will be the first person to get vaccinated here, said Shukla.A total of 2,67,399 healthcare and Women and Child Development department personnel will be vaccinated in the first phase at 1,349 centres, she said.As many as 97 vaccination centres have been set up for the launch on Saturday.The centres have been set up in medical colleges, district hospitals, primary and community health centres, private hospitals and other government facilities.As many as 100 beneficiaries are expected to get inoculated at each centre in a day, Shukla said.The state has received 3.23 lakh doses of Serum Institute of India-manufactured Covishield vaccine.At least 7,116 vaccinators have been trained for the initial phase of the drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-sanitation-worker-to-get-first-vaccine-jab-in-chhattisgarh-101610733116966.html
15-01-2021||India||Is Covid-19 vaccine mandatory?: All your FAQs about vaccination drive answered||India on Saturday will begin the vaccination drive, to be launched virtually by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, to first inoculate millions of healthcare and frontline workers. The government has said more than 3,000 sites have been set up across all states and Union territories (UTs) for vaccination drive. Around 100 beneficiaries will be vaccinated Saturday at each of the session sites, the Union ministry of health and family welfare has said.The vaccination drive has been planned in a phased manner, identifying priority groups. Healthcare workers, both in government and private sectors including Integrated Child Development Services(ICDS) workers, will receive the vaccine during this phase, the health ministry said in a statement. It will be held daily from 9am to 5pm, except on the days earmarked for routine immunisation programmes.Earlier in the day, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan reviewed preparations for the launch of the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive as he visited the dedicated Covid control room set up at the Nirman Bhawan premises of the health ministry. He termed the drive as the "largest" and urged people to trust the indigenously manufactured vaccine, saying the government has given emergency use approval after proper scientific scrutiny.Here are the FAQs on the coronavirus vaccination drive:What vaccines will be used?Currently, the drugs regulator body of India has approved two vaccines--Covidshield and Covaxin. Pune-based Serum Institute of India has developed the Covishield vaccine. While the Coaxin has been developed by Hyderabad's Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Medical Council of research (ICMR) and National Institute of Virology.Is it free?Yes. Earlier this month, Union health minister Vardhan stated that Covid-19 vaccine will be provided free of cost across the country.What is the eligibility?For now, only people aged 18 or above will be vaccinated.When do you get the second shot?Both vaccines are a two-dose regimen. The second shot will be administered 28 days after the first one.Is it mandatory?It will be a voluntary exercise. People will need to register themselves for at the government portal only then will be administered with the vaccine.Who will be vaccinated first?As per the government figures, as many as 30 million people will be vaccinated in the first phase of the drive. This will only include people working in the healthcare and frontline workers who are at the forefront of the fight against the pandemic.When will it be available to the general public?The general public will get the vaccine once healthcare and frontline workers, people above 50 years and those below 50 years with comorbidities are covered which would take a few months.Can pregnant women or lactating mothers get vaccinated?The government has advised that pregnant women or who are not sure of their pregnancy and lactating mothers shouldn't receive the vaccine. Pregnant and lactating women have not been part of any Covid-19 vaccine clinical trial so far.What is CoWIN?Co-WIN is an online digital platform developed by the Union health ministry, which will be used by the government to facilitate real-time information of vaccine stocks, storage temperature and individualised tracking of beneficiaries. Co-WIN will assist programme managers across all levels while conducting vaccination sessions, the PMO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/is-covid-19-vaccine-mandatory-all-your-faqs-about-vaccination-drive-answered-101610731129340.html
15-01-2021||India||Bengal BJP leaders meet Amit Shah in Delhi, discuss poll preparedness||Union home minister Amit Shah and senior central leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) held a meeting with leaders from Bengal at Shah’s residence in Delhi on Friday evening to review the ongoing poll preparations in Bengal and plan outreach programmes for the next one month.Shah is scheduled to attend programmes in Bengal on January 30 and 31. The party also wants to plan a rally to be addressed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the coming weeks.“This is a monthly review meeting. The Union home minister and BJP national president JP Nadda are visiting Bengal every month. Their activities are going to increase in the coming days. We will review the result of the programmes held so far,” Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh said before the meeting.Ghosh attended the meeting along with national vice-president Mukul Roy and Bengal general secretary (organization) Amitava Chakraborty. The meeting started around 7 pm.To meet Shah’s target of winning more than 200 of Bengal’s 294 assembly seats in 2021, the BJP has put together its biggest election machinery in the eastern state. Since November 26, Union ministers, central BJP leaders from Delhi and leaders and ministers from other states are taking part in outreach programmes in Bengal.Bengal BJP leaders said that Friday’s meeting was held to review the state BJP unit’s poll preparedness against the backdrop of the report five central leaders prepared for Shah.These leaders, Sunil Deodhar, Dushyant Gautam, Vinod Tawde, Harish Dwivedi and Vinod Sonkar interviewed the presidents and secretaries of the district units in November and December for a comprehensive report. State leaders were not allowed to attend the interviews. The five BJP leaders have been put in charge of different organizational zones.Induction of leaders from the Trinamool Congress and other parties was also discussed at Friday’s meeting, said a BJP leader. A BJP leader said that the central leadership wants checks and balances to be put in place during inductions.BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya, who is the observer for Bengal, recently hinted at this, saying image of leaders being inducted would be reviewed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-bjp-leaders-meet-amit-shah-in-delhi-discuss-poll-preparedness-101610730404558.html
15-01-2021||India||Ladakh soldiers among first set of army personnel to get Covid-19 vaccine||Military doctors, paramedics and front-line soldiers deployed in eastern Ladakh, where India and China are locked in a tense border standoff, will be among the first set of armed forces personnel to be vaccinated against the coronavirus disease, with India all set to kick off an elaborate vaccination campaign on Saturday, officials familiar with the development said on Friday.More than 12,000 doses of the vaccine have reached Ladakh of which around 4,000 have been earmarked for armed forces personnel to protect them from Covid-19, the officials said speaking on condition of anonymity.“Top priority is being given to military doctors and medical staff who have been at the forefront of the fight against Covid-19. Front-line soldiers have also been identified for vaccination,” the officials said.The armed forces have been able to keep a check on the spread of the disease within its ranks by adhering to strict protocols, even as army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane described the pandemic and the situation on the northern borders as the main challenges the army confronted last year.Experts said it was critical to protect frontline military personnel from the disease.“It is absolutely critical to vaccinate the military medical staff and front-line soldiers against Covid-19, given the crucial role being discharged by them in harsh conditions. Others who are not directly part of the military set up but play a key role in keeping the system in forward areas up and running should also get the vaccine on priority,” said Lieutenant General BK Chopra (retd), a former director general of the Armed Forces Medical Services.He said the armed forces would have prioritised the list of personnel who have to be vaccinated ahead of others keeping their roles and service conditions in mind. “I am sure all drills are in place to ensure that people are vaccinated on priority according to the government’s guidelines,” Chopra added.Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation on January 16 to start Covid-19 vaccination in India. As many as 3,006 vaccination centres will be part of this drive.The vaccination campaign, marking the final phase in India’s long battle against the pandemic, will be held daily from 9am to 5pm, barring the days earmarked for routine immunisation programme.Officials involved in the preparations said that all pallets of Serum Institute of India’s Covishield vaccines have reached all state capitals and their distribution to the districts and blocks is on. Similarly, Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, a backup to Covishield, has also arrived in some states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ladakh-soldiers-among-first-set-of-army-personnel-to-get-covid-19-vaccine-101610727102207.html
15-01-2021||India||Thousands of Odisha's healthcare workers say no to Covid-19 vaccine, here's why||Ahead of the countrywide Covid-19 vaccination drive, about 15,000 multipurpose health workers have said they will not take Covid-19 vaccine in protest against state government's callousness in cadre restructuring and designation change.The health workers, under the banner of Odisha State Male and Female Multipurpose Health Workers'/Health Supervisors’ United Association, started wearing black badges on Friday as a symbolic protest and refused to take the vaccination if their demands are not met.The Multipurpose Health Workers (Male and Female) work in preventive and promotive healthcare sector starting at village sub-health centres for control of communicable diseases, including Malaria, TB, Leprosy, waterborne diseases, as well as environmental sanitation.“Our members have played a significant role in village and primary health centre (PHC) level during the Covid-19 pandemic. We have motivated people to go for testing and have created awareness among people about the disease. Our members collected swabs from people during Covid. But we did not get our dues from the government,” said Rabindranath Pradhan, general secretary of State Multipurpose Health Workers (Male) Association.Also read: 'Seek approval before initiating action against poll officials' - EC tells statesPradhan said many MPW workers do not even get a single promotion despite working hard throughout their lives and that's why cadre-restructuring was needed. "However, we would assist the government in vaccination drive from January 16," he said.Mamata Nayak of the association said the government should decide quickly on the designation of the workers as many of them are treated poorly despite having professional degrees. "For a long time we have been demanding to be designated as Upakendra Janaswasthya Aadhikari which would be acceptable at the community level and the health workers would be more inspired," said Nayak.Odisha would administer Covid-19 vaccine shots to about 1.92 lakh healthcare workers during the first phase of the nationwide vaccination programme. The state has already received 4.08 lakh Covishield and 20,000 Covaxin doses for the first phase of vaccination to be held across 160 session sites across. Dr BK Panigrahi, state nodal officer for Covid-19 vaccination said all the 160 session sites have been duly provisioned with at least three rooms each for vaccination, waiting, and observation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thousands-of-odisha-s-healthcare-workers-say-no-to-covid-19-vaccine-here-s-why-101610727463060.html
15-01-2021||India||Join Congress to defeat BJP: Adhir Ranjan repeats invite to Mamata Banerjee||Senior Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Choudhury on Friday once again asked Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress to form an alliance with his party to defeat the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the upcoming elections in West Bengal."She (Mamata Banerjee) should join Congress because it's not possible to stop the BJP from coming to power in West Bengal without Congress. Congress had single-handedly kept a secular atmosphere in India by combating parties like the BJP for nearly 100 years in India. History is proof as well," Choudhury was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Choudhury's comments came after the TMC had on Wednesday said the Congress and the Left should support Banerjee in her fight against the BJP, a suggestion rejected by the two parties. "If the Left Front and the Congress are genuinely anti-BJP, they should rally behind Mamata Banerjee in her fight against the communal and divisive politics of the saffron party," senior TMC leader Sougata Roy had said while speaking to reporters.Choudhury, who is the Congress' West Bengal unit president, had then proposed that the TMC should merge with it instead and put up a united fight against the BJP. Banerjee had floated the Trinamool Congress in 1998 after breaking away from the Congress.On Friday, he said despite forming an alliance with the Congress in the assembly elections in 2011, the TMC has worked towards weakening the strength of secular parties in West Bengal. The alliance had won 226 seats in the assembly elections that year, ending the 10-year tenure of then chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee. Choudhury also blamed the Trinamool Congress for allowing the BJP to strengthen its base in the state.“They felt it will be difficult for them to survive without Congress. They came to power with Congress' help but then left no stone unturned to finish Congress. They weakened secular parties like Congress and Left in West Bengal which made a communal party like BJP rise,” Choudhury said.Banerjee has faced stiff opposition not only from the BJP but also from the Congress and the Left Front in the run-up to the state’s assembly elections. Congress leader Abdul Mannan in January had demanded that the chief minister prove majority in the state assembly after rumours of several TMC leaders leaving the party to join the BJP surfaced as Suvendu Adhikari joined BJP. “If your claim is true, please appear for a floor test in assembly,” the Congress leader had said.CPI(M) leader Sujan Chakrabarty had also expressed similar sentiments after rumours of discontent among TMC leaders surfaced. The CPI(M) leader said he feels that the chief minister does not have the support of an adequate number of legislators.Defections of several high-profile leaders from the Trinamool Congress has forced the party to go back to the drawing board as it trying to stop the BJP from mounting a serious competition in the upcoming elections. In December last year, TMC rebel leader Suvendu Adhikari along with five other leaders had joined the BJP in presence of Union home minister Amit Shah.Congress and CPI(M) held seat-sharing discussions earlier in January and leaders from both parties denied forming an alliance with the TMC as they feared that it would result in massive electoral losses. Leaders from both the parties claimed that an anti-incumbency sentiment against the TMC government is prevalent in the state.Sitaram Yechury, the CPI(M) general secretary, had said before the seat-sharing meeting that since the TMC is a former ally of the BJP, the party is reluctant to fight the polls alongside TMC. He said, “The anti-incumbency sentiment against the TMC government runs so deep and so large that any unity of all the anti-BJP forces will only help the BJP more. It will be counterproductive. People have great anger against the TMC. Aligning with Trinamool will therefore only turn people against us and help the BJP.”West Bengal is scheduled to hold assembly elections this year for 290 seats as the tenure of the current Trinamool Congress-led government is set to end on May 30. Officials of the Election Commission of India, who visited the state on Thursday, highlighted major issues with the state’s law and order situation. The BJP and Trinamool Congress workers have been involved in several incidents of political violence in the state over the last couple of years which has led to the loss of lives and injuries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/join-congress-to-defeat-bjp-adhir-ranjan-repeats-invite-to-mamata-banerjee-101610725369864.html
15-01-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: India-Japan to work together in field of 5G, smart cities and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India-Japan to work on bolstering cooperation in field of 5G, smart citiesThe Ministry of Telecommunication on Friday said that India and Japan will work together in the field of information and communication technology to enhance cooperation in the field of 5G technology and smart cities. Read moreChinese authorities ask people to cut down on travel as Covid rises againChina reported the highest daily tally of Covid-19 cases in 10 months for Thursday, official data showed on Friday as authorities appealed to citizens to cut down on non-essential travel during the upcoming Chinese New Year (CNY) holidays when hundreds of millions visit their home towns. Read moreRead your 2019 Lok Sabha manifesto: Tomar reminds Rahul Gandhi over farm lawsUnion agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Friday lashed out at Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for criticising the government over the new farm laws. Read moreCalled me a slut: 69-yr-old Rajini Chandy on being trolled for 'sexy' photosWhile she may not be a household name, actor and former Bigg Boss Malayalam contestant, Rajini Chandy is a trailblazer in her own right. Read more‘Get in loser, we're going stargazing’: NASA uses Mean Girls reference while sharing pic of Cigar galaxy"Get in loser, we're going shopping," many may remember this iconic dialogue delivered by queen bee Regina George, played by Rachel McAdams, from the beloved film Mean Girls. Read moreArjun Tendulkar, Sachin's son, gets maiden wicket on Mumbai debut in Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy, video goes viralTwitter was abuzz after Arjun Tendulkar, son of Sachin Tendulkar got his maiden T20 wicket on his debut for the senior Mumbai side in an Elite E League group match of the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy against Haryana on Friday. Read moreInside Kareena-Saif's new home: Swimming pool, Taimur's space, room for new baby; designer gives all the deetsActors Saif Ali Khan and Kareena Kapoor Khan are all set to move into their new house, across the street from their current residence. Read moreWhatsApp Vs Signal: What you should do to keep your data safeThere is outrage in the country over WhatsApp’s revised privacy policy. The messaging app also issued a clarification over the issue but has not been successful in putting a halt to concerns about users’ data & personal chats being shared with Facebook. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-india-japan-to-work-on-bolstering-cooperation-in-field-of-5g-smart-cities-and-all-the-latest-news-101610723233924.html
15-01-2021||India||When 4 CBI officers turned 'bribe facilitators' for bank fraud accused||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has found that a bribe-for-relief racket was being run in the agency since 2018 by leaking confidential case related information to some accused companies under bank fraud investigation, people familiar with the development said.The agency has identified that bribes worth ₹55 lakh were paid to two of its officers – ₹30 lakh to deputy superintendent of police RK Rishi and ₹25 lakh to inspector Kapil Dhankad – in lieu of favours extended to at least three companies.In all, nine persons have been named in the First Information Report – including four CBI officers: RK Rishi (deployed at CBI academy), Kapil Dhankad (who is posted in Bank Securities and Fraud Cell BS&FC of CBI), DSP RK Sangwan (posted in Special Crimes Unit) and Stenographer in BS&FC Sameer Kumar Singh.According to the FIR, reviewed by HT, the four CBI officers, along with two advocates, and certain other accused have been “compromising the integrity of investigation of certain cases on extraneous pecuniary considerations”.“The leak of sensitive case related information like raids, status of investigation, filing of chargesheet, etc helps accused persons in destroying the evidence. There is a possibility that more officers are involved in the scandal as CBI investigations are monitored at various levels and documents are usually kept in respective branches. It is to be seen how Singh was leaking the documents without anyone’s knowledge,” said an officer who didn’t want to be named.The CBI is verifying the nature of the racket as this could be much bigger considering a large number of bank fraud cases are under investigation.Two advocates – Arvind Kumar Gupta and Manohar Malik - have also been named as accused along with Mandeep Kaur Dhillon (additional director of a company – Shree Shyam Pulp & Board Mills Pvt Ltd) and Sujai Desai and Udai Desai of Mumbai based company Frost International Pvt Ltd.Both Shree Shyam Pulp & Board Mills Pvt Ltd (SSPBML) and Frost International are being investigated by the premier investigating agency for defrauding banks. The case against Frost International was registered in August 2020 for cheating 14 banks of over ₹3,500 crore.CBI FIR states that “in the case of SSPNML, RK Sangwan, who was the previous investigating officer in the case, offered and paid a bribe of ₹10 lakh in cash on behalf of Mandeep Kaur to Inspector Kapil Dhankad”. “On his part, Dhankad conveyed confidential information relating to the investigation of this case to RK Sangwan, with an intention to favour the accused,” FIR states.It is further alleged that RK Rishi paid ₹10 lakh bribe to Dhankad on behalf of Desais of Frost International.For facilitating the bribe, Rishi received ₹15 lakh twice through advocates Malik and Gupta to extend favours to a Chandigarh based company against which a corruption case was being investigated by CBI, the FIR adds. “In this matter, Dhankad twice received ₹2.5 lakh from Gupta for having brokered the deal through Rishi,” read the CBI FIR.The agency FIR says about Sameer Kumar Singh that “details of investigation of many other cases, including confidential notes and directions, have been communicated by Singh to Sangwan and Rishi on pecuniary considerations to protect the interests of the accused”.The two DSPs - RK Rishi and RK Sangwan – mainly played the role of bribe facilitators leaking the information to the companies, said an officer, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/when-4-cbi-officers-turned-bribe-facilitators-for-bank-fraud-accused-101610723637852.html
15-01-2021||India||Rajnath Singh unveils India's first indigenously developed driverless metro car||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Friday unveiled the country's first indigenously designed and developed Driverless Metro Car at the BEML manufacturing facility here. The Minister, who visited the facility, said he was proud of the good work the team of engineers and technicians are doing at Bengaluru-headquartered BEML. "They are the real warriors of Atmanirbhar Bharat, taking India ahead", he said. According to BEML, state-of-the-art driverless metro cars, being manufactured at the company's Bangalore Complex, are made up of stainless-steel body with a capacity of carrying 2280 passengers in six-cars Metro train-set. BEML bagged a total order of 576 cars for Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA)'s MRS1 project and the supply is scheduled progressively up to January 2024. BEML recently opened its Depot office at Charkop Metro Depot, MMRDA, Mumbai for commissioning, testing and round-the- clock services for Driverless Metro cars. Secretary (Defence Production) Raj Kumar IAS, Secretary (Defence Production) and BEML Limited Chairman and Managing Director, Deepak Kumar Hota, were among those present on the occasion. Hota said, "BEMLs foray into metro manufacturing has been a defining moment in the urban transportation scenario in India".Singh virtually launched the Aerospace Assembly Hangar, situated within BEMLs Bangalore Complex, and unveiled first indigenously manufactured Tatra Cabin by BEML. At the BEMLs Bangalore Complex, Singh inspected the Rail Hangars, the array of BEML equipment on display (from its Defence & Aerospace, Mining & Construction and Rail & Metro Divisions) and the newly launched Industrial Design Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-unveils-india-s-first-indigenously-developed-driverless-metro-car-101610723220414.html
15-01-2021||India||'No room for doubt on Covid vaccine, ready to take the shot': Sharad Pawar||A day ahead of the nationwide vaccination drive, the Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar on Friday said that there is no need to cast doubts on Covid-19 vaccines approved by the Drugs Controller General of India (DGCI). He said that both the Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech are world class institutions, and if given a chance he would immediately take a vaccine shot.“There is no need to cast doubt on vaccines as Pune’s Serum of Institute of India is a world class organization and so is Hyderabad’s Bharat Biotech. In a way, they have also shown a path to the world hence I will not cast any doubt on them. In fact, I will immediately get a shot of Covid vaccine if given a chance,” said Pawar while speaking to reporters in South Mumbai.The nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive is beginning from January 16.Pawar’s statement is at variance with what party spokesperson and minority affairs minister Nawab Malik has said a few ago. Malik had said that the people have some doubts on the Covid-19 vaccine thus Prime Minister Narendra Modi should get himself inoculated first to allay their concerns.On Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) president Bhupinder Singh Mann’s decision to recuse himself from the four-member committee appointed by the Supreme Court to discuss the contentious farm laws, Pawar said,“The decision made by the BKU chief indicates that complaints of the farmers are based on facts. However, a decision needs to be made over their agitation as farmer brothers are not willing to withdraw the protest despite the severe cold wave in Delhi.”On Thursday, the NCP chief had questioned the composition of the committee appointed by the apex court on farm laws saying that the members of the committee have supported the three farm laws in the past and thus they do not have faith in the committee. He has also said that the committee should have been independent in a true sense.The veteran leader also expressed surprise at governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari participating in a donation collection drive for Ram Mandir in Ayodhya on Friday.“Organizing a donation drive is the right of an organization so I will not comment on that part but I read somewhere that the Governor (Bhagat Singh Koshyari) is also participating in a donation drive, which is strange, if true,” Pawar said.“Governor is the head of a state and expected to work for everyone. It would be a wise decision, if he can avoid participating in events which could lead to the possibility of unnecessary debate or argument,” he explained, when asked further.Earlier today, Koshyari attended Shri Ramjanmabhoomi Mandir Nidhi Samarpan Abhiyan (donation collection drive) at the Poddareshwar Ram Mandir in Nagpur.The donation collection drive for the Ram temple at Ayodhya began simultaneously all over the country on January 15 and it will run till February 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-room-for-doubt-on-covid-vaccine-ready-to-take-the-shot-sharad-pawar-101610723235605.html
15-01-2021||India||PM Modi to interact with health workers of Kerala’s Ernakulam hospital tomorrow||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with health workers of Ernakulam district hospital after inaugurating the nationwide rollout of the Covid-19 vaccine on Saturday, a statement from the health ministry said adding the state is prepared for the vaccine drive.State health minister K K Shailaja will take part in the vaccination drive in Kannur. The state government has asked political leaders and others not to crowd hospitals.In the first phase, the state has got 0.435 million (4.35 lakh) vials of Covishield. Besides hospital employees, ambulance drivers, Asha workers and employees of the social security mission will also be administered the vaccine in 133 centres. The health minister has allayed apprehensions about the new vaccine.“Experts have told us it is like any other vaccine. For those who take the first shot, they should take the second without fail. Beneficiaries should report side-effects, if any. There is no need of any apprehension in this regard,” she said after reviewing arrangements.In view of high active caseload the state had sought more vials in the first stage but it was told that in the second stage more vials will be given. Once lauded for its Covid-19 management, now Kerala is the virus hotspot of the country. When the country’s test positivity rate since January 1 was between 4 and 5 per cent in Kerala it was between 9 and 10 per cent, statistics show.On Friday it reported 5624 new Covid-19 cases and TPR was 8.94% and active cases 67,496. Kerala and Maharashtra have reported one third of the total cases in the country, Union health ministry statistics show.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-interact-with-health-workers-of-kerala-s-ernakulam-hospital-tomorrow-101610717671374.html
15-01-2021||India||Arunachal Pradesh to build memorial to honour hero who won Tawang for India||Seventy years after he brought Tawang under Indian rule by reaching the area located near McMahon Line and unfurling the tricolour there, the Arunachal Pradesh government has decided to honour Major Ralengnao Khathing with a memorial.The memorial will be constructed at a site decided by the Tawang district administration and besides highlighting Khathing’s life it will also showcase traditions of the Monpa tribe.The foundation stone of the memorial will be laid on February 14, the day when Khathing is believed to have hoisted the Indian flag in Tawang in 1951.Arunachal Pradesh chief minister Pema Khandu announced this on Friday while speaking at a function in Tawang to felicitate newly elected gram panchayat and zila parishad chairpersons.Khathing, who was more popular as Bob, is relatively an unknown figure for most of India and even in parts of Arunachal Pradesh. But people in Tawang still remember him with respect for establishing Indian control over the area when the threat of China loomed.“Not many of us are aware of Maj Khathing and his contribution to Arunachal Pradesh. Once the memorial is constructed, visitors will come to know about him and his contributions,” Khandu said.Born at Ukhrul in Manipur in 1912, Khathing had served the British Army in the Second World War. He was awarded the Military Cross and received the Member of British Empire (MBE) as well.After Independence, he was appointed as an assistant political officer in November 1950 in Tirap division and was posted in Pasighat in Arunachal Pradesh (known earlier as North East Frontier Agency-NEFA).It is believed that he started an arduous journey on foot from Charduar on January 17, 1951 with a team of soldiers from 5 Assam Rifles traversing difficult and inhospitable terrain to reach Tawang on February 6.“To establish Indian presence up to the extent of the McMahon Line, which was demarcated as the border between India and Tibet in 1914, under the terms of the Shimla Treaty, required covering the area by foot over very difficult terrain,” said an Arunachal Pradesh government release.“Khathing and his troops of 5 Assam Rifles successfully accomplished this. He then met and interacted with a number of ‘gaonburhas’ (village headmen) and quickly and effectively established authority over Tawang. Indian administrative presence was thus established in this remote part of the country,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arunachal-pradesh-builds-memorial-to-honour-hero-who-won-tawang-for-india-101610722820165.html
15-01-2021||India||India-Japan to work on bolstering cooperation in field of 5G, smart cities||The Ministry of Telecommunication on Friday said that India and Japan will work together in the field of information and communication technology to enhance cooperation in the field of 5G technology and smart cities.While the government is yet to roll out the tender for 5G, smart cities has been one of its flagship schemes. The two countries will also work together in the field of telecom security, submarine optical fibre cable system to islands of India, spectrum management, high altitude platform for broadband in unconnected areas, disaster management and public safety.Announcing the decision, minister for telecommunications Ravi Shankar Prasad said, “The timely execution of connecting Andaman & Nicobar Islands with submarine optical fibre cable as a great example of cooperation between India and Japan"Also read: 'Seek approval before initiating action against poll officials' - EC tells statesSigned MoU for cooperation in the field of Information and Communication Technologies with Government of Japan in presence of Mr. Takeda Ryota, Minister for Internal Affairs and Communications, Govt. Japan. pic.twitter.com/SJGAvZZplVPrasad further highlighted that during Covid-19 crisis, a large number of investments had come to India in the field of electronics manufacturing due to attractive policies such as the production-linked investment scheme.“He urged the Japanese electronics industry to invest in India and avail the benefits of the new technologies. The minister further highlighted the great potential India holds for Japanese investors in the field of 5G and 5G based services, Internet of Things, digital health technologies etc,” the ministry said in a statement.The government has already rolled out its first PLI scheme for manufacturing of mobile phones, with incentives up to 6 per cent, and is in the works to announce others for laptops, tablets, hearables, wearables, drones and robots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indiajapan-to-work-on-bolstering-cooperation-in-field-of-5g-smart-cities-101610721968796.html
15-01-2021||India||At bilateral meet with India, Nepal’s foreign minister Gyawali raises border row||Nepal on Friday requested the early provision of Covid-19 vaccines by India even as Nepalese foreign minister Pradeep Gyawali raised an ongoing border row during a one-on-one meeting with his counterpart S Jaishankar to push for an early resolution.Gyawali, in India with a delegation that includes Nepal’s foreign and health secretaries, co-chaired a meeting of the bilateral joint commission with Jaishankar and reviewed all aspects of cooperation, ranging from connectivity and trade to water resources and border management.Both sides have worked closely to combat the pandemic, and the Nepalese side lauded India on its success in the production of Covishield and Covaxin vaccines and “requested for early provision of vaccines to Nepal”, the external affairs ministry said.Nepal is looking to India to provide vaccines as grant assistance for the first phase of its vaccination programme, which requires 12 million doses to cover 20% of its population. Nepal also plans to buy millions of doses from foreign suppliers, including Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech.People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that decisions on exports will be made after meeting the needs of India’s vaccination programme, to be rolled out on January 16. After assessing domestic production and delivery, preference will be given to supplying doses to friendly countries in the immediate neighbourhood, including Nepal, the people said.During his one-on-one meeting with Jaishankar, Gyawali raised the border row that took ties to a low last year, people familiar with the discussions said. Gyawali pressed for speedy steps, including meetings of bilateral mechanisms that handle the boundary issue, to facilitate a resolution.There was no official word from both sides on these discussions, though Gyawali referred to the border issue during a speech at the Indian Council of World Affairs. He said both sides have shown wisdom by continuing overall engagements despite differences on this issue. “We are also mindful that we should not let any outstanding issue...become [an] irritant in an otherwise friendly relationship,” he said.Gyawali sought steps to address the two remaining disputed sections of the 1,800-km border at Kalapani and Susta. “Building and nurturing trust is absolutely essential for the health and harmony of the relations. In this spirit, we desire to start the conversation with a view to resolving the question of boundary alignment in the remaining segments,” he said.“Finding an agreeable boundary alignment in these segments may not only take us to the stage of fully settled international boundary but may also help generate positive vibe in public sentiment as well as help instil greater degree of trust and confidence in bilateral relations.”The row erupted after Nepal Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli issued a new political map that included Kalapani, Limpiyadhura and Lipulekh, which are part of Indian territory. The map was published in response to India’s opening of a strategic road to Lipulekh, located on the border with China.Recent visits to Nepal by spy chief Samant Goel, Indian Army chief Gen MM Naravane and foreign secretary Harsh Shringla helped bring ties to an even keel.In an apparent nod to concerns in India about perceived Chinese meddling in Nepal’s politics, Gyawali said his country pursues an “independent foreign policy and our conduct of external relations is based on a balanced outlook”. He added, “We do not harbour ill-will against anyone...Guided by the same principles, we seek to foster relations with neighbours and all friendly countries...”Gyawali raised the “alarmingly high trade imbalance” with India and said Nepal had proposed measures to expand its export base. He highlighted the need to revise the Peace and Friendship Treaty of 1950 on the basis of recommendations of the Eminent Persons’ Group created in 2016.The two sides also discussed steps to expedite work on joint hydropower projects, including the proposed Pancheshwar multipurpose project.Former ambassador Vishnu Prakash said India needs to stick to its current approach of not allowing irritants to affect the overall relationship. Referring to turmoil caused by Oli’s recent dissolution of Parliament, Prakash said: “We handled it well with our hands-off approach, and we should play to our strengths instead of trying to out-do China.”He added: “This relationship is difficult and sensitive and no political party in Nepal is above playing the China card. Things will get smoother so long as we are not seen to be interfering in their internal politics. As for vaccines, there is a lot of history and proximity in this relationship and I’m sure India will take care of Nepal’s needs.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-bilateral-meet-with-india-nepal-s-foreign-minister-gyawali-raises-border-row-101610720443578.html
15-01-2021||India||Tamil Nadu warms up for Covid-19 vaccination, over 150 sites to be in operation||In Tamil Nadu, as many as 4.8 lakh healthcare workers from government and private are registered with the Co-WIN app for the vaccination drive, as per the official details available on January 14.166 vaccination sites, including hospitals and primary healthcare centres, will function on January 16, where pre-registered candidates will receive an SMS with their allotted location. A vaccination officer will check their identity, ensure that the person doesn’t have Covid-like symptoms. They will be observed for 30 minutes after receiving the vaccine jab. A committee including a cardiologist and a neurologist has been formed to monitor cases of adverse effects. A candidate must strictly be administered the same vaccine for both liquid doses, said Vinay.Tamil Nadu has identified ten prominent personalities in the medical field to take the vaccine to allay fears. “This will prevent rumours,” health minister C Vijayabhaskar told reporters in Pudukkottai on Saturday.Chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami will participate in the vaccination drive tomorrow in Madurai where a sanitary worker of a hospital is expected to receive the first shot.Also read: 'Seek approval before initiating action against poll officials' - EC tells statesTamil Nadu has received a total of 556,550 vaccine doses, of which 536,550 is Covishield vaccine from the Serum Institute of India, Pune and 20,000 doses of Covaxin vaccine from Bharath Biotech.The vaccines have been distributed from Chennai to ten regional vaccine storage facilities and down to 45 district-level vaccine stores. “From here the vaccines have reached cold chain points and will be delivered across 166 locations tomorrow,” said Vinay. The state has 2,704 cold chain points and has established 50 walk-in coolers as additional storage points.The state government aims to vaccinate 20 per cent of the population (1.6 crore) between January and December 2021. About 16,846 vaccinators have been trained for the exercise.Dr Melvin George, co-investigator in Covaxin trials at SRM Medical College Hospital in the outskirts of Chennai, said that the side-effects were minor such as injection site reaction, fever or body pain. He also added that it wasn’t known how long the effects of the vaccine will last. “Based on other vaccines, we can say that the vaccine’s protection will last for six months or a year,” said George. “We have short-term data but we do not have answers on long-term data now.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-warms-up-for-covid-19-vaccination-over-150-sites-to-be-in-operation-101610721361559.html
15-01-2021||India||Patna IndiGo station manager murder: Family demands CBI probe||The family of the IndiGo station manager, who was shot dead on Tuesday evening in one of Patna’s high-security areas, said on Friday Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar should hand over the probe into his death to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). Nandeshwar Singh, Rupesh Singh’s brother, expressed his dissatisfaction with the state police as he said no one has been arrested even though three days have passed since Rupesh was shot dead by unidentified gunmen outside his house.“The chief minister had given an ultimatum that the culprit will be arrested within 48 hours. But there's been no arrest. We feel that the Patna administration is unable to make the arrest. So, the CM should hand over the probe to CBI,” Nandeshwar Singh was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Kumar had highlighted how his government has been able to curb crimes when compared to Bihar’s previous governments. “I spoke with the DGP, a special team has been formed. Don't demoralise the police. If someone doesn't carry out their duty, the action is taken. What used to happen before 2005? There was a lot of crime. Is it the same today?” the chief minister said on Tuesday.The Bihar chief minister reassured that the state’s law and order situation is stable and promised a speedy trial. “Bihar ranks at 23 in the country as far as incidents of crime are concerned. Law is in place. Police are gathering more information. A speedy trial will be done, so that stringent action is taken against the culprit on time. I have been assured by the DGP,” he said.Rupesh Singh’s death has also caused a war of words between the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and the Janata Dal(United) or JD(U) over the state of law and order in Bihar. The RJD's leader Tejashwi Yadav on Wednesday targeted chief minister Nitish Kumar and alleged that Kumar’s government is protecting criminals.“Power-protected criminals killed airport manager Rupesh Kumar Singh outside his residence in Patna. He was affable and friendly. I am deeply saddened by his untimely death. May his soul rest in peace. Now criminals are running the government in Bihar,” Tejashwi Yadav had tweeted.The JD(U)’s ally Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) also pointed out that there were lapses in implementing law and order in the state. The BJP's Rajya Sabha lawmaker Gopal Narayan Singh said that the state’s future is in danger as the administration has shown laxity in curbing incidents of crime. “Our expectations were that when the fourth time Nitish Kumar becomes Chief Minister of state, he will work strictly on law and order situation and rise above politics and think for the people of Bihar. But the laxity is seen, it looks like that the future is not looking bright,” Singh said.(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/patna-indigo-station-manager-murder-family-demands-cbi-probe-101610720956158.html
15-01-2021||India||6.3 crore domestic air passengers in 2020, 56 pc lower than 2019: DGCA||A total of 6.3 crore domestic passengers travelled by air last year, 56.29 per cent lower than 2019, Indian aviation regulator DGCA said on Friday.The impact of the coronavirus pandemic continues to be felt on the Indian aviation sector as the regulator said that only 73.27 lakh people travelled by air domestically in December last year, which was 43.72 per cent lower than in the corresponding period of 2019.While IndiGo carried 3.25 crore passengers last year, a 51.7 per cent share of the total domestic market, SpiceJet flew 93.9 lakh passengers, which is 14.9 per cent share of the market, according to data shared by the DGCA.Air India, GoAir, AirAsia India and Vistara carried 69.32 lakh, 54.38 lakh, 43.87 lakh and 39.39 lakh passengers, respectively, in 2020, the data showed.The occupancy rate or load factor of six major Indian airlines was between 65.1 per cent and 78 per cent in December 2020, it stated."The passenger load factor in the month of December 2020 has shown declining trend compared to the previous month primarily due to the end of tourist season," the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said.The occupancy rate at SpiceJet was 78 per cent last month, highest among the six major Indian carriers.India resumed domestic passenger flights on May 25 after a gap of two months due to the coronavirus pandemic.Indian airlines are allowed to operate a maximum of 80 per cent of their pre-Covid-19 domestic flights.The DGCA data mentioned that in December, IndiGo had the best on-time performance of 94.9 per cent at four metro airports - Bengaluru, Delhi, Hyderabad and Mumbai.In a statement, Ronojoy Dutta, CEO, IndiGo, said, "On-time performance is one of the most critical aspects of customer service. But it is not possible to deliver a high OTP without a fully engaged employee workforce. I am delighted everytime I see a winning OTP number, it signifies we are pleasing the customer and it signifies our employee culture is strong."AirAsia India and Vistara were at number two and three at these four airports in November with 89.9 per cent and 88.4 per cent on-time performance, respectively, the DGCA said.The aviation sector has been significantly impacted due to the travel restrictions imposed in India and other countries in view of the coronavirus pandemic.All airlines in India have taken cost-cutting measures such as pay cuts, leave without pay and firing of employees in order to tide over the crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/63-crore-domestic-air-passengers-in-2020-56-pc-lower-than-2019-dgca-101610720906404.html
15-01-2021||India||Read your 2019 Lok Sabha manifesto: Tomar reminds Rahul Gandhi over farm laws||Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Friday lashed out at Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for criticising the government over the new farm laws. Tomar also questioned the Congress Lok Sabha member’s stance over the farm reforms, saying that Gandhi had forgotten that even his party had promised the same reforms in its manifesto for the general elections in 2019.“The Congress party laughs at statements and actions of Rahul Gandhi. The party mocks him. I would like to remind him that in their 2019 election manifesto Congress promised that they will bring these reforms. If he doesn't remember, he should once again read the manifesto,” the agriculture minister was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.In its plan for reforms in the agricultural sector, Congress’ election manifesto for the 2019 Lok Sabha polls had said that if the party forms the government it would “repeal the Agricultural Produce Market Committees (APMC) Act and make trade in agricultural produce — including exports and inter-state trade — free from all restrictions.” The party manifesto had also said it maintains that the “Essential Commodities Act, 1955 belongs to the age of controls. Congress promises to replace the Act by an enabling law that can be invoked only in the case of emergencies.”Tomar also attacked Congress president Sonia Gandhi over her party’s stand on the laws. He said that both leaders should clarify if they were lying about these reforms in their election manifesto. “If it is mentioned in the manifesto, then Rahul Gandhi and Sonia Gandhi should appear before the media and accept that they were either lying at that time or are lying now,” Tomar said.Congress party workers observed Kisan Adhikar Divas on Friday to protest against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance, and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, and gheraoed Raj Bhawans across the country. Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi also joined Congress workers and leader at Jantar Mantar in New Delhi on Friday morning to protest against the laws.Rahul Gandhi during the protests alleged Prime Minister Narendra Modi is trying to tire out the farmers. “The talks are being held only to delay. PM Modi thinks he has the power and will tire the farmers out, but he is mistaken. Narendra Modi does not have basic respect for farmers. He does not even care if over 100 farmers die. He thinks he has the power and the protesting farmers will tire out after some days, but they will not relent,” the former Congress president was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.Tomar also said that discussions with farmers’ unions' representatives can solve the deadlock between the farmers and the government. Farmers’ unions' representatives and Union ministers could not reach a resolution on the farm laws, which were passed during the monsoon session of Parliament last year, after the ninth round of discussions concluded on Friday. The farmers' union representatives and the Centre will sit for another round of discussions on the farm laws on January 19.Union ministers Nirmala Sitharaman and Tomar had previously claimed that Congress was protesting against the farm laws because they lacked the willpower to implement them. Tomar in an interview with HT in December last year said that Congress could not implement these laws because of influence from allies.“They spoke about these reforms in their election manifesto; when the UPA {United Progressive Alliance} was in power they made attempts to introduce these reforms, but could not because of dabav and prabhav (pressure and influence) (of allies). PM [Narendra] Modi Ji does not give in to pressure or influence,” Tomar had said.Sithraman had also pointed out that the party had mentioned these reforms in their manifesto. “I want to ask Rahul Gandhi (that) were these pro-farmers policies not mentioned in the 2019 election manifesto of Congress? They are protesting just because those reforms are being implemented by PM Modi, and not them,” the Union finance minister had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/read-your-2019-lok-sabha-manifesto-tomar-reminds-rahul-gandhi-over-farm-laws-101610720165863.html
15-01-2021||India||'Beginning of end of Covid-19 pandemic': Health minister Harsh Vardhan on vaccination drive||Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Friday described the beginning of the vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as the end of the pandemic as authorities across the country are all set to inoculate healthcare and frontline workers in the first phase from Saturday. Vardhan also asked people to trust the indigenously manufactured vaccine as the government has "given emergency use approval after scientific scrutiny.""India is set to begin the world's biggest vaccination drive tomorrow. This is the beginning of the end of Covid. Both indigenously manufactured vaccines given emergency use approval after scientific scrutiny," he said, according to news agency ANI.Vardhan will participate in the vaccine rollout at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS). He will visit the new outpatient department (OPD) wing of the hospital to join the doctors and potential vaccine beneficiaries. The drive will be virtually launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi at 10:30am.In a statement on Thursday, the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said that more than 3,000 sites across all states and Union territories (UTs) will be virtually connected when Prime Minister Modi launches the drive.In the coming phases, people above 50 years of age and the under-50 population groups with co-morbidities numbering around 270 million will be inoculated. The central government has introduced an application named Co-WIN, short for Covid Vaccine Intelligence Work, to monitor the entire vaccination process.Two vaccines, Covaxin and Covishield, have received the emergency use authorisation (EAU) after going through established safety and immunogenicity in a well-prescribed regulatory process and these will be administered during the vaccination drive.Meanwhile, the coronavirus infections continued to drop in India as the daily number of cases remained under 20,000. At the peak of the outbreak, the number of daily infections had surpassed 95,000. As of Friday morning, the country has 10.52 million confirmed cases of Covid-19. The death toll stood at 151,198.India is the second worst-hit country by the Covid-19 after the United States.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/beginning-of-end-of-covid-19-pandemic-health-minister-harsh-vardhan-on-vaccination-drive-101610719839295.html
15-01-2021||India||CBI seeks to expedite process to prosecute ex-IAS, 4 IAF officers||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has asked the ministry of defence (MoD) to speed up the sanction it needs to give to prosecute former defence secretary Shashi Kant Sharma and four Indian Air Force (IAF) officers in the case related to alleged irregularities in the purchase of AgustaWestland helicopters, people familiar with the development said.MoD is learnt to have informed the central agency that the request is under consideration and will be processed soon, the people added on condition of anonymity.After completing its investigation against Sharma and four IAF officers – former air vice marshal Jasbir Singh Panesar, deputy chief test pilot S A Kunte, wing commander Thomas Mathew and former group captain N Santosh -- a Special Investigation Team handling the probe sought sanction for their prosecution because it wanted to file a supplementary charge-sheet in the case.The agency recently decided to send a reminder to the MoD asking it to expedite the sanction so that the supplementary charge-sheet, which is almost ready, can be filed at the earliest, said a CBI officer who didn’t want to be named.In the case, bribes were allegedly paid to middlemen when India agreed to buy 12 AgustaWestland helicopters at an estimated cost of Rs3,600 crore.The purchase, cleared in 2010 by the previous United Progressive Alliance government, envisaged replacing ageing Mi-8 choppers to ferry VVIPs such as the President, vice-president, Prime Minister and the other dignitaries.The deal was eventually cancelled in January 2014.Pending sanctions of prosecution is a key reason the CBI is often not able to file charge-sheets in such cases on time.In fact, the anti-corruption agency has been waiting for sanction from the Centre and several state governments to prosecute at least 110 politicians and government officials for over four months in at least 73 cases.Prominent cases in which the concerned department is yet to decide on sanction include the Narada sting case against four Trinamool Congress (TMC) leaders -- Sougata Roy, Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar, Prasun Banerjee and former TMC leader Suvendu Adhikar -- and the case of alleged irregularities in coal block allocations against former Jharkhand chief minister Madhu Koda.In its probe against Shashi Kant Sharma, CBI has found that the retired Indian Administrative Service officer, as joint secretary (air) in MoD, played a key role in most of the decisions taken since 2005 until 2010 that skewed the selection in favour of AgustaWestland .The agency has alleged that Sharma, who had become director general (acquisition) by September 2006, approved the request for proposal (RFP) document for the contract as well as the technical evaluation committee (TEC) report for the field trials.Sharma didn’t respond to an email query . He had defended himself against the allegations last year, saying: “I had a long unblemished service record of over 40 years and nobody can blame me for any malafide action or decision. I strongly and firmly deny any such frivolous allegation”.The four former IAF officers could not be located for comment.Retired IPS officer Neeraj Kumar, who probed 1993 Mumbai serial blasts in CBI, said, “By delaying prosecution sanctions, what are ministries/department trying to prove? That they condone the corruption? Delays not only affect the trial in corruption cases but also help the accused officials.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-seeks-to-expedite-process-to-prosecute-ex-ias-4-iaf-officers-101610718087372.html
15-01-2021||India||PM Modi lauds India's Aatmanirbhar Mission in Manorama Year Book||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said India is a nation "ready for an ambitious marathon on the road to development in the coming decade'' as he praised Indians for showing discipline, focus and composure during the coronavirus pandemic."Some may call the year 2020 as a year of external disruptions due to the pandemic. But I firmly believe that 2020 will be known, not as a year of external disruption, but as a year of internal discovery, for our citizens, for our society and for our nation," PM Modi wrote in an article in the Manorama Year Book for 2020. ''Our nation’s resilient spirit was complemented by our robust systems and institutions. Our physical infrastructure held together by the fabric of our society formed the foundation of our determined response," he said.''Across the world, people have expressed wonder at the way in which Indians, whether poor or rich, young or old, rural or urban, have shown the ability to be responsible, disciplined, focused, law-abiding, patient and composed during a crisis of unprecedented proportions," PM Modi said.Talking about the country's self-reliant movement, PM Modi has written, "India is progressing rapidly towards the goal of an #AatmaNirbharBharat. An Aatmanirbhar Bharat means an India which is more competitive, an India which is more productive and an India which celebrates local talent." ''In the coming year, there will be an even greater focus on self-reliance and resilience in technology. In the movement for an #AatmaNirbharBharat, technology - both as a domain and as an enabler - plays an important role," he said.The reforms in the fields of education, agriculture and labour laws will immensely help the country's students, farmers and youth. "They will empower them with more choices and unlock their full potential while maintaining adequate safeguards for the vulnerable," he said.The Prime Minister also spoke about frontline workers, battling the pandemic, which has affected xxx people even as xxx have died across the country. "Countless unsung heroes, from ambulance drivers to pharmacists, from security personnel to small neighbourhood vendors, kept our lives going even during difficult circumstances," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-lauds-india-s-self-reliant-mission-in-manorama-year-book-101610709640894.html
15-01-2021||India||‘Don’t test our patience’: Gen Naravane’s blunt message to China on LAC row||In a blunt message to China in the midst of a lingering border standoff in eastern Ladakh, army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane on Friday said India was committed to resolving the situation along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) through talks but no one should test India’s patience.“We are committed to resolving disputes through talks and political efforts. However, no one should make the mistake of testing India’s patience,” Naravane said during his customary Army Day address at a parade in Delhi Cantt where the force put up a display of its military might including the maiden demonstration of an under-development drone swarming capability.The border standoff in the Ladakh theatre is in its ninth month, with multiple rounds on military and diplomatic talks failing to break the deadlock.The army chief has conveyed to China in unequivocal terms that India is prepared for any eventuality, said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General BS Jaswal (retd). “The message is clear --- if push comes to shove, India will take the necessary actions in the Ladakh sector,” Jaswal added.The army chief said India had given a fitting response to the (Chinese) conspiracy to unilaterally change the status quo in the Ladakh theatre where the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) have deployed more than 100,000 combat-ready soldiers and advanced weaponry.Naravane assured the country that the sacrifice of the Indian soldiers killed in the Galwan Valley on June 15, 2020 would not go in vain --- the Chinese PLA also suffered heavy casualties in the brawl but Beijing has kept the figures under wraps.The army chief said the morale of soldiers deployed in forward areas in the Ladakh sector was higher than the mountains they were defending despite the extreme weather conditions. He said India will continue with its efforts to resolve the prevailing situation on the basis of principles of “mutual and equal security.”In a separate message published on Army Day, Naravane said the Indian Army has been “swift and decisive” in its response to counter the PLA’s attempts to unilaterally alter the status quo on the LAC.On January 12, Naravane said the army was prepared to hold ground in eastern Ladakh “for as long as it takes” to achieve national objectives in case the ongoing military and diplomatic talks with China to reduce tensions are “prolonged,” even as he described a joint threat from China and Pakistan as “very potent.”On the situation along the Line of Control (LoC) with Pakistan, the army chief said in his address that 300 to 400 terrorists were present in terror training camps in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir and waiting to sneak into India.He said ceasefire violations by the Pakistan army along the LoC increased by 44% in 2020 compared to the previous year, exposing the neighbour’s attempts to help terrorists infiltrate into the country. Ceasefire violations by the Pakistan army are usually a cover to help infiltrators sneak into Jammu and Kashmir.He said the army’s operations along the LoC not only caused heavy losses to the enemy but also thwarted a large number of infiltration attempts. He said the army killed a total of 200 terrorists at the LoC and in counter-terror operations in the hinterland.Speaking about capability building at a time when India faces challenges from China and Pakistan, Naravane said the army invoked emergency and fast-track procedures in 38 cases to buy weapons and systems last year to sharpen its combat edge. Apart from this, the army also concluded capital procurements worth ₹13,000 crore last year, he said.In his January 12 media briefing, the army chief said that there was no doubt that India faced a collusive threat from China and Pakistan.“This is not just something that was part of some strategic paper or loud thought process. It is very much manifesting itself on the ground. There is indeed increased cooperation between China and Pakistan in both military and non-military fields. And a two-front threat is very much something that we have to be prepared for,” he had then said.Army displays Drone Swarming capabilityThe Indian Army on Friday demonstrated its new drone swarming capability at the Army Day-2021 parade at Delhi Cantt, with 75 locally-designed and developed drones buzzing in the skies and simulating a raft of missions including offensive operations.“The drones executed an array of artificial intelligence (AI)-enabled simulated offensive missions and close support tasks during the parade,” the army said in a statement on the technology demonstration.Drones within a swarm can carry out a wide range of missions including strikes against tanks, infantry combat vehicles, ammunition holding areas, fuel dumps and terror launch pads, officials said.The army’s drone swarming capability is under development, though it has been tested for HADR (humanitarian assistance and disaster relief) roles --- dropping medicines and essential items. The technology is being developed by the army in partnership with a Bengaluru-based start-up NewSpace Research and Technologies.“This demonstration is a recognition of the Indian Army’s steady embrace of emerging and disruptive technologies to transform itself from a manpower- intensive to a technology-enabled force to meet future security challenges,” army spokesperson Colonel Aman Anand said.These autonomous drones can enter 50 km inside enemy territory and strike targets with high-impact warheads, officials said. “In a kamikaze mission, the drones can strike at a range of 100 km,” the officials added.The Indian Army is investing heavily into AI, autonomous weapon systems, quantum technologies and robotics to achieve a convergence between its war-fighting philosophies and military attributes of these technologies, the statement said.“One such project is the AI offensive drone operations, which has been incubated with an Indian start-up. This project symbolises the beginning of the Indian Army's tryst with autonomy in weapon platforms and showcases the army's commitment towards merging the cutting-edge of digital technologies with its human resource,” the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-test-our-patience-gen-naravane-s-blunt-message-to-china-on-lac-row-101610714568980.html
15-01-2021||India||114 people test positive for UK variant of coronavirus||The number of people who have tested positive for the new UK variant of SARS-CoV-2 in the country has climbed to 114, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday.The ministry said the situation is under careful watch and regular advice is being provided to states."The total number of persons found infected with the new UK variant genome is 114," the ministry said.Earlier, the ministry had said all these people have been kept in single room isolation at designated Health Care facilities by respective state governments.The close contacts of these people have also been put under quarantine and comprehensive contact tracing has been initiated for co-travellers, family contacts and others, it said, adding that genome sequencing on other specimens is going on.The situation is under careful watch and regular advice is being provided to the states for enhanced surveillance, containment, testing and dispatch of samples to INSACOG labs.The presence of the new UK variant has already been reported by several countries including Denmark, the Netherlands, Australia, Italy, Sweden, France, Spain, Switzerland, Germany, Canada, Japan, Lebanon and Singapore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/114-people-test-positive-for-uk-variant-of-coronavirus-101610715958051.html
15-01-2021||India||Farm laws stir: 'Will not talk to SC-appointed committee,' reiterates farmers' union||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) on Friday reiterated its stand on the committee constituted by the Supreme Court to resolve the standoff between the farmers and the government over the three farm laws. Speaking after the ninth round of talks with the government, BKU spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said, "We will not go to the committee constituted by the Supreme Court. We will talk to the central government only". "Our demands of repealing of the three farm laws and MSP guarantee remain," Tikait added.Farmers, who are agitating against the farm laws for more than 50 days now, met the government for the ninth time on Friday to discuss the farm laws. However, both sides failed to reach a resolution as farmers remained firm on their demands. The next round of talks will take place on January 19 at 12pm, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar informed the media after the talks.The government also suggested farmers form an informal group to finalise proposals detailing their expectations, which can later be discussed further at the formal talks. "We suggested they can form an informal group of people who can understand the laws better and prepare some concrete proposals, detailing what are farmers' expectations and what clauses are problematic for them, which the government can consider with an open mind," the Union agriculture minister said.Tens of thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, are protesting at various borders of Delhi against the farm legislation enacted by Parliament in September last year. They are demanding a complete withdrawal of the laws which has been refused by the government. Instead, it has offered to make amendments. They are also demanding a legal guarantee on the minimum support price (MSP) system for the procurement of their crops.Farmers are protesting against Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-laws-stir-will-not-talk-to-sc-appointed-committee-reiterates-farmers-union-101610715403556.html
15-01-2021||India||Won't go to Committee constituted by SC, will only talk to Centre: Rakesh Tikait||As the ninth round of talks between farmers and the Central government over farm laws remained inconclusive on Friday, national spokesperson of Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) Rakesh Tikait said the farmers will not go to the Committee constituted by the Supreme Court, they will talk to Centre only."Our demands of repealing of the three farm laws and MSP (minimum support price) guarantee remain. We will not go to the Committee constituted by the Supreme Court. We'll talk to Central government only," said Tikait after the meeting ended.The Supreme Court had on Tuesday stayed the implementation of three farm laws until further orders and formed a four-member committee.Harpal Singh Sangha, Azad Kissan Committee, told reporters, "Not even a single issue was resolved in today's talk as well. The Centre said it will talk about MSP later on."The next round of talks will be held on January 19.Meanwhile, Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said the Centre is positive to reach a solution through talks."Today's talks with farmers' unions were not decisive. We will hold talks again on 19th January. We are positive to reach a solution through talks. The government is concerned about the farmers protesting in cold conditions," he added.Farmers have been protesting on the different borders of the national capital since November 26 against the three newly enacted farm laws - Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wont-go-to-committee-constituted-by-sc-will-only-talk-to-centre-rakesh-tikait-101610714018558.html
15-01-2021||India||Air quality remains 'severe' in Ghaziabad, Noida, Faridabad||The air quality remained "severe" in Ghaziabad, Noida, Greater Noida and Faridabad and "very poor" in Gurgaon for the second day in a row, according to data issued by a government agency on Friday.Pollutants PM 2.5 and PM 10 remained prominent in the air of the five immediate neighbours of Delhi, according to the air quality index (AQI) maintained by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).According to the index, an AQI between zero and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'.The average 24-hour AQI at 4 pm on Friday was 458 in Ghaziabad, 464 in Greater Noida, 475 in Noida, 467 in Faridabad and 367 in Gurgaon, according to CPCB's Sameer app.On Thursday it was 429 in Ghaziabad, 410 in Greater Noida, 412 in Noida, 447 in Faridabad and 364 in Gurgaon. On Wednesday it was 388 in Ghaziabad, 398 in Greater Noida, 348 in Noida, 367 in Faridabad and 276 in Gurgaon.On Tuesday it was 324 in Ghaziabad, 312 in Greater Noida, 278 in Noida, 260 in Faridabad and 213 in Gurgaon. On Monday it was 283 both in Ghaziabad as well as Greater Noida, 264 in Noida, 235 in Faridabad and 200 in Gurgaon.The CPCB states that an AQI in the "severe" category affects healthy people and seriously impacts those with existing diseases, while the air quality in the "very poor" zone may cause respiratory illness on prolonged exposure.The AQI for each city is based on the average value of all stations there. Ghaziabad and Gurgaon have three such stations while Noida, Greater Noida and Faridabad have two stations each, according to the app.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-quality-remains-severe-in-ghaziabad-noida-faridabad-101610713178207.html
15-01-2021||India||12 senior doctors to be the first to get Covid-19 vaccine in Assam||Twelve senior doctors of the state will be the first in Assam to get the initial doses of the Covid-19 vaccine that would begin on Saturday morning as part of the nationwide vaccination drive.“We have invited 12 people to get the first doses of the vaccine. The first among them is Dr Umesh Chandra Sarma, retired vice-chancellor, Srimanta Sankardeva University of Health Sciences,” state health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma told journalists on Friday.He will be followed by Dr Dhrubajyoti Borah, former president of the Assam Sahitya Sabha--the state’s biggest literary body and former principal of Barpeta Medical College and Hospital. The third would be Dr Ilias Ali, Padmashri recipient and former head of the department of surgery at Guwahati Medical College Hospital.“The first doses of Covid-19 vaccines would be given to frontline health warriors who have to deal with patients physically and have the highest risk of contracting the disease,” said Sarma.“The next category would be police, paramilitary personnel etc. This will be followed by people above 50 years of age and then by people with co-morbid conditions,” he added.In Assam, around 9 million or nearly 3% of the total population would be covered in the first phase. Around 190,000 doctors, nurses, hospital staff, lab technicians and ambulance drivers will get vaccinated in the first stage followed by nearly 100,000 police and paramilitary personnel.A total of 8651 vaccinators have been trained from among auxiliary nurse midwife (ANM) staff in the state and they would be supervised by 1300 doctors. Vaccination would be carried out in 65 different sites in 33 districts across the state from Saturday.On the first day, 100 people would be vaccinated at each of the 65 vaccination sites taking the total to 6500 people. Vaccines would be administered based on consent and would be voluntary.Three places in Assam, Guwahati Medical College Hospital, Nagaon civil hospital and Tezpur Medical College and Hospital, would have two-way links with the official ceremony in which Prime Minister Narendra Modi will take part.As of now Assam has 221,500 doses of vaccines-201,500 of them Covishield and 20,000 Covaxin-of the total 380,000 doses needed to vaccinate 190,000 health workers in the first stage.Assam has at present 1656 active Covid-19 cases with a recovery rate of 98.10% and death rate at 0.49%. The number of new cases detected daily has remained below 50 on an average since December 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/12-senior-doctors-to-be-the-first-to-get-covid-19-vaccine-in-assam-101610713111350.html
15-01-2021||India||NGT forms committee to look into plea alleging illegal mining in Odisha||The National Green Tribunal has formed a committee to look into a plea alleging illegal mining and stone crushing in Odisha.A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel constituted a committee comprising officials from the State Pollution Control Board (SPCB), District Collector, State Environment Impact Assessment Authority (SEIAA), Central Pollution Control Board and the Ministry of Environment and Forests."The joint Committee may ascertain facts and also consider the view point of the affected parties. Based on facts found, the concerned statutory authority may take appropriate action, following due process of law."The nodal agency will be the State PCB for coordination and compliance. A factual and action taken report may be furnished within three months by e-mail," said the bench, also comprising Justice S K Singh and expert member Nagin Nanda.The tribunal directed the petitioner to serve set of papers to the parties and file an affidavit of service within one week.The NGT was hearing a plea filed by Odisha resident Sukanti Pradhan and others against illegal mining by Chinmay Kumar Nayak and operation of illegal stone crushers by Kunal Structure (I) Pvt Ltd at Jhilli Mouza in Dhenkanal.According to the applicant, mining is far in excess of the permit.The plea said: "In the process of mining, there is felling of trees, illegal blasting and damage to the houses. Stone crushers do not have any statutory consent and do not meet the siting criteria. No green belt has been developed."There is no demarcation of the leased area and mining is taking place beyond the leased area. Overloaded vehicles are being plied on rural roads, without the approval from the Rural Development Department, which is resulting in air pollution".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ngt-forms-committee-to-look-into-plea-alleging-illegal-mining-in-odisha-101610712817221.html
15-01-2021||India||Gujarat govt examining anti-conversion laws enacted by UP, MP: Patel||The Gujarat government is examining laws enacted by Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh to curb "forced religious conversions by marriage", said Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel on Friday.Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh, both ruled by the BJP, have brought religious freedom laws to stop conversion through marriage or by any other fraudulent means.These laws against inter-faith marriages as an alleged ploy for conversion provide for long prison terms and hefty fines for violators."Some people indulge in trapping or alluring or cheating Hindu girls to marry them. But we have seen that most of the timesuch girls regret taking this step as they and their families are never happy in such situations."This also creates division in the society," Patel said in reply to a question.Patel was speaking to reporters after attending an event organised by the VHP here to start the drive for raising donations for the upcoming Ram temple in Ayodhya."Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh governments have formed laws to stop this kind of activities so that there is no tension between different communities," he said."The Gujarat government has also received many such representations from different organisations and people," the Deputy Chief Minister said."We are studying the effectiveness, long-term effects and legal standing of the laws made by UP and MP. The Gujarat government will take a decision at an appropriate time regarding bringing such a law," he said.Patel said the fund collection drive is a historic exercise which will connect every Hindu with the construction of the grand Ram temple in Ayodhya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-govt-examining-anti-conversion-laws-enacted-by-up-mp-patel-101610708648414.html
15-01-2021||India||Talks between govt, farmers' unions over farm laws end; next round on Jan 19||The ninth round of talks between farmers and the Union government over the three farm laws on Friday ended without a breakthrough and the next meeting between the two sides will be held on January 19, officials familiar with the development said. Farmers insisted on complete repeal but the government wanted them to come up with specific objections, they added."Today's talks with farmers' unions were not decisive. We will hold talks again on January 19. We are positive about reaching a solution through talks. The government is concerned about the farmers protesting in cold conditions," Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said, according to news agency ANI."The government will present its side before the committee constituted by the Supreme Court when asked," Tomar also said.Tomar was referring to the four-member committee proposed by the top court to resolve the issue between the farmers and the Centre. The Supreme Court has also stayed the implementation of the three farm laws till further notice.The last round of talks on January 8 failed to end the impasse as the Centre has refused to roll back the laws, which the farmers say will hurt their incomes. The farmers' unions have decided not to participate in consultations with the committee proposed by the Supreme Court on January 12 to examine three laws. They have alleged that the panel was “pro-government” since the members had endorsed the laws in the past.On Friday, they reiterated their stance.The Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), one of the 40 farmers' unions representing the protesting agriculturists, said their demands of repealing of the three farm laws and a guarantee for minimum support price (MSP) remain. "We will not go to the committee constituted by the Supreme Court. We will talk to central government only," Rakesh Tikait, BKU spokesperson, was quoted as saying by ANI.Thousands of farmers are protesting against the Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act on the borders of the national Capital since November 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/talks-between-govt-farmers-unions-over-farm-laws-end-next-round-on-jan-19-101610710998736.html
15-01-2021||India||Covid vaccine drive to be held at 10 centres in Maharashtra's Aurangabad||The administration in Maharashtra's Aurangabad district is all set for the Covid-19 vaccination drive, which will take place at 10 centres in the region on January 16, a health official said on Friday.As many as 100 healthcare workers will be inoculated at each of these 10 centres, the official said.While four centres have been earmarked for Aurangabad rural in Vaijapur, Paithan and Sillod talukas, six are in Aurangabad city, including the Government Medical College, civil surgeon Dr Sundar Kulkarni said."As many as 100 healthcare workers will be inoculated at each centre from Saturday onwards," he said.As on Thursday, Aurangabad's Covid-19 tally stood at 46,398, including 44,823 recoveries and 1,222 casualties.The district currently has 353 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-vaccine-drive-to-be-held-at-10-centres-in-maharashtra-s-aurangabad-101610710633365.html
15-01-2021||India||New weather radars set up in Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh||Two new doppler radar weather stations were on Friday set up at Mukteshwar in Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh’s Kufri to improve the localised forecasting and help avert devastation due to natural disasters such as landslides, floods, and cloud bursts by issuing advance warnings about them, officials said. The forecasts are expected to provide critical information to tourists and pilgrims before they plan visits to remote and vulnerable locations in the Himalayas.The launch of the stations coincided with India Meteorological Department (IMD)’s 146th Foundation Day.Officials said the Mukteshwar station is expected to provide weather information particularly to pilgrims of the Chardham Yatra and Kailash Mansarovar and the one in Kufri to tourists visiting popular tourist destinations there.Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said his state is vulnerable to natural disasters and advance information on extreme weather will be very valuable. “Another doppler radar will come up at Surkanda which is very remote... a ropeway is being constructed there and officials can approach the place in a more effective manner. Another doppler radar station will also come up at Lansdowne which is more accessible.” Rawat said Uttarakhand requires scientific information in dealing with the impacts of the climate crisis.More doppler radars will come up in Himachal Pradesh’s Mandi and Dalhousie. “Cloud bursts have increased in both Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand. This [radars] can go a long way in averting disasters,” said Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-weather-radars-set-up-in-uttarakhand-himachal-pradesh-101610710719819.html
15-01-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Nitish upset with questions on Indigo manager's murder and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5 pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Upset with questions on Indigo manager murder case, Nitish tears into OppositionBihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Friday morning appeared to be upset when questioned about the sensational murder of Indigo’s station manager Rupesh Kumar Singh. Read moreOver 3 lakh beneficiaries, 3,000 session sites on Day 1: India's Covid-19 vaccination drive to begin tomorrowPrime Minister Narendra Modi will virtually launch India's vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Saturday as around 100 beneficiaries will be vaccinated at over 3,000 session sites across the country, the government has said. Read moreKitchen loans, sops for startups, welfare pensions hiked in Kerala budgetThree industrial corridors, a hike in welfare pension, free ration and several programmes for ailing tourism sector were some of the measures announced by Kerala finance minister Thomas Issac in the state budget for 2021-22 on Friday. Read moreMP CM contributes Rs1 lakh for Ram Temple constructionMadhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan donated Rs1 lakh for the construction of Ram Temple in Ayodhya on Friday during a nationwide campaign of Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra. Read more'It has been happening since 1932': Sunil Gavaskar highlights problem of India bowlers after Day 1 in BrisbaneAgreeing that the inexperienced India bowling unit did a commendable job on Day 1 of the fourth Test against Australia, former India captain Sunil Gavaskar on Friday highlighted the age-old issue of India’s bowlers. Read moreTribhanga review: Noble intentions come to naught in Kajol, Renuka Shahane filmAfter watching Tribhanga, one thing is for certain: you may be able to take Kajol out of Bollywood, but you can never take the Bollywood out of her. Read moreJanhvi Kapoor aces winter layering, shows how to stay cosy while looking greatWinter season calls for layering. The more sweaters you wear, the cosier you feel but if you don't do it the right way, it can easily turn into a fashion faux pas. Read moreProud dad shares post on 10-year-old son’s act of kindness. It’s heartwarming“We can’t help everyone, but everyone can help someone,” these words by former US President Ronald Reagan perfectly capture the essence of a post which is now winning people’s hearts on Twitter. Read moreWatch: ‘Around 400 terrorists waiting to infiltrate’: Army Chief slams Pakistan||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-nitish-upset-with-questions-on-indigo-manager-and-all-the-latest-news-101610707543569.html
15-01-2021||India||Mumbai businessman arrested for GST fraud worth Rs31 crore||The Maharashtra Goods and Services Tax (GST) department on Friday arrested a Vile Parle-based businessman for allegedly causing revenue loss of ₹31 crore to the state government by fraudulently claiming input tax credit.The joint commissioner of Maharashtra GST, Sampada Mehta, confirmed the development. As per the department, accused Anuj Gupta, who has five firms registered under Maharashtra Goods and Service Tax Act 2017, and other two firms registered in the Union Territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli, had shown estimated bogus purchases for over Rs272 crore and had availed bogus input tax credit of more than Rs31 crore without actually buying any goods or services.Input tax credit is an option that allows taxpayers to claim credit for taxes paid on purchase. Issuance of an invoice or bill without supply of goods or services and wrongful availing or utilisation of input tax credit on a bill or invoice, without any supply of goods or services, is a cognizable and non-bailable offence. The two firms at Dadra Nagar Haveli have even received a refund of more than Rs11 crore from the government. “With the help of the Dadra Nagar Haveli GST officers, it was found that these companies physically possess only 20% of the total stock value that is claimed to be in their possession,” stated a GST officer.Gupta was produced before a magistrate and has been sent to 14 days of judicial custody. His offences attract imprisonment of up to 5 years with fine as per the Goods and Services Act , 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-businessman-arrested-for-gst-fraud-worth-rs31-crore-101610708199547.html
15-01-2021||India||Wild buffalo that killed two persons shot dead in Assam||A wild buffalo that killed two persons has been shot dead in Biswanath district of Assam on Friday.The adult buffalo, which strayed from the Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve, was killed at Kumoliya by forest personnel during an attempt to tranquilize it.On Thursday, an irate mob had torched a forest range office and an official vehicle after a person named Jayanta Das was killed by the buffalo. The animal attacked and killed another person named Sukur Ali on Friday morning.“Forest personnel were trying to tranquilize the buffalo or push it back into the park when it attacked them. They had to fire in self-defence which resulted in the death of the animal,” Mukut Chandra Das, divisional forest officer, Biswanath Wildlife Division, said.According to him, the buffalo could have strayed out of the park on Wednesday when locals in large numbers gathered in the KNPTR water bodies for community fishing ahead of the annual Magh Bihu festivities.“Loud noise from the crowd busy community fishing could have scared the buffalo and prompted it to move out of its habitat. There could be other buffaloes as well that may have moved out of KNPTR,” said Das.Though human deaths due to attacks from wild elephants are common and there are reports of human deaths due to attacks by rhinos as well, a death due to attacks by wild buffaloes is rare in Assam.“An angry mob torched some sheds that we had constructed at our forest range office after the death of Jayanta Das and also burnt a forest department vehicle. They snatched a mobile phone and ₹20,000 from a forest employee. They are demanding compensation of ₹50 lakh for the deaths,” said Das.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wild-buffalo-that-killed-two-persons-shot-dead-in-assam-101610707863489.html
15-01-2021||India||Covid in Gujarat: Night curfew to continue for 15 more days in four cities||Even as fresh cases of coronavirus are on decline in Gujarat, Chief Minister Vijay Rupani on Friday asserted that night curfew will remain in place in four major cities of the state for the next 15 days as a precautionary measure.While urging people to be patient and cooperate with the authorities for some more days, Rupani said the viral infection has come under control due to the night curfew imposed in November, 2020 in Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot."The night curfew after 10 pm will continue for 15 more days in all four cities. There will be no relaxation for now, as there is a drastic decrease in new cases (because of curfew). People need to have patience and cooperate with the authorities," he told reporters in Jamnagar.A decision about lifting the curfew will be taken at an appropriate juncture, he said.Following a sudden spike in fresh coronavirus cases after Diwali last year, the state government had imposed a night curfew in four major cities of Gujarat in November, 2020.Earlier, people were barred from venturing out between 9 pm till 6 am every day in these cities.However, in a minor respite, the timing was recently revised to 10 pm till 6 am.Notably, when the curfew was imposed, 1,500 to 1,600 fresh cases of coronavirus were emerging every day in Gujarat and the majority of these infections were from the four cities.As on Thursday, Gujarat's Covid-19 tally stood at 2,54,314 cases, including 4,357 fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-in-gujarat-night-curfew-to-continue-for-15-more-days-in-four-cities-101610707395294.html
15-01-2021||India||Magh Mela pilgrims told not to feed migratory birds keeping Bird flu in mind||Following the outbreak of Bird Flu in various parts of the country, including the nearby district of Kanpur, the forest department officials in Prayagraj district have issued an appeal to devotees coming to the Magh Mela-2021 to refrain from feeding the migratory birds flocking the Sangam area.The Indian skimmer and various varieties of gulls are the centre of attraction at the Sangam area and pilgrims feed these birds with locally made ‘sev’ (a snack) sold by local sellers.Often these birds can be seen sitting on the palms of visitors and eating Sev. The feed is so popular among these birds that they can be seen hovering over every boat and the banks of rivers Ganga and Yamuna while fighting among themselves for the feed.“In view of Bird Flu, we want that the visitors, coming to Magh Mela, to refrain from feeding these birds so that if there is any case of flu in these birds, it does not get transferred to humans while feeding,” said divisional forest officer (DFO), YP Shukla.Three dedicated teams of experts are constantly monitoring the mela area and patrolling the habitat of these birds so that their health can be continuously monitored, said Shukla.“Till the time the birds are swimming in the water, are active and feeding with fellow birds in groups, we know they are healthy, but if a bird is seen sitting at one place for a long time, is sluggish in movement, we keep a close vigil on such birds,” said the DFO.Meanwhile, in an effort to protect migratory birds—predominantly Indian skimmers and gulls that arrive in Prayagraj, especially at the Sangam and surrounding areas— the forest department has decided to keep a watch on them through specially formed nine teams throughout the district.The department has also decided to undertake a special campaign to protect these birds in areas like Phaphamau, Shringverpur, Daraganj and Sangam by making locals aware of the need to protect these feathery visitors and keeping tight surveillance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/magh-mela-pilgrims-told-not-to-feed-migratory-birds-keeping-bird-flu-in-mind-101610707054387.html
15-01-2021||India||MP CM contributes Rs1 lakh for Ram Temple construction||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan donated Rs1 lakh for the construction of Ram Temple in Ayodhya on Friday during a nationwide campaign of Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra. President Ramnath Kovind was among the first to donate money for Ram Temple in Delhi.Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) began the campaign on Friday for collecting funds on behalf of Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra. Handing over the cheque to VHP wleader Vinayakrao Deshpande, Chouhan said he felt fortunate to have got a chance to contribute for the construction of Ram Temple. Bhopal MP Pragya Thakur also contributed Rs1.11 lakh. VHP regional head Jitendra Chauhan said, “As many as 20,000 VHP workers will hold a door-to-door campaign to collect funds. The drive will continue till February 27. Our target is to collect at least Rs5 crore from MP.” Meanwhile, Congress initiated an awareness campaign to request people to donate the fund directly in the account of Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra. Former minister and Congress MLA PC Sharma said, “We are holding a campaign to educate people to donate the fund directly in the account of the Trust. They should avoid cash donation through middlemen like VHP leaders, who are creating nuisance in the name of the collection drive.” “Ram Mandir is a matter of faith for us but we don’t want to create any rift in the society. VHP leaders organised rallies and shouted slogans to instigate people which resulted in communal tension in four districts of MP,” he added. Responding to the allegations, BJP spokesperson Rajneesh Agrawal said, “It is sad that Congress leaders are blaming rallies for communal tension, not miscreants who pelted stones and created ruckus. But we welcome them for joining the collection drive for the construction of Ram Temple.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-cm-contributes-rs1-lakh-for-ram-temple-construction-101610706399474.html
15-01-2021||India||Covishield will be administered at 75 hospitals, COVAXIN at 6||As India awaits the vaccine roll-out anxiously, the Delhi government on Friday announced that the Serum Institute of India (SII)-manufactured Covishield vaccine will be administered at 75 Delhi government and private hospitals while Bharat Biotech's COVAXIN will be given at six hospitals run by the Central government in the national capital."Such a clear classification has been made so that the two vaccines do not mix-up," said the Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain."A particular vaccine will be given at a particular centre because if a beneficiary receives a vaccine, they would need the second dose of that vaccine only," he further added.In the first phase, Covid-19 vaccination will begin at 81 sites in Delhi from tomorrow. Around 100 people will be vaccinated at each of these locations in a day."Vaccination will be done on four days a week - Monday, Tuesday, Thursday & Saturday," Jain said.Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal during a press conference on Thursday said, "So far, we have received 2,74,000 doses of vaccine from the Centre. Each person will be administered two doses and the Centre provides 10 per cent extra vaccine, taking damage into account. So the 2,74,000 doses will be sufficient for around 1,20,000 health workers.""We will begin with 81 centres, it will then be increased to 175 in a few days & then to 1,000 centres across Delhi," he added.Regarding serosurvey in Delhi, Jain said under the fifth round of serosurvey 28,000 people will be surveyed."The fifth survey will continue till January 25," Jain said."Delhi recorded 340 fresh Covid positive cases, while four succumbed to the virus in last 24-hours," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covishield-will-be-administered-at-75-hospitals-covaxin-at-6-101610705661828.html
15-01-2021||India||Over 3 lakh beneficiaries, 3,000 session sites on Day 1: India's Covid-19 vaccination drive to begin tomorrow||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will virtually launch India's vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Saturday as around 100 beneficiaries will be vaccinated at over 3,000 session sites across the country, the government has said. The Prime Minister's Office (PMO) has said that adequate doses of the two made-in-India shots have been delivered to all states and Union territories for the world's largest vaccination programme."This vaccination programme is based on the principles of priority groups to be vaccinated and Health Care workers, both in government and private sectors including ICDS (Integrated Child Development Services) workers, will receive the vaccine during this phase," the PMO said in a statement on Thursday.Also read | EC allows govt to use data for vaccination, wants data deleted after exerciseThe Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) had approved the Oxford University-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine, which has been manufactured by the Serum Institute of India (SII) and marketed as Covishield, and indigenously-developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country earlier this month.Here's what you need to know about India's vaccination drive:1. Prime Minister Modi will launch the pan-India rollout of the Covid-19 vaccination drive at 10:30am through video conferencing, the PMO said.2. There are 3,006 session sites across all states and UTs and they will be virtually connected during the launch. At least 60 hospitals across the country, including the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi, have been directed to prepare for video conferencing facility.Also read | India Covid-19 vaccination: FAQs on schedule, precautions, side effects3. Reports said that PM Modi is likely to interact with some healthcare workers from across the country who will be receiving the Covid-19 shots on the first day. The Centre will bear the cost of vaccination of healthcare and frontline workers. 4. Vaccination of health care and frontline workers will be held at a wide range of public health care facilities, from hospitals to primary health centres in rural India and large private hospitals.5. Healthcare will include doctors, nurses, technicians, lab workers, including ICDS workers. Frontline workers will be personnel from state and central police department, armed forces, home guard, prison staff, disaster management volunteers and civil defence organisation, municipal workers and revenue officials engaged in Covid-19 containment, surveillance and associated activities.6. The Centre has said that the shots will be offered first to an estimated 10 million healthcare workers, and around 20 million frontline workers, and then to those above 50 years of age, followed by those younger than 50 years of age with comorbidities.7. The full initial procurement of 16.5 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines, Covishield and Covaxin, has been allocated to all states and UTs in proportion to their healthcare workers database, the Union ministry of health and family welfare has said.Also read | India’s Covid-19 tally reaches 10.52 million, day before vaccination starts 8. States and UTs have been advised to utilise a maximum of 10 days in a fortnight for the Covid-19 vaccination, the Union health ministry said.9. They have also have been advised by the Union health ministry to organise vaccination sessions taking into account 10% reserve/wastage doses and an average of 100 vaccinations per session per day.10. Any undue haste on the parts of the states to organise unreasonable numbers of vaccination per site per day is not advised, the ministry had said on Wednesday.11. The states and UTs have also been advised to increase the number of vaccination session sites that would be operational every day in a progressive manner as the vaccination process stabilises and moves forward.Also read | India to start vaccine for Covid-19 supply with 20 million doses to neighbours12. The vaccination programme will use Co-WIN, an online digital platform developed by the Union ministry of health and family welfare, which will facilitate real-time information of vaccine stocks, storage temperature and individualised tracking of beneficiaries.13. Co-WIN will assist programme managers across all levels while conducting vaccination sessions, the PMO said.14. A dedicated 24x7 call centre – 1075 – has also been established for addressing the queries related to the coronavirus pandemic, vaccine rollout and the Co-WIN software.15. The vaccination drive will be held daily from 9am to 5pm, except on the days earmarked for routine immunisation programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-covid-19-vaccination-drive-to-begin-tomorrow-101610704006840.html
15-01-2021||India||Disability rights groups say disability studies university promotes segregation||Disability rights groups have sought withdrawal of a government proposal to set up a university for disability studies and rehabilitation sciences, saying it will take them backwards by promoting exclusion and segregation instead of inclusion.Different disability rights groups including National Centre for Promotion of Employment for Disabled People and National Platform for the Rights of the Disabled have written to Shakuntala D Gamlin, secretary of Social Justice and Empowerment Ministry, opposing the move.In December 2020, the government had proposed to set up a "first of its kind" university covering the entire gamut of disability studies and rehabilitation sciences in an accessible environment.In a public notice issued on December 24, 2020, the Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities (DEPwD), under the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, had invited comments from stakeholders on a draft bill to set up the university."At the outset, we would like to highlight that while the proposed University is one of its kind, it takes the disability sector backwards by promoting exclusion/ segregation rather than inclusion," the letter said."It goes against the progressive nature of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (RPWD) Act, 2016 as also the concept of inclusion advocated by the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020," it said."Much emphasis needs to be given on setting up centres/departments of disability studies in existing universities and higher education institutions on the lines of cross-disability and cross-gender approaches," it added.The rights groups said the focus needs to be laid on increasing the number of trained human resources by offering courses which are in line with that of NIMHANS/IISC/IITs including doctoral degrees.These also need to have on-line alternatives for delivery of courses based on Universal Design of Learning and Reasonable Accommodation as per the RPWD Act, NEP 2020, and Government of India and international guidelines for digital platforms, they said."Disability studies should be made part of the mainstream academic endeavours which the proposed university through its exclusionary approach fails to do," the letter said.It said the draft bill lacks clarity on the actual disability studies by focusing more on the governance aspect of it and also deviates from the norms and practices of the higher education system."We are also not in agreement with the proposal for running the university in a 'self-sustaining' model. To conclude, we would request to kindly withdraw the said Draft Bill," it said.The proposed university will be a unique multidisciplinary academic institution conducting research, programmes and courses from the bachelor's level onwards to cater to various disciplines covering the entire gamut of disability studies and rehabilitation sciences in an accessible environment, the DEPwD had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/disability-rights-groups-say-disability-studies-university-promotes-segregation-101610704859203.html
15-01-2021||India||Minimum temperature to fall by 2-4 degree Celsius in northwest India: IMD||The minimum temperature is very likely to fall by two to four degrees Celsius in most parts of northwest India during the next two days, informed the India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Friday."Due to the prevalence of dry north/north-westerly winds, minimum temperatures very likely to fall by two-four degree Celsius over most parts of northwest India during next 2 days," it said.Due to the influence of dry north/north-westerly winds in northwest India, a dense to very dense fog at isolated/few pockets are very likely over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, north Rajasthan, Sub-Himalayan West Bengal, Sikkim and Bihar during next three days."Cold wave or severe cold wave conditions at isolated pockets also very likely over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and East Madhya Pradesh during next 2 days. Cold Day conditions at isolated pockets also very likely over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar during next two-three days," IMD said.The weather forecasting agency further said a cyclonic circulation is hovering over southwest Bay of Bengal off Tamil Nadu coast in mid-tropospheric levels and a trough runs from cyclonic circulation over central parts of South Arabian Sea and adjoining Equatorial Indian Ocean to Comorin area in lower tropospheric levels.IMD predicted that under its influence scattered to fairly widespread rainfall with moderate thunderstorm and lightning is very likely over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Karaikal, Kerala, Mahe and Lakshadweep area during next two days and reduction in rainfall activities over these regions thereafter."Conditions are becoming favourable for the cessation of Northeast monsoon rains over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Karaikal, Kerala, Mahe, adjoining areas of coastal Andhra Pradesh, Yanam, Rayalaseema and South Interior Karnataka around January 19, 2021," it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/minimum-temperature-to-fall-by-2-4-degree-celsius-in-northwest-india-imd-101610705133467.html
15-01-2021||India||L-G Sinha inaugurates round the clock call centre for devotees at Vaishno Devi shrine||Jammu & Kashmir lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha inaugurated around the clock call centre for devotees at the Mata Vaishno Devi’s shrine in Katra near Jammu on Thursday. He called the centre another initiative of the Shrine Board towards optimum utilisation of available technologies for larger facilitation of the pilgrims. Sinha added it is the first such facility put in place by the Board that will be of help to the devotees worldwide. He added the queries and grievances of the pilgrims regarding the pilgrimage will be addressed on a real-time basis through the system. He said the initiative is aimed at providing assistance to the pilgrims in planning their visits to the shrine keeping in view the weather conditions, yatra status, availability of helicopter services, battery-operated vehicles, accommodation and other facilities at any given point of time. He added it will make their yatra experience more pleasant and memorable. “The devotees can inquire about the booking and other facilities made available by the Shrine Board and can also contact in case of any emergency or for any medical help during the Yatra.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lg-sinha-inaugurates-round-the-clock-call-centre-for-devotees-at-vaishno-devi-shrine-101610704599404.html
15-01-2021||India||Rape charges: NCP decides to wait for probe; Dhananjay Munde not to step down yet||Maharashtra social justice minister and NCP leader Dhananjay Munde will not have to resign from his post for now. The party has decided that he should be allowed to continue until the police investigation is completed. The decision was taken considering revelations by leaders from other parties that the complainant, the woman who levelled rape charges against Munde, was in relationship with others and also blackmailed people, party chief Sharad Pawar said on Friday.Pawar said he also suggested that the police appoint an assistant commissioner of police (ACP) level woman officer to investigate the allegations against Munde as well as against the woman.“As I had said yesterday, we have taken the allegations against Munde seriously and were discussing our next course of action. A few people have also made allegations against the same woman. We have come to the conclusion that there is a need for an in-depth investigation and so, we will be waiting for the police investigation to be completed,” he said.The woman, who is accusing Munde of sexual exploitation, is now facing allegations of blackmail by three other people, Pawar said. “Anyone can make allegations on someone else (other ministers) and then demands will be raised to remove him from the government. Hence, we will take the next step only after verifying the facts,” the NCP chief said. Also read | ‘Fight from front’: BJP leader to Sharad Pawar after Dhananjay Munde ‘exposed’Munde has found himself in the centre of a controversy after a woman accused him of rape on the pretext of marriage and other favours. The woman alleged that the police are not accepting her written complaint against the minister and her life is under threat. Munde, however, claimed that the woman is trying to defame and blackmail him. She is the sister of a woman with whom Munde reportedly had a relationship earlier.Among the men who have made allegations against the woman is BJP leader and former MLA Krishna Hegde who accused her of harassment for years. He filed a police complaint against the woman, saying she used to call him, claiming that they were in a relationship. This went on for over five years. He said he realised that she was a serial offender which led him to file an official complaint with the Amboli police on Thursday. The woman had dismissed Hegde’s allegations on her social media handle and alleged that Munde is behind the same. Another leader, Manish Dhuri from Maharashtra Navnirman Sena in Mumbai, also alleged that the woman tried to honey trap him by inviting him to her flat in Andheri a few years ago. However, he sensed the presence of someone else there and left immediately. Dhuri also filed a complaint with the Amboli police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rape-charges-ncp-decides-to-wait-for-probe-minister-munde-not-to-step-down-yet-101610703999311.html
15-01-2021||India||BSP to fight 2022 UP Assembly polls alone, Mayawati announces on her birthday||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) national president and former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Mayawati has announced on Friday that BSP will fight the 2022 Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh alone, according to news agency ANI. The announcement was made on the occasion of her birthday."BSP will not forge any alliance with any political party for the upcoming Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. The party will contest the elections in all Assembly constituencies on its own," Mayawati told ANI.She asserted that just like 2007, the BSP will form a government in Uttar Pradesh on its own next year."I have never compromised with principles for the sake of getting power. All our party workers must unitedly start preparing for these elections," she said.The BSP won no seats in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections. It bagged 19 seats in the 2017 UP assembly polls and 10 in the 2019 Lok Sabha election, when it fought in an alliance with the Samajwadi Party. It parted ways with the SP soon after the results were declared.Mayawati is camping in Delhi, where she is holding regular review meetings for the 2022 Assembly election in Uttar Pradesh. She has directed the party office bearers to strengthen the organisation at the booth level. To regain lost ground, the BSP plans to win back the support of Brahmins, backward classes and Muslims, the party leader said.Yesterday she had called upon party workers to celebrate her 65th birthday on Friday as Jankalyankari Diwas or people’s welfare day.“The birthday should be celebrated in a simple manner following the Covid-19 guidelines,” she said.In a series of tweets, Mayawati said the party workers should assist the poor and impoverished people who have had to suffer due to the pandemic.In Uttar Pradesh, the party’s state unit had directed party leaders to celebrate her birthday in all the 75 districts by assisting migrants, farmers, labourers and poor people impacted by the economic slowdown, he said.In Lucknow, the birthday programme would be organised at the divisional office located near the Pasi Qila.“We will visit hamlets or hospitals to distribute sweets and fruits,” the BSP leader said.The BSP used to celebrate the occasion in a grand manner when the party was in power in Uttar Pradesh. It began the practice of observing Jan Kalyankari Diwas after being voted out of office in the 2012 assembly elections.After Mayawati became UP chief minister for the fourth time in 2007, there was a grand celebration across the state on January 15, 2009. The display of opulence was quite palpable, the state capital was draped in blue and a massive stage was set up near the chief minister’s residence. The BSP supporters were transported from all the districts and neighbouring states to participate in the programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsp-to-fight-2022-up-assembly-polls-alone-mayawati-announces-on-her-birthday-101610703278311.html
15-01-2021||India||Kitchen loans, sops for startups, industrial corridors in Kerala budget||Three industrial corridors, a hike in welfare pension, free ration and several programmes for ailing tourism sector were some of the measures announced by Kerala finance minister Thomas Issac in the state budget for 2021-22 on Friday.Presenting the last budget of the Pinarayi Vijayan government, the state is set to go to polls in the next few months, he said money won’t be a constraint for welfare measures and some of the new measures will inject fresh blood into the state’s consumerist economy reeling under the impact of Covid-19. The minister said free food kits being distributed in the wake of the pandemic will continue for some more time and 50 lakh families will get additional rice for ₹15 and 10 a kg, respectively.Though the minister announced three industrial corridors worth ₹5,000 crore he did not specify how funds will be met for this. In the budget speech, he also criticised the Centre’s move to put severe restrictions on states for borrowing.All welfare pensions will be hiked from ₹1,500 to ₹1,600 and the elderly will get free medicines at their doorsteps without any hassle, he said. Similarly, he introduced a ‘smart kitchen’ scheme in which women will be given loan to refurbish their kitchen with low interest rate in instalment schemes. The government-run bodies like Kerala Financial Corporation, Kerala State Financial Enterprises and Kerala Bank will disburse loans for this, he saidThe government has also decided to withdraw one per cent flood cess on goods and transactions imposed two years ago. Many trade bodies and others have been demanding this for quite some time. Many sops were also announced for startup companies. In government tenders they will be given preference and the government will bear at least 50 per cent loss of the firms to encourage them for innovations, the minister said.A package was announced for the ailing hospitality sector and interest-free loans will be disbursed to operators. Pension for those expats who have returned to the state was hiked to ₹3,000 a month.The minister said two consecutive floods and pandemic have left a big hole in the state’s economy but the government will ensure nobody will go hungry in the state. He said the state suffered ₹1.56 trillion revenue loss due to the pandemic and natural calamities.The Congress said the budget lacked substance.“It is a futile exercise eying the election. There is no dearth of announcements but there is no fund. In the ease of doing business, the state is now ranked at 28th position,” said opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kitchen-loans-sops-for-startups-welfare-pensions-hiked-in-kerala-budget-101610703178731.html
15-01-2021||India||Bowing to protests, Goa CM announces IIT campus will come up elsewhere||Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant Friday announced the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Goa campus proposed to be set up at Melaulim, around 50 km from the state capital Panaji, will be built elsewhere amid protests against the move. Villagers have been protesting against the move for six months. They refused to provide land for the campus and put up a blockade at the village entrance to prevent surveyors from demarcating the land for the campus.“We wanted the IIT project... so that the region is developed. We tried to explain it to the people. [Minister and local lawmaker Vishwajit] Rane also tried to explain. We had also invited the villagers for discussion, but they would not relent,” Sawant said. “This government listens to the people... [We] had no personal interest in going ahead with the project. It was purely in the interest of the state.”Over a dozen policemen and villagers were injured in violent clashes in early January amid attempts to clear the blockade.Also read | SC relief for student who lost IIT-B seatA representation signed by around half-a-dozen district panchayat members said if the people do not want the IIT campus, the government should build it elsewhere.Rane, once a staunch proponent of the project, later wrote to Sawant saying he no longer wanted it there. He assured the villagers that as long as he is in politics and the representative of the area, he will not allow anyone to even put a single stone there.Rane changed his stance after villagers from neighbouring areas backed the opposition to the building of the campus.In May, the Goa government transferred around 10 lakh square metres of land in Melaulim for setting up of IIT-Goa, which has since 2014 been functioning from a temporary campus at the Goa Engineering College.Two sites previously identified in Canacona and Sanguem for setting up the permanent campus were scrapped in face of protests from local residents. The land identified for the campus has cashew trees that villagers claim has sustained them for generations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bowing-to-protests-goa-cm-announces-iit-campus-will-come-up-elsewhere-101610702439543.html
15-01-2021||India||EC allows govt to use data for vaccination, wants data deleted after exercise||The Election Commission will extend "full assistance" to the government in identifying targeted beneficiaries at the polling station level for the COVID-19 vaccination drive, but wants health authorities to delete the data once the inoculation exercise is over, sources privy to the development said on Friday.On December 31 last year, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla wrote to Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora requesting the commission's help in identifying people above 50 years of age at the polling station level, the sources said.On the issue of data security, the home secretary wrote that the government is complying with the current best practices for ensuring cyber security.He has assured the poll panel that the data will be used only for the purpose of vaccination, the sources said.The Election Commission (EC), after detailed deliberations, wrote back to the home secretary on January 4, saying it has decided to render "full assistance" in the vaccination drive. But asked the government to ensure that the data is strictly used for the limited purpose for which it has been sought, the sources said.The commission also said that the data should be deleted by health authorities once the vaccination exercise concludes, they said.Some senior EC officials will be in touch with nodal officers of the Union home ministry and the Union health ministry to settle day-to-day issues, the sources said.Last month, officials of the Union health ministry and the Niti Aayog had met the EC top brass seeking their help in the distribution of COVID-19 vaccine given the poll panel's robust network at the booth level.The letter by the home secretary is a follow up to the meeting, the sources said.According to guidelines for the COVID-19 vaccination drive, the latest electoral roll for Lok Sabha and assembly elections will be used to identify the priority population over the age of 50 years.Twelve identity documents, such as Voter ID, Aadhaar card, driving licence, passport and pension document, will be required for beneficiary identification.According to the government, the shots will be offered first to an estimated one crore healthcare workers, and around two crore frontline workers, and then to persons above 50 years of age, followed by persons younger than 50 years of age with associated comorbidities.Cost of vaccination of healthcare and frontline workers will be borne by the central government.Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch India's COVID-19 vaccination drive on January 16 via video conference.The Drugs Controller General of India had recently approved Oxford COVID-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country, paving the way for a massive inoculation drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ec-allows-govt-to-use-data-for-vaccination-wants-data-deleted-after-exercise-101610701432025.html
15-01-2021||India||Bihar: Darbhanga hospital likely to miss completion deadline again||The work on the super specialty hospital on the premises of Darbhanga Medical College in Bihar is unlikely to be finished by the January 15 deadline fixed for the opening of neurosurgery, neurology, and cardiology out-patients’ departments. Union minister of state for health Ashwini Kumar Choubey, who had said the hospital will be completed by December 2018, had set the revised deadline. The project worth Rs150 crore is being implemented under Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Surkshya Yojana (PMSSY) with funding from both the central and state governments.Dr HN Jha, the college principal, said, “Out of total 382 posts recently sanctioned, only five doctors have been appointed.”The project was started in September 2016 and it was due to be completed in 18 months. As per the PMSSY dashboard, the expected date of its completion is March 31.“It is unfortunate to see so much infrastructure lying unused for so long. The warranty for medical equipment begins with installation. I am afraid that it would lapse even before patients benefit,” said a doctor on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihardarbhanga-hospital-likely-to-miss-completion-deadline-again-101610701299161.html
15-01-2021||India||TRP manipulation case: HC extends relief to Republic TV||In a relief for Republic TV and its employees currently being investigated by Mumbai Police in the TRP manipulation case, the Bombay high court on Friday extended their interim protection from coercive action till January 29.The order came after the state sought time to file a reply to the amendment made to the channel’s petition, impleading the Enforcement Directorate as a party respondent in the case. A division bench of justices SS Shinde and MS Karnik was hearing petitions filed by ARG Outlier Pvt Ltd, which owns Republic TV and R Bharat news channels, and their editor-in-chief Arab Goswami, questioning the investigation being carried out by Mumbai Police in the case.Their counsel, senior advocate Harish Salve, submitted that the police action was politically motivated.“Some nonsensical story has been made that we (the channel) have paid to somebody. None of the allegations make an offence even remotely. Assuming some TV channel has paid money to rig TRP, where is the crime of cheating? Has any of the advertisers claimed they have been cheated? It is abuse of power,” Salve argued. Salve then submitted that his client had filed an application to make ED, which is probing a TRP case in Lucknow, to be made party to the case. Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh for ED submitted that the plea was served and the Central agency has filed a two-page affidavit in reply. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, representing Mumbai Police and the state government, refuted allegations by the channel against Mumbai Police and said that cheating had taken place, arrests were made and the police found serious evidence.After hearing the submissions, the court sought to know from the state government whether they wanted to file a reply to the amended plea which impleaded ED to which the state replied in the affirmative and sought time till Monday. Salve informed the court that the channel would respond to the reply by the state government till Thursday. The court has now posted hearing of the petitions by ARG Outlier, Goswami and also Hansa Research on January 29. After Republic TV sought directions to the state government and Mumbai Police not to take any coercive action, Sibal assured the court that it would continue its statement of no coercive action till the next hearing which the court accepted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trp-manipulation-case-hc-extends-relief-to-republic-tv-101610700999192.html
15-01-2021||India||Baghpat village bans entry of leaders not backing farmers’ protest||The villagers of Saroorpur Kala in western Uttar Pradesh’s Baghpat district have banned the entry of leaders who are not supporting the ongoing farmers’ agitation against the three contentious farm laws. The decision was taken at a panchayat of 36 ‘biradris’ or caste groups, held in the village on Wednesday.Subhash Nain, a farmer who attended the panchayat, said, “Entire panchayat unanimously condemned those leaders (of political parties or farmers' organisations) who are not extending their support to the ongoing movement and unanimously decided to ban their entry in the village.”“What's their relevance if they can't stand with the farmers during their battle for survival?” asked Nain, quoting the panchayat's views. Saroorpur Kala has a population of about 25,000.The panchayat also decided to take ration and other essential items required by protesting farmers in Delhi on January 16 to the protest venue.It was decided to collect donations--monetary or otherwise-- from each family of the village, irrespective of their caste and community, in support of the movement.“Villagers have so far donated ₹4.5 lakh and spared at least nine tractors to take ration and other commodities including firewood for the farmers protesting at Delhi borders in the bitter cold season,” said Nain.The villagers claimed that they had nothing to do with any party, he added.The villagers are reported to be questioning why the government wasn’t listening to even their ‘genuine’ demands.Meanwhile, the farmers’ indefinite sit-in protest at Baraut town of Baghpat district, continued for the 28th day. Earlier, farmers led by khap chaudharies or clan leaders sat on a dharna on the Delhi-Saharanpur highway on December 17 in order to extend their support to the ongoing protest.Activists of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tomar), led by their divisional president Padam Singh, had staged a day-long protest at the Meerut Cantt railway station on Tuesday to show their solidarity with the farmers' movement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/baghpat-village-bans-entry-of-leaders-not-backing-farmers-protest-101610699617109.html
15-01-2021||India||Over 100 dead birds found in Thane amid bird flu outbreak||Thane Municipal Corporation has found over 120 dead birds, including pigeons and crows, over the last week in the city amid the bird flu outbreak in the country. This has prompted residential societies to issue advisories to residents to stay away from and to immediately alert the civic body about dead birds.Harshada Sandhan, a resident of the Hiranandani Estate, said he saw a pigeon lying dead right at the doorstep of his neighbour’s home. “My two kids usually play in the lobby during the day. So, I was worried. We rarely find pigeons or birds in the lobby. This was an unexpected sight. I have not opened the door since and have been waiting for the officials to come and clear the bird. We have been told to not come in close contact with dead birds but if they continue to be found like this, it is quite scary to let our children play outside.”Also read | Domestic demand for soybean meal hit due to bird flu scareResidents said there were two birds in the society. A complaint was made around midnight and one of the birds died. The second bird was spotted on Friday morning on the seventh floor.Some residents said they have seen dead birds in parks and the premises of the housing society.Deputy municipal commissioner Sandeep Malvis said they have formed a special cell to handle any bird deaths. “We are also sending samples for testing... there have been more than 120 bird death instances across the city.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-100-dead-birds-found-in-thane-amid-bird-flu-outbreak-101610699318779.html
15-01-2021||India||NCP leader Khadse joins ED’s probe in Pune land deal case||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Eknath Khadse on Friday morning joined the Enforcement Directorate (ED)’s probe into a Pune land deal after missing questioning in the case earlier because of health reasons. ED officials have sought to question Khadse over alleged money laundering in the three-acre land deal.The ED’s probe is based on a First Information Report filed by the state Anti-Corruption Bureau in April 2017 against Khadse, who quit the Bharatiya Janata Party to join NCP last year, his wife, Mandakini, and son-in-law, Girish Choudhary.Pune businessman Hemant Gawande filed a complaint accusing Khadse of defrauding the public exchequer in the deal. Khadse allegedly purchased the land in his wife and son-in-law’s names for Rs3.75 crore, much lower than its estimated market price of Rs40 crore.The Income Tax Department and a state government-appointed commission have also inquired into the deal. “That time also, we had submitted the documents. The land was bought by my wife and son-in-law, not by me. The land was purchased as per the prevailing ready reckoner rate, therefore, there was nothing to hide there. I am ready to cooperate with ED and provide the documents as well,” said Khadse earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncp-leader-khadse-joins-ed-s-probe-in-pune-land-deal-case-101610698958996.html
15-01-2021||India||'Congress will not relent till farm laws are repealed', says Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday reiterated his stand on the three controversial farm laws introduced by the Centre in September last year and said they were "not to help farmers, but to finish them".Leading a protest outside Delhi's Raj Niwas, Gandhi said the Congress will fight for the rights of farmers and will not give up till the farm laws are scrapped.Also Read: SC stays farm laws, sets up committee to hear all sides"BJP government will have to withdraw the laws. Congress will not relent till these laws are repealed," he said.In an attempt to resolve the standoff between the Centre and farmers, Supreme Court on January 12 stayed the implementation of laws until further notice and appointed a four-member committee to examine them. However, farmers' unions said they would not accept the committee's report as its members were "pro-government".Meanwhile, the ninth round of talks between the Centre and farmers' leaders to end the impasse over the laws are underway. Eight rounds held earlier failed to bring the two parties on the same page as the government ruled out repealing the laws while the farmer leaders said their 'ghar wapsi' will happen only after 'law wapsi'.Also Read: 'Govt welcomes SC order on farmers' agitation', says agriculture minister TomarThe three contentious farm laws are- Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act. Thousands of farmers are protesting against them on the borders of the national Capital since November 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-will-not-relent-till-farm-laws-are-repealed-rahul-gandhi-101610698430457.html
15-01-2021||India||Covid-19 deaths in West Bengal cross 10,000-mark||The Covid-19 death toll in West Bengal crossed the 10,000-mark on Thursday night. With 17 more deaths on Thursday, the toll mounted to 10,010. Delhi, Maharashtra, Karnataka, and Tamil Nadu have reported also reported over 10,000 deaths.Maharashtra, with more than 50,200 deaths, tops the list followed by Tamil Nadu with over 12,200 deaths.West Bengal has to date registered 563,475 Covid-19 cases. It has around 7,200 active cases compared to more than 36,000 on November 1. The death toll has also dropped. In October, the state was registered over 60 deaths daily. The number has come down to less than 20 now.“The cases had shot up in October and November last year soon after the festive season. The Calcutta High Court’s order banning the entry of visitors in pandals and putting a series of restrictions helped to keep the situation under control. The festive season was a muted one,” said a health department official.Daily cases that shot up to over 4,000 soon after the festive season in October-November last year have come down to less than 1,000. On Thursday, the state registered 680 new cases.At least eight of the 23 districts are now reporting under 10 cases daily.Kolkata has reported 126,250 cases to date which is the highest among the 23 districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-deaths-in-west-bengal-cross-10000mark-101610698058897.html
15-01-2021||India||US adds Xiaomi to its list of ‘Communist Chinese military companies’||The outgoing Trump administration continues to pressure China in its final days, adding Chinese smartphone giant Xiaomi, whose handsets account for almost a quarter of India’s market, to a list of “Communist Chinese military companies”. The Pentagon on Thursday added Xiaomi Corporation – which recently surpassed Apple to become the world’s third largest smartphone maker – and eight other firms to the list of companies with alleged ties to the Chinese military in line with an executive order signed by President Donald Trump. The other firms included aviation major Commercial Aircraft Corporation of China, China National Aviation Holding Co Ltd and Global Tone Communication Technology Co Ltd. “The Department [of Defense] is determined to highlight and counter the People’s Republic of China’s (PRC) Military-Civil Fusion development strategy, which supports the modernisation goals of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) by ensuring its access to advanced technologies and expertise acquired and developed by even those PRC companies, universities, and research programs that appear to be civilian entities,” the Pentagon said in a brief statement. Since the Pentagon first released the names of Chinese firms with alleged ties to the military in June 2020, a total of 44 companies have been added to the list. The executive order signed by Trump bars fresh American investments in the companies on the list, and existing US investors will have to divest their stakes in these firms by November this year. The US had earlier blacklisted Huawei and pressured partners, including India, to keep the Chinese telecommunications giant out of their plans to develop 5G networks. Prior to the military standoff along the Line of Actual Control, the US focus on Huawei had become an irritant in India-China relations, and the Chinese side had pushed India to act independently on the issue of including Huawei in trials. The listing of the companies by the Pentagon was part of a flurry of activity by the Trump administration in its dying days to keep up the pressure on China and was in line with President Trump’s personal push against China, especially in trade issues. On Thursday, the US commerce department also added state-run China National Offshore Oil Corporation (CNOOC) to its “entity list”, effectively limiting the export of American technology to the company. The department said CNOOC had helped China intimidate its neighbours in the troubled South China Sea. “China’s reckless and belligerent actions in the South China Sea and its aggressive push to acquire sensitive intellectual property and technology for its militarisation efforts are a threat to US national security and the security of the international community,” US commerce secretary Wilbur Ross said in a statement. Some experts have suggested that the Trump administration’s actions are aimed at forcing the incoming Biden administration to keep up the pressure on China. While most observers believe president-elect Joe Biden will opt for a less confrontational approach, his decision to appoint veteran diplomat Kurt Campbell to the new post of “Indo-Pacific coordinator” has been seen as a signal that the focus will remain on China and its assertive actions across the region. The growth in Xiaomi’s global market share has been facilitated by a decline in Huawei’s sales after the giant was blacklisted by the Trump administration and its smartphones were cut off from essential services provided by Google. Sales in India’s booming handsets market has accounted for a substantial chunk of Xiaomi’s success.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-adds-xiaomi-to-its-list-of-communist-chinese-military-companies-101610697938828.html
15-01-2021||India||‘Fight from front’: BJP leader to Sharad Pawar after Dhananjay Munde ‘exposed'||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Kirit Somaiya on Friday alleged he was getting “threat calls” after Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Dhananjay Munde was “exposed” in a rape case. Alleging NCP chief Sharad Pawar was behind these calls, Somaiya asked Pawar to “stop this” and “fight from the front.”Also Read | Maharashtra: BJP demands removal of Dhananjay Munde; NCP says let probe be completed“I have been receiving threat calls from different people after Dhananjay Munde was exposed, and the police know it. I want to tell Sharad Pawar to stop this and if he has the guts, fight from the front,” news agency ANI quoted Somaiya as saying.OI have been receiving threat calls from different people after Dhananjay Munde was exposed, and the police know it. I want to tell Sharad Pawar to stop this and if he has the guts, fight from the front: BJP leader Kirit Somaiya pic.twitter.com/PZnYv7MrfHOn Thursday, the former Lok Sabha MP from the Mumbai North East constituency had tweeted he was reaching Oshiwara police station to pursue the complaint filed against Munde by the accuser and demand immediate registration of a First Information Report (FIR), as well as action, against the NCP leader.In a subsequent tweet, Somaiya had said he met the woman and DN Nagar police station and the police were recording her complaint against Munde. “I insist FIR must be registered,” the BJP leader had tweeted.Munde, a cousin of Maharashtra BJP leader Pankaja Munde, has been accused by the woman of rape on the pretext of marriage and other favours. She, too, has alleged her written complaint against Munde was not being registered and that her life was under threat. After allegations against him surfaced, Munde met party chief Pawar on Wednesday and briefed him in details about the issue. The BJP has demanded Munde’s removal, warning of hitting the streets if he is not removed. However, with several opposition leaders, including those from the BJP itself, as well as the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) accusing the woman of “honey-trapping” them too, the NCP, in a meeting late Thursday night, decided it won’t ask Munde to resign as the state social justice minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fight-from-front-bjp-leader-to-sharad-pawar-after-dhananjay-munde-exposed-101610697004505.html
15-01-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Govt welcomes SC order on farmers' agitation||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1 pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.'Govt welcomes SC order on farmers' agitation', says agriculture minister TomarUnion agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said on Friday that the government welcomed the Supreme Court decision to stay the implementation of the three farm laws till further notice and to form a four-member committee to resolve the issue between farmers and the Centre.Read more.Don’t test our patience: Army chief to China on LAC rowIn a strong message to China amid the ongoing border standoff in eastern Ladakh, army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane on Friday said while India was committed to resolving the row through military and diplomatic talks, “no one should commit the mistake of testing our patience.”Read more. Covid-19 vaccination drive: PM Modi to address the nation on SaturdayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation on January 16 morning to start Covid-19 vaccination in India. The vaccination campaign, marking the final phase in India’s long battle against the pandemic, will be held daily from 9am to 5pm, barring the days earmarked for routine immunisation programme.Read more. President Kovind donates ₹5 lakh for Ram Temple construction in AyodhyaVHP’s international working president Alok Kumar, Govind Dev Giri, the treasure of the Ram Janmabhoomi Teerath Kshetra Trust, and former bureaucrat Nripendra Misra, who heads the temple construction committee, were part of the delegation that met the President.Read more. WHO-led team in China will start meetings online from quarantineTheir arrival at the city in central China on Thursday was disrupted by the absence of two members who failed coronovirus antibody tests in Singapore.Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-govt-welcomes-sc-order-on-farmers-agitation-101610695552127.html
15-01-2021||India||Farmers involved in opium cultivation in Bihar’s Gaya to get help to grown legal crops||Authorities plan to help farmers involved in opium cultivation on forest land to grow alternative crops in the Maoist-hit Barachatti area in Bihar’s Gaya, officials said. The drug mafia is involved in the illegal cultivation near the Grand Trunk Road, they added.“Last year, we destroyed opium crop on 467 acres. Following a drone survey, we found that this year also opium is being grown in the same area by the drug mafia,” said divisional forest officer Abhishek Kumar, the nodal officer for the rehabilitation of the opium cultivators.“The farmers said they grew opium because they did not have an alternative for a livelihood. We have offered them to grow lemongrass and do honeybee farming. We have also tagged them with buyers,” he said. “The opium crop is funded by drug mafia...the farmers earn less. However, in the lemongrass and other produce, they will get a full share,” he said. “On a pilot basis, free sewing machines have been distributed... we are going to scale up the work.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-involved-in-opium-cultivation-in-bihar-s-gaya-to-get-help-to-grown-legal-crops-101610696799125.html
15-01-2021||India||'Saddened by loss of lives in Karnataka road mishap': PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday expressed his sadness over the death of eleven people who died in a road accident in Karnataka's Dharwad."Saddened by the loss of lives due to a road accident in Karnataka’s Dharwad district. In this sad hour, my thoughts are with the bereaved families. I pray for a quick recovery of those injured," PM Modi said.At least 11 people were killed in a road accident on National Highway-4 near Itigatti village in Dharwad district of Karnataka.The incident took place when a tempo traveller, carrying members of a women's club, en route to Goa for a holiday, had a head-on collision with a tipper truck.10 women, belonging to the club based in Davangere, died in the accident, apart from the driver of the tipper truck. Five women passengers from the club are said to be seriously injured apart from minor injuries suffered by two others, who were travelling in the tipper truck.The injured have been shifted to Hubli's KIMS hospital.A case has been registered at Dharwad Rural Police station and investigations into the cause of the accident is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/saddened-by-loss-of-lives-in-karnataka-road-mishap-pm-modi-101610696287297.html
15-01-2021||India||Madhya Pradesh corporation allows pork sale: Hindus, Muslims cite hurt sentiments||Madhya Pradesh State Livestock and Poultry Development Corporation’s approval for a kiosk to sell pork in Bhopal has both Hindus and Muslims up in arms, saying the move hurts their religious sentiments. Hindu religious leaders say the move amounts to the promotion of meat-eating that they oppose while their Muslim counterparts cited prohibition of pork eating in Islam to oppose it.Pandit Surendra Tiwari of Pipleshwar Mahadev Temple said the move is against Sanatan Dharma as they oppose the sale of all types of meats. He added the government is introducing one more type of meat. “This move is against Hindu sentiments. We will request the government to withdraw this anti-Hindu decision.” He noted the road on which the corporation has started the pork kiosk has many temples and religious places.Sanskriti Bachao Manch convener Chandrashekhar Tiwari questioned how could the corporation that sells milk and cow products sell pork and called the move an insult to the holy cow. “By promoting the sale of pork, the government wants to promote meat consumption.”Mushtaq Ali Nadvi, a local Muslim religious leader, said Islam strictly prohibits pork consumption. “If people eat pork, they will spread filth in our society. The government should not promote bad things. Just to make a section of people happy, the government should not hurt the sentiments of many people.”Anas Ali, the head of a local organisation, said the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government believes in publicity but started the kiosk without making much noise as it knew its intention is bad. “...the government opposed the distribution of eggs in schools which is necessary for the nourishment of malnourished kids because it will hurt sentiments of a religion.... the same government has started the sale of pork in the name of nourishment. We are opposing the intention and double standards of the government.”Youth Congress leader Vivek Tripathi questioned the requirement for selling pork. “This is a deliberate attempt of the state government to hurt the religious sentiments of a particular community. We will not allow this project of the government.” He added they will expose the BJP’s duality. “In 2019, when then Congress-led state government started the sale of chicken near a milk parlour, the BJP leaders staged a sit-in protest saying it hurts religious sentiments... but now the same party is in power and started selling of pork without thinking of religious sentiments.”Kedar Singh Tomar, the corporation’s executive director, said they issued a tender for the pork sale and an ex-army man won the bid. He justified the move for allowing it, saying pork is not only full of nutrients but its sale will also boost the economy of the community that rears pigs. “The kiosk will give them a respectful way to sell pork.”Animal husbandry principal secretary JN Kansotia said their department is mandated to promote the sale of pork, chicken, and eggs. “The government is giving subsidy for pigs rearing. We are not selling pork of normal street pigs but of farm pigs. The scheme has nothing wrong with it. We are not compelling anyone to eat pork and many people are rearing pigs and under this project, we will provide the marketing support. ”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-corporation-allows-pork-sale-hindus-muslims-cite-hurt-sentiments-101610696498718.html
15-01-2021||India||Centra Vista: Construction work of new Parliament building begins||The construction work of the new Parliament building started on Friday, over a month after Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone for the project under the government's ambitious Central Vista redevelopment plan.The new Parliament building will have a triangular shape and is expected to be completed by the 75th anniversary of India's independence in 2022. The government plans to hold the monsoon session of Parliament in 2022 in the new building."The construction work of the Parliament building has started," an official said.PM Modi had laid the foundation stone for the new Parliament building on December 10 last year.Earlier this week, a 14-member heritage panel gave its approval to the new Parliament building while also giving the go-ahead to the Central Vista redevelopment project.The Supreme Court had asked the Centre to seek prior approval from the panel and other relevant authorities before starting the construction of the new building.The construction work could not start earlier as the government had assured the Supreme Court that no construction or demolition work would commence till the apex court decided the pending pleas on the issue.The new building is being constructed by Tata Projects Ltd. The project is estimated to cost ₹971 crore.Tata Projects Ltd. said despite the 35-day delay in the commencement of the construction work, it is confident that it will be able to deliver the project on or before time."Our plans of action are already in place to accelerate the schedule by augmenting resources like skilled manpower and formwork etc," said Sandeep Navlakhe, vice president and business unit head of Tata Projects Ltd."Our reinforcement required to be placed in the raft and walls are already made ready. Other off-site activities like procurement of stone for external cladding, MEP LLEs, carpets, etc. happened during these 35 days. We are more than confident that we will be able to deliver this building to the nation on or before time," he said.The new structure will come up in front of the existing Parliament that was built nearly 94 years ago at a cost of ₹83 lakh at that time and would eventually be turned into a museum.The new Parliament building will house larger Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha halls with capacities of 888 seats and 384 seats to accommodate an expanded Parliament after the freeze on its expansion lifts in 2026. The Lok Sabha Hall will also have an additional capacity, up to 1,272 seats, to host joint sessions.According to the plan, provisions will be made in furniture for smart displays and biometrics for ease of voting with an intuitive and graphical interface, digital language interpretation and recording infrastructure to produce real-time metadata, programmable microphones that put the control of managing the house with the Speaker.Besides the new Parliament building, the redevelopment of the Central Vista -- the nation's power corridor -- envisages a common central secretariat, revamping of the 3-km Rajpath from Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate, new Prime Minister's Residence and Prime Minister's Office, and a new Vice-President Enclave.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centra-vista-construction-work-of-new-parliament-building-begins-101610695836506.html
15-01-2021||India||NGT directs govt to finalise EPR regime within 3 months, says plastic waste serious hazard||The National Green Tribunal has directed the Ministry of Environment and Forests to finalise the "Extended Producer Responsibility" (EPR) regime for plastic waste within three months saying that steps taken by it were "too slow".A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said unscientific management of plastic waste is a serious hazard for the environment and public health.EPR (Under Plastic Waste Management Rules 2016) puts the onus on the manufacturers for the treatment, recycling, reuse or disposal of products after a consumer has used and disposed them."Regretfully, steps taken by the MoEF for finalising EPR regime are too slow. We note that the PWM Rules were framed in the year 2016 in place of 2011 Rules. There is no justification for long delay in finalisation of EPR models even after more than four years of the publication of the Rules. The same may now be finalised at the earliest, preferably within three months," the bench said.The NGT said that state level authorities also need to take necessary effective steps for enforcement, including coercive measures.Environmental compensation and penal action regime proposed by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) may be duly implemented by state PCBs, State Level Monitoring Committees and all other concerned authorities, the tribunal said."CPCB may continue to coordinate with the State Level Monitoring Committees, the State PCBs/PCCs or any other authorities with reference to the steps taken by the State Level Monitoring Committees in coordinating with the concerned Local Bodies, Gram Panchayats, Waste Generators, Producers, Importers, Brand Owners, Recyclers, Manufactures, Retailers and Street Vendors in accordance with the rules."Whenever, necessary CPCB may issue further directions from time to time in the light of experiences gained considering different suggestions and viewpoints, including the suggestions of the Oversight Committee for State of UP," the bench said.The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by CPCB alleging that states were not paying heed to the seriousness and ill effects caused by plastic.Referring to its 2013-14 annual report, the CPCB had said there were a total of 689 unregistered plastic manufacturing units running in the various states and UTs including Andhra Pradesh, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Manipur, Puducherry, Punjab and Telangana.As per 2014-15 there were 217 such units in Andhra Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Telangana, it had said.The CPCB had said it had issued directions under the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 on June 30, 2016 to various municipal bodies but they paid no heed till date.The apex pollution monitoring body has sought directions to states and UTs to prepare a plan of action for implementation of Plastic Waste Management Rules 2016 and its effective execution of such plan of action within the stipulated time frame as envisaged in the law.It has sought imposition of penalty on the respondents as per "Polluter Pays Principle" for their non-cooperation and inaction which has resulted in huge loss of "health, soil, animal, crops and groundwater etc apart from exemplary damages."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ngt-directs-govt-to-finalise-epr-regime-within-3-months-says-plastic-waste-serious-hazard-101610695358805.html
15-01-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccination drive: PM Modi to address the nation on Saturday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation on January 16 morning to start Covid-19 vaccination in India. The vaccination campaign, marking the final phase in India’s long battle against the pandemic, will be held daily from 9am to 5pm, barring the days earmarked for routine immunisation programme. Vaccination of health care and frontline workers will be held at a wide range of public health care facilities, from hospitals to primary health centres in rural India and large private hospitals. This would be the PM’s second address to the nation in the recent months. His last one was on October when he reminded people on the continued fight against the pandemic after the federal lockdown was lifted to rejuvenate the economy. Also read | Key things to know about India’s Covid-19 vaccination driveOfficials involved in the preparations said that all pallets of Serum Institute of India’s Covishield vaccines have reached all state capitals and their distribution to the districts and blocks is on. Similarly, Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, a backup to Covishield, has also arrived in some states. The funding of the first two groups of beneficiaries—the healthcare and frontline workers—will be done entirely by the Centre, the PM had announced earlier this week. On Monday, he spoke to all CMs as the countdown started for the much-awaited inoculation drive. In his speech on Saturday morning, the Prime Minister is expected to assure the nation that the vaccines have gone through rigorous process of testing before scientists gave approval for their emergency use. According to an official, Modi is also expected to talk about the need to fight against malicious rumours and deliberate misinformation campaign by vested interest groups in a bid to dampen the vaccine campaign and create fear among the people. Officials, however, also added that the standard safety protocols including wearing of masks and maintaining social distancing will continue even after one gets a vaccine. In many states, the chief ministers are expected to hold one last preparatory meeting on Friday to take stock of the situation before the vaccination drive starts. The officials have defined health care providers and workers in health care settings, like doctors, nurses, technicians, lab workers including ICDS workers. Frontline workers include personnel from state and Central Police department, armed forces, home guard, prison staff, disaster management volunteers and civil defence organisation, municipal workers and revenue officials engaged in Covid-19 containment, surveillance and associated activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccination-drive-pm-modi-to-address-nation-on-saturday-101610695598656.html
15-01-2021||India||'Govt welcomes SC order on farmers' agitation', says agriculture minister Tomar||Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said on Friday that the government welcomed the Supreme Court decision to stay the implementation of the three farm laws till further notice and to form a four-member committee to resolve the issue between farmers and the Centre.  "Government welcomes the Supreme Court order regarding the farmers' agitation. The government will put forth its views before the committee (appointed by the court). We are trying to resolve the issue through dialogue," Tomar told news agency ANI.Also Read: SC stays farm laws, sets up committee to hear all sidesOn Tuesday, a bench headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde, justice AS Bopanna and justice V Ramasubramanian, said that it will pass an order on the several petitions challenging the constitutional validity of the laws later and directed the committee to hold its first sitting within 10 days. The next hearing in the case will take place after eight weeks, it said.Meanwhile, the protesting farmers have said they will not accept the top court-formed committee's report as each one of its members in the past has given statements in favour of the laws.The panel, which is being criticised for being 'pro-government', consists of Dr Parmod Kumar Joshi (agricultural economist, director for South Asia, International Food Policy Research Institute), Ashok Gulati (agriculture economist and former chairman of the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices), Bhupinder Singh Mann (national president, Bhartiya Kisan Union and All India Kisan Coordination Committee), and Anil Ghanwat (president, Shetkari Sanghatana).Also Read: Farmers reiterate they won't accept any committee formed by Supreme Court on farm laws, say its members are pro-govtTo overcome this deadlock over the contentious laws, a ninth round of talks has been scheduled between the Centre and farmers' unions on Friday. The eight rounds held earlier failed to end the impasse as the government ruled out repealing the laws while the farmer leaders said their 'ghar wapsi' will happen only after 'law wapsi'.Thousands of farmers are protesting against Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act on the borders of the national Capital since November 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-welcomes-sc-order-on-farmers-agitation-says-agriculture-minister-tomar-101610695256180.html
15-01-2021||India||Former Gujarat IAS officer who joined BJP will fight Uttar Pradesh MLC elections||Former Gujarat bureaucrat Arvind Kumar Sharma, who joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) just a day earlier, has been named as a candidate for the upcoming MLC elections in Uttar Pradesh on Friday.Deputy chief Minister Dinesh Sharma and party state president Swatantra Dev Singh are also on the list of candidates that was announced on Friday.Sharma sparked a flurry of speculations prior to joining the BJP, when he sought voluntary retirement last week, which then led to a buzz in the BJP circles that the former IAS officer may be sent to the Legislative Council. His resignation had led to speculations on a possible role he may secure in Uttar Pradesh politics as the state heads towards the 2022 Assembly elections.The central government accepted his voluntary retirement plea on Monday, when the BJP state unit was busy finalising names of candidates for the biennial election to 12 seats in the UP Legislative Council.There is also speculation that Sharma may be inducted in the UP cabinet as he will be considered as a candidate for an important position in the central government, the senior leader said.A 1988-batch IAS officer, Sharma hails from the Mau district in eastern UP. Sharma had worked with PM Modi from 2001 to 2020. He initially worked in the Gujarat chief minister's office and later in the PMO.Sharma held top positions in the Gujarat government when Narendra Modi was the state’s chief minister. Later, he moved to the Prime Minister’s Office after Modi became the Prime Minister in 2014, a BJP leader said.Before taking voluntary retirement, he was handling affairs in MSME (micro small and medium enterprises), a crucial department that was working on PM Modi’s plan for revival of the economy post Covid lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-gujarat-ias-officer-who-joined-bjp-will-fight-uttar-pradesh-mlc-elections-101610692816161.html
15-01-2021||India||India took 'very decisive' steps to deal with coronavirus pandemic, its economic consequences: IMF chief||IMF chief Kristalina Georgieva has praised India for taking "very decisive" steps to deal with the coronavirus pandemic and its economic consequences and asked the country to do more this year to support an accelerated transformation of the economy.The IMF Managing Director during a global media roundtable on Thursday predicted a less bad outlook for India in the upcoming World Economic Update due to the steps taken by it.“When I called on everybody to stay tuned for January 26, that applies very much to India. You would see a picture in our update that is less bad. Why? Because the country actually has taken very decisive action, very decisive steps to deal with the pandemic and to deal with the economic consequences of it,” Georgieva said.The International Monetary Fund is scheduled to release its World Economic Update on January 26.Talking about India, she said it was a very dramatic lockdown for a country of this size of the population with people clustered so closely together."Then India moved to more targeted restrictions and lockdowns. What we see is that that transition, combined with policy support, seems to have worked well. Why? Because if you look at mobility indicators, we are almost where we were before Covid in India, meaning that economic activities have been revitalised quite significantly,” she said.“What the government has done on the monetary policy and the fiscal policy side is commendable. It is actually slightly above the average for emerging markets. Emerging markets on average have provided six per cent of the GDP. In India, this is slightly above that. Good for India is that there is still space to do more….. If you can do more, please do,” Georgieva said.According to the IMF Managing Director, 2021 is the year to use that space.“But use it wisely in a more targeted manner and to support an accelerated transformation of the economy. Because what we see is amazing how much faster structural change takes place. And policymakers ought to be leaning forward in this environment to support this structural transformation and to cushion the impact it has on those that are on the losing side of it,” she said.Georgieva said that she is impressed by the appetite for structural reforms that India is retaining.“We welcome that. No question those reforms, and actually that applies very much to South Africa... will determine competitiveness in the future. We need higher productivity. We need more vibrant and inclusive economies. And they are not going to fall from the sky. There have to be reforms that support them,” she said.Welcoming the fact that India does not give up on structural reforms, she said: “And I'm saying, yes, do it! Because the world change is accelerating and economies have to be agile and adaptable to change... We have to be constantly leaning forward.”At the same time, she said that one of the aspects of India's reforms that are still lagging is on gender equality.“I want to just stress it is scary to see how we are losing ground on gender equality over these months so fast. Women are front line workers...They are often in the informal economy, help cannot easily reach them, so they are hit,” she said. “....once people start losing jobs, who is to lose jobs first? [Again] women are on the front line. Labour market participation in India for women has been low. It is shrinking...I know the government is paying attention, it is moving in that [direction], but there is so much space to tap into the productive potential of women and the entrepreneurial potential of women,” Georgieva said.The IMF in its October outlook projected India to contract by a massive 10.3 per cent in 2020.However, India is likely to bounce back with an impressive 8.8 per cent growth rate in 2021, it had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-took-very-decisive-steps-to-deal-with-coronavirus-pandemic-its-economic-consequences-imf-chief-101610693903465.html
15-01-2021||India||‘Veshti or jeans’: Debate erupts as Gandhi, Nadda visit poll-bound Tamil Nadu||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s appearance at a Pongal event in poll-bound Tamil Nadu on Thursday wearing jeans and a T-shirt triggered a debate on the traditional and western clothing of Indian politicians. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief J P Nadda, who was also in Tamil Nadu, wore traditional Tamil veshti.“Pic1: @RahulGandhi in TamilNadu Pic2: @JPNadda in TamilNadu. Now decide who holds the culture and tradition of TamilNadu...,” tweeted Nadda’s secretary, Aditya Trivedi.Trivedi’s tweet came in response to Congress’s statement that Gandhi was in Tamil Nadu on Pongal to understand the Tamil Nadu culture better.Gandhi said he also had a nice time watching Jallikattu and he got a sense of why Tamil People appreciate the bull-taming sport. “...many people had mentioned to me that Jallikattu is harmful to the bulls. I witnessed it today and I must say that the way it was done today, there was absolutely no chance of... bull getting injured. In fact, if anyone was likely to get injured, it was the young men, who were doing Jallikattu. So, I am happy to say that there have been some changes to make it safer for everyone.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/veshti-or-jeans-debate-erupts-as-gandhi-nadda-visit-poll-bound-tamil-nadu-101610694038721.html
15-01-2021||India||MP Satabdi Roy’s cryptic message triggers speculation amid defections from TMC||Actor-turned-politician Satabdi Roy’s cryptic message on social media has triggered fresh speculation amid a series of defections from the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ahead of the assembly elections due later this year.“My regular intimate communication with the area. But nowadays many people have been asking me why I am not seen in many programs. I tell them I wanna go everywhere. I love being with you guys. But I guess some people don’t want me to go to you. I don’t get many program news. How can I go if I don’t know? I also feel mental pain with this,” Roy wrote on Thursday. “If I take any decision, I will inform you on Saturday, 16 January 2021 at 2021 pm.” Roy told a vernacular media channel that she would be going to Delhi today. Asked whether she is likely to meet Union home minister Amit Shah in Delhi, she said, “I am a three-time MP. I have a house there, friends. I frequently go there to attend meetings, work and other purposes. Coming across or meeting someone is nothing unusual. But I am not saying that I would meet someone. Nothing is scheduled.”Roy could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.TMC leader Saugata Roy downplayed the message calling the three-term Parliament member a nice person. “The party would speak to her to find out if she has any problems or grievances. Also, the party has been talking to Banerjee and trying to assuage his grievances,” he said, referring to state minister Rajib Banerjee.Banerjee, who has been voicing his disgruntlement against the party leadership, said he would go live on social media to connect with his supporters and followers.Former minister Suvendu Adhikari is among the TMC leaders who have defected to the BJP. Laxmi Ratan Shukla, another minister, has also resigned.BJP is hoping to wrest power from the TMC after emerging as the second-biggest party in the state after the 2019 national polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-satabdi-roy-s-cryptic-message-triggers-speculation-amid-defection-from-tmc-101610693498417.html
15-01-2021||India||Don't mix Covishield and Covaxin: Centre sends comparative factsheet to states||As both Covishield, manufactured by Serum Institute of India, and Covaxin, developed and manufactured by Bharat Biotech, will be administered to beneficiaries from January 16 onwards, the Centre has sent all states a comparative factsheet urging the authorities to be alert to not interchange between the two vaccines. Both vaccines require two doses and thee should be no mix-up between the two vaccines. If a beneficiary is given the first dose of Covishield, then the second dose will also be of Covishield. The same applies to beneficiaries receiving Covaxin, the Centre has clarified.Also Read: Both doses should be of same vaccine; pregnant, lactating women must avoidCovishield is colourless to slightly brown while Covaxin is whitish translucent, the factsheet mentions.Both the vaccines may lead to mild effects like injection site tenderness, pain, headache, fatigue, fever etc.For Covishield, the Centre has mentioned of very rare events of demyelinating disorders "without the casual relationship establishment".Also Read: 'Can Covid-19 vaccine cause infertility?' On Twitter, health minister Harsh Vardhan dispels mythsVaccination of pregnant and lactating beneficiaries is not recommended. Also, people below the age of 18 years will not be administered the vaccines, the Centre has said.Both the vaccines are freeze sensitive and the vaccine vial is to be discarded if found frozen or frozen and thawed. Persons having active symptoms of Covid-19, or persons acutely unwell should also be not administered any of the vaccines."Vaccine should be administered with caution in persons with a history of any bleeding or coagulation disorder," the ministry has said.Persons with a past history of SARS-CoV-2 infection, or history of chronic diseases, HIV, immuno-deficiency, however, can be given the vaccines as these conditions are not contraindicated for Covid-19 vaccines, though the response may be less in individuals suffering from any immuno-deficiency condition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-mix-covishield-and-covaxin-centre-sends-comparative-factsheet-to-states-101610693174687.html
15-01-2021||India||Court asks for Railways reply to PIL alleging exorbitant fares during pandemic||Chhattisgarh high court has issued a notice to the Railway Board, asking for a response on a public interest litigation (PIL) claiming ‘exorbitant fares’ were being charged by the railways for running ‘Special Trains’, which were actually routine train services being run on identical routes with same rake, timing and stoppages.The HC issued the notice on Wednesday and asked the Railways to file a reply in the next hearing on the matter. The PIL was filed in October last year by an activist of the state.“A notice has been issued to the Railway Board on the grievance that despite the discontinuation of food and catering services in Rajdhani, Shatabdi, Duronto class trains, the charges have not been reduced. In violation of the coronavirus-containment guidelines issued by the Railways, unauthorised vendors are allowed to sell food items at higher prices,” said petitioner Sudiep Shrivastava, also an activist and a lawyer.He further alleged that the fare in ‘special trains’, being run by the railways on different routes during the pandemic, is more than double of the routine service.“The operation of passenger and local trains has been started only in certain states like West Bengal, where elections are due, whereas, no passenger or local train service is being operated in Chhattisgarh,” Shrivastva said alleging discrimination.Earlier in October, during the first hearing on the PIL, Ramakant Mishra, the assistant solicitor general had said in the court that the restrictions have been imposed pursuant to the guidelines issued by the Union home ministry and the respondent was giving effect to the same.“Such guidelines and restrictions have been imposed based on the opinion of the experts in the field and considering the relevant circumstances in connection with the control of the Covid-19 pandemic so as to break the chain and also to contain the disease in the most effective manner…The rigor of unlock as it was prevailing months ago is not existing now and it is being relaxed step by step; which is applicable also in the case of 'concessions' and running of regular trains," he added.The next hearing on the PIL is scheduled for February 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/court-asks-for-railways-reply-to-pil-alleging-exorbitant-fares-during-pandemic-101610692853304.html
15-01-2021||India||Bird flu: Water samples from Kanpur zoo test positive||Eight water samples taken from water bodies inside the Kanpur zoo tested positive for avian influenza or bird flu virus, said the report of the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal, where all the samples were tested as one.The institute, which had on January 9 confirmed that the samples taken from two of the 10 red jungle fowls found dead in Kanpur zoo earlier this month had tested positive for bird flu, sent the report of the water sample testing to the authorities concerned on Wednesday night. Meanwhile, seven more birds -- five crows and two pigeons -- were found dead in the zoo on Thursday. The deaths, which have alarmed the authorities, have been attributed to contaminated water at the zoo. Kanpur zoo assistant director Arvind Kumar Singh said the report from Bhopal confirmed bird flu virus in water but not in the soil.A team led by chief veterinary officer, Kanpur, Dr RP Mishra visited the zoo and held meetings with officials apart from examining the entire area and animals on Thursday. Dr Mishra said his team was looking into the deaths and helping the zoo with sanitisation.The artificial lake inside the zoo, that is spread across 18 hectares, attracts thousands of migratory birds during the winter season. Apart from the lake, the zoo has eight small and big ponds.The source of water to the zoo is Ganga barrage and rain. It is believed the virus arrived with the migratory birds. However, zoo officials are not forthcoming about whether there has been death of any migratory birds or if any samples of them have been sent for testing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bird-flu-water-samples-from-kanpur-zoo-test-positive-101610693078657.html
15-01-2021||India||PM Modi calls Shripad Naik, enquires about his health||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday called Union minister Shripad Naik who is currently recuperating at Goa Medical College and Hospital and enquired about his health."PM Narendra Modi called Union Minister Shripad Naik who is currently recuperating at Goa Medical College and Hospital today morning and enquired about his health," said Suraj Naik, OSD to the union minister, according to news agency ANI.Earlier in the day, Vice President Venkaiah Naidu visited Naik on at the hospital, where he is undergoing treatment after getting injured in a road accident.Naidu arrived at the GMCH near here at 10.20 am and met Naik. He also held an informal meeting with GMCH dean Shivanand Bandekar and other doctors treating the 68-year-old minister for AYUSH and defence."Doctors also informed that Naik was out of danger and that his vital parameters were normal," Naidu tweeted.Naik was admitted to the GMCH on Monday night after he was seriously injured in the road accident in adjoining Karnataka. His wife and a close aide died in the car accident.The GMCH on Thursday eveninghad said the health condition of Naik has been improving.A team of of the New Delhi-based All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) has been monitoring the treatment given to Naik.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-calls-shripad-naik-enquires-about-his-health-101610691890923.html
15-01-2021||India||Don’t test our patience: Army chief to China on LAC row||In a strong message to China amid the ongoing border standoff in eastern Ladakh, army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane on Friday said while India was committed to resolving the row through military and diplomatic talks, “no one should commit the mistake of testing our patience.” In his customary Army Day address at the Parade Ground in Delhi Cantt, Naravane said India had given a fitting response to the (Chinese) conspiracy of attempting to unilaterally change the status quo along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) where India and China have been locked in a standoff for over eight months. “I want to assure the country that the sacrifice of the Galwan braves will not go in vain,” he said. The army chief said the morale of the soldiers deployed in forward areas in the Ladakh sector was higher than the mountains they were defending. On the situation along the Line of Control (LoC) with Pakistan, the army chief said 300 to 400 terrorists are present in camps in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir and waiting to sneak into India. Earlier this week, Naravane said the army was prepared to hold its ground in eastern Ladakh “for as long as it takes” to achieve national objectives in case the ongoing military and diplomatic talks with China to reduce tensions in the sensitive sector are “prolonged,” even as he described a joint threat from China and Pakistan as “very potent.” He said India should not read too much into the recent withdrawal of Chinese troops from depth areas on the Tibetan plateau as there has been absolutely no reduction of troops by either side at friction points in the Ladakh sector. Hindustan Times reported on Monday that the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has moved back at least 10,000 soldiers from depth areas in the Ladakh theatre to rear positions but the PLA’s frontline deployments remain unchanged. Speaking to reporters at his customary annual press conference on January 12, Naravane said he was hopeful that the ongoing dialogue with China would yield an “amicable solution” but stressed that the operational preparedness of the army was of high order and the force was ready to deal with any eventuality. The two armies are due to hold the ninth round of military talks between their senior commanders to resolve the lingering border dispute that has brought chill to ties between India and China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-test-our-patience-army-chief-to-china-on-lac-row-101610691698229.html
15-01-2021||India||Indian Army chief warns, says 'don't commit the mistake of testing our patience'||In a stern message, Indian army chief general Manoj Mukund Naravane on Friday said that while India believes in finding the resolution of disputes through discussions and political efforts, no one should commit the mistake of testing the country's patience. "We are committed to finding the resolution of our disputes through discussions and political efforts but no one should commit the mistake of testing our patience," Indian Army chief general MM Naravane said.The Army chief was talking at the 73rd Army Day at the National War Memorial in Delhi where Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat also paid tributes.Along with the CDS and army chief general, Air Force chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria and Chief of the Naval Staff Admiral Karambir Singh, also paid tribute at the memorial.Naravane also said that the sacrifice of the "Galwan braves will not go in vain.""You all are aware of ongoing tension with China on northern borders. Regarding conspiracy to unilaterally change status quo on borders, a befitting reply was given. I want to assure the country that sacrifice of bravehearts of Galwan would not go in vain," Army Chief MM Naravane said. The India Army also paid homage to the 100 battle casualties in the year 2020 on the Army Day today."Army pays homage to the 100 battle casualties in the year 2020 on the Army Day today. These officers and jawans lost their lives in different operations including the Galwan valley clash in Eastern Ladakh on June 15," Army said in a tweet.On this occasion, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh also extended his greetings to the Indian Army personnel."Greetings to Indian Army personnel and their families on the occasion of Army Day. The nation salutes the Indian Army's indomitable courage, valour and sacrifices. India is proud of their selfless service to the nation." Singh tweeted.Army Day is observed every year on January 15 to celebrate the first Indian Commander-in-Chief of the Indian Army - Field Marshal Kodandera M Cariappa. The position was taken over on January 15, 1949, from General Sir Francis Butcher, the last British Commander-in-Chief of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-army-chief-warns-says-don-t-commit-mistake-of-testing-our-patience-101610689854020.html
15-01-2021||India||'No chance of further improvement on farm laws', says farmer unions||Ahead of the ninth round of farm talks, farmer unions on Friday said there is no chance of further improvement on the laws and they don't have much expectation."We don't expect much. Last round of talks with govt failed & now they've got the opportunity to get help from court. I think govt is not going to advance the discussions. There is no chance of further improvement on 3 farm laws, said Hannah Mollah, General Secretary, All India Kisan Sabha, according to news agency ANI.Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) Joginder Singh Ugrahan told PTI, "We are going to hold talks with the government tomorrow. We don't have much hope from the Friday meeting as the government will cite the SC-appointed panel. The government doesn't have good intention to resolve our issues."Singh said that the unions do not want any committee, adding "we just want a complete repeal of three farm laws and legal guarantee on minimum support price for our crops."He said that farmers will not call off their protest until their demands are met.Another farmer leader, Abhimanyu Kohar said that government knows that the court cannot repeal the laws and added that the Centre should stop playing with the sentiments of farmers who have been camping at several Delhi borders since November 28.He said that forming a committee is not a solution, adding that the new farm laws have been enacted by Parliament and the court cannot do much.While the previous eight rounds of negotiations have failed to end the protests continuing for several weeks on various borders of the national capital, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said yesterday that the government is hopeful of positive discussions at Friday's scheduled meeting.The farmer unions have been maintaining that they were ready to attend the scheduled talks with the government, even as they have said they do not want to appear before the court-appointed panel and have also questioned its composition.The top court has also kept the farm laws in abeyance to “assuage the hurt feelings of farmers”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-chance-of-further-improvement-on-farm-laws-says-farmer-unions-101610690541861.html
15-01-2021||India||Cold wave continues; Srinagar records -7.6°C||Srinagar and other parts of other Kashmir witnessed another cold night with temperature going down to minus 7.6 degrees Celsius (°C). Friday morning saw Srinagar enveloped in dense fog.For the past three days, Srinagar is witnessing cold wave which has forced people to stay indoors. Most of the water bodies and Dal lake are frozen. The government has deputed SDRF teams around the lake to discourage people from walking on Dal. While India Meteorological Department officials have ruled out snowfall for another week, they said the cold wave will continue. This winter, the cold has broken a 26-year record with the temperature plunging to -8.4°C on Thursday.Kashmir has already witnessed four to five spells of snow with some places recording over six feet of snow.Tourist resort of Gulmarg recorded -7.9°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cold-wave-continues-srinagar-records-76c-101610691038274.html
15-01-2021||India||India Covid-19 vaccination: FAQs on schedule, precautions, side effects||India is launching the world’s largest Covid-19 vaccination drive on Saturday with 300,00 health care workers set to be inoculated on the first day itself. Here’s all there’s to know about the Covid-19 vaccination drive being launched on January 16:Will the Covid-19 vaccine be given to everyone simultaneously?No. Government of India has selected priority groups who will be vaccinated based on risk factors.What are the priority groups?The first group is of country’s health care workers and frontline workers. The second group is of people over the age of 50 years, and the third will be of people under 50 with comorbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, heart and kidney diseases, etc.Who will be vaccinated on Saturday?Health care workers will be vaccinated in the first phase. There are an estimated 10 million health care workers, of which around 300,000 are likely to get vaccinated on Day 1.How will I know if I am eligible to get the vaccine?Eligible individuals will be registered by the government as beneficiaries. The eligible beneficiaries will be informed through their registered mobile number through an SMS, regarding the health facility where their vaccination will happen, and the time of vaccination.Can we get vaccinated without registration?No. Only registered beneficiaries will get the vaccine at the session site on the day of the vaccination. What documents are required for registration?One of the 12 government photo IDs: Aadhaar card, voter ID, driving license, PAN card, service ID card with photo issued to employees by the Central, state govts, public sector undertakings, public limited companies, MNREGA job card, passport, smart card issued under NPR, pension document with photo, official IDs issued to MPs, MLAs, MLCs, passbook with photo issued by bank or post office, and health insurance smart card under the scheme of labour ministry.Do I need to carry a photo ID along to the vaccination centre?Yes. The same photo ID that was used for registration will be needed for verification of registration at the vaccination site. Will vaccinated beneficiaries receive information after vaccination?Yes, on getting due dose of vaccine, the beneficiary will receive an SMS on their registered mobile number. After all the doses are administered, a QR-code based certificate will also be sent to the registered mobile number of the beneficiary.How many Covid-19 vaccines are approved for use in India?Two vaccines have been granted restricted emergency use approval by India’s drugs controller early this year. Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, and Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine locally manufactured by Serum Institute of India under the name of Covishield.Will there be a choice between the vaccines?No. It is at the discretion of the government authorities which one of the two vaccines you get.Will the vaccine be safe if it is tested and introduced in a short span of time?The vaccines have been approved by the national drugs regulator only after looking at the clinical trials data both from animals and humans. The safety and immunogenicity of both the vaccines has been well established.Are there any precautions needed to be taken after vaccination?Take rest for at least 30 minutes after vaccination to check if there are any symptoms or any discomforts. If there are, inform the vaccination team at the site for medical attentionIf one is taking medicines for cancer, diabetes, hypertension or any other chronic condition, can the vaccine still be taken?Yes. These people should take the vaccine as they are actually high-risk groups.Can pregnant women and children take the vaccine?No, the vaccine is not meant for pregnant and lactating women. It is also currently meant to be given to people above 18 years of age.Can those with active Covid-19 disease take the vaccine?No. They should wait 4-8 weeks after recovery before taking the shot.Are there any side effects of Covid-19 vaccines?There are largely minor side effects observed, such as mild fever, pain at the site of infection, head and body ache, nausea, weakness, etc. Is it mandatory to take the vaccine?Vaccine for Covid-19 is voluntary. Experts, however, advise people to take the vaccine to protect themselves and their family members and close contacts||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-covid-19-vaccination-faqs-on-schedule-precautions-side-effects-101610689958226.html
15-01-2021||India||India’s Covid-19 tally reaches 10.52 million, day before vaccination starts||India’s tally of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) reached 10.52 million on Friday, a day before pan-nation vaccination drive against the disease is scheduled to commence, the Ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) said. The country recorded a total of 15,590 new infections in the preceding 24 hours taking the national tally to 10,527,683, the ministry’s dashboard showed.Click here for Covid-19 coverageA total of 15,975 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours, the dashboard showed, taking the total number of recovered cases to 10,162,738 or 96.52% of the national tally. In the same duration, the infection claimed 191 more lives taking the death toll to 151,198 or 1.44% of total cases. Active cases, meanwhile, dipped further, falling by 576 to 213,027 or 2.03% of the total tally.The government-run Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said the new positive cases were from 730,096 samples tested for Covid-19 in the previous 24 hours. The body further said it had tested total 184,962,401 samples thus far.Prime Minister Narendra will virtually launch the country’s vaccination drive, set to be the largest in the world. On day 1 of the vaccination drive, 3,006 session sites across all states and Union territories will be virtually connected during the launch with around 100 beneficiaries to be vaccinated at each site, the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) had said in a statement on Thursday. In the first phase of the vaccination drive, 30 million frontline workers will be inoculated.Oxford University-AstraZeneca’s Covishield, and Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech International Limited’s Covaxin have been granted emergency use authorisation in India. While Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) will manufacture Covishield in the country, Covaxin is the country’s first indigenous vaccine against Covid-19. India has the second-highest Covid-19 caseload in the world behind the United States.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-covid-19-tally-reaches-10-52-million-day-before-vaccination-starts-101610689609461.html
15-01-2021||India||80% Indians ready to take vaccines, says Harsh Vardhan, praises PM, scientists||About 80 per cent Indians are willing to take Covid-19 vaccines, which is a statement of trust on the Modi government and the scientists of the country, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan has said, quoting the survey figures of Edelman PR's Trust Barometer Survey 2021, carried out in 28 countries.A day ahead of the beginning of India's emergency vaccination drive, starting with only healthcare workers, preparations across the country reached the final stage on Friday.#CovidVaccination में पीछे नहीं रहना चाहते भारतीय!दुनिया के 28 देशों में कराये गए @EdelmanPR Trust Barometer Survey 2021 के अनुसार वैक्सीन पर सबसे अधिक भरोसा भारतीयों को है। देश के 80% लोग #vaccine लगाने को तैयार हैं।यह भरोसा है मोदी सरकार और देश के वैज्ञानिकों पर!@PMOIndia pic.twitter.com/FxnkyOC8YWThe Centre has prepared a detailed plan on how to counter vaccine eagerness and vaccine hesitancy. Vaccine eagerness is a situation when people are overenthusiastic to get the shots while vaccine hesitance is just the opposite situation. Several European countries have reported a high rate of vaccine hesitancy.Though getting vaccinated is voluntary, the Centre has advised healthcare workers to get the two doses as recommended as healthcare professional taking vaccines will also instil confidence among rest.Questions have been raised over the efficacy of Bharat Biotech's Covaxin as its phase 3 trial is still going on but the ministry and other experts have repeatedly confirmed its effectiveness and allayed fears.The Union minister himself took to Twitter on Thursday and dispelled rumours like vaccines may cause infertility, other side effects in men and women. The minister also busted myths like Indian vaccines are lesser effective than foreign vaccines or Indian vaccines are not effective to fight the new variant.In the next steps, India will inoculate frontline workers and people who are at a greater risk of contracting the disease — above 50 years or suffering from other diseases. After that, vaccines will be made available for common people, the details of which will be decided later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/80-indians-ready-to-take-vaccines-says-harsh-vardhan-congratulates-pm-scientists-101610688061966.html
15-01-2021||India||Student files PIL against Madhya Pradesh’s anti-conversion ordinance||A law student has filed public interest litigation (PIL) in the high court challenging the Madhya Pradesh Freedom of Religion Ordinance saying its provisions violate “constitutional provisions” and is “a blatant attack on the religious autonomy of individuals”.“The ordinance has been promulgated in utmost haste and autocratic manner without following a proper consultative process, which is the violation of the due process of law and is the reflection of abuse of legislative powers,” said Amratansh Nema in his petition filed in the Madhya Pradesh high court. Nema is from Bhopal and studies in Delhi.The state cabinet approved the ordinance on December 26 before Madhya Pradesh Anandiben Patel promulgated it on January 9. The ordinance provides for up to 10 years of imprisonment for religious conversion “by way of allurement, fraud, threat or marriage”.Nema has urged the high court to declare the ordinance as ultra vires of the Constitution. “...[the ordinance makes] the conversion of religion more stringent, arbitrary, and unjust by imposing such compliances and punishments which do not have a rational nexus between the purpose and object sought to be achieved and is consequently violative of Article 14, 19, 21 and 25-28 of the Constitution.”Also read | No evidence found, UP Police drop charges of ‘religious conversion for marriage’Nema cited section 2(1)(c) of the ordinance, which defines conversion as renouncing one’s religion and adopting another. “...but the return of any person already converted to the fold of his parental religion shall not be deemed conversion…. The definition has wrongly been expanded and is highly subjective, lacking the legislative reasonableness. Interpretation of said definition would result in severe religious discrimination which is violative of constitutional spirit,” the petition said. “Section 4 of the ordinance states that ‘no police officer shall inquire or investigate except upon a written complaint of a person converted in contravention of section 3 or his parents, siblings or with the leave of the court by any other person who is related by blood, marriage or adoption, guardianship or custodianship, as may be applicable’.” It added the Section 4 gives “an unrestricted opportunity to the family members of a converted person to harass him by filing frivolous complaints...”It cited the Allahabad high court’s judgment in the Salamat Ansari vs state of UP case. It added the court upheld the right of personal liberty and choice of consenting couples by allowing protection to the inter-faith marriage.Ruling Bharatiya Janata Party leader Hitesh Bajpai insisted the ordinance was drafted and approved after considering all the aspects of the issue. “As chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan stated there were reports about girls being forced to convert for marriages and being subjected to harassment later. Any individual is free to approach the court to seek a remedy if he thinks there is any flaw in the ordinance.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/student-files-pil-against-madhya-pradesh-s-anti-conversion-ordinance-101610688397957.html
15-01-2021||India||Farm laws can be a 'significant step', but protect those adversely impacted: IMF||The IMF believes the farm bills passed by the Indian government have the potential to represent a significant step forward for agricultural reforms, but a social safety net is needed to protect those who might be adversely impacted during the transition to the new system, a spokesperson of the global lender said here.Gerry Rice, Director of Communications at the International Monetary Fund (IMF), said the new measures will reduce the role of the middlemen and enhance efficiency.Also Read | Farm laws: What India can learn from Kenya’s agri experiment"We believe the farm bills do have the potential to represent a significant step forward for agricultural reforms in India," Rice said at a news conference in Washington on Thursday."The measures will enable farmers to directly contract with sellers, allow farmers to retain a greater share of the surplus by reducing the role of middlemen, enhance efficiency and support rural growth," he said."However, it is crucial that the social safety net adequately protects those who might be adversely impacted during the transition to this new system," the spokesperson said responding to a question on the ongoing protests by farmers against the laws in India.This can be done by ensuring that the job market accommodates those that are impacted by the reforms, he said.And of course, the growth benefits of these reforms will depend, critically, on the effectiveness and the timing of their implementation, so need to pay attention to those issues as well with the reform," Rice said.Also Read | All eyes on 9th round of farm talks today: Here’s what you need to knowThousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, have been camping at several Delhi border points, demanding a complete repeal of the three farm laws and legal guarantee of minimum support price for their crops.Enacted in September last year, the three laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country.However, the protesting farmers have expressed their apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of the Minimum Support Price (MSP) and do away with the "mandi" (wholesale market) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-bills-significant-step-but-protect-those-who-may-be-adversely-impacted-imf-101610686985870.html
15-01-2021||India||Lucknow’s KGMU begins genome sequencing of new Covid-19 strain||Lucknow’s King George’s Medical University (KGMU) has started the genome sequencing of Covid-19 to detect its new and more infectious strain found in the UK and for better treatment and management of the disease.“We have tested 10 samples of patients suffering from coronavirus. Fortunately, not a single sample was detected with the new strain. After the purchase of the reagent kits required to analyse the genetic material of ... [the] virus, we will be able to test more samples every day,” said KGMU’s microbiology head Dr Amita Jain.Earlier, the samples for genome sequencing were sent to Pune. Apart from KGMU, the genome sequencing study will also start at Bananas Hindu University, Central Drug Research Institute, and National Botanical Research Institute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lucknows-kgmu-begins-genome-sequencing-of-new-covid-19-strain-101610687798333.html
15-01-2021||India||31,700 health workers to be vaccinated across Uttar Pradesh on Saturday||As many as 31,700 health workers across Uttar Pradesh’s 75 districts will get Covid-19 vaccination on the first day of the inoculation campaign on Saturday when 317 sessions of the immunisation will be held at 311 centres, officials said. The state has so far received over one million vaccine doses against 1.1 million sought for the first phase.Additional chief secretary (health and family welfare) Amit Mohan Prasad said the drive will start at 9am and will continue till 5pm. “A maximum of 100 people will be vaccinated in each session.”Also read | PM Modi set to launch world’s largest Covid-19 vaccination drive: Key things to knowChief secretary RK Tiwari said in the first phase, two vaccination sessions would be organised each week and the plan should be chalked out in a manner that all the health workers get covered in three days.Prasad said frontline workers chiefly from the state and central police departments, paramilitary forces, home guards, civic bodies, etc will be on the priority list for the second phase. He added people above 50 and those with co-morbidities such as diabetes, respiratory diseases, cancer, high blood pressure, etc will be vaccinated in the third phase.“The first phase activities are to be largely organised in government hospitals, health centres, block-level primary health centres, district hospitals, district women’s hospitals, urban health centres, railway hospitals, government and private medical colleges,” he said. “Also, big private hospitals in urban areas having more than a hundred workers too are likely to have vaccination sessions as per need.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/31700-health-workers-to-be-vaccinated-across-uttar-pradesh-on-saturday-101610687497956.html
15-01-2021||India||11 people killed in road accident near Karnataka's Dharwad||At least 11 people died in a road accident on National Highway-4 near Itigatti village in Dharwad district of Karnataka, when a tempo traveller, carrying members of a women's club, en route to Goa for a holiday, had a head-on collision with a tipper truck on Friday morning.10 women, belonging to the club based in Davangere, died in the crash apart from the driver of the tipper truck. Five women passengers from the club are said to be seriously injured apart from minor injuries suffered by two others, who were travelling in the tipper truck.The injured have been shifted to Hubli's KIMS hospital.District superintendent of police Krishna Kant was supervising the rescue and relief operation at the site. A case has been registered at Dharwad Rural Police station and investigations into the cause of the accident has begun.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/11-people-killed-in-a-road-accident-near-karnataka-s-dharwad-101610686590358.html
15-01-2021||India||Cases of LPG injuries rise in Delhi; multiple burns in each: Study||Over half of all the flame burn injuries reported in a Central Delhi hospital were due to household LPG leak, with most of the incidents resulting in burns and smoke inhalation injuries in more than one person, according to a study between 2016 and 2020 by doctors from Ram Manohar Lohia hospital. The share of LPG burns – among all flame burns reported at the hospital – has gone up from 0.1% during the initial round of study between 1993 and 2000. This share rose to 10% in the second round of the study between 2001 and 2007 and 27% between 2007 and 2011. “This could be because of the increase in the use of LPG cylinders and phasing out of kerosene chullahs due to the government policies. However, there is a need to increase awareness on how to handle the gas stove and LPG; the lack of knowledge puts one at an increased risk of burn injuries,” said burns and plastics surgeon Dr Samik Bhattacharya, who was earlier working at the Maulana Azad Medical College, who has been studying the burns data at the hospitals 1993 through 2020 in four rounds. The study used a six-point scale to gauge the knowledge of people about LPG cylinders and burners, with a score of less than 3 being considered to be inadequate knowledge. As per the study, 83% of the LPG burn victims score less than or equal to three. “And, this was irrespective of the literacy level and socio-economic background. People don’t seem to know that LPG is heavier than air and once there is a leak, it settles on the floor like a layer of water. No electrical appliances should be turned on at such time because even the faintest spark can result in a huge fire incident. We also realised that in several instances, it was the user negligence; they forgot to light the gas after turning on the gas. This resulted in a fire when they decided to light the gas later,” he said. He suggested that the dos and don’ts be printed on the cylinder or a simple test be given to those applying for a new connection. He also suggested that regular checks of gas stove and the regulators should be mandated. As per the study, 48.1% of the household LPG burn incidents were due to valve or regulator malfunction, 32.2% due to stove malfunction, ad 18.7% due to leak from the tube. In contrast to kerosene burn incidents where only the person cooking was burnt, LPG incidents result in multiple people being burnt, the study shows. Out of the 337 LPG mishaps recorded in the study, 33 events had more than one victim, accounting for 97 patients – two people sustained injuries in 14 of the incidents, three people in 13 incidents, two people in four incidents, and five people in five incidents. The study also notes that the mean age in case of multiple victim mishaps was 15.44 years in comparison to 29 years for single victim mishaps. This is because the collateral victims were most likely to be children. The number of deaths was also higher – 33% in multiple victim mishaps as compared to 31% in single victim mishaps. And, it was not because of higher degree of burns rather due to smoke inhalation because of “entrapment in smoke filled rooms,” the study notes. “Pipeline gas is safer in this respect as the gas used is lighter than air and can escape through open doors and windows in case of a leak,” said Dr Bhattacharya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cases-of-lpg-injuries-rise-in-delhi-multiple-burns-in-each-study-101610686538263.html
15-01-2021||NA||Farmers' protest: Congress workers clash with police during protest in Jammu||The next round of talks between farmers and Central government over the farm laws will be held on January 19. This comes after the ninth round of talks concluded on Friday in Delhi. Three central ministers and farmers unions committed to continue holding direct talks to resolve the over-one-month-long deadlock over three agri laws, with Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar urging farmer leaders to be flexible in their approach as has been done by the government. The government has refused to roll back the pro-reform laws farmers say will hurt their livelihoods. The protesting farm unions have decided not to participate in consultations to be held by a committee proposed by the Supreme Court on January 12 to examine three pro-reform agricultural laws.As farmers continue to camp at Delhi’s borders demanding a repeal of the three new farm laws, the Capital’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh continued to remain closed at multiple points on Friday.Follow live updates here:Follow all the updates here:There will be consequences: NCP chief Sharad Pawar warns CentreNationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar said on Friday that it was required of any sensible government to understand the sentiments of farmers agitating against the new farm laws and added that it didn't happen and hence there will be consequences. "The farmers are protesting in such cold. Protesters have occupied a 5 kilometre stretch. They are firm on their demands," he added. Congress workers clash with police during protest against farm laws in JammuCongress party workers in Jammu clashed with the Police on Friday after they were stopped from marching towards the Raj Bhawan to protest against the Centre's farm laws. Police lathi-charged the marchers and briefly detained some of them, an officer told news agency PTI. Himachal Congress holds protest outside Raj Bhawan in support of farmersThe Himachal Pradesh unit of the Congress party held a protest outside Raj Bhawan in support of the farmers who have been protesting against the central government's three controversial farm laws. State party chief Kuldeep Rathore said that the government had made every effort to suppress the agitation adding that it was just buying time and engaging in unfruitful talks. Congress party laughs at statements and actions of Rahul Gandhi: Narendra Singh TomarCongress party laughs at statements and actions of Rahul Gandhi, it mocks at him. I would like to tell him that in their 2019 election manifesto, Congress had promised that they will bring this reform. If he doesn't remember, he should read the manifesto again. If it is mentioned in the manifesto, then Rahul Gandhi and Sonia Gandhi should appear before the media and accept that they were either lying at that time or are lying now: Narendra Singh TomarGovt will present its side before the committee constituted by SC: Narendra Singh TomarThe government will present its side before the committee constituted by the Supreme Court when asked: Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh TomarGovt suggested to farmer unions to form informal group to finalise concrete proposals: Narendra Singh TomarGovt suggested to farmer unions to form informal group to finalise concrete proposals that can be discussed further at formal talks: Narendra Singh Tomar.Today's talks with farmers unions were not decisive: Narendra Singh TomarToday's talks with farmers unions were not decisive. We will hold talks again on 19th January. We are positive to reach a solution through talks. The government is concerned about the farmers protesting in cold conditions: Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh TomarOur demands of repealing of three farm laws and MSP guarantee remain: Rakesh Tikait, BKU spokespersonOur demands of repealing of the three farm laws and MSP guarantee remain. We will not go to the Committee constituted by the Supreme Court. We will talk to Central government only: Rakesh Tikait, BKU spokespersonNext round of talks between farmers and Centre over the farm laws, to be held on January 19The next round of talks between farmers and Central government over the farm laws, to be held on 19th January, reports ANI.Ninth round of talks between farmers and the Central Government concludes in DelhiThe ninth round of talks between farmers and the Central Government concludes in Delhi, reports news agency ANI.Delhi Police detains Coong MPs and MLAs protesting against farm laws at Jantar MantarDelhi Police detains Congress MPs Ravneet Singh Bittu, Gurjeet Singh Aujla and a Congress MLA who have been protesting against Centre's farm laws at Jantar Mantar.Delhi Police have removed indefinite dharna staged by Congress MPs, MLA against farm laws at Jantar MantarDelhi Police have removed indefinite dharna staged by Congress MPs, MLA against farm laws at Jantar Mantar and detained the protesters.MSP Guarantee act will be discussed after lunch break: Narendra Singh TomarThe ongoing meeting discussing three agricultural laws between Union Govt and farmers did not come to a resolution before the lunch break. The MSP Guarantee act will be discussed after the break: Narendra Singh Tomar.Talks between farmer leaders and government at Vigyan Bhawan temporarily halted for lunch breakThe talks between farmer leaders and the government at Vigyan Bhawan temporarily halted for the lunch break.Three farm laws have been brought to finish farmers: Rahul GandhiThe three (farm) laws have been brought to finish the farmers. If we don't stop this now, it will continue to happen in other sectors too. Narendra Modi does not respect the farmers. The farmers will neither deter nor fear: Congress leader Rahul Gandhi in DelhiRahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra meet party MPs who are protesting against the three farm laws at Jantar MantarCongress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra meet party MPs who are protesting against the three farm laws at Jantar MantarRahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra along with party workers head towards Raj NiwasCongress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra along with party workers head towards Raj Niwas, Civil Lines for gherao in protest against the three farm laws.BJP govt will have to withdraw farm laws: Rahul GandhiBJP govt will have to withdraw farm laws; Congress will not relent till these laws are repealed: Rahul Gandhi.Three Union ministers start ninth round of talksThree Union ministers start ninth round of talks with representatives of farmer groups over new agriculture laws, reports PTIWe are trying to resolve the issue through dialogue: Narendra Singh TomarGovernment welcomes the Supreme Court order regarding the farmers' agitation. The government will put forth its views before the committee (appointed by the court). We are trying to resolve the issue through dialogue: Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh TomarGovt needs to devise a plan to scrap the three laws and give legal guarantee for MSP: BKU spokesperson Rakesh TikaitFarmer leaders reach Vigyan Bhawan to hold ninth rounds of talks with the Central government over the new farm laws."Govt needs to devise a plan to scrap the three laws and give legal guarantee for MSP," says BKU spokesperson Rakesh Tikait.Narendra Singh Tomar reaches Vigyan Bhawan to hold talks with farmer leaders over farm lawsUnion Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar reaches Vigyan Bhawan to hold talks with farmer leaders over farm laws.No chance of further improvement on farm laws: Hannah Mollah, General Secy, All India Kisan SabhaWe don't expect much. 9th round of talks with govrnment failed and now they have got the opportunity to get help from court. I think government is not going to advance the discussions. There is no chance of further improvement on three farm laws: Hannah Mollah, General Secy, All India Kisan Sabha.Farmers leave for Vigyan Bhawan for 9th round of talks with Centreकेंद्र सरकार के साथ होने वाली 9वें दौर की वार्ता के लिए किसान नेता सिंघु बॉर्डर से विज्ञान भवन के लिए रवाना हुए। #farmslaws pic.twitter.com/3ZBrxo27l4Farmers leave for Vigyan Bhawan for ninth round of talks with the Centre.BSP urges the Central government to accept all the demands of farmers agitating in DelhiBahujan Samaj Party (BSP) urges the Central government to accept all the demands of the farmers agitating in Delhi: BSP chief MayawatiINLD leader Abhay Singh Chautala to hold tractor rally from Punjab's Ambala todayIndian National Lok Dal (INLD) leader Abhay Singh Chautala said that he will on Friday start a tractor rally from Punjab's Ambala in which thousands of party workers will participate.Since protesting farmers have announced not to appear before the committee, there is no point in being part of it: Bhupinder Singh MannSince protesting farmers have announced not to appear before the committee, there is no point in being part of it: Bhupinder Singh Mann, Chairman of All India Kisan Coordination Committee, on his decision to recuse himself from 4-member committee appointed by Supreme Court||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-live-updates-101610685211218.html
15-01-2021||India||PM Modi set to launch world’s largest Covid-19 vaccination drive: Key things to know||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Saturday launch the world’s largest coronavirus immunisation drive with a record 300,000 health care workers across India scheduled to get vaccinated on the first day. Here is all you need to know about the campaign in Delhi and nationally: Vaccination drive in Delhi• Around 8,100 frontline medical workers will receive the vaccination when the campaign kicks off at 175 centres that will be increased to 1,000 subsequently. • Arvind Kejriwal, the Delhi chief minister, will oversee the inoculation drive at Lok Nayak Hospital. • Delhi has received 274,500 doses of Covishield (Serum Institute of India) vaccine and 20,000 doses of Covaxin (Bharat Biotech). • Of the 274,500 vaccines, each health care worker will get two shots. Also,10% of the 274,500 vaccines are to be kept for exigencies such as breakage.  • 240,000 health care workers have registered for the vaccination as of now. Those who get vaccinated in the first week will be eligible for their second dose. • Of the 81 vaccination centres in Delhi, 75 will be for the Covishield vaccine, while six will be for Covaxin. Also read | India to start vaccine for Covid-19 supply with 20 million doses to neighbours• North-west Delhi and west Delhi will have 11 of the 81 vaccination centres – the highest of all the districts in the city. Central, south-west and south Delhi districts will have nine centres each. South-east Delhi will have eight centres, New Delhi seven, Shahdara six, east Delhi five, north Delhi four, and north-east Delhi two centres. • The vaccines arrived at the district storage units from the Rajiv Gandhi Superspeciality Hospital in Tahirpur on Thursday. All vaccines are being transported to designated cold chain points on Friday from the district storage units. Campaign across the nation• The beneficiaries will receive a message on Friday with the allotted site and time. • The average number of inoculations for each site across India will be capped at 100 for the first day. The vaccination will be scaled up gradually. • The initial 16.5 million doses have been shipped across the country.• 3,006 vaccination sites have been set up nationally for the Saturday launch that will begin with the Prime Minister’s address.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-set-to-launch-world-s-largest-covid-19-vaccination-drive-key-things-to-know-101610685457793.html
15-01-2021||India||Rajnath Singh, Amit Shah salute soldiers on Army Day||On the occasion of 73rd Army Day, Union Ministers Rajnath Singh and Amit Shah on Friday extended greetings to Indian Army personnel, stating that all the countrymen are proud of their selfless service and dedication towards the nation.In a tweet, Defence Minister Singh said: "Greetings to Indian Army personnel and their families on the occasion of Army Day. The nation salutes the Indian Army's indomitable courage, valour and sacrifices. India is proud of their selfless service to the nation."Hailing the brave soldiers for their selfless service and dedication towards the nation, Shah said the Indian Army is a symbol of gallantry and courage."I salute the indomitable courage and sacrifice of the brave soldiers of the country. All the countrymen are proud of their selfless service and dedication towards the nation. Heartfelt greetings to our brave soldiers, ex-servicemen and their families on 'Army Day'," the Union Home Minister tweeted in Hindi.Army Day is observed every year on January 15 to celebrate the first Indian Commander-in-Chief of the Indian Army - Field Marshal Kodandera M Cariappa.The position was taken over on January 15, 1949 from General Sir Francis Butcher, the last British Commander-in-Chief of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-amit-shah-salute-soldiers-on-army-day-101610685056679.html
15-01-2021||India||Delhi: Six rescued from fire in Rohini multi-storey building||A woman and a fire fighter were injured, while five other civilians were safely rescued from a six-storey building in outer Delhi’s Rohini that caught fire in the early hours of Friday, the fire department said. The fire broke out in a store on the ground floor which served as a godown, said Atul Garg, director, Delhi Fire Services.Also read | Delhi: Late night fire at Kirti Nagar godown leaves 2 deadGarg said when the fire department sent four fire tenders to the spot after receiving the call for help at 5.35 am, they found six persons trapped on the roof of the burning building. “We rescued them, but a woman sustained minor burns to her hand and leg. She has been moved to Ambedkar Hospital,” said Garg. In the operation, fire fighter Sunil also sustained injuries on his leg. The trigger for the blaze is yet to be ascertained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-six-rescued-from-fire-in-rohini-multi-storey-building-101610684977739.html
15-01-2021||India||'Trying to make some decisions ...': Satabdi Roy's post amid exodus from TMC||Amid the exodus of party bigwigs ahead of the West Bengal Assembly Election 2021, a post apparently written by Trinamool's Birbhum MP Satabdi Roy has triggered speculation whether the actor-turned-politician who has been with the party since her political debut is all set to bid adieu to Mamata Banerjee's party.The message has been posted on the page of Satabdi Roy's fan club and claims to be a statement of the MP.Addressed to her constituency people, the message in Bengali reads: "Good wishes for 2021. Be safe and healthy. I have a close and continuous connection with this constituency. But recently many people have been asking me why I am missing from several party programmes. I want to tell them that I want to attend all programmes. I like to be among you people. But I don't get to know about many programmes and if I am not even informed about events in my constituency, then how can I go. This saddens me as well. For the last 10 years, I have spent more time with you than with my families. Even my enemies won't be able to discredit me. So this year I am trying to make some decisions so that I can spend the entire time with you. I am grateful to you. You have been supporting me since 2009. Hope you will support me in the coming days too. Not only after I became an MP, but I have also always received immense love from the people of Bengal just as Satabdi Roy. I will try to stick to my commitment. If I take any decision, will let you know on January 16m Saturday at 2pm."Last year on December 28, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee visited Birbhum where Satabdi Roy was seen with her.In the run-up to the polls in West Bengal, a number of TMC leaders have crossed the side and joined the BJP — the exit of former minister Suvendu Adhikari being the most noteworthy among them. Along with Suvendu, 35 TMC leaders, including five MLAs and an MP, joined the BJP. The Trinamool, however, is shrugging off the issue of the exits and said several BJP leaders of the state have expressed interest in switching over to TMC as well. BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijavargiya has recently claimed in Indore that 41 TMC MLAs are in touch with the party."But we are looking at who should be admitted to the party and who should not be. We have decided that among these legislators, we will not take those whose image is not good," Vijayvargiya said.Countering this claim, Trinamool spokesperson Kunal Ghosh said seven BJP MPs will join the TMC soon.Satabdi Roy's name cropped up in the ₹10,000 crore Saradha chit fund scam, as she was one of the brand ambassadors of the group. But Satabdi later returned the money that she received from Saradha to the Enforcement Directorate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trying-to-make-some-decisions-in-new-year-facebook-post-triggers-speculation-over-trinamool-mp-satabdi-roy-s-exit-101610683746883.html
15-01-2021||India||Delhi: Late night fire at Kirti Nagar godown leaves 3 dead||Three men were killed in a fire that broke out in a scrap godown in West Delhi’s Kirti Nagar on Thursday night. While two men were charred to death, trapped underneath the collapsed roof, another body was recovered from a drain behind the godown. DCP (West) Deepak Purohit said that it appeared the third man died while trying to rescue the trapped men.The fire department received a call at 10.50pm on Thursday about a fire breaking out in a furniture shop in Kirti Nagar.It turned out to be a scrap godown which had three-four huts erected on the roof, said the Delhi Fire Services director, Atul Garg. The godown was constructed over a 100 square yard plot which collapsed, trapping two men inside and killing them. The dead were aged 23 and 18 respectively. The police are investigating the accident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-late-night-fire-at-kirti-nagar-godown-leaves-2-dead-101610683719448.html
15-01-2021||India||Magh Mela begins as lakhs of devotees take holy dip, faith trumps Covid fear||The 57-day-long Magh Mela commenced at Prayagraj with the first official bathing on the occasion of Makar Sankranti festival at the ‘Sangam’ on Thursday amid a rush of devotees and traffic diversions at all entry points of the city.Devotees, who had started arriving in large numbers from Wednesday itself, continued to arrive all through the day on Thursday, defying the winter chill and overcoming the fear of Covid-19.Magh Mela Adhikari Vivek Chaturvedi said about 4.5 lakh people took the holy dip on Thursday.Despite appeals that the pilgrims observe social distancing and wear facemasks to prevent the spread of Covid, most devotees were seen violating the norms. However, less than expected rush this time ensured that pilgrims were not found taking the dip, shoulder-to-shoulder, at the bathing ghats.Early morning fog prevented many from reaching the bathing ghats, yet thousands of devotees braved the chill to take a holy dip in the Sangam. The rush increased after the sun warmed up the day a little bit more.Hundreds of pilgrims sang devotional songs to traditional music played on harmonium, cymbals, ‘chimtas’ etc in the camps after midnight while waiting for the holy bath in the morning.“It is the best way to beat the cold and spend the night by reciting the name of god. Within a few hours, it will be dawn and the pilgrims will be ready to take a holy dip in the river,” said Sharad Mishra, a purohit.On Makar Sankranti, the sun transits into Capricorn, marking the beginning of its northward journey (uttarayan), ushering in the auspicious period for Hindus. Makar Sankranti bathing is the second important ‘snan’ during Magh Mela after Mauni Amavasya, which falls on February 11 this year.Camps remained abuzz with activity as seers performed special rituals to celebrate Makar Sankranti. However, this time, announcements for following Covid protocols dominated the sounds of prayers and devotional songs emanating from the camps. At a dozen entry points, pilgrims were allowed to pass only after scanning their body temperatures.IG KP Singh and district magistrate Bhanu Chandra Goswami appealed to pilgrims to vacate ghats immediately after taking a dip to prevent crowding.Magh Mela Adhikari, Vivek Chaturvedi, said the first official bathing passed off smoothly without any untoward incident.The first bathing also marked the commencement of the month-long kalpwas in the mela area for Dandi Swamis and those coming from Mithila region, as per the tradition. Nearly 50,000 kalpwasis began their month-long rigorous schedule of meditation and religious discourse. Remaining kalpwasis will begin their kalpwas from Paush Purnima falling on January 28.Besides Uttar Pradesh, devotees from other states including Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Bihar and Chhattisgarh, etc are camping in Magh Mela area for the month-long religious practice, unique to Prayagraj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/magh-mela-begins-as-lakhs-of-devotees-take-holy-dip-faith-trumps-covid-fear-101610682917382.html
15-01-2021||India||Farmers’ protest: Delhi borders continue to be closed at multiple points||As farmers continue to camp at Delhi’s borders demanding a repeal of the three new farm laws, the Capital’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh continued to remain closed at multiple points on Friday, ahead of the ninth round of negotiations scheduled later in the day.The borders with Uttar Pradesh at Chilla and Ghazipur remained closed on Friday for those coming from Noida and Ghaziabad.Commuters coming into Delhi from Uttar Pradesh were advised to take routes passing through Anand Vihar, DND, Loni DND and Apsara borders which have remained mostly unaffected.Traffic at these borders is also slow as police continue to check these points for groups of protesting farmers who may try to enter the Capital.For borders shared between Delhi and Haryana, the routes passing through Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Piau Manyari, Saboli and Mangesh continue to remain closed.Traffic police said they have been diverting traffic from Mukarba and GTK Road. Motorists can choose other border routes, such as the Delhi-Gurgaon and Delhi-Faridabad stretches, opening between the two states.Meanwhile, the farmers’ protest entered Day 52 on Friday. So far, farmers have refused to participate in talks with the four-member committee proposed by the Supreme Court to look into the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-delhi-borders-continue-to-be-closed-at-multiple-points-101610682218095.html
15-01-2021||India||'Held our heads high with pride': PM Modi extends wishes on Army Day||Prime Minister Narendra Modi extended greetings to the Indian army and their family members on the occasion of 73rd Army Day on Friday, saying that the courageous Army always held the head of nation high with pride. "Congratulations to the mighty soldiers of the country who stand in defence of Mother Bharati and their family members on Army Day. Our army is strong, courageous and determined, and has always made the country proud. I salute the Indian Army on behalf of all the countrymen," he tweeted.Also Read | Army Day 2021: A look at some key dates in Indian defence historyPresident Ram Nath Kovind also marked the occasion with his tweet remembering the soldiers who laid their lives in service to the nation."On Army Day, greetings to the valiant men and women of the Indian Army. We remember the bravehearts who made the supreme sacrifice in service to the nation. India will remain forever grateful to courageous and committed soldiers, veterans and their families. Jai Hind!" the official account of Rashtrapati Bhavan tweeted.Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat also extended his wishes and said the soldiers' valour and sacrifices are an inspiration to many. "On the historic Army Day, we pay homage and express our gratitude to those brave soldiers, whose valour and Supreme sacrifice in line of duty inspires us to rededicate ourselves with renewed vigour," Rawat said in a message.Also Read | 'Swift and decisive action on LAC...': General Naravane's message on Army Day"Your dauntless courage, indomitable spirit and unparalleled devotion to duty in the true traditions and ethos of the Indian army will continue to inspire future generations. Jai Hind!" he added.Army Day is observed on January 15 every year since 1950 to mark the taking over of the first Commander-in-Chief of the Indian Army, Field Marshal KM Cariappa, from the last British Commander-in-Chief of India, General Sir Francis Butcher.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/held-our-heads-high-with-pride-pm-modi-extends-wishes-on-army-day-101610681849825.html
15-01-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccine: Report even minor effects after 1st dose, says KK Shailaja||As all states are gearing up to start the first phase of vaccination drive from January 16, Kerala health minister KK Shailaja has said that even minor effects after receiving one dose should be reported. Amid apprehension over side effects of vaccines, the Centre and the states have amped up their battles against misinformation.Allaying fears, Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan has said that the vaccines may come with some side effects including mild fever, pain at the injection site and body ache, but only some individuals may experience them. "This is similar to the side effects that occur after some other vaccines. They are expected to go away on their own after some time," he said.Instead of spreading fears, beneficiaries should report all side-effects, Kerala health minister Dr Shailaja has said. Kerala, the first state to have reported the Covid-19 case in India on January 30, is still reporting a high number of daily infections, though the state's recovery rate is high. The state's healthcare infrastructure faced several challenges amid the Covid-19 crisis and the state reported outbreaks of Shigella infection.On Saturday, the vaccination drive will begin in India with PM Modi virtually addressing the country. About one crore healthcare workers will be inoculated at first following which other frontline workers will be vaccinated. The Centre procured 1.65 crore doses of vaccines — both from Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech — and all these doses have been dispatched to the centres. Those who will be inoculated tomorrow will have to produce their identity cards at the centre for verification. During the dry run, their details have been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccine-report-even-minor-effects-after-first-dose-says-kerala-health-minister-kk-shailaja-101610681377967.html
15-01-2021||India||All eyes on 9th round of farm talks today: Here’s what you need to know||The terms of the government’s engagement with tens of thousands of farmers protesting three contentious agricultural laws are in the spotlight again. Farm unions will hold their ninth round of negotiations with the Union government on Friday. Here are 10 key things to know: 1. As far as Friday’s negotiations are concerned, the agenda of the farmers is to focus the discussions only on ways in which the new laws can be scrapped. 2. The government has refused to roll back the pro-reform laws farmers say will hurt their livelihoods. 3. The government is unlikely to commit to a repeal. It has, instead, insisted on knowing specific objections to the Acts. Farmers and the government are therefore not on the same page still. 4. The protesting farm unions have decided not to participate in consultations to be held by a committee proposed by the Supreme Court on January 12 to examine three pro-reform agricultural laws. 5. The top court has also kept the farm laws in abeyance to “assuage the hurt feelings of farmers”. 6. The top court’s intervention has backfired. Farm unions have alleged that the SC-appointed committee is “pro-government” since its members have already publicly praised the laws farmers want repealed. 7. The contentious laws remove restrictions in farm trade, lift constraints on stockpiling under the 1955 Essential Commodities Act, and enable contract farming based on written agreements. 8. Farmers say these changes will leave them at the mercy of big corporations. 9. The Supreme Court’s decision to keep the laws in abeyance appears to have given the government a breather: the laws are now suspended without the government having to act according to terms dictated by farm unions. 10. The farm unions, however, have craftily dodged the Supreme Court’s intervention by declaring that they would only talk to the government. This helps them to press on with their core demand of repealing the laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-eyes-on-9th-round-of-farm-talks-today-here-s-what-you-need-to-know-101610681497481.html
15-01-2021||India||News updates from HT: Air quality 'severe' in NW India and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Air quality continues to remain in severe category in NW IndiaThe air quality continued to remain in the severe category at several places in North-Western India including Delhi, Faridabad, Ghaziabad, Greater Noida, and Noida. Read more'Swift and decisive action on LAC...': General Naravane's message on Army DayOn the occasion of the 73rd Army Day on January 15, Army chief MM Naravane on Friday lauded the "supreme sacrifice" of the bravehearts in the line of duty. Read more'Enriched passenger experience': Piyush Goyal on future of New Delhi stationThe Rail Land Development Authority (RLDA) plans to bid 62 stations, including the New Delhi Railway Station, for redevelopment. Read moreIndia vs Australia: T Natarajan, Washington Sundar make debuts, earn India’s 300th and 301st Test capsThe Indian cricket team sprung a few surprises when they announced the Playing XI for the fourth Test match against Australia in Brisbane. Read moreAdnan Sami slams person who said Lata Mangeshkar doesn't have a good voice: 'Bandar kya jaane...'Singer Adnan Sami jumped to the defence of legendary singer Lata Mangeshkar after someone on Twitter called her overrated. Adnan advised the person to stay silent rather than letting the world know of their stupidity. Read morePictures of crocodile couple swimming together prompt people to say ‘true love’If you’re someone who loves seeing various images and videos which showcase love, especially between animals, then this post by Bindi Irwin will speak to your soul. Read more‘LCA Tejas well ahead of Pakistan-China’s JF-17 aircraft’: IAF chief BhadauriaAir Force chief RKS Bhadauria on Thursday said the latest Indian jet, Tejas, would be better equipped to carry out Balakot-type airstrikes. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-air-quality-severe-in-nw-india-and-all-the-latest-news-101610679939525.html
15-01-2021||India||BJP out to wrest Sonia Gandhi’s Rae Bareli seat after dethroning Rahul in Amethi||After Amethi, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is now eyeing to wrest Congress president Sonia Gandhi’s Parliamentary constituency of Rae Bareli, the last stronghold of the grand old party in Uttar Pradesh.If senior BJP leaders were to be believed, efforts to reach out to people in Rae Bareli have been stepped up further and more senior leaders, including union ministers, are expected to visit the constituency in the coming months.“Rae Bareli is important for the BJP. The party works 24x7 for the people and does not indulge in part-time politics. The BJP works on seats where it loses any election. We did so after the 2014 and 2019 polls too. We won Amethi in 2019 Lok Sabha elections. We will surely win Rae Bareli in the next polls” said Vijay Pathak, Uttar Pradesh BJP vice president.Pathak’s assertions are not unfounded. After winning Amethi---- the other bastion of the Nehru-Gandhi family-- the BJP has been focusing on Rae Bareli Lok Sabha seat. Union minister Smriti Irani has been visiting Rae Bareli too, besides Amethi. Deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma was made the minister in charge of Rae Bareli and party men have intensified their campaign to take ‘achievements’ of Narendrea Modi and Yogi governments to the people.“Yes, we are taking the achievements of Modi and Yogi governments to the people. We have a strong party structure up to booth level. The Congress may have won Rae Bareli in 2019 polls but the party’s victory margin came down considerably. The BJP is bound to win all the Assembly seats in Rae Bareli in 2022 state assembly elections and surely win the Lok Sabha seat in 2024 polls,” said Rae Bareli BJP president, Ramdev Pal.The BJP efforts to win Rae Bareli and Amethi intensified after the 2014 Lok Sabha elections after the installation of Yogi Adityanath government in 2017 Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh.As BJP president, Amit Shah, addressed a mega party rally in Rae Bareli in April 2018 and inducted Congress MLC Dinesh Singh into the BJP. After 2019 Lok Sabha elections, both the Congress MLAs from Rae Bareli, Rakesh Singh (Dinesh Singh’s brother) and Aditi Singh have turned rebels. Both of them though remain Congress MLAs while continuing to maintain distance from the party leadership and are considered close to the BJP.While senior Congress leaders publicly exude confidence and assert that the BJP would not be able to replicate their performance in Amethi in Rae Bareli, the BJP’s consistent attempts to make deep forays in the constituency remains an area of concern for them.“Rae Bareli is the bastion of the Congress. Whatever development has taken place in Rae Bareli is because of the Congress. The people of Rae Bareli are aware of this fact. Amethi is a neighbouring constituency and the people there are realising that the promises made to them have not been fulfilled. Amethi has been deprived of projects after the BJP’s victory there in 2019 Lok Sabha elections. No one wants to repeat what has been done in Amethi and the BJP will never be successful in Rae Bareli,” said Rae Bareli Congress president Pankaj Tiwari.Tiwari said both Sonia Gandhi and Congress general secretary in charge for UP, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, have remained in touch with the people of the constituency despite the restrictions due to Covid-19. He said both of them had visited the constituency early in 2020 but were unable to revisit due to the pandemic.“We are not allowed (by the state administration) to reach out to people, hold protests or political programmes in Rae Bareli on the pretext of Covid-19 restrictions. Such restrictions are not applied to the BJP workers,” said Tiwari.“Both Sonia Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra however have remained in touch with the people here. We had a video conferencing with Soniaji only about two weeks ago. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra keeps in touch with the party men here. She is expected to visit the constituency and meet the people soon,” Tiwari added.Sonia has consistently won the seat after shifting from Amethi, bequeathing her husband and late Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi’s political legacy to son Rahul Gandhi in 2004. Rahul Gandhi won Amethi in 2004, 2009 and 2014 polls but lost to Union minister Smriti Irani in 2019 Lok Sabha elections.“Yes, the people of Rae Bareli voted for Congress president Sonia Gandhi in 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Sonia Gandhi has not been in good health for some time and has not been able to visit the constituency as frequently as she used to do. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra can work as her substitute but has to decide on contesting election from the constituency. The BJP is a rising sun while the Congress has not been able to resolve the leadership issue. The BJP may capture the Rae Bareli seat too in such a situation,” said SK Dwivedi, former head of department, political science, Lucknow University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-out-to-wrest-sonia-gandhi-s-rae-bareli-seat-after-dethroning-rahul-in-amethi-101610680527158.html
15-01-2021||India||President Kovind donates Rs5 lakh for Ram Temple construction in Ayodhya||President Ramnath Kovind on Friday contributed Rs500,100 for the construction of the Ram Temple at Ayodhya. A delegation of VHP’s international working president Alok Kumar, treasure of the Ram Janmabhoomi teerath Kshetra trust, Govind Dev Giri and former bureaucrat Nripendra Misra, who is the head of the temple construction committee, were part of the delegation that called on President Kovind at Rashtrapati Bhavan. The VHP, an affiliate of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party’s ideological fountainhead, was at the forefront of the Ram Mandir construction movement. The trust has mandated it to collect funds for the temple’s construction.The meeting with Kovind is part of VHP’s campaign to seek contribution cutting across class and communities, said a VHP functionary.Kumar earlier told HT that to ensure transparency, funds above Rs20,000 will be collected through cheques.The fund collection campaign will be carried out across 525,000 villages and the monies collected will have to be deposited within 48 hours in banks.The collection drive began on January 15 and will conclude by February 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vhp-delegation-to-meet-president-kovind-today-seek-donation-for-ram-temple-101610680536777.html
15-01-2021||India||Air quality continues to remain in severe category in NW India||The air quality continued to remain in the severe category at several places in North-Western India including Delhi, Faridabad, Ghaziabad, Greater Noida, and Noida. Delhi’s average Air Quality Index (AQI) of 459 was in the same category on Friday morning.“Wind speed has reduced across the plains of Northwest India. In Delhi, it is only around 6 mph and the wind direction is south-westerly. So, the air quality has deteriorated and there is little possibility of pollutants dispersing,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, who heads the Regional Weather Forecasting Centre.Minimum temperatures are also likely to remain below normal in northwest India during the next three days, according to the India Meteorological Department. Dense to very dense fog and cold as well as severe cold conditions are likely in Punjab and Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, and Bihar over the next three days.A cyclonic circulation is lying over the Southeast Arabian Sea and the adjoining Maldives. A trough runs from this cyclonic circulation to the Comorin area. Under its influence, scattered to fairly widespread rainfall with moderate thunderstorms and lightning is likely in Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Karaikal, Kerala, Mahe, and Lakshadweep over the weekend.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-quality-continues-to-remain-in-severe-category-in-nw-india-101610679756725.html
15-01-2021||India||Delhi’s air quality remains in severe category; AQI reaches 459||Delhi’s air quality continued to remain in the severe category at 7am on Friday, with the hourly average air quality index clocking 459.On Thursday, the overall air quality index (AQI) in Delhi touched 429, in the severe zone, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). A day before that, the 24-hour average AQI was 354, in the very poor category. IMD scientists said the air quality in Delhi is also expected to get worse till January 18. Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), warned that the coming week could be the “first extended extreme air pollution event for 2021”.“The AQI is forecast to deteriorate rapidly in next three days. The combination of dense fog formation leading to secondary particulate formation under congenial conditions of high humidity, extremely low ventilation and shallow boundary layer height is a major reason for the predicted smog episode in the coming days,” the Safar forecast read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhis-air-quality-remains-severe-aqi-reaches-459-101610679037336.html
15-01-2021||India||Army Day 2021: A look at some key dates in Indian defence history||India is observing its 73rd Army Day on Friday. On the occasion, Chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat and chief of army staff (COAS) General Manoj Mukund Naravane extended their warm wishes to all army personnel and paid homage to soldiers who have sacrificed their lives in the line of duty.Also Read | 'Swift and decisive action on LAC...': General Naravane's message on Army DayIndia celebrates its military achievements and foundation days of its forces on various dates. Here’s a list of some such days:1. Army Day (Jan15): This day commemorates General (later Field Marshal) KM Cariappa taking over as the first Commander-in-chief of the Indian Army from General Francis Butcher, in 1949. The Army Day parade takes places at the Cariappa parade ground in Delhi. Gallantry awards are also given on the day.2. Coast Guard Day (Feb 1): The Indian Coast Guard (ICG) was established on February 1, 1977 on an “interim” basis. The force formally came into being on August 18, 1978. It is tasked with protecting India’s maritime interests and enforcing maritime law.3. Kargil Vijay Diwas (July 26): On this day in 1999, the Indian Army recaptured all its outposts taken over by Pakistani intruders. The fourth of four wars between the two neighbours, it began in May of that year and ended with a decisive Indian win.4. Air Force Day (Oct 8): The Indian Air Force (IAF) was established on October 8, 1932 as an auxiliary air force of the Royal Air Force (RAF). After partition of India into India and Pakistan, the Indian side retained the name of the Royal Indian Air Force (RIAF). The prefix “Royal” was removed in 1950 and the force was renamed as the present IAF.5. Navy Day (Dec 4): The day commemorates the Indian Navy’s daring assault on its Pakistani counterpart during the 1971 war between the two nations. Called Operation Trident, the assault saw the Navy sink several Pakistani vessels and kill scores of Pakistan Navy personnel.6. Armed Forces Flag Day (Dec 7): Celebrated on this date annually since 1949, the day is dedicated to collection of funds from the people of India for the welfare of the personnel of the Indian Armed Forces.7. Vijay Diwas (Dec 16): On this day in 1971, the India-Pakistan war came to an end in less than two weeks, with over 93,000 soldiers of the Pakistan Army surrendering to India. The independent state of Bangladesh was born.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-day-2021-a-look-at-some-key-dates-in-indian-defence-history-101610678345296.html
15-01-2021||India||No hike in train tickets, festival specials still running, clarifies railways||Amid reports that Indian Railways has hiked ticket prices in 2021, the ministry has clarified that ticket prices remain the same. Terming the reports misleading, the ministry said that there has been no change in ticket fares.But then why passengers are also seeing a difference in the fare? The ministry clarified that festival special trains which were introduced in October to clear the rush of passengers are still running as the ministry has not gone back to its pre-Covid status of services. Starting with Shramik specials and a handful of special passengers trains in April-May, services have gone up offering connectivity across the country but has not yet achieved pre-March status.The fares of festival special trains have always been slightly higher than normal fares, the railways said adding that it has been a practice since 2015. Since those trains are still running owing to high demand, fares may seem higher but no change in ticket prices has brought in effect."It may be noted that Passenger operations have always been subsidized by railways. Railways bears loss for travel by passenger. Railways has been running trains in covid times in most challenging circumstances. Running in low occupancy in many sections and still operating in public welfare," the statement issued by the ministry said."Not only this, Railways has taken special care about the Travel by those travelling by lowest fare in trains so that even in Covid times they bear the least burden. In all the trains that are being run, besides other classes, the trains have large number of 2S class coaches which has the lowest fare in the reserved category," it said.As per the policy, 2S passengers, even in special fare case have not been charged more than additional ₹15."Indian Railways has operationalised almost 60% of the Mail/Express trains as compared to the pre lock down times. 77% of these special trains have fares of regular trains. Around 250 trains daily are running as trains with special fares," the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-hike-in-train-tickets-festival-specials-still-running-clarifies-railways-101610677946785.html
15-01-2021||India||'Enriched passenger experience': Piyush Goyal on future of New Delhi station||The Rail Land Development Authority (RLDA) plans to bid 62 stations, including the New Delhi Railway Station, for redevelopment. The authority would conduct virtual roadshows for investors from various countries between January 14 and January 19, news agency PTI reported."These roadshows will be organised online from January 14 to 19 with investors and developers from countries like Singapore, Australia, Dubai and Spain, to discuss the project concept and the proposed transaction structure," a press release issued by RLDA said.Union railway minister Piyush Goyal shared images of the revamped design of New Delhi Railway Station on Thursday and tweeted, "Envisaging an enriched passenger experience with complete integration of different modes of transport, take a look at the future of New Delhi Railway Station." Envisaging an enriched passenger experience with complete integration of different modes of transport, take a look at the future of New Delhi Railway Stationhttps://t.co/QSX4m9LKpy pic.twitter.com/cbr2AtxZaYThe Ministry of Railways too tweeted the images and said, "Offering a glimpse of future of New Delhi Railway Station. An enriched passenger experience with complete integration of different modes of transport is being planned for New Delhi Railway station."The station is going to be developed on a Design-Build-Finance-Operate-Transfer (DBFOT) model for a concession period of 60 years, the RLDA release said. The project, which is expected to cost around USD 680 million, saw participation from Adani, GMR, JKB Infra, Arabian Construction Company and Anchorage in its pre-bid meeting in September last year, the release added.According to RLDA vice chairman Ved Parkash Dudeja, virtual roadshows were a way to attract stakeholders for the project. "The project is attracting interest from various stakeholders, and we intend to sustain the momentum through virtual roadshows. The initiative will enlighten them about the various aspects of the project," he told PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/enriched-passenger-experience-piyush-goyal-on-future-of-new-delhi-station-101610678206245.html
15-01-2021||India||How new study raises immunity hope: In graphics||||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-new-study-raises-immunity-hope-in-graphics-101610675546352.html
15-01-2021||India||'Swift and decisive action on LAC...': General Naravane's message on Army Day||On the occasion of the 73rd Army Day on January 15, Army chief MM Naravane on Friday lauded the "supreme sacrifice" of the bravehearts in the line of duty. Terming 2020 as a year full of challenges and opportunities, the chief said that the Indian Army stood steadfast on safeguarding the security and territorial integrity of the nation.Referring to India-China LAC (Line of Actual Control) standoff, the army chief said, "Our brave officers, JCOs, and soldiers have given a befitting reply to our adversaries, many laying down their lives in the highest traditions of the Indian Army."General MM Naravane #COAS conveys felicitations and warm wishes to All Ranks of the #IndianArmy, Civilians, #Veterans and their Families on the occasion of 73rd #ArmyDay. #StrongAndCapable pic.twitter.com/B7IlbUY1nGPraising the Army's swift action on LAC row, the chief said, "While remaining committed to resolving disputes through dialogue and diplomacy, the Indian Army has been swift and decisive in its response to counter any attempts to unilaterally change the status quo on the Line of Actual Control."The Army chief also mentioned the continuous operations against terrorism and Indian Army's services during Covid-19 crisis.General Bipin Rawat #CDS message on #ArmyDay pic.twitter.com/mqIKki3kwFIn his message, Chief of Defence Staff Bipin Rawat paid homage to soldiers who have sacrificed their lives. "Your dauntless courage, indomitable spirit and unparalleled devotion to duty in the true traditions and ethos of the Indian Army will continue to inspire future generations," he said.Army day is celebrated every year on January 15 to commemorate the day when the first Indian general KM Cariappa took over as the first commander-in-chief of the Indian Army in 1949 from General Sir Francis Butcher, the last British commander-in-chief in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/swift-and-decisive-action-on-lac-general-navarne-s-message-on-army-day-101610674286883.html
15-01-2021||India||Air pollution spiked in small towns during lockdown: CSE||Air pollution increased in small towns and cities outside Delhi and NCR in the Indo-Gangetic Plain region last year, an analysis by the Centre for Science and Environment(CSE) shows, highlighting the poor state of air in India’s urban areas in a year when normal activity was disrupted for at least some time on account of the coronavirus disease pandemic and the 68-day-long lockdown imposed to slow its spread.Even though average PM 2.5 levels for summer and monsoon months last year were considerably lower than in 2019, winter pollution levels increased in Punjab and Haryana , leading to an increase in the annual average PM 2.5 levels. PM 2.5 refers to particulate matter with a diameter of 2.5 microns or smaller still.Bigger cities and towns including Delhi recorded a significant reduction in annual PM 2.5 concentrations during the year. Delhi, for example recorded an almost 13% improvement in 2020 compared to 2019.The analysis by CSE shows that air pollution levels spiked in certain parts of the Indo-Gangetic plains Fatehabad in northern Haryana is the worst performer with 35% increase from 2019 levels. It is followed by Bhatinda at 14%; Agra 9%; Khanna 7%; Mandi Gobindgarh 6%; Moradabad 5.5% and Kurukshetra 1% .But in other parts, the levels decreased. Sirsa recorded a 44% decrease in PM 2.5 levels; Varanasi 31%; Gaya 27%; Muzaffarpur 13%; Delhi 13% and Hisar 12% .The findings suggest that the variation may have been on account of adverse local weather conditions, but that some of the spike can only be explained by the burst of activity after the economy opened up after the lockdown. CSE used real-time data (15-minute averages) for 26 cities in the Gangetic plains from the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) Central Control Room for Air Quality Management for the analysis.The analysis highlights that Fatehabad which recorded the highest increase in PM 2.5 concentrations last year and Sirsa which recorded the highest improvement are only 40 kms apart.“Therefore, this massive variation cannot be attributed to meteorology and has to do with local factors. The annual average of these towns along with other smaller towns such as Hisar and Jind in the north-west are heavily influenced by episodic pollution caused by burning of crop stubble. The influence is so strong that it can elevate their monthly PM2.5 levels for November to that of Delhi’s, but unlike Delhi, these towns are directly exposed to the smoke.The elevated November levels do not linger on for the rest of the winter in these towns (as is the case in Delhi),” said Avikal Somvanshi, programme manager in CSE’s Urban Lab team of the Sustainable Cities programme.“This brings out the impact of the extraordinary disruption that 2020 has caused. Despite the dramatic reduction in air pollution during the lockdown, pollution has bounced back across the region post-lockdown unmasking the high impacts of local and regional pollution. This demands quicker regional reforms and action to curb pollution from vehicles, industry, power plants and waste burning to further bend the air pollution curve on a regional scale,” explained Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director, CSE.“We haven’t studied CSE’s analysis yet. There may be local factors which determine these trends. We will correlate the data with ours. But we have no doubt that Delhi’s air quality had improved in 2020 compared to 2019,” a CPCB official said on condition of anonymity.Air quality index was in “severe” category for many towns and cities in northwest India on Thursday including Delhi with air quality index (AQI) of 429; Faridabad 447; Ghaziabad 429; Greater Noida 410; and Noida 412 -- all in “severe” category which is associated with health impacts even among the healthy.“Wind speed has reduced across the plains of northwest India. In Delhi it is only around 6 kmph and wind direction is south-westerly so air quality has deteriorated and there is little possibility of pollutants dispersing,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-pollution-spiked-in-small-towns-during-lockdown-cse-101610673102034.html
15-01-2021||India||Retired UP official sexually abused kids for 4 yrs: Police||A retired revenue official arrested on Wednesday had been sexually exploiting children in Konch town of Jalaun district in Uttar Pradesh’s Bundelkhand region for the past four years, the police said on Thursday.In recent days, the 60-year-old Ram Bihari Rathore has been on a spree of buying medicines that claim to improve sexual stamina. A search late on Wednesday night by Jalaun police yielded two bags full of such medicines, the police said. The police, who have identified a total of 36 victims of Rathore through CCTV footage and 320 videos saved on his mobile phone, laptop and two pen drives, have spoken to eight of them.Rathore, a well-connected man in Konch and a former Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) functionary, targeted children in his neighbourhood, using cold drinks, chips and candy to gain their trust. He would then invite children to his house where he would mildly sedate them and sexually abuse them, said an official.“The children and their family members are being counselled. We want to build a foolproof case against Rathore,” Jalaun’s senior superintendent of police Dr Yashveer Singh said.The children have told the police that Rathore blackmailed them with the videos.They were also forced to do menial jobs at his house besides being sexually abused, the police said.“One child said that Rathore called them to his house in the morning and only allowed them to leave in the night,” a police officer said on condition of anonymity. Scared of Rathore, the children never spoke to their family about the abuse.“We cried when he called us but we had to go to his house,” one child told the police, who now plan to seek Rathore’s remand in custody.A forensic team from Jhansi travelled to Konch and took his mobile phone, laptops, pen drives with them to glean forensic examination.The experts would also look at the videos and gather voice samples of the accused, who is heard in the videos. Rathore had made several videos of one child.“We are filling in the gaps before we question Rathore. We may seek the help of psychologists to prepare a list of questions for him,” said the official cited above, adding that Rathore’s brother and sister, who were living in the same house but claimed they were unaware of his activities, would also be questioned.Rathore’s arrest came two months after the detention of a suspended junior engineer with the irrigation department in Chitrakoot district in a mass child sexual abuse case.The engineer, Ram Bhavan Singh, allegedly sold sexually explicit content on the dark web.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/retired-up-official-sexually-abused-kids-for-4-yrs-police-101610672210549.html
15-01-2021||India||VHP nationwide fund drive for Ram temple construction begins today||The Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) will launch on Friday a 44-day, nationwide campaign, spread over two phases, to connect with the people and raise funds for the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya.In the first phase from January 15 to 31, the VHP, which has been at the vanguard of a campaign for the construction of a Ram temple in the holy town, will call only on eminent people who have been identified by its local cadre. Most such calls will not be made public.The second phase of the campaign, which will involve reaching out to ordinary people, will start on February 1 and end on February 27.The Supreme Court in November 2019 ruled on the long-running Hindu-Muslim dispute over the Ayodhya site, which it awarded to the Hindus; it directed the government to provide an alternative five-acre site to the Muslims to construct a mosque as a replacement for the 16th century Babri mosque that stood on the site and was demolished on December 6, 1992, by Hindu activists.Hindus believe the site marks the birthplace of the lord Ram and that a temple which stood at the site had been demolished and the Babri mosque constructed on its ruins.At the village, block, town and district levels, the VHP has identified people who will be contacted by its cadre in the first phase. A list of all such people has been prepared.“Eminent people in government jobs, the corporate world and other personalities have been identified for the first phase of the campaign,” said a senior VHP leader, who requested anonymity.“If anyone wants to avoid the public glare, the visit to his residence will not be made public,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vhp-nationwide-fund-drive-for-ram-temple-construction-begins-today-101610671727972.html
15-01-2021||India||Repeal of laws only way out of crisis: Punjab cabinet||The Punjab council of ministers on Thursday said nothing short of a repeal of the three farm laws enacted by the Centre would resolve the crisis posed by a 50-day-old farmers’ protest against the legislation, which it described as anti-farmers, anti-nation and anti-food security.Declaring unequivocally that a repeal of the farm laws was the only way out of the current imbroglio, the state cabinet, at a meeting presided over by chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, also demanded that the Centre declare minimum support prices ( MSPs) for their produce a statutory right of farmers. The cabinet passed a resolution to the effect and issued a statement.Farmers have been getting extremely low prices for their produce despite being responsible for feeding the nation, the cabinet said. “The central government is out of touch with the ground realities,” Singh said.Farmers are demanding a repeal of three laws, whose implementation has been put on hold by the Supreme Court, as well as a legal guarantee for federally fixed MSPs. The laws remove restrictions on the purchase and sale of farm produce, lift constraints on stockpiling under the 1955 Essential Commodities Act, and enable contract farming based on written agreements.Farmers say the laws will hurt their livelihoods, erode their bargaining power and leave them at the mercy of powerful agribusinesses. Tens of thousands of famers have massed at the borders of Delhi since November 26 in the bitter winter chill to protest against the legislation passed in September.The Punjab cabinet asserted that the state government would take measures to protect its and its farmers’ interests. At the start of the meeting, the council of ministers observed two minutes’ silence in memory of farmers who have died during the protest. An estimated 78 farmers have so far lost their lives.Stressing the need for an early resolution of the protest to prevent the loss of more lives, the cabinet pointed out that the matter had already been debated and discussed in eight rounds of negotiations between the farmers’ unions and the Centre.Pointing out that even the Supreme Court had acknowledged the concerns of the protesting farmers, and had recognised their pain and anguish, the cabinet said the Centre should not stand on prestige and ego on the matter, which, if unresolved, could lead to devastating repercussions for the country for decades to come. “If the Centre can make sweeping amendments to the laws, then this adamancy about not revoking the legislations is inexplicable,” said the ministers said.The cabinet reiterated its commitment to the resolutions passed by the Punjab assembly on August 28 and October 20 stressing that all the genuine demands of the farmers must be accepted. Urging the central government to “repeal the farm laws as agriculture is a state subject under the Constitution of India, and to make MSP a statutory right.” It welcomed the Supreme Court’s stay on the contentious laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/repeal-of-laws-only-way-out-of-crisis-punjab-cabinet-101610671491747.html
15-01-2021||India||CBI books its officers for accepting bribes||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Thursday conducted searches at 14 places belonging to four of its officers along with several other people for allegedly accepting bribes to compromise investigation in bank fraud cases against some companies, people familiar with the matter said.The four officers were identified as deputy superintendents RK Rishi, posted at the agency’s academy in Ghaziabad, and RK Sangwan, posted in the Special Crimes unit; inspector Kapil Dhankad from Bank Securities & Fraud Cell of the agency; and Samir Kumar Singh, a stenographer in BS&FC unit.Confirming the development, CBI spokesperson RC Joshi said a case was registered against the officers “under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code and Prevention of Corruption Act on the allegations of compromising the investigation of certain cases on extraneous pecuniary considerations”.The searches were conducted in Delhi, Ghaziabad, Noida, Gurgaon, Meerut and Kanpur on Thursday.Searches were also being carried out inside the CBI headquarters, officials said late on Thursday. The officials under scanner have been accused of accepting bribes at the CBI headquarters, they said.While the agency did not formally divulge details about the allegations against the officials, an official speaking on condition of anonymity said the four officers, in connivance with some advocates and other private persons, were taking periodic bribes from companies under bank fraud investigations.One of the companies from where the bribe was allegedly accepted is under CBI investigation for defrauding banks of ₹3,500 crore, the official said. The officers face temporary suspension till the charges are investigated, another official familiar with the matter said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-books-its-officers-for-accepting-bribes-101610671257735.html
15-01-2021||India||Farmers remain firm as govt hopes for positive outcome in talks today||Farmers protesting against the three central farm laws will hold their ninth round of negotiations with the Union government on Friday.The last round of talks on January 8 failed to end the impasse as the Centre has refused to rollback the laws farmers say will hurt their incomes. The farm unions have decided not to participate in consultations with the four-member committee proposed by the Supreme Court on January 12 to examine three laws. The unions have alleged that the committee was “pro-government” since the members had endorsed the laws in the past. The top court kept the farm laws in abeyance on Tuesday.“We will hold talks with the government. We don’t want to hold talks with an external committee, which is a ploy to divert attention from our main demand, which is a repeal of the laws,” said Balbir Singh Rajewal, a member of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, the platform of protesting farm unions.Meanwhile, the Centre said it is hopeful of positive discussions on Friday. “The government will hold talks with an open mind with the farmers’ union. We are sensitive to all problems of the farmers,” agriculture minister Narendra Tomar said.The farm unions said they would go ahead with a planned tractor march in the national capital in a peaceful way on Republic Day. “There are lot of lies being spread that farmers will occupy Red Fort and Parliament on Republic Day. These are completely false and are being mischievously spread. Our tractor parade will be completely peaceful and disciplined. We will spell out the details after Jan 15,” Rajewal said.Farmers are demanding a repeal of the three laws as well as a legal guarantee for minimum support prices. The laws remove restrictions on the purchase and sale of farm produce, lift constraints on stockpiling under the 1955 Essential Commodities Act, and enable contract farming based on written agreements.“We are again reminding the government that these laws should be completely repealed and remunerative MSP should be made into a legal right of all farmers,” Darshan Pal, a farm leader said.The eighth round of talks held on January 8 had ended in a stalemate. While the farmers pressed the government to repeal the laws approved by Parliament in September, Tomar said it was not possible to commit to a repeal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-remain-firm-as-govt-hopes-for-positive-outcome-in-talks-today-101610671063581.html
15-01-2021||India||Constructive critique is our role, says CAG||The Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG), Girish Chandra Murmu, says the government auditor is adopting a policy of “constructive criticism” so that it can help the Centre and states in enhancing the quality of public services and improve management of national assets.“Purpose of the CAG audit is to point out shortcomings in execution of schemes so that the delivery mechanism could be improved further,” Murmu said. “ Our approach is constructive criticism. We also recommend how the system could be improved and made efficient because we are also expected to contribute in the national development.”The CAG is now consulting technical experts and the auditor allows ministries and departments to explain their view in the exit interview, people aware of the developments said on condition of anonymity.“All these factors are considered without any fear or favour and then we conclude our reports,” said one of the people cited above, who is aware of the CAG audit exercise.The CAG has lately been taking help of domain experts from various institutions like the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs), Indian Institutes of Management (IIMs) as well as ministries on technical matters so that its reports should not only point out errors in the implementation of policies and schemes but also suggest better alternatives, he said.Even the government departments are increasingly becoming more transparent in providing unhindered access to their data repository to the CAG officials, the second person said. “Thus, the auditor has access to a wealth of data related to social security programmes and tax administration such as Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT), Ayushmaan Bharat, income-tax and Goods and Services Tax (GST),” he said.CA Vijay Kumar Gupta, former central council Member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI), said: “The change in CAG’s approach is good as the role of the supreme auditor of the country is not to create controversies, but to provide a correct picture to the Parliament. Independence, objectivity, integrity, reliability, professional excellence, transparency and positive approach are the key values of CAG and it must also have a positive approach to the national development.”“CAG is an independent constitutional body and it must have a constructive approach,” he added.The Constitution enables the CAG to undertake an independent and unbiased audit; the auditor then submits its reports to the President in case of the Union government and to the governor in case of a state; The reports are then tabled in Parliament and state assemblies.Asked about the areas where the CAG is likely to expand its reach, Murmu said the auditor was looking at several areas that are critical for development. but have not been audited properly.For example, he said, the CAG is working towards auditing even small public sector units (PSUs), particularly state PSUs, that have annual revenue of less than Rs500 crore. Typically, the CAG focuses on the commercial audit of PSUs that have a turnover in the range of Rs500 crore to Rs5,000 crore.Murmu added that the federal auditor also plans to help improve the accounting and auditing of local bodies in the states so that government schemes are implemented more efficiently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/constructive-critique-is-our-role-says-cag-101610669809623.html
15-01-2021||India||Army plans memorial dedicated to 1971 war||Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane on Thursday said that a small memorial dedicated to the 1971 Indo-Pakistan war would be constructed at the National War Memorial with soil brought from the native places of soldiers who were awarded gallantry medals for their role in the war.Soil would also be brought for the new memorial from places where these heroes won some of the battles, he added.Speaking at an armed forces Veterans’ Day event in Delhi, Naravane said that 2021 was being celebrated as the Golden Victory Year to mark the country’s victory in the 1971 war, while allaying concerns in some veteran circles that not enough importance was being given to the event which has entered its 50th year.The army chief said a raft of programmes would be organised across the country to commemorate the victory in the war.Besides this, Naravane said that 2020 was a challenging year for the armed forces because of the Covid-19 pandemic. He also attributed the challenges tot he situation along the northern borders where India and China have been locked in a border row for more than eight months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-plans-memorial-dedicated-to-1971-war-101610665233357.html
15-01-2021||India||India’s LCA jets better than China-Pak’s JF-17: IAF chief||Indian Air Force (IAF) chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria on Thursday said that the soon-to-be ordered LCA (light combat aircraft) Mk-1A jets would be way ahead of the JF-17 fighter planes operated by the Pakistan Air Force. The JF-17 has been jointly developed by China and Pakistan.With its advanced weapons and sensors, the LCA Mk-1A jets will have good strike capability, he told news channels a day after India’s Cabinet Committee on Security, headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, approved a ₹48,000-crore proposal to buy 83 advanced jets to bolster the IAF’s combat potential,“There is no comparison with the JF-17,” he said.The air chief added that even the existing final operational clearance (FOC) variant of the LCA was superior to the JF-17. He said the LCA Mk-1 jets would be equipped with the indigenous Astra beyond-visual-range missiles.The CCS approval came 10 months after the ministry gave the green light to the purchase of 83 Mk-1A jets from state-owned plane maker Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL).The aircraft to be ordered include 73 Mk-1A fighter jets and 10 LCA Mk-1 trainer aircraft. HAL is expected to deliver the first Mk-1A jet to the IAF three years after the deal is signed, with all the aircraft likely to be delivered by 2028-29.The Mk-1A programme is expected to generate thousands of jobs and will involve the participation of more than 500 Indian companies.The deal for the 83 Mk-1A jets will take the total number of Tejas variants ordered to 123. The 40 LCAs already ordered by the IAF are in the initial operational clearance (IOC) and the more advanced FOC configurations.The LCA Mk-1A will come with additional improvements over the FOC aircraft, making it the most advanced Tejas variant so far, as previously reported by Hindustan Times.Meanwhile, Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) chief Dr G Satheesh Reddy said that the deal would pave the way for developing various advanced aircraft systems in India. “Getting approval for the order of the largest quantity of aircraft ever is a big achievement and is the culmination of hard work of three decades. It paves way for the development of various advanced aircraft systems in the country,” he told ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-lca-jets-better-than-china-pak-s-jf-17-iaf-chief-101610664833506.html
15-01-2021||India||Even woman officers want adultery law in army||As the ministry of defence presses its case in the top court on the importance of retaining the criminality of adultery in the armed forces — the apex court decriminalised it in 2018 — it emerges that, at least in some cases, what’s sauce for the goose may not be sauce for the gander.Hindustan Times has accessed two written accounts from women officers who complained about their husbands’ affairs with other enlisted women, but had to eventually withdraw their complaints.The defence ministry’s application before the court emphasised that the army didn’t discriminate between male and female officers, and punished them for “unbecoming conduct” regardless of gender, but the two women and a cross-section of defence counsellors and lawyers admitted that, perhaps inadvertently, women officers may not have received the traditional support that was provided by commanding officers or their wives.The armed forces see adultery — “stealing the affections of a brother officer’s wife” — as an offence that is just a notch below the worst offence enlisted personnel can be accused of, cowardice. The provision to deal with this, drawn from section 497 of the Indian Penal Code, exists in all three services, and the punishment is usually dismissal. Section 45 (conduct unbecoming) or section 63 (violation of good order and discipline) are both offences that are gender-neutral and hence applicable to both men and women in the military.Section 497 of the IPC didn’t enable women to press charges against their husbands in case of adultery. Proceedings could only be started by men and it was only men who could be punished under the law. But under military law, a woman officer can complain if she suspects her husband of having a relationship with another woman officer.Just as attorney general KK Venugopal pointed out how decriminalisation can cause “instability” for personnel posted in border or far-flung locations, the two cases accessed by HT are both of women army officers who were posted in Kashmir. As they are both serving officers, they requested that their identities not be disclosed.Also Watch |‘Women to be inducted as pilots in Army’s aviation wing’: Gen MM NaravaneThe first case dates back to 2018, when one of the woman officers and her two children were posted in a different location from her husband of 14 years. Her husband ended up having an affair with a single, much younger woman officer who was posted along with him. In her statement, the wife said her husband felt she was too busy with her own life when in reality, she was trying to juggle a full-time job and two children, aged 12 and 10.The woman officer said “the organisation acted blind in our case”. “No action was taken against them and that made both of them even more courageous,” she wrote. Two years later, she divorced her husband but she claims this was well after she was forced to withdraw her complaint after other officers refused to testify about the affair.“He was a commanding officer of a unit; no one wanted to object to him. A wife will always be under mental pressure but is it OK for organisation to let such an officer serve?” she asked. Her counsellor, who is associated with the forces (and who is not authorised to speak to the media), told HT that this was a problem specific to women officers. “Wives of officers can always complain to their commanding officer’s wife who then asks the CO to put pressure on the cheating husband.They use various means to help the couple reconcile.’’“As far as law is concerned, it equally applies to both. Practical realities may vary per various factors. But it’ll be hypothetical to comment unless any such situation is laid in front of us,” said Major Navdeep Singh, advocate, Punjab & Haryana high court, who served in the Territorial Army.The second case refers to two officers who separated two years ago and have a young son. The husband was posted in Jammu & Kashmir and had an affair with a medical officer when his wife was pregnant. In her complaint, the officer writes about the husband not visiting her after the baby was born and being inaccessible on the phone. The commanding officer finally convinced him to visit but things only got worse. Finally, the woman officer filed a complaint with the local police and the army, but said she was forced to withdraw that too.“There is a clear policy in place and the act is the same for both men and women, but it is twisted and manipulated in the case of women officers. Senior officers choose to react selectively and promote out-of-court settlement rather than a departmental enquiry,” said the first woman complainant.While an army spokesperson declined to comment, an officer said on condition of anonymity that in some cases, women officers have been reluctant to seek a superior officer’s intervention. “I have called in male officers and their wives and do the same for women officers too,” he said.Additional solicitor general Madhavi Divan, who argued the defence ministry’s case in court, said: “I can only say that the armed forces require their own code of conduct in order to maintain discipline in the forces. The judgment striking down adultery is being applied to quash disciplinary proceedings in some cases. The provisions of the statutes which govern the armed forces permit disciplinary action in a manner different from the civilian population. That should be left intact and untouched.’’Lawyer Chitrangada Rastravara pointed out that there were several actions which did not constitute an offence under the penal laws of India, but are punishable offences under the Army Act. “For example, desertion has no consequences under penal law; however it is a very serious offence, punishable by death, under military law,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/even-woman-officers-want-adultery-law-in-army-101610657198828.html
15-01-2021||India||Uttarakhand working at putting Harsil valley on global tourism map||Looking at reducing migration from areas along the Indo-China border, the Uttarakhand government is now working towards putting Harsil valley on the global tourism map.Harsil valley, which has around eight villages, is located in Uttarkashi district near the Indo-China border. The district administration is preparing a detailed plan which will soon be submitted to the state tourism department. The valley has potential for wildlife and adventure tourism.Mayur Dixit, district magistrate of Uttarkashi said, “Harsil valley has a lot of potential for tourism, but due to poor connectivity not many tourists are able to reach there. Being a border area, tourism will help reduce migration and we are working to develop roads using local stones which will work throughout the year compared to blacktop roads. We have also planned to set up public toilets along with strictly ensuring that tourists do not litter in the area.”He added that officials are also preparing a waste management plan for the area, to properly handle the waste generated when tourists arrive during the peak season. The district administration has also planned to set up homestays in higher reaches like Nelong Valley for paths leading to Gartang Gali, which is open during summer months.“With tourism, employment opportunities develop naturally. We have nature and adventure guides in the valley who are knowledgeable. We will be installing lights like Nainital and Mussoorie to beautify the area. We have also planned to set up telescopes at different places for astrophiles as stars are visible clearly from the valley,” added the district magistrate.The official further said that work on developing roads will start from the summer months as the whole area is snow-covered at present.The Uttarakhand government is also working to develop the country’s first Snow Leopard Conservation Centre in the region, with the aim of engaging the local Himalayan community in conservation along with employment generation.Locals from the bordering villages like Sukki, Mukhba, Harsil, Bagori, Dharali, Jhala, Jaspur and Purali will be trained as conservation guides for trekking, bird-watching as they are accustomed to the local climate and know the flora-fauna well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-working-at-putting-harsil-valley-on-global-tourism-map-101610655490257.html
15-01-2021||India||Cop thrashed in Bengal district, BJP and TMC trade barbs for spike in violence||At a time when deputy election commissioner Sudeep Jain is taking stock of the poll preparedness in West Bengal, including the state’s law and order situation, a video surfaced on Thursday in which a police officer could be seen being thrashed by a group of villagers.Top police officers confirmed the incident and said that it took place at Jhalda in Purulia district, around 350 km northwest of Kolkata, on Tuesday.“We have already arrested two people. The victim is still in the hospital undergoing treatment,” said S Selvamurugan, Superintendent of police of Purulia district.The victim, Hemanta Saha said that he went to the spot with a court order along with some other police personnel.“Some trouble was going on over a disputed piece of land. We had gone there with a court order when we were attacked,” Saha told the media at the hospital.Back in Kolkata, Jain held a meeting with some of the state’s top bureaucrats. On Wednesday, he held meetings with the district magistrates, superintendents of police and police commissioners.Soon after the video surfaced the Bharatiya Janata Party’s unit in Bengal upped its ante against the ruling Trinamool Congress.“There is no peace and law and order in the state. This is the only contribution of Mamata Banerjee. We are now in a state of anarchy which can only go when BJP comes to power,” said Jay Prakash Majumdar, vice president of Bengal BJP.The TMC, however, hit back saying that it was under the BJP’s provocations that people have started attacking the police.“The BJP’s state head Dilip Ghosh has been inciting people against the police. This is leading to such violence against the police,” said Saugata Roy, TMC MP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cop-thrashed-in-bengal-district-bjp-and-tmc-trade-barbs-for-spike-in-violence-101610654815936.html
15-01-2021||India||India, US can jointly tackle regional and global challenges: MEA||India on Thursday responded to a declassified US Indo-Pacific strategy that envisages accelerating the country’s rise and ability to address challenges from China by saying that New Delhi and Washington can jointly tackle regional and global challenges.On Wednesday, the outgoing Trump administration declassified the “US strategic framework for the Indo-Pacific” of 2018 that committed the US to accelerate India’s rise and capacity to serve as a net provider of security and “major defence partner”, and to bolster India’s capacities to counter challenges from China such as “border provocations”.Asked about the previously secret document at a weekly news briefing, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava initially said the matter should be referred to a US government spokesperson as it pertained to an official American report.“However, I’ll state that India and the US share a comprehensive strategic global partnership, and given our substantial bilateral agenda, our growing economic engagement and a convergence on strategic and security interests, both countries have a common interest in promoting security and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific region and beyond,” Srivastava said.“Our ability to work together has a positive impact in effectively addressing regional and global challenges,” he added.The strategy document, which experts believe was declassified by the US to signal a continuing commitment to the Indo-Pacific region, also envisages bolstering India’s capacities so that it can work with other like-minded countries to act as “a counterbalance to China”.The document also commits the US to providing support to India through diplomatic, military and intelligence channels to help address challenges “such as the border dispute with China and access to water, including the Brahmaputra and other rivers facing diversion by China”.The strategy, framed more than two years before the India-China military standoff along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) that erupted in 2020, makes more than 20 mentions of India and sees the country as “preeminent in South Asia” and taking on “the leading role in maintaining Indian Ocean security”.On the other hand, the document sees China as a strategic competitor to the US intent on dissolving American alliances and partnerships in the Indo-Pacific and circumventing “international rules and norms to gain an advantage”. It also states that China will use its dominance in cutting edge technologies to “pose profound challenges to free societies”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-us-can-jointly-tackle-regional-and-global-challenges-mea-101610653513708.html
15-01-2021||India||Chhattisgarh registers bird flu cases in Balod district||Chhattisgarh recorded its first confirmed cases of bird flu in Balod district on Thursday after samples of chickens that were recently found dead at a poultry farm tested positive for the disease.According to a release issued by the Chhattisgarh government, samples of five of over 150 chickens found dead at GS Poultry Farm in Gidhali village were sent to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD) in Bhopal on January 11, which were found positive.As per the guidelines of the Government of India, the area within a radius of one-kilometre from the poultry farm has been declared as an “infected zone” and Rapid Response Teams (RRT) have launched necessary action.“In the infected zone, transportation of poultry birds will be completely prohibited while limitations will also be put on the movement of people and vehicles. Besides, the area from 1 km to 10 km of the poultry farm has been declared as a “Surveillance Zone” where monitoring of poultry birds will be carried out,” the release stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-registers-bird-flu-cases-in-balod-district-101610653096071.html
15-01-2021||India||In 2 Bihar villages, over 35 birds found dead, no samples taken before burial||Panic prevailed in more than five villages on Thursday after crows and pigeons were found dead, lying scattered in large numbers in two villages under the Saraiya police station in Muzaffarpur. However, animal husbandry officials ruled out any possibility of the spread of bird flu before burying the dead birds.This is the second incident in the last one week of birds being found dead in the area.Earlier, more than 125 chickens were found dead in an agricultural field near Patedhi Tilak village under the same police station of the district, sparking panic among villagers.In the latest incident, more than two dozen pigeons were found dead in a mango orchard adjacent to Jaitpur and Basara village. “We counted more than 28 dead pigeons and informed local animal husbandry officials. They later buried the birds in a ditch,” said Shankar Rai, a local resident.Over 10 crows were found dead near Raghwa Chapra under the same police station.Dr Punita Kumari, in-charge of the Jaitpur animal husbandry hospital, said all the birds had died naturally. “There were no symptoms of bird flu in them. So, no samples were taken from them before disposing the carcasses,” she said, adding that senior officials in the district had been informed about it.“We are waiting for their directions. If any test is required, the carcasses will be dug out and samples sent to a lab,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-2-bihar-villages-over-35-birds-found-dead-no-samples-taken-before-burial-101610650187146.html
15-01-2021||India||Plea in HC says new WhatsApp policy violates right to privacy||New Delhi: A Delhi-based advocate has filed a petition in the Delhi high court, challenging WhatsApp’s new privacy policy and arguing that it violates the right to privacy and jeopardises national security. The plea is scheduled to be head by the court on Friday.The new privacy policy, which was rolled out by WhatsApp, owned by Facebook Inc, on January 4, includes mandatory sharing of data with the parent company. The decision to share data was first floated in 2016, post WhatsApp’s acquisition by Facebook, but until last week, users already on the platform before the acquisition had the choice of not sharing that data. That choice no longer exists.The move has faced massive backlash globally -- especially in WhatsApp’s biggest market India where it has 400 million users -- with people en masse defecting to other messaging applications such as Signal and Telegram.In his petition, advocate Chaitanya Rohilla alleged that WhatsApp hangs a “damocles sword” over its users by asking them to accept the policy by February 8. He also says that the norms hurt national security by sharing, transmitting and storing user data in another country.“WhatsApp has made a mockery out of our fundamental right to privacy while discharging a public function in India, besides jeopardizing the national security of the country by sharing, transmitting and storing the users data in some another country. There remains a possibility that that foreign country might be a hostile country to India,” the petition read.“It virtually gives a 360-degree profile into a person’s online activity...WhatsApp has made a mockery out of our fundamental right to privacy,” added the petition.Rohilla, through his counsel Manohar Lal, contended that the policy took away the choice to not share data with other Facebook-owned and third-party apps.“This type of arbitrary behaviour and browbeating cannot be accepted in a democracy and is completely ‘ultra vires’ (beyond its powers) and against the fundamental rights as enshrined in the Constitution of India,” the petition read.WhatsApp has previously said the policy update did not affect privacy of messages with friends and family, as group chats are encrypted and the changes only relate to interactions with businesses||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plea-in-hc-says-new-whatsapp-policy-violates-right-to-privacy-101610649392347.html
15-01-2021||India||‘In interest of farmers’, member Mann opts out of SC committee||Bhupinder Singh Mann, a key farm union leader appointed by the Supreme Court to a panel it formed to scrutinise three contentious farms laws has declined to be on it, citing the “interests” of farmers.Mann, a former MP and the national president of the Bharatiya Kisan Union, a farm union, said he was “recusing” himself from a committee of four set by the Supreme Court to look into farmers’ grievances over the laws.On January 12, the court stayed the laws that have prompted tens of thousands of farmers to stage a protest on the borders of Delhi. It also set up a committee to start a dialogue with protesting farmers, naming economists Ashok Kumar Gulati and PK Joshi as well as farm union leaders Anil Ghanwat and Mann as members.The panel formed by the Supreme Court attracted public criticism because all four members had either endorsed the farm laws or suggested improvements in them previously. Protesting farm unions said such a committee was already biased in favour of the legislation.“As a farmer myself and a union leader, in view of the prevailing sentiments and apprehensions amongst the farmers and public in general, I am ready to sacrifice any position offered or given to me so as not to compromise the interests of Punjab and the farmers of the country,” Mann said in a press statement.The Supreme Court had said on Monday that the panel must meet within 10 days.Mann is the chairman of the All India Kisan Coordination Committee, a platform of farm unions that has supported the farm laws. Mann met Union farm minister Narendra Singh Tomar in December, urging him not to repeal the laws. This pit him against hundreds of other farm unions demanding a repeal.An official of the agriculture ministry declined to comment on Mann’s move, saying this was a Supreme Court-monitored process.Farm unions protesting the laws to open up agricultural markets said they were indifferent to Mann’s decision.“Our stand is we will not take part in any consultations by the court-appointed committee because our only demand is the repeal of the laws,” said Darshan Pal, a senior member of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, the organisation leading the farmers’ protests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-interest-of-farmers-member-mann-opts-out-of-sc-committee-101610649273399.html
15-01-2021||India||CBI books 4 of its own personnel for involvement in alleged bribery racket||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Thursday booked four of its own men including two deputy superintendents of police (DSPs), an inspector and a stenographer and several private persons for allegedly taking huge bribes for compromising investigation into bank fraud against some companies, people familiar with the development said.The agency raided 14 places during the day in one of the biggest cases of internal corruption in recent times.The four CBI personnel named as accused in the case have been identified as DSPs - R K Rishi posted at agency’s academy in Ghaziabad and R K Sangwan, who is posted in Special Crimes unit that investigates heinous crimes, Inspector Kapil Dhankad from Bank Securities & Fraud Cell (BS&FC) of the agency and stenographer in BS&FC unit - Samir Kumar Singh.The agency remained tightlipped about the exact allegations against them but officials who did not want to be named said these four men, in connivance with some advocates and other private persons, were taking periodic bribes from some companies under bank fraud investigations.One of the companies from where the four personnel were accepting bribes has been under CBI investigation since August last year for defrauding 15 banks to the tune of ₹3,600 crore.After receiving information about the bribery racket, the matter was brought to the knowledge of CBI Director Rishi Kumar Shukla following which the officers were put under surveillance to verify the allegations, people cited above it.The surveillance prime facie confirmed that the CBI officers were indeed indulging in large scale corruption by offering accused persons favours in bank fraud cases.On Thursday morning, several teams of agency’s Anti-Corruption-2 unit and Anti Corruption Branch (ACB) Delhi branch fanned out to raid at least 14 locations belonging to CBI officers as well as private persons in Delhi, Ghaziabad, Noida, Gurgaon, Meerut and Kanpur.A search was also carried out at CBI headquarters office of a couple of officers, officials cited above said.CBI Spokesperson R C Joshi confirmed that a case was registered against the officers “under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code and Prevention of Corruption Act on the allegations of compromising the investigation of certain cases on extraneous pecuniary considerations.”People familiar with the proceedings in CBI said that the four officers face temporary suspension till the charges against them are being investigated.The raids come as a big embarrassment for the agency, which is investigating multi-crore rupee bank frauds and corruption cases across the country.The four CBI personnel could not be located for comments by HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-books-4-of-its-own-personnel-for-involvement-in-alleged-bribery-racket-101610648603832.html
15-01-2021||India||‘Deep displeasure’: India sends a stinker to WHO’s Tedros over incorrect map||India has expressed its “deep displeasure” at the World Health Organisation’s maps that inaccurately depict the boundaries of the country in the map used by the organisation’s web portals and asked director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus to immediately replace them with fresh maps, people familiar with the matter said.New Delhi’s strongly-worded letter to the WHO is the third in a month. The other two, on 3 and 30 December, were addressed to the WHO director general’s office. These communications pointed out that videos and maps including the coronavirus dashboard did not accurately reflect India’s boundaries.Last week, India’s Permanent Representative to the UN Indra Mani Pandey escalated the request to Tedros Adhanom.“I write to express my deep displeasure at the inaccurate depiction of the boundaries of India in the maps of various web portals of WHO. In this regard, I draw your attention to our previous messages sent to WHO pointing out similar inaccuracies. I again request your immediate intervention for removal of maps inaccurately depicting the boundaries of India from various web portals of WHO and their replacement with accurate maps,” Indra Mani Pandey said in his 8 January letter to Tedros accessed by Hindustan Times.WHO maps show the union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh in a different shade than the rest of India. The Shaksgam Valley spread across 5,168 sq km, which was illegally ceded by Pakistan to China in 1963, is shown as part of China. The Aksai Chin region occupied by China in 1954 is shown in light blue strips, a shade similar to the colour used to depict Chinese territory.Publishing inaccurate maps of India is a criminal offence under Indian law, punishable with a six-month jail term and fine. In 2016, the government had proposed to raise the jail term to 7 years and give judges the power to impose a ₹100 crore fine. But the proposal, part of a geospatial information law proposed by the government in 2016, wasn’t pursued by the government.A senior government official said WHO’s use of distorted maps for its widely-publicised and closely-watched Covid-19 tracker is very unfortunate. “The government will follow up with WHO and all relevant authorities to get the correct maps to be used,” he said.The official added that he was confident the WHO chief, who was accused by the US of siding with China to play down the coronavirus disease that was first reported in China’s Wuhan city, would not let politics stand in the way of fixing inaccuracies in the map.The World Health Assembly had, primarily under pressure from the United States, decided in May last year to send a team of experts to China to probe the origins of the disease. The 10-member team of experts was able to land in China on Thursday, seven months after the WHO director-general had committed to the probe. The experts will, however, have to spend two weeks in quarantine before President Xi Jinping’s government will allow them to step out of their hotels to start their mission.Beijing allowed the visit days after Tedros publicly said he was disappointed with the delay, an unusual public complaint by the head of the WHO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deep-displeasure-india-sends-a-stinker-to-who-s-tedros-over-india-s-map-101610604280764.html
15-01-2021||Today's||All the President’s men and women||As Joe Biden takes office as the next President of the United States (US), his national security and foreign policy team has already taken shape. Biden’s longtime advisers — Antony Blinken and Jake Sullivan — will assume the critical roles of secretary of state and national security adviser, respectively. Retired general Lloyd Austin has been nominated as secretary of defence. Former secretary of state, John Kerry, is to be senior envoy on climate; former deputy director of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), Avril Haines, has been nominated for director of National Intelligence (DNI); former ambassador to the United Nations, Samantha Power, will head the US Agency for International Development; former deputy secretary of state, Bill Burns, has been named director of the Central Intelligence Agency; and former assistant secretary of state for East Asia, Kurt Campbell, will assume a special role as Indo-Pacific coordinator at the White House.Others named to key policy positions at the departments of state (such as Wendy Sherman and Victoria Nuland) and defence (Kathleen Hicks and Colin Kahl), as well as in the National Security Council staff, are longstanding foreign policy professionals, many with prior working relations with Biden. Key economic and technology policy jobs — critical for international relations today — have also been filled by serious players, such as former chair of the Federal Reserve, Janet Yellen, as secretary of the treasury. Although some of these positions are subject to confirmation by the Senate, the incoming US national security and foreign policy team looks, on paper, to be one of the most experienced in history.A common criticism of Washington policy insiders is that impressive resumes have not always translated into successful outcomes. What does the experience of the past four presidencies tell us about the challenges and predicaments facing an incoming US national security team when it comes to personnel and personalities?The Biden administration will certainly avoid many of the personality-related pitfalls of its predecessor. Donald Trump’s first national security adviser, Michael Flynn, resigned within weeks due to a scandal and his first secretary of state, Rex Tillerson, had fraught relations with the foreign service bureaucracy and eventually the president himself. Retired and serving military officers who held key positions — such as secretary of defence, James Mattis, and national security adviser HR McMaster — also left office unceremoniously following policy disagreements with Trump on Syria and Afghanistan. By prioritising political loyalists and dismissing critics, the Trump administration left important senior positions vacant for long periods of time. Policy inevitably suffered. (Somehow, those managing ties with India were able to survive the turmoil, with relatively positive implications for bilateral relations.)Looking farther back, Biden’s advisers are also likely to avoid the experience of the first Bill Clinton administration in 1993. Despite Clinton’s background and penchant for international affairs, his initial priorities as president were domestic. In his first two years in office, he rarely met his CIA director (then the senior-most intelligence official) and his first secretary of defence, Les Aspin, resigned after only a year following the military debacle in Somalia. It was only in his second term, under a stronger set of principals, that Clinton was able to focus on foreign policy.The experience of the George W Bush administration in 2001 offers a different set of lessons. At the outset, senior Bush administration officials boasted enviable CVs: Vice-President Dick Cheney had been secretary of defence, Donald Rumsfeld had held the same position 25 years earlier, secretary of state Colin Powell had been national Security adviser and chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and national security adviser Condoleezza Rice had a strong background in both academia and government. But in the aftermath of 9/11, these officials were so certain in their own convictions that they stumbled into a costly war in Iraq, with only Powell striking a dissenting tone. Immense experience, it turned out, may have been useful for resolve and implementation, but proved a weakness in recognising and reconciling to new realities.Finally, there was the experience of the Barack Obama administration after 2009. Obama initially assembled a “team of rivals”, a heavyweight group of principals drawn from the ranks of erstwhile competitors (Hillary Clinton), Republicans (Robert Gates), and senior military officers (Jim Jones). Many Democratic policy stalwarts, such as Richard Holbrooke, had to make do with smaller fiefdoms. Policy often suffered as competing priorities and personalities clashed. Ambitious projects such as outreach to the Islamic world and nuclear disarmament were eventually shelved, as was any talk of a grand bargain with China. But, in time, a core group of Obama loyalists and technocrats managed to push through important initiatives on Iran, trade, and the climate crisis, although many were reversed by Trump.Biden’s national security team will almost certainly avoid both the chaos of the Trump administration and the neglect of the early Clinton years, despite the immediate priorities related to Covid-19 and the domestic economy. The incoming team also does not suffer from the cliquishness of the early George W Bush administration. One challenge will relate to managing a top-heavy national security apparatus with contrasting personalities and priorities. However, the presence of a core group of Biden advisers in key agencies suggests that coordination may be better than 12 years ago.Dhruva Jaishankar is executive director, ORF America The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/all-the-president-s-men-and-women-101610717561025.html
15-01-2021||Today's||The modern form of institutionalised casteism||India’s “tryst with destiny”, which Jawaharlal Nehru announced on the midnight of Independence, was supposed to bring dignity for its Dalit and Adivasi citizens. However, there have been numerous moments when this “pledge” has been undone. The suicide of Rohith Vemula, a PhD scholar from the Dalit community, five years ago on January 17, 2016, due to institutional apathy and boycott was one such moment.Vemula was neither the first nor the last Dalit or Adivasi student forced to take such a step. The suicides of a number of Dalit and Adivasi students, including Payal Tadvi in 2019, are not just statistics, but a lived reality of constant discrimination, bullying, humiliation, abuse, and boycott. The accounts of Dalits and Adivasi students across the country present a picture of discrimination within academic institutions by their peers, non-Dalit faculty, and authorities. These lived experiences continue to suffocate their education and life. Otherwise, Tadvi would have become the first doctor from her community in 80 years. While such incidents have raised issues of institutional discrimination, there are constant attempts, as was also done in Vemula’s case, to evade institutional accountability by attributing these instances as being incident-specific. This denial can no longer be accepted. Experts such as Sukhadeo Thorat have argued that if almost all those who have died by suicide in particular situations are Dalits and Adivasis, or if almost all those who fail and are expelled from higher education institutions are Dalits and Adivasis, or if most of the dropouts from elite institutions are Dalits and Adivasis, then this is not a coincidence.It resembles a pattern of modern forms of casteism, which has got entrenched in higher educational institutions. Allotment of hostels based on entrance marks, asking for the marks of Dalit students publicly to humiliate them, making a mockery of their English and physical appearance, stigmatising them as inefficient, not acting on incidents of caste-based harassment and abuses, not providing a support system, or reducing or stopping their fellowships, are forms of modern casteism in urban spaces. Discrimination has taken subtle and indirect forms, yet it has a direct impact on Dalits and Adivasis. It impacts their psychological well-being, dreams, aspirations, and most importantly, their ability to survive in such an environment.Those days are gone when institutional liability would be measured on direct discrimination. If the institutions are not acting to end discrimination on campuses, then it only shows their complicity in maintaining a culture of discrimination and caste prejudices. Many of these institutions have not created mechanisms such as anti-discrimination or SC/ST cells and other remedies, as mandated by the University Grants Commission.Furthermore, the discourse on institutional accountability cannot happen without considering the larger pattern or the reasons for such exclusionary tendencies. In pre-independent India, the hierarchies of caste were maintained by restricting the presence of Dalits and Adivasis in educational institutions and services. When the Constitution ended this direct exclusion and ensured representation to these groups in public institutions, new forms of caste prejudices were evolved in urban spaces to dilute even the small amount of progress made by Dalits and Adivasis. This happened in two simultaneous cycles.First, the notions of merit and efficiency were promoted to portray that students who come through quota are not meritorious at all. These mythical narratives to strengthen caste prejudices do not contain even an iota of reality, as empirical studies conducted by economists suggest that reservations do not dilute efficiency at all. In fact, according to economist Ashwini Deshpande, affirmative action in hiring might improve economic performance. Second, the cases of atrocities, boycott, and harassment against Dalits and Adivasis have also arisen, as they asserted their presence through reservations and other schemes. The purpose has been to maintain the status quo of caste hierarchy. Institutional discrimination in academic and professional institutions reflects this trend.Thus, institutional accountability is linked not only with ending caste-discrimination on campuses, but also with ensuring due representation. A moral institutional liability must, therefore, be put on the institutes of eminence, private universities and companies, media organisations, the legal profession, and the higher judiciary, where reservation is not applied. These institutions cannot avoid the question of providing representation. They can follow the example of private institutions in the United States, which follow a voluntary affirmative action programme to provide representation. If institutions in India do not ensure representation, it only undermines their legitimacy.India needs to move beyond the tokenism of having one Dalit chief justice or two Dalit presidents, and ensure adequate representation to its Dalit and Adivasi citizens in all fields. It needs institutional leaders who can acknowledge structural inequalities, and take actions to dismantle exclusionary mechanisms and culture. The first step for institutional leaders thus is to check on the representation in their own institutions or offices. The burden is more on those who lead elite institutions, as excellence cannot lie in exclusion.Vemula’s death had sparked nation-wide protests and outrage from Dalits, focused on ending caste discrimination in institutions. As we approach the fifth anniversary of the tragedy, the concerns of institutional discrimination remain unaddressed.Anurag Bhaskar teaches at the Jindal Global Law School and is an affiliate faculty at the Harvard Law School Center on the Legal ProfessionThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-modern-form-of-institutionalised-casteism-101610716480748.html
15-01-2021||Today's||The psychology of Trump’s supporters||As President Donald Trump’s supporters stormed the United States (US) Capitol on January 6, I wondered if a man I had interviewed at a Trump rally in Pennsylvania was among them. “I don’t think we’re going to lose,” he had said when I asked what he thought Trump would do if he lost. Would he accept defeat? And concede? Trump had been famously evasive about it multiple times he was asked. “But if he does lose, and he doesn’t want to go, I will have his back a 1,000%, a 100,000%. If he told us to get out in the streets, anything. Literally, anything. There is nothing I wouldn’t do, if he decided he wanted to stay in office.”Ryan S and I spoke on October 31, three days before the close of polling. That was weeks before the Capitol assault. I am hesitant to identify him fully because I am not sure if he will still say the things he did, knowing what happened.Ryan S was willing to break the law and violate the Constitution and the very essence of democracy. It was, in hindsight, a stunningly prescient preview of what was to follow.Why would he say that? “Because I think the Democrats are evil and insane. … I don’t care. I don’t want them in power. There is nothing I would not do. There’s nothing I wouldn’t do. If Trump calls for the sorts of protests, we have been seeing from the Left, anything like that man, I will be behind him 1,000%.”Including violence, I pressed him.“Well, uhh …” Don’t forget, you have a pregnant wife at home, I said to him.Ryan S still did not say, “No”. And after a long pause, he said, “I would say this. I don’t think it would come to that. I think we would win. But if he wanted to stay in office … I wouldn’t be any more violent than the Left has been for the past six months.”Ryan S was referring to the racial injustice protests triggered by the killing of George Floyd, an African-American man, by a White police officer in Minnesota in May 2020.Ryan S, a white man who appeared to be in his late 20s, had worked in chemical manufacturing before the coronavirus pandemic struck. Living in New York state, which was hit the hardest, he quit so as to not bring the virus home. He and his wife were expecting twins. He had done well since, with cryptocurrency. Ryan S had already voted for Trump when we spoke, but he had driven four hours to just attend a Trump rally, his first and, probably the last the president would address whether he won or lost. He had never been to one before.On January 6, I wondered if Ryan S was there at the Capitol, doing the “anything” he had said he would if the president asked, upon losing. But I also remembered Ryan S had seemed convinced Trump “is not going to want to stay in office” if he loses. “He is not that guy.”I wonder what Ryan S is thinking now. The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-psychology-of-trump-s-supporters-101610715953592.html
15-01-2021||Today's||Farm laws: What India can learn from Kenya’s agri experiment||In the debate on new farm laws, emotions are running high with concerns that small farmers are being pitted against large agri-businesses. The new laws contain mostly untried policies and it is difficult to gauge what might happen when they are implemented. Surprisingly, little of the discussion has drawn on lessons learned from countries that have implemented large-scale policies to encourage agri-businesses.Since the advent of market-oriented policies in the 1980s and 1990s, many governments in developing economies moved away from controlling agricultural markets to encouraging participation by private-sector firms. Hard evidence on how these policies have impacted farmers has proven difficult or come from very limited experiments, because of a lack of data on farmer-buyer relationships and the complexity of quantifying the many clauses that go into farm policies.Recent research at the London School of Economics (LSE) overcomes these hurdles by examining a decade of high-quality farmer-buyer data from Kenya during a period when it introduced radical farm laws to encourage agri-businesses. Much in the same way as India is doing now, the Kenyan government introduced these laws with the expectation that the rise of such businesses would transform smallholder agriculture for the better. Over 20 pieces of legislation were repealed to encourage agri-business participation in crop markets that made up over 70% of small farm incomes.It had its expected impact on the rise of agri-businesses. Their overall market share as buyers of farm produce almost doubled, reaching 38% by 2010. But within the crops that were “liberalised”, the story was not as straightforward. Soon after the policy was implemented, small farmers became more likely to sell these crops to agri-businesses, especially in areas that were more reliant on these crops due to agro-ecological conditions. But, five years on, many had stopped selling to these businesses.Farm incomes from these crops had fallen. Farmers who were reliant on agri-businesses saw their incomes fall by an average 6%. They sold household assets to maintain their day-to-day consumption.What went wrong in Kenya is what farmers in India fear. Kenyan farmers expected to see productivity gains from selling to agri-businesses, which initially gained market share at the expense of other buyers. The ease of doing business increased in buying and marketing. As agri-businesses moved into these new activities, greater investment outlays and hence greater profitability was needed to finance them.Farmers began facing bigger agri-businesses which, on average, saw their profit margins rise by 5%. While some farmers were able to leave their agri-business relationships, many were facing bigger and fewer buyers in crop markets.The Kenyan experience illustrates what can go wrong with large-scale untried policies and what provisions need to be in place to avoid hardship. In its revised agricultural strategy in 2010, Kenyan policymakers reflected on how small farmers can suffer when ease of doing business is prioritised in markets where there is “no critical mass and enough capacity for the private sector to grow”. India must heed this lesson before implementing its farm policy. Of course, this is not to say India will have the same experience. We are certainly in a better economic position in terms of per capita income, about a third higher than Kenya. But there are many common problems in smallholder agriculture, such as low productivity, investments and market access, which keep farm incomes low across India.Kenya, if anything, was better placed than many in terms of political will and an infrastructure for poverty alleviation. India has often looked to Kenya for its innovative poverty solutions, such as online payment systems. Lessons can be applied in the current context too. A top-down policy, uninformed by bottom-up realities, is unlikely to transform the livelihoods of small farmers.Swati Dhingra is an associate professor at LSE. The article draws on ‘The Rise of Agribusinesses’, co-authored with Silvana Tenreyro, supported by the European Research CouncilThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/farm-laws-what-india-can-learn-from-kenya-s-agri-experiment-101610632777461.html
15-01-2021||Today's||The anti-corporate texture of farm protests||Remember the sepia-tinted Hindi films of the 1960s socialist era when the villain was often the “evil” exploitative udyogpati (industrialist)? Now, decades later, the farmer protests have recreated a familiar stereotypical “enemy” figure.In the winter chill of the Singhu border, posters targeting “Adani-Ambani” jostle for space with those criticising Prime Minister Narendra (PM) Modi. On the ground in Punjab, Reliance Jio telecom towers have been vandalised while Adani products are being boycotted. Such has been the sustained attack on the two corporates that both the Adani and Ambani groups have been forced to issue public statements saying they have no plans to enter contract farming in the future. So why do two of India’s biggest companies find themselves in the crosshairs of what began as a confrontation between farm unions and the Modi government?This has partly to do with the nature of opposition politics in the country at the moment. A concerted Congress-Left push to align with farm unions has seen Rahul Gandhi echo the charge that the new farm laws are designed to benefit the “Adani-Ambani” combine. The Congress leader has consistently targeted the Modi government for its alleged links with select business houses. In 2015, he raised the pitch by accusing the Modi government of being a “suit-boot ki sarkar”, a jibe that appeared to stick and embarrass the ruling party and almost force a series of policy announcements aimed at reinforcing the image of a “garibon ki sarkar”. During the 2019 election campaign, Gandhi alleged favouritism in the Rafale aircraft deal a key talking point.Now, undeterred by electoral defeat, he appears to have returned to his pet theme, this time piggybacking on farmer anxieties. On the face of it, the Congress leadership’s attack on “Adani-Ambani” appears a tad hypocritical. It was the Congress, after all, that built patron-client relations with preferred corporate houses in the licence-permit raj era. The Ambani empire took off in the 1980s under the benevolent gaze of the Indira Gandhi-Pranab Mukherjee duo. Gautam Adani cut his entrepreneurial teeth in Gujarat when the Congress-backed Chimanbhai Patel government gave him cheap land in the early 1990s. Neighbouring Congress-ruled Maharashtra too signed infra projects with the Adanis.But it isn’t just a shift in political alignments that explains the anti-corporate nature of the farm protests.First, in a multimedia universe with thousands of varied platforms, it is almost impossible to “control” the storyline any longer. The government’s propaganda machine is now matched by a unique form of aggressive tech-driven citizen activism; viral videos have acquired a life of their own with lines between truth and hype totally blurred. Even the most powerful business houses are now hostage to public rage fuelled by a frenzied media ecosystem in which there are no pre-decided rules of engagement.Second, when the battle of perception is pitched as kisan versus fat-cat industry and their political patrons, there can be only one winner. A farmer protest can be denounced and demonised only up to a point. The visual depiction of the farmer shivering in the freezing winter when contrasted with the luxurious lifestyles of India’s super-rich is enough to arouse a sense of stark inequality and injustice where emotions take over from any sense of rationality.That the Adanis and Ambanis come from Gujarat, the PM’s home state, only serves to bolster the impression that proximity to power confers an undue advantage.Finally, there is a reality of the exponential growth in the fortunes of a handful of India’s billionaires in the last decade even as the income levels of a vast majority of Indians remain stressed in recessionary times. In normal times, this might have been overlooked. After all, the liberalisation era has seen the Indian middle-class finally stop vilifying wealth-creation and actually celebrate entrepreneurial zeal. But in Covid-19 times, where jobs are being lost, the future is uncertain and growth is paused, there is a sense of disquiet over acutely disproportionate benefits being conferred on a few.To that extent, the farmer protests against “Adani-Ambani”, however amorphous the sloganeering might be, are symbolic of a wider discontent against emerging market monopolies and the fears, real or imaginary, that these monopolistic tendencies will now hijack the farm trade and commodity sector too. At the heart of the conflict is an acute trust deficit, a deepening mistrust of the nexus between untrammelled State power and big business.In 2014, Modi swept to power by promising to act against political corruption. “Na khaoonga, na khane doonga” (I won’t be bribed or allow anyone to take a bribe) became a rallying cry that served as a magnet for millions of Indians who were angry and fatigued with a scam-tainted government. Modi has managed to ensure his personal image is more or less intact, but the charge of cronyism is one which he still needs to shake off. Else the gentle winds blowing across the Singhu border will only gather more momentum.Post-script: At the Singhu border, I met a group of young farmers who happily showed me the latest video mocking the “Adani-Ambani” bond with the government. Interestingly, I noticed they were all Jio mobile subscribers!Rajdeep Sardesai is a senior journalist and authorThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-anti-corporate-texture-of-farm-protests-101610632776188.html
