18-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai breathes cleanest air this year, AQI at 156||The city breathed its cleanest air this year on Monday as winds blowing from the sea cleared up pollutants in the air. An overall air quality index (AQI) — a pollutant measuring indicator — of 156 was measured, which was in the moderate category. This beats the lowest AQI recorded this year of 162 on January 16.The city's air quality had remained in the poor to very poor category since the beginning of the year owing to low temperatures. On January 8, the AQI was the worst at 317 (very poor).However, with the onset of westerly winds, the air has cleared up by the weekend but became poor on Sunday when an AQI of 252 was measured.The AQI was calculated by the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) as the average of indices recorded at 10 locations in the city and suburbs. SAFAR categorises AQI levels for PM2.5 in the 0-50 range as 'good'; 51-100 as 'satisfactory'; 101-200 as 'moderate'; 201-300 as 'poor'; 301-400 as 'very poor' and above 400 as 'severe'.“Air mass has formed in the ocean and wind blowing from the sea is cleaner than the air from landmass. Winds blowing from the north and west have cleared the air of pollutants. The air quality is expected to remain in the moderate to poor category,” said a spokesperson from SAFAR.Of the 10 locations measured, only Navi Mumbai recorded 'very poor' air with the AQI being measured at 351.Temperatures, meanwhile, increased. The Santacruz weather station recorded a minimum temperature of 20.2 degrees Celsius, 3 degrees above normal. The Colaba observatory of the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) recorded a minimum temperature of 21.8 degrees Celsius, which was 3 degrees above normal.Santacruz reported a maximum temperature of 31.6 degrees Celsius, which was 1 degree above normal. At Colaba, the maximum temperature was 29.4 degrees Celsius and was 1 degree below normal.“The sky was somewhat cloudy on Monday. Parts of Maharashtra can expect a winter spell towards the middle of the week,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director-general of western region, IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-breathes-cleanest-air-this-year-aqi-at-156-101610993427900.html
18-01-2021||Chandigarh||Two held with three stolen cars, eight two-wheelers in Chandigarh||The police here have arrested two vehicle thieves and recovered three cars and eight two-wheelers from their possession.As per information, the police received a tip-off that the two persons were driving around in stolen vehicles having fake number plates. Based on this, a team from Sector 34 police station established check-points and apprehended the duo.The accused have been identified as Sahil, alias Aaseem, of Raipur Khurd village and Tejpal of New Indira Colony, Manimajra. Both were driving cars stolen from Mauli Jagran on October 21, 2020, and January 16 this year, respectively.Two cases under sections 473 (Making or possessing counterfeit seal, etc., with intent to commit forgery) and 411 (Dishonestly receiving stolen property) of the IPC have been registered against them at Sector 34 police station. Both are in police remand.Sahil was also involved in two more thefts in Manimajra, while Tejpal has no criminal history.Gang of thieves busted The police on Sunday arrested six men including four juveniles for stealing brass circles, laptops and shoes from Industrial Area, Phase 2. Acting on a tip-off, a naka was laid on Sunday near the slip road towards Faidan village in Sector 47. Three juveniles were apprehended and Vikas, alias Dathla, was held. On Monday, accused Ashu, alias Paratha, and another juvenile were arrested with more stolen goods. In total, five bags containing brass circles, four laptops and 12 pairs of shoes worth ₹8,57,000 were recovered. Police said the accused have committed around 10-12 burglaries in the last two years.Weapons seized from thieves in MohaliThe Lalru police on Monday arrested two criminals and recovered weapons and live cartridges from them. The accused are Anil Kumar and Om Prakash, both residents of Saharanpur, Uttar Pardesh.Lalru SHO inspector Sukhbir Singh said the accused were coming from Ambala on bicycles when they were searched and arrested for carrying one loaded revolver each (KF .32 bore Indian Ordinance and US-made Smith and Wesson .32 bore), along with nearly 18 live cartridges. After being produced in a court, they remanded to police custody.They revealed during interrogation that they had stolen the weapons from a house in Mohali in 2018, the FIR of which was registered then in Phase 8 police station. The duo used to commit thefts in Chandigarh and Mohali and used the revolvers for their safety, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-held-with-three-stolen-cars-eight-two-wheelers-in-chandigarh-101610993480918.html
18-01-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Transport Undertaking staffer held for taking ₹1 lakh bribe||The vigilance department has arrested an employee of Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) for taking a bribe of ₹1 lakh.As per the complainant, CTU senior assistant Jai Bhagwan demanded ₹1 lakh from him to speed up his work.In November last year, the complainant had moved an application to surrender his bid for dormitory and rest house at Sector 43 ISBT as he was not getting sufficient customers due to the Covid-19 restrictions and was finding it difficult to pay the rent.However, Bhagwan demanded money to expedite the surrender of bid and providing the complainant with his security deposit.The complainant had already paid ₹50,000 and on Monday, while paying the remaining amount, Bhagwan was caught red-handed at the CTU office in Industrial Area Phase 1.A case has been registered against the CTU staffer under Prevention of Corruption Act by the vigilance department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-transport-undertaking-staffer-held-for-taking-1-lakh-bribe-101610993365273.html
18-01-2021||Chandigarh||Lack of symptoms, late detection led to widespread Covid infection in Chandigarh’s Bapu Dham Colony, says study||A research study on the widespread outbreak of Covid-19 in Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26, has shown that dense population coupled with a huge number of asymptomatic infections, which also led to late detection and delay in isolation of patients, resulted in the high number of virus cases in the locality.The colony had emerged as one of the biggest virus hotspots in the neighbouring states of Punjab, Haryana, and Himachal Pradesh with Chandigarh ranking fourth in the number of cases per million in the last week of May 2020.The research study was conducted by Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, and also appeared in the journal of primary care and community health states.As per the findings, the index case (patient zero) was living in a densely populated and low-income settlement where physical distancing between the individuals is not possible and had high number of community contacts. This, along with asymptomatic infections, was responsible for the late detection and delayed isolation of cases leading to the widespread outbreak, the study states.Major hotspot The index case was a 33-year-old who worked as an operation theatre attendant at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, and was diagnosed for Covid-19 on April 24. Till June 1, 222 out of 293 (76%) of the city’s Covid cases had surfaced from Bapu Dham alone. The number of cases in the area touched almost 300-mark even when the strict lockdown was in force.While the authorities scrambled to control the spread, a team of experts from PGIMER was formed to visit the area and suggest steps to contain the virus. The team at the time had suggested the identification of superspreaders and active surveillance for the detection of cases in the area.‘The superspreader’ The index case had a total of 11 family contacts, of which 8 were household contacts and the other three were his relatives who were staying in a different house, but had visited him.In all, he had 125 contacts, of which 65 were community contacts and 60 were from the workplace. A total of 34 community contacts and six workplace contacts were positive for Covid-19. Therefore, in total, 49 Covid infections had direct or indirect contact with the index case, qualifying him as a “superspreader”.Researchers have claimed that this case remains the first reported case of documented Covid-19 superspreader with an unusually high number of secondary infections.Another limitation was that 10 community members belonging to three families, who were contacts of index case, were only screened and not tested by RT-PCR. Moreover, in the case of asymptomatic contacts who had tested negative at first, repeat testing was not done between Day 5 and 14. Repeat testing in such cases is recommended, as it is difficult to assess the last date of exposure in and the limited sensitivity of the RT-PCR test.The researchers have suggested preventing such super-spreading events in the community, besides highlighting the need for behaviour change communication emphasising early reporting to a health facility if a person develops influenza-like-illness symptoms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lack-of-symptoms-late-detection-led-to-widespread-covid-infection-in-chandigarh-s-bapu-dham-colony-says-study-101610993364184.html
18-01-2021||Gurugram||Government agencies observe Road Safety Month||To prevent road accidents and improve safety for commuters, government agencies in the district started observing Road Safety Month on Monday. The district administration, along with Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority(GMDA), National Highways Authority of India(NHAI) and city traffic police, in partnership with Raahgiri Foundation, will organise a number of activities to improve road safety till February 17 as notified by the ministry of road transport and highways. NHAI officials will be visiting major road intersections and project sites in the city and take measures to improve road safety. Shashi Bhushan, NHAI project director, said that inspection of project sites and intersections on national highways would be conducted. Street lights, reflector tapes and jersey barriers would be installed wherever needed. “Starting this month, traffic safety measures would be initiated and these would continue throughout the year. We will hold camps for truck drivers to check their vision. Awareness camps will be held at nearby schools and educational material will be distributed” he said, adding that preventing road accidents was a priority for the authority. Referring to a recent accident at Sirhaul toll plaza, in which a person was killed, Bhushan said that adequate measures were taken but they have decided to take more such steps to prevent accidents. “Improving road safety is an evolving process and we are working with the district administration to improve road safety,” he said. A statement issued by Raahgiri Foundation read that the Gurugram traffic police and administration has planned a series of activities to engage the public of Gurugram to raise awareness towards traffic rules and general road safety. These activities will involve zero-tolerance drives, digital campaigns and public activities. During this time, GMDA and Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) will be working on creating safer streets for all commuters. The first step towards it is redesigning nearly 25km of streets and improving road intersections. In the first week of the month, the focus will be on Golf Course Road where zero-tolerance drives will be carried out at Bristol Chowk and other intersections, the statement read. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/government-agencies-observe-road-safety-month-101610992820711.html
18-01-2021||Gurugram||Haryana Police deploys 500 personnel ahead of farmers’ rally on Republic Day||Haryana Police on Monday deployed 500 personnel on the borders connecting Rajasthan, Nuh and Gururgam, after protesting farmers announced that they would join the tractor rally in Delhi on Republic Day. Hundreds of farmers have been protesting at different sites on the Delhi-Jaipur highway, including Sangwari Chowk, in Rewari city; Masani village near Dharuhera, and at Shahjahanpur border in Rajasthan. They are protesting against three new farm laws, which were passed by the Central government last September. The protestors have visited nearby villages and requested farmers to get their tractors to join the rally. Satnarayan Nehra, the president of Nehra Khap of Haryana, said, “We have decided to move to Delhi and hold a tractor rally on Old Delhi Ring Road on Republic Day. We have called all the farmers of Nuh, Gurugram and Rewari to join us a day before the rally at the Gurugram border. There are more than 1,000 farmers in Nuh who own tractors and have agreed to extend their support ,” he said. Nehra also said the while the police are not allowing the tractor trolleys in groups to move but they are not stopping single tractors from crossing either. So, we have decided to move one by one, he said. Ram Krishan Mehlawat, the Rewari president of Rashtriya Kisan Union, said that more than 3,000 tractors will gather in Delhi from Gurugram. Women and children will also take part. “We have requested the heads of more than 300 villages to support our movement ,” he said. The police said units of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), Rapid Action Force (RAF), Indian Reserve Battalion (IRB) and Haryana Police have been deployed at the border areas to control the situation. Rajesh Kumar, deputy superintendent of Bawal, said that they will not allow any tractor to cross until January 26 as they are aware the protestors are planning to gather in Delhi and using alternative routes to cross the stretch. “We have increased the deployment and more than 500 personnel have been deployed at the border and on the Expressway to monitor their movements. We have successfully controlled the situation so far and will ensure that their movement is restricted,” he said. Astha Modi, the deputy commissioner of police (headquarters), said, “We are keeping a close watch on protesters’ movement and will not allow them to enter Gururgam district jurisdiction. The teams are on high alert and we are managing the traffic situation to ensure that no congestion is reported from the national highway. We have deployed enough force on the highway so that daily commuters are not affected by the ongoing protest.” Ten police control room (PCR) vans and 12 motorbikes have also been patrolling the Delhi-Jaipur Expressway to resolve traffic snarls, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/haryana-police-deploys-500-personnel-ahead-of-farmers-rally-on-republic-day-101610992820077.html
18-01-2021||Gurugram||Wazirabad residents launch protest against construction of crematorium||After failing to get any response from the authorities, the residents of Wazirabad village have launched a protest to oppose the move by Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran(HSVP) to develop a large crematorium adjacent to their village. The residents said that the sit-in protest, which they started near the proposed site on January 15, will continue indefinitely and the agitation will intensify in the coming days if the government does not listen to themMore than 100 villagers were seen sitting at a makeshift tent near the site under the aegis of Wazirbad Sangarsh Samiti on Monday afternoon. The protesters said that if the need arises they will also bring their families to the site as the crematorium was likely to negatively impact their daily lives. Apart from them, locals from 10 neighbouring villages have also come forward to support their demand of shifting the crematorium. Sitting at the protest site, locals alleged that hundreds of acres of land owned by Wazirabad residents was acquired by government to develop HSVP sectors and private residential colonies by developers, and that it was unfair that a crematorium was being forced on them. The locals also said that they have approached the district administration and their elected representatives but have got no response. “The non-responsive attitude has forced us to come out on the streets. We are very distressed by this development as our land was used to develop this entire area around Golf Course Road but now the government wants to develop the cremation site near our homes and workplaces. There is another site available in Sector 54. The crematorium can also be developed near Faridabad Road close to the Aravallis away from residential areas,” said Rajpal Kalu, a member of the Sangarsh Samiti.The protesters said that life of village residents particularly those living in Wazirabad Ki Dhani would be negatively affected once this facility comes up. Manoj Bohra, a village resident, said that instead of building a huge facility, the HSVP should develop smaller crematoriums sector-wise. “The private developers should provide their own land for this purpose. The HSVP officials and the government should take a sympathetic view,” he said. Locals said they feared that once this crematorium came up, Wazirbad, which was one of the largest villages in the area, would only be known for cremations. “Trees on the site have been uprooted. The crematorium will cause air pollution and lead to heavy traffic congestion,” said Manish Wazirabad, a resident, adding that they are now planning to approach the Gurugram MP Rao Inderjit Singh and chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar to get this project shifted. The protest is also getting support from political parties and on Sunday, senior Congress leader Captain Ajay Singh Yadav, JJP district president Rishiraj Rana and other functionaries visited the protest site. “The crematorium should be shifted and the Congress fully supports the villagers. The government should take a flexible approach in this matter,” said Yadav. HSVP officials, however, said that the under-construction facility would be eco-friendly and use only gas and electricity for cremation. Also the facility, which is being developed by a private developer under corporate social responsibility funds would be operated and maintained by the authority. “The cremation ground would be eco-friendly and it will serve the people along Golf Course Road. All issues raised by locals such as pollution and traffic would be addressed. The decision to shift the site can be taken only by the government,” said Jitender Yadav, administrator, HSVP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/wazirabad-residents-launch-protest-against-construction-of-crematorium-101610992642344.html
18-01-2021||Gurugram||Requirement for health certificate a deterrent, say parents||Parents of children studying in private schools in the city said that the requirement of obtaining a medical certificate, clearing students of any Covid-19 symptoms, was acting as a deterrent in attending classes. They said that schools could have screening mechanisms on campus to reduce the hassle of parents and students who wanted to avoid hospital visits in Covid times. The certificate is part of the standard operating procedure (SOP) issued by the education department for physical classroom sessions in schools.Dilip Srivastava, father of a class 10 student, said that he had received a mail from his son’s school asking students to appear for special sessions ahead of the boards with the medical certificate being a pre-requisite. “Instead of expecting hundreds of students to visit different facilities to get medical certificates, why can’t schools hold screening camps on the campus itself? Parents are being compelled to visit hospitals in the middle of a pandemic for this certificate,” said Srivastava. He said that he had informed the school that the requirement of a medical clearance was a hassle. “Other parents are also facing similar challenges. For now, I am not sending my son to school,” he said. Kavita Malik, mother of a class 10 student, who got a medical clearance done, said that some parents were unsure about the medical screening mechanism. “I got clearance done at home but there are some parents who are not confident about the certificate. They are panicking at the prospect of visiting health facilities for getting a clearance,” said Malik. Several private schools in the city have recently initiated doubt-clearing and practical sessions this month. Voluntary visits to schools for such sessions were initiated by the Haryana government in September followed by regular classes from November 2 for students in classes 9 to 12. While most government schools saw students turning up for these sessions, private schools had largely continued with online classes. In November, the Haryana government decided to shut schools till November 30 amid a spike in Covid-19 cases among students. Government schools reopened from December 14 for students of classes 10 and 12 and from December 21 for classes 9 and 11. Classes are continuing since then.Rashmi Malik, principal of Salwan Public School, Sector 15, said that the requirement of a medical certificate was indeed acting as a deterrent. “Parents are uncomfortable about visiting medical centres for the certificate. It’s becoming a task, especially for those parents who don’t have a family doctor. Doctors are suggesting a Covid-19 test for the certificate which is creating confusion,” said Malik.In response to concerns from parents, the school is accepting a virtual certificate. “We have informed parents that they don’t need to get a Covid-19 negative report. We have suggested online consultation and will be accepting a virtual certificate that clears students of Covid-related symptoms,” said Malik. Nidhi Kapoor, the principal of Euro International School, said that the school had seen 50% turnout on Monday in classes 9 to 12. She said that the strength is expected to increase in the coming days as more students get a medical certificate. “If the process is easier, more parents will be motivated to send children to school. The requirement of the document could possibly be a reason behind parent’s hesitancy,” said Kapoor. Deputy district education officer Kalpna Singh said that the health clearance was being sought to ascertain the recent medical history of the student prior to school visits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/requirement-for-health-certificate-a-deterrent-say-parents-101610992641372.html
18-01-2021||Gurugram||Class 7 student of private school in police cross hairs over threatening emails sent to girl students||The police are probing the involvement of a class 7 student of a prominent private school in the city, in allegedly threatening to kill his classmates in emails sent to at least two girl students on January 5, senior police officers said on Monday.The investigation in the matter, which was reported to the DLF Phase 1 police station by the school on January 6, has now been handed over to the Cyber Crime police station. Investigators said they have identified the boy who had allegedly sent the emails, but are yet to question him or record his statement.Gurugram police commissioner KK Rao said the police are yet to register a case. “We have recorded the statements of the victims and their family members and they have requested strict action,” he said.Rao said the boy was tracked down on Monday through the IP address of the computer from which the emails were sent. “A classmate’s mother had recently died by suicide and the students were distressed about it. They all were discussing their emotional feelings and how painful death is. The juvenile took advantage of the weak moment and planned to play a prank on his classmates,” Rao said.The parents of the boy have been informed and are in a state of shock, Rao said. He said that the parents of the girls, who were the recipients of the emails, have been restless since they were informed about it.The general manager (administration) of the school said that they had complained to the police and have been following up the issue with them since. “The moment we receive the name and IP address of the student, we will take strict action against the culprit,” he said.“You 2 girls are weak, just like that brat (mentioning the name of another girl student). I am back. And this time I will kill everyone,” read the first purported email.“Who should I kill first. I will let you decide. Answer in 1 hour or I will kill (mentioning the name of another girl student) first,” read the second one, sent a few minutes later, at 3.53pm, as per an investigator.Rao said that children are misusing internet these days without realising the impact it will have on others. “We have been asking schools to organise sessions for students on the usage of internet and to spread awareness on dos and don’ts but even the schools are not taking this issue seriously. Such incidents can spoil the future of a child who might have sent these emails for fun. The families of the victims go through a lot dealing with such malicious and threatening emails,” he said.he school, in the complaint to the police, had said, “The nature of emails is threatening towards these children of our school and we are complaining the matter to your office for further action. One fo the e-mails has been sent to multiple students of class 7 and has disturbed parents and students. We consider this as a safety and security concern and would like this to be further investigated(sic).”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/class-7-student-of-private-school-in-police-cross-hairs-over-threatening-emails-sent-to-girl-students-101610992641869.html
18-01-2021||Gurugram||Pilot dies in collision while returning home late Sunday||A pilot of Indigo Airlines was killed in a road accident in Sector 114 late Sunday, when the car he was driving was rammed by a speeding truck-trolley that was moving on the wrong side of the road. According to the police, the collision took place around 12.20am when pilot Anmol Verma, 38, was returning to his residence in Sector 109 from the airport. The police said that the injured pilot was rushed to a private hospital and that his car was completely damaged due to the impact. KK Rao, the commissioner of police, said, “The truck driver was driving on the wrong side and there was a massive head-on collision between the two vehicles. The pilot, who was driving, had sustained severe injuries and rushed to a hospital where he succumbed to his injuries within an hour. The front portion of the truck was also damaged.”The police said the driver of the tractor-trolley abandoned his vehicle and escaped on foot. He was yet to be arrested on Monday evening. The truck has a registration number of Gurugram. “We have received a complaint from Captain Pankaj Kaushal, a friend of the deceased, and have registered a case. The truck driver will also be nabbed soon. The pilot died of excessive bleeding and head injuries,” said Rao. The pilot’s body was handed over to his family after a post-mortem examination. Kaushal, the complainant, said that he received a call around 12.30am from a passerby who had witnessed the accident and had called him from Verma’s mobile phone. “By the time I reached the spot, he had been taken to the hospital. He had moved to Gurugram a few months ago, along with his wife. They were blessed with a baby boy three months ago. He lived in Delhi for 25 years before shifting to the city,” he said. A case under sections 279 (rash driving) and 304B (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered at the Bajghera police station against the truck driver on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/pilot-dies-in-collision-while-returning-home-late-sunday-101610992640921.html
18-01-2021||Gurugram||Technical glitches on CO-WIN platform continue on day two of vaccination drive||Issues with Co-WIN (Covid-19 Vaccine Intelligence Network) application — designed to streamline the delivery of Covid-19 vaccines — continued to persist on day two of the ongoing inoculation drive. Officials at nearly all vaccination sites in the district said that they were unable to access the beneficiary data on the platform on Monday and had to resort to keeping a manual record of individuals receiving the vaccine and then updating it later on the platform. “We are facing multiple issues. In some cases, the beneficiaries are not receiving automated text messages despite being registered on the Co-WIN, so we have to call them up personally and remind them to take their shot. At some sites, vaccination officers are unable to log in, or the portal is too slow even if they are able to login,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram. “Officials at the state level are aware of the issue. They will discuss it and get back to us by Wednesday. If not, then we will have to change our strategy for the next round,” Yadav added. He did not comment on whether the glitches in the app have directly impacted the Gurugram’s coverage of the vaccine, which did not meet its target for Monday. Out of the target of inoculating 4,836 people, authorities could only vaccinate a total 2,881, thereby managing to meet slightly over 59% of its target. Health department staff at multiple vaccination sites in the district said they had anticipated that issues with Co-WIN — which were first reported on Saturday — would not be resolved in time for Monday’s drive. “We came prepared with the printouts of beneficiaries. Administering the vaccines has actually been much faster today since we aren’t dealing with the app,” said Dr Pankaj, who only gave his first name and is in charge at a session site in Palam Vihar in Sector 9. However, according to a medical officer at a session site in Wazirabad, maintaining a manual record of data is not feasible. “It may be faster at the point of care because the scale of the drive is still small. These issues will cause a lot of confusion when the drive is rolled out on a larger scale. There is also room for error in recording people’s details manually, so we have to be extra careful. This will ultimately mean more work for us,” said Dr Ashima, who also gave only her first name.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/technical-glitches-on-co-win-platform-continue-on-day-two-of-vaccination-drive-101610992640485.html
18-01-2021||Gurugram||Covaxin has few takers on second day of vaccinations in Gurugram||Only 35% of the 436 healthcare workers for whom Covaxin vaccine was allocated attended the vaccination drive on Monday, which was much lower than the average total turnout of around 60%. According to the district health department data, only 154 healthcare staff, mostly comprising sanitation staff and other housekeeping employees, received the jab.Doctors and senior medical experts said that there is no concern regarding the safety of Covaxin and that beneficiaries should not hesitate to take it.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, said, “The acceptability for Covaxin will steadily increase in the coming weeks. Overall, the footfall remained low as vaccination messages from Co-WIN app did not reach the beneficiaries timely. It is advised that people not have doubts about the safety of Covaxin.”Even during the first day of the drive on January 16, healthcare workers were thrown off by the consent form that they had to sign to receive the Covaxin vaccine. Only 39 healthcare workers were administered Covaxin on January 16, at the Palam Vihar vaccination site.On Monday, Covaxin vaccine was allocated for beneficiaries at the Cloudnine, W Pratiksha, Park, and Metro Hospital session sites.At W Pratikhsa Hospital, only 25 of the 105 beneficiaries turned up till 3pm. Primarily, it included sanitation and housekeeping staff, said Fazil Ahmed, the nodal officer of the vaccination site. “In the first round, healthcare workers like housekeeping staff or sanitation staff had been taken up. Many employees have quit their job in the past, so they cannot be counted. In the next round, it is likely that doctors will be included.”Even at Cloudnine Hospital, the footfall remained low. A couple of doctors opted out of the vaccination after enquiring about the vaccine being provided. Of 110 healthcare workers, 62 received the jabs. At the site, doctors who withdrew from taking the jab said that they have reservations as Covaxin is still in its trial phase. A hospital employee privy to the matter said that those who received vaccine jabs were mostly housekeeping staff.A healthcare worker, requesting anonymity, said, “Since I have been planning to conceive, doctors have advised me to not to take Covaxin as it would delay the process by at least three months.”As beneficiaries remained apprehensive, a few doctors at Cloudnine Hospital came forward for the vaccination and said that they have been constantly following up on the efficacy and safety of the vaccine. “The vaccine is completely safe. One should not question the credibility of the vaccine, especially when AIIMS-Delhi director Randeep Guleria took the Covaxin jab on the first day. People should not be nervous in taking the shot for it is safe,” said an anaesthesiologist at Cloudnine Hospital, who took the vaccine shot.Doctors at the Max Hospital on Monday offered to take up vaccinations with the Covaxin vaccine for the next batch of healthcare workers. Babita Jain, head of department, paediatrics, Max Hospital, who was at the site, said, “It is a killed vaccine constituting inactivated virus. It should be preferred, for it hardly has any implications.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covaxin-has-few-takers-on-second-day-of-vaccinations-in-gurugram-101610992640054.html
18-01-2021||Gurugram||RT-PCR tests to cost ₹499 in Gurugram||The price of the Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR), considered the gold standard test to detect Covid-19, was brought down to ₹499 in Haryana. On Monday, the state health department, for the sixth time, revised the testing cost and fixed separate rates for samples given directly at the lab and those collected from residences.Samples collected in private hospitals or accredited diagnostic labs certified for Covid-19 testing will now cost ₹499, while the charge for home collection price has been capped at ₹699. Until now, one had to pay ₹700 to get tested at a private facility, whereas the cap was set at ₹900 for the home collection service, as per the rates fixed in the first week of December 2020.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, said, “Testing charges are reduced based on the rates of the RT-PCR kits, which has been constantly declining.”The state health department, for the first time, slashed the RT-PCR testing charge on June 16, 2020. From ₹4,500, which was the upper limit for the RT-PCR charges fixed by the Indian Council of Medical Research in March, the testing cost was brought down to ₹2,400 in June. It was reduced to ₹1,600 on August 29, further to ₹1,200 on October 2 and ₹900 on October 29.The costs of other tests to detect the presence of SARS-CoV-2 virus in the body, such as antigen test ( ₹500) antibody test ( ₹250), TrueNat ( ₹1250) and CBNAAT ( ₹2,400) continue to remain the same. On Monday, as per the district health bulletin, over 2164 RT-PCR tests and 181 rapid antigen tests were administered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/rtpcr-tests-to-cost-rs-499-in-gurugram-101610992580535.html
18-01-2021||Gurugram||Only 60% of beneficiaries show up for Covid-19 vaccination, hesitancy remains||A total of 2,881 healthcare workers in the district were vaccinated against Covid-19 on Monday, on the second day of the ongoing nationwide immunisation drive. This accounts for 60% of the health department’s targeted coverage for the day, which was set at vaccinating 4,386 healthcare workers, across public and private sectors.Officials said that the individuals who did not get vaccinated on Monday would be able to do so on January 21.The majority of the day’s inoculations took place at private hospitals, where a total of 2,007 frontline healthcare staff, of 3,301 beneficiaries pencilled in for the second day, were vaccinated. “In private facilities, we have met 70% of our goal for the day. Some shortfall is to be expected as we are still in the early stages. It will take some time for people to accept the vaccine,” said Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer, Gurugram.Singh said that vaccinating private-sector workers proved to be easier on Monday, since individuals are being administered the vaccine at their place of work. “If you work at a private hospital, you can come to the booth, take the shot and then can carry on with your day. Most public health workers, on the other hand, are getting vaccinated at session sites that may be some distance away from their assigned duties or homes. So, they have to take the time out to go there,” said Singh.Among public sector beneficiaries, only 874 showed up for vaccinations on Monday, against a target of 1,535 beneficiaries. “About 60% of the day’s target was met at public session sites. We will be reaching out to all those who did not come, for whatever reason, and urging them to take the vaccine later this week,” said Dr Singh.He added that the drive would be extended to at least nine sessions sites in the district on Thursday, as they did not meet their targets. Dr Singh, however, did not comment on reasons for this.“The state authorities will review the situation and we will implement what is decided,” said Dr Virender Yadav, Gurugram’s chief medical officer.Although Yadav did not comment on vaccine hesitancy among ASHA workers and National Health Mission (NHM) staff, who are first in line for the shot, at least two senior health department officials directly involved in the vaccination drive said that more steps are needed to ensure public trust in the vaccines.“On Monday, again, we had to call in people who were scheduled to take the vaccine on Thursday, to get closer to the target. In a few instances, some healthcare workers have provided incorrect contact details and we were unable to notify them. This needs to be addressed, but we have all been extremely busy with delivering the vaccines,” said one of the officials cited above, requesting anonymity.Private facilities, too, admitted to a degree of vaccine hesitancy among their staff.Arpita Mukherjee, vice president, operations, Max Hospital, said, “Our proactive engagement with frontline workers before the vaccination helped in achieving 60% target... Many employees did not turn up as they might be confused, not sure of early vaccination.”A total of 195 workers were vaccinated at Max Hospital on Monday, against a target of 335 people, most of whom work in diagnostic labs.Spokespersons for Paras and Columbia Asia hospitals in the city confirmed that 76 and 55 staffers, respectively, were vaccinated on Monday (against targets of 100 people). At Fortis Hospital, 150 out of 200 people targeted received a shot of the vaccine, marking a 75% coverage, while 300 beneficiaries were vaccinated at Medanta.The spokesperson for Medanta did not reveal how many were targeted for vaccination on the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/only-60-of-beneficiaries-show-up-for-covid-19-vaccination-hesitancy-remains-101610992580944.html
18-01-2021||Gurugram||21 beneficiaries report adverse events following vaccine jab in Gurugram||As many as 21 healthcare workers complained of adverse effects after receiving the Covid-19 vaccine jabs on Monday, said health department officials.Most of them complained of nausea and anxiety, followed by mild fever and pain at the injection site. All of them had been given the Covishield coronavirus vaccine and none of them had to be hospitalised, said officials.One person visited the Civil Hospital in Sector 10 due to high blood pressure while those who reported a fever were given paracetamol, said officials.On the second day of the vaccination, which was held across 45 vaccination sites, including both government and private facilities, 2,881 health care workers took the jab. Of these, at least 2,727 were inoculated with the Serum Institute of India’s Covishield vaccine, while 154 received the Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin vaccine. Health department data shows that there has been no case of adverse events from the Covaxin jab yet.Across the state, 51 cases of adverse events due to Covishield have been reported so far, with Gurugram accounting for 21 of them, as the district has been allotted the maximum number of vaccines in the state.“In the majority of the cases, vaccine beneficiaries reported of nausea, anxiety or mild fever,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram. Many complained of uneasiness while sitting in the observation room for 30 minutes, whereas, in a couple of cases, vaccine beneficiaries reported side effects after reaching home.Giving further details, Dr MP Singh, the district immunisation officer, said, “There were two cases in which the health workers reported high blood pressure. In over four cases, the beneficiaries had a mild fever, while a couple of them reported pain at the injection site.”Singh said, “Some beneficiaries experienced discomfort within a few minutes of receiving the Covid-19 vaccine shot. In private hospitals, affected people were treated there itself, while in case of government facilities, those who had symptoms approached the Auxiliary Nurse Midwife (ANM),” said Singh, adding that one of the vaccine beneficiaries reached Civil Hospital in Sector 10, after reporting of high blood pressure. Those who reported fever were given paracetamol, he said.Every session site has been linked with the Adverse Events Following Immunisation (AEFI) centre, which mostly comprises hospitals or nearby urban primary health centres. “These are minor adverse events for which people should not be scared or have doubts about the efficacy of the vaccine,” said Yadav. Going by the World Health Organisation (WHO) definition, an AEFI is an untoward medical occurrence following immunisation, which does not necessarily have a causal relationship with the usage of the vaccine. Officials said that the state health department has been apprised of the adverse events reported in both government and private vaccination sites. “Details were updated on Co-WIN as well as sent manually. Supervisors from the health department were present at the sites and reported the matter immediately,” said Singh. Before the vaccine launch, the district health department constituted an AEFI committee, as per the central government guidelines, comprising of senior doctors in the fields of neurology, cardiology and pulmonology to monitor the adverse events after inoculation. “All these cases will be discussed in the AEFI meeting in the near future,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/21-beneficiaries-report-adverse-events-following-vaccine-jab-in-gurugram-101610992580085.html
18-01-2021||City||Congress decides not to name chief ministerial candidate in Kerala just yet||The Congress Party has decided not to project the chief ministerial candidate for the upcoming assembly elections in Kerala for now and has decided to give top priority to youth and women while selecting candidates.Talking to newsmen in Delhi after a meeting with the party high command, senior leader A K Antony, who hails from the state, said the priority is to win the elections with a comfortable majority and all leaders will work united to ensure this.“We have to win back Kerala. The party never projects any leader before elections but there will be a strong CM after the poll,” he said adding that the high command has given clear instructions to field new faces and give more representation to women.The party had summoned three top leaders of the state - former CM Oommen Chandy, state president Mullapally Ramachandran and opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala - to Delhi to discuss the recent local body election debacle and formulate a fresh strategy for the assembly elections due which are due in April-May.Also read: 'Masterstroke' - Mamata Banerjee brings Nandigram back in focusAfter the recent setback of local body polls, many allies have asked the party leadership to bring former CM Oommen Chandy to limelight and give him more responsibility but he was quite reluctant and batted for opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala. Many feel Chandy leading the campaign will fetch the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) more dividends. The party has also decided to form a 10-member panel to supervise elections in the state.“We have formulated a new strategy to win elections in Kerala and all leaders will work to achieve this,” said party general secretary in charge of organisation KC Venugopal. Three senior leaders also said the UDF was in a strong position and the local body setback was temporary. Leaders have been strictly told to go beyond their factions and that winnability should be the sole criteria while selecting candidates. Going by the central leadership's directive, many veterans will have to make way for young leaders.The party's central leadership was quite upset with the recent poll outcome and rushed AICC general secretary Tariq Anwar to the state twice where he met many including leaders of allies. Several leaders had questioned faction feud, differences among top leaders, selection of candidates and the party’s understanding with the Welfare Party, a political outfit of Jammat-e-Islami in north Kerala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/congress-decides-not-to-name-chief-ministerial-candidate-in-kerala-just-yet-101610991298060.html
18-01-2021||Delhi||COVID-19: Delhi records 161 cases, 8 deaths; positivity rate dips to 0.32 pc||Delhi recorded 161 fresh COVID-19 cases, the lowest in over 8 months, and eight deaths on Monday while the positivity rate dipped to 0.32 per cent, authorities said.The infection tally in the city rose to 6,32,590 and the death toll mounted to 10,754, they said.This is the 15th time this month that the daily count of cases stood below the 500-mark, and the fourth consecutive day since January 15 when the figures have stood below the 300-mark.The city recorded 246 cases on January 17, 299 cases on January 16 and 295 cases on January 15.On January 14, Delhi had recorded 340 cases and four deaths as the daily fatality count had dropped to single digits after several months.The 161 fresh cases on Monday came out of 50,523 tests conducted the previous day, including 32,368 RT-PCR tests and 18,155 rapid antigen tests, according to the latest bulletin issued by the Delhi health department.The number of tests was low as compared to the average of 70,000 as it was a Sunday.According to the Delhi health department's data, the number of deaths reported on Monday was the lowest since April 30, when 76 fatalities were recorded.The active cases tally on Monday dropped to 2,332 from 2,544 the previous day, while the positivity rate dropped to 0.32 per cent.On Sunday, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain had said, "The positivity rate has remained below 0.5 per cent for the last few days. We can comfortably say that the third wave is on the wane.""Cases have decreased. Still, I want to appeal to people to take precautions and use masks," he had said.Of the total 10,128 beds in COVID hospitals, 9,073 are vacant.The number of tests done per million, as on Sunday, was over 5.22 lakh while the total number of tests stood at over 99 lakh.The bulletin said 6,19,501 patients have recovered, been discharged or migrated so far.On Monday, 3,598 healthcare workers in the city -- 44.41 per cent of those registered -- were administered COVID-19 vaccine. Two "severe" and 24 "minor" cases of adverse events following immunisation (AEFI) were reported, officials said.As many as 4,319 healthcare workers -- 53.3 per cent of those registered -- got the shots on Saturday, the first day of the world's largest vaccination drive against the pandemic.Experts say people adopting a "wait and watch" approach for the initial few days, lack of communication and glitches in CoWin app are the major reasons behind the low turnout.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-delhi-records-161-cases-8-deaths-positivity-rate-dips-to-0-32-pc-101610990086384.html
18-01-2021||City||I did not leave SAD, they expelled me, says former Mohali mayor||After parting ways with Shiromani Akali Dal on January 11, former Mohali mayor Kulwant Singh was expelled from its membership for anti-party activities. Now, he will be leading the Azad group, comprising former Akali leaders who have resigned in his support, in the upcoming municipal elections. Kulwant had earlier left SAD ahead of the first MC House elections in 2015 after denial of party tickets to his loyalists. He became the mayor with Congress support and later went back into the Akali fold in 2017. HT talks to him about his past tenure, flip-flops and future plans:Why did you decide to part ways with SAD and contest elections independently? First of all, I did not speak anything against the party, but they still expelled me. As far as contesting the elections independently is concerned, all former councillors and local SAD leaders wanted that and they took the decision to do so under my leadership. SAD gave you the ticket for the Lok Sabha elections from Fathehgarh Sahib in 2014? You still ditched them. Why?I want to make it clear that I owe everything to the party. You show me any statement given against the party. Will you join hands with SAD or Congress after elections? It is too early to say anything, as I am still in a shock over my expulsion. Our main motive is development of the city, which we will do by all means. One thing that you wished to do as the mayor in your last term, but could not? I always wanted Mohali to be most beautiful in the tricity. I tried my level best, and to some extent, we achieved it. Another aim was to provide better basic amenities to all residents. Did you face any challenge from other party councillors in your last term? I should appreciate that all 50 councillors of Congress, SAD and BJP never opposed any development agenda for the city, and rather supported me. In the next term, we will be taking the city to new heights. Your relationship with Punjab cabinet minister Balbir Singh Sidhu always remained strained. Your comments? There are political differences with the local MLA, but not personal. Also, the people of Mohali know as to who carried out development works in the city in last few years. Look at the roads and parks under the civic body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/i-did-not-leave-sad-they-expelled-me-says-former-mohali-mayor-101610990180237.html
18-01-2021||Chandigarh||Focus on women’s empowerment secures ₹100-cr EU grant for 24x7 water supply project in Chandigarh||Women’s empowerment will be a key component of the pan-Chandigarh 24x7 water supply project, which is to be launched in April this year. The ₹500 crore ambitious project will have jobs reserved for women at different levels, health programmes exclusively for them and priority water connections in women’s name besides subsidies. “The Gender Action Plan was crucial in getting the European Union’s nod for around ₹100 crore for the project,” said NP Sharma, chief general manager, Chandigarh Smart City Limited (CSCL). The CSCL will get about ₹400 crore loan from the French Development Agency and around ₹100 crore grant from the EU to execute its project. After approvals from both, the project is currently awaiting signing of agreements between these agencies and the Union ministry concerned. “The EU was impressed by the project’s gender-sensitive approach to improve suitability, sustainability and reach of water services by focusing on and involving gender dimensions in the facility’s design, implementation and management,” said Sharma. As per the CSCL proposal, nearly all administrative posts under the project will be filled by women. Overall, the minimum female participation will be at 33%, particularly in the social development unit. At least 50% new meters are proposed to be allotted in the name of women from economically weaker section and low income groups. Additional subsidies and incentives will also be given to them. “The project also incorporates imparting of livelihood skills to women, such as making candles, incense sticks, low-cost sanitary pads and other such products. It also aims to provide help in creation and strengthening of self-help groups in project influence area, especially in rural areas and rehabilitation colonies, with a primary focus on women,” said Sharma. Creche facilities will also be started for the children of women workforce under the project. Institutional arrangementsPoverty alleviation: 33% reservation for women within the urban poverty alleviation cell of MC, involvement of women councillors in related programmes Infra and utilities management: Need identification for basic infrastructure, such as water supply, sanitation, solid waste and drainage, for women; women to be involved in the implementation, operation and management of these services||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/focus-on-women-s-empowerment-secures-100-cr-eu-grant-for-24x7-water-supply-project-in-chandigarh-101610990060194.html
18-01-2021||Chandigarh||Process for senate polls initiated, Panjab University tells HC||Panjab University has told the Punjab and Haryana high court that it has initiated process to hold senate elections, which are pending since August. However, the varsity also said that at the same time, it is actively considering governance reforms in view of the National Education Policy 2020, according to which the senate is to be replaced with a board of governors.PU’s response came on a plea of seven former senators, who had moved the HC in December, seeking senate elections. They had also accused the varsity of delaying the polls at the behest of the ruling dispensation at the Centre. The university has told court that it has sought permission from six state governments — Punjab, Haryana, Uttarakhand, Delhi, Himachal Pradesh and Rajasthan — where polling booths of different constituencies have to be set up. It also said that the Punjab Vidhan Sabha speaker has been requested to elect two members from among themselves to the senate, being one of the electoral constituencies. However, PU added that the National Education Policy contemplates structural reforms at every level, including higher education, and the varsity, its chancellor and central government are actively seized of the matter of governance reforms. The senate is a 91-member apex governing body of the university. While 36 are nominated by the Vice-President of India (who is also the university chancellor), two are nominated from the Punjab assembly, six are ex-officio members and the remaining 47 are elected. The four-year term of the previous senate ended on October 31, 2020. While the elections were scheduled in August last year, these were postponed twice by vice-chancellor Raj Kumar due to the pandemic.The one-year term of the syndicate, which is PU’s executive body and elected from among the senators, also ended on December 31, leaving the varsity without a governing body. ‘Plea grounded on political considerations’“...the entire petition is grounded on political considerations, with a view to stall the smooth working and transition of the university to become compliant with the National Education Policy 2020,” the varsity has told court, adding that “vested interests” must not be permitted to “abuse” the extraordinary jurisdiction of the HC on an issue such as this, it being a policy matter.PU has also underlined that the senate polls were deferred due to Covid-19 outbreak on the advice of the Chandigarh administration and requests from the staff members and faculty.The varsity has further argued that as the term of the elected members has expired, there exists absolutely no locus standi with the former senators to demand polls. It has also questioned how the petitioners did not make the central government a party to the matter. The former senators had made Raj Kumar a respondent in the matter. However, the V-C has taken exception to it, arguing that only the registrar should have been made a party. The V-C has also informed the HC that he tried to convene a syndicate meeting through online mode at least twice, but the members did not turn up. The matter will now be taken up on January 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/process-for-senate-polls-initiated-panjab-university-tells-hc-101610989940618.html
18-01-2021||Jaipur||10.61 lakh new voters added to electoral list in Rajasthan: SEC||The State Election Commission in Rajasthan has finalised voter lists for all 200 Assembly constituencies with the addition of more than 10 lakh people enrolled to exercise their franchise, an official said on Monday.As many as 10,61,303 voters have been added raising the total number of voters in the state to 4,95,80,319.Chief Electoral Officer Praveen Gupta held a final meeting with recognised national political parties and finalised the voters' lists of all Assembly constituencies in the state.Gupta said a total of 10,61,303 voters have been added during the special brief revision programme of voter lists with the qualification of January 1, 2021 in the state.Of these, 5,61,732 are men and 4,99,571 are women voters. Among the names added, there are 6,95,016 young voters in the 18–19 age group.The names of a total of 3,55,706 voters have been removed from the electoral rolls during the revision programme. The CEO said the voters' count raised by 1.44 per cent during the revision programme in the state.Gupta said a total of 4,95,80,319 voters have been registered in the last published voter lists. Of these, 2,58,47,752 are male voters and 2,37,32,567 are female voters. He said there were a total of 4,88,74,722 voters in the draft voters list published on November 21, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/1061-lakh-new-voters-added-to-electoral-list-in-rajasthan-sec-101610987587159.html
18-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra Covid-19 vaccination drive to resume on Tuesday: CM Thackeray||Amidst uncertainty over resumption of the suspended Covid-19 vaccination drive in Maharashtra, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday said the exercise will begin on Tuesday at 285 centres.The CM took stock of the preparations for the drive at a meeting held with state chief secretary Sanjay Kumar, CM's principal advisor Ajoy Mehta, principal secretary to public health minister Dr Pradeep Vyas and other officials."The vaccination will take place four days a week starting Tuesday (January 19). Vaccination will be conducted on Wednesday, Friday, and Saturday at 285 centres in Maharashtra. 100 beneficiaries will be inoculated per centre in one day," the CM said.State Health Minister Rajesh Tope said on Monday evening that the state government will "review the situation" before restarting the vaccination drive from Tuesday in view of several complaints of minor adverse reactions as well as glitches in using the Co-WIN application.The Maharashtra government on Saturday evening announced suspension of the Covid-19 vaccination drive till Monday owing to problems in the software application.Thackeray said immunity against coronavirus is developed in 14 days after taking two shots."Even after that people will have to abide by the strict guidelines to avoid spread of coronavirus," the CM said.At the meeting, the CM also assured officials that their inputs on making the Co-WIN software application easily accessible will be communicated to the Centre.Tope had said the state government was waiting for the Centre's response on its request to use the offline method due to the problems being encountered with Co-WIN."At several places where vaccination was held on January 16, we have received complaints from health workers. Though none of the complaints is of a serious nature, we have decided to review the situation first and then resume the vaccination (drive)," he told reporters.As per Union health ministry data, Maharashtra administered 18,328 vaccines of day one of the drive, which state officials said was some 64 per cent of the registered beneficiaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-covid-19-vaccination-drive-to-resume-on-tuesday-cm-thackeray-101610986568127.html
18-01-2021||Pune||PMC’s sets January-end deadline for Katraj-Swargate BRTS; PMPML unsure||The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) has claimed that the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has still not been able to carry out improvement works on the Katraj-Swargate Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS) stretch despite writing a letter last month. As a result, the public transport body is unsure of starting service on the 5.5 kilometre stretch soon. The PMC officials and city mayor Murlidhar Mohol however, have expressed confidence to restart the service by January end while claiming that most civic work will be completed by then. According to PMPML officials, the essential work of signal synchronisation, CCTV installation has not been done yet while doors of bus stops are also still not in place. “We want to start (service on BRTS stretch) as soon as we can, but the work is still going on. The PMC is doing the required work. I can’t say when it will be completed,” said Satish Gavhane, BRT Manager in PMPML. According to Gavhane, the work of signal synchronisation, door installation is going on. “The CCTV hasn’t been installed yet. The door of Panchami bus stop has been put in place while remaining things are still yet to be done,” said Gavhane. Mohol had earlier stated that the Swargate-Katraj BRTS corridor will be open from January 1, 2021, however, the PMPML refused to restart service saying various safety-related work needs to be done. Mohol on Monday admitted that the delay has been caused by work-related to the opening of BRTS corridor. He expressed optimism that the corridor could be opened in the next eight to 10 days. “In December, we had conducted a meeting of all the concerning authorities and Corporators in that area. Our assessment was that the corridor could be opened from January 1 but some work was left to be done and it could not be completed. So, the corridor could not be reopened. But now most of the work is almost done and I am optimistic that the BRTS corridor will be opened in the next eight to 10 days,” Mohol said. The PMC officials maintained that that the civic work is almost done, and the remaining work is expected to be completed in the next 8-10 days. “Regarding civil work, only fitting of the bus stop doors are remaining to be installed. The process of manufacturing the doors and fitting has been going on simultaneously. We will finish this work in next the next eight to 10 days. The work regarding signal synchronisation and CCTV installations are under the electrical department,” said Vijaykumar Shinde executive engineer, PMC. Officials from the electrical department remained unavailable to respond. This is not the first time that the civic officials have failed to meet the deadline to open the BRTS corridor. Deadlines missed earlier: May 31, 2018 August 1, 2018 December, 2018 March, 2019 January 1, 2021||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmcs-sets-january-end-deadline-for-katraj-swargate-brts-pmpml-unsure-101610986639044.html
18-01-2021||Pune||Man arrested for threatening to spread video of live-in partner||A man has been arrested for posing as a journalist and threatening to spread a video of his live-in partner, if she refused to pay him ₹6 lakh. The man has been identified as Rajiv Patel, alias Rajiv Parmar. He is in his late 30s and a resident of Magarpatta, Hadapsar. While the woman is divorced, the man had said that the he was in the process of separating from his wife. The two had met through a matrimonial site where he had claimed to be divorced. The two had entered into a relationship and decided to live together, according to police. During their time together, the man shot videos of her and started asking for money for personal expenditure, according to her complaint. However, as she refused to lend him money, they broke up, according to the police. The woman claimed she was not aware of the video, and when it was shot. The man then demanded ₹6 lakh to not post the video on social media. The woman approached the police the next day and a case has been registered. A case under Section 365 (extortion) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 66(e) and 67(a) of Information Technology Act 2000 was registered at the Wakad police station. Police inspector (crime) Santosh Patil of Wakad police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-arrested-for-threatening-to-spread-video-of-live-in-partner-101610986579541.html
18-01-2021||Pune||Pune rural stays with NCP; all parties claim victory in Maharashtra||In Western Maharashtra, most of the senior leaders of all parties received a setback in the gram panchayat polls while in Pune district, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) managed to win 500 of 752 gram panchayats. In the region, gram panchayat election results threw a mixed picture with each political party claiming victory. As the elections were fought without political party symbols, data related to individual party results in five districts did not arrive until the time of going to press. In western Maharashtra, there were different types of combinations in panels. In some areas, Congress and NCP contested polls joining hands with BJP. NCP and BJP have also formed panels and contested polls at few places though, in a majority of the gram panchayats, Shiv Sena, NCP, and Congress fielded common panels to prevent votes from getting divided. One such combination was in Kolhapur’s Khanapur village where BJP state unit chief Chandrakant Patil suffered a setback. Even as BJP joined hands with NCP and Congress and fought elections, Shiv Sena managed to win six of nine seats. “I thank the media for taking my village on the global level. While we managed to get three of six seats in Khanapur, the BJP has bagged maximum seats across the state,” Patil said in Mumbai while addressing a press conference. Ganesh Bhegade, Pune district president of BJP said, “We received victory on 200 gram panchayats. We won a maximum number of gram panchayats in Maval, Indapur, Shirur, and Khed talukas.”In Baramati taluka, which is a stronghold of Sharad Pawar and his family, the NCP won 48 of 50 seats until evening. In Satara’s Karad, former chief minister and Congress MLA Prithviraj Chavan suffered a setback with BJP winning 11 out of 13 seats. At the same time NCP leader and cooperative minister for state Balasaheb Patil succeeded to retain seats in the North Karad area. In Sangli, Shiv sena, NCP and Congress-Mahavikas Aghadi won a majority of gram panchayat seats. The panel of Mahavikas Aghadi is ahead in Sangli Taluka. In Sangli’s Mhaisal taluka, BJP defeated the panel pitted by NCP’s Maharashtra state president Jayant Pawar’s nephew. BJP won 15 seats whereas NCP got only two seats in Mhaisal. In Ahmednagar, BJP senior leader, and former minister Radhakrishna Vikhe-Patil panel has got defeated in Loni khurda gram panchayat elections. For the last 20 years, the Vikhe-Patil panel was winning elections in this area. On the other hand, NCP MLA Rohit Pawar panel has defeated BJP senior leader Ram Shinde in Chondi gram panchayat polls. Emotions run high but police prevent celebrations The Ganesh Kala Krida Manch near Swargate was one of the counting centres for the gram panchayat polls where votes from 45 gram panchayat in Haveli taluka was counted. The police and district administration had issued orders of no celebrations and procession during the counting day, which dampened the spirit of supporters of winning candidates. As the candidates and their supporters went inside the counting centre, the anxiety of the others could be seen rising. As time went on, they anxiously waited for updates from inside. If candidates from their panel won, there were loud cheers. However, disappointment was visible on the faces of other panels. Ideal village of Hiware Bazar sees elections after 30 years At Hiware Bazar in Ahmednagar, polls for the local body were held after 30 years as some people decided to contest elections instead of allowing others to get elected unopposed, a tradition the village has observed for three decades. The hamlet has also won the ideal village award on multiple occasions. Popatrao Baguji Pawar, who has been the sarpanch of village, recorded victory of his panel with a 7-0 margin. In 2018, his contribution to transforming an impoverished village was recognised with the Padma Shri Award.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-rural-stays-with-ncp-all-parties-claim-victory-in-maharashtra-101610986579110.html
18-01-2021||Other||2 cases of adverse reaction to vaccine reported in Pune dist||PUNE Pune district has reported two “serious” cases of adverse effects following the Covid-19 immunisation (AEFI), in which two female auxiliary nurses/midwives required hospital admission. Although doctors are sure that the symptoms were not severe and both are stable, the nurses have been kept under observation as per the central government protocol. At least 300 incidents of “adverse effects” following immunisation were reported from the district, as of Monday evening. Senior health officials confirmed that two nurses have been admitted, one to Pune’s Sassoon General Hospital and one to Naidu hospital. Both are in their early 30s and were vaccinated with Covishield. One is from Daund’s sub-district hospital and one is from Mulshi’s Manchar sub-district hospital. Dr Sangram Dange, superintendent, Daundh hospital, said, “She took the vaccine at the centre at 11 am and then about two hours after taking the vaccine, she felt some loss in sensation in the upper regions of her hand. She was referred to Sassoon for further treatment and observation. She has undergone an MRI, but exact diagnosis is awaited. She is rapidly improving. As per preliminary information, Sassoon doctors have ruled out the causality of the vaccine in her case. She is under observation and her sensations have improved, almost back to normal levels. She is under close monitoring.” In the second case, a senior official speaking on condition of anonymity, said, “There are no serious symptoms per say, and the female nurse who was vaccinated at Mulshi, experienced weakness and is currently stable. The woman was admitted to PMC’s Naidu hospital just as a precaution.” A total of 303 AEFI have been reported in the district; 80 from rural Pune, 11 from PMC and 203 from PCMC. Zilla Parishad chief executive officer (CEO) Ayush Prasad said, “We have been tracking each of the 1,800 vaccinated persons continuously and anyone showing even minor symptoms is being immediately given the best of medical care. Even in this case, as soon as she complained of discomfort she underwent an MRI and was referred to a tertiary care facility. It is important to be noted that younger people are reporting more incidents of AEFI which could possibly be because of their stronger immune systems.” Dr Rajesh Karyakarte, head of the microbiology department at Sassoon, said, “It is very natural for the body to react to any foreign antigens. These reactions are caused by macrophages, antigen presenting cells or what is commonly called the body’s defence system, which produces a substance called Interleukin-1 (IL-1) The body’s immune system takes up the newly introduced cells and galvanises the whole immune system and at that time secretes the IL-1 and motivates the whole body to fight against the newly introduced substance.”Dr Karyakarte further explained, “It raises the body temperature, it makes you feel less hungry, because the body wants to divert all its attention to this new foreign body. It also tries to take out the amino acids in our muscles so that they could be used to rapidly form new cells which could lead to body ache. Young people could react more because their immune system is good and the nature of reaction depends, person to person. It completely depends on the IL-1.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2-cases-of-adverse-reaction-to-vaccine-reported-in-pune-dist-101610986520099.html
18-01-2021||Other||Pune dist reports 303 new Covid-19 cases, 4 deaths||PUNE The district reported 303 new Covid-19 cases and four deaths on Monday, according to the state health department.The total cases of Pune district stands at 3,82,460 lakh and out of which, 3,59,137 patients have recovered, 7,906 are reported dead and 15,417 are active cases.One death was reported in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and three in Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC).As per the state health department, PMC has so far reported 1,95,893 Covid cases and 4,458 deaths till Monday. Whereas PCMC has reported 95,804 cases and a total of 1,302 deaths.Pune rural has reported 90,763 total cases and 2,109 deaths due to the infection.As per the state Health department, 3,854 patients were discharged taking the total to 18,90,323 in the state. The recovery rate in the state is 94.86%.Across Maharashtra, 1,924 new cases of Covid-19 were diagnosed and 35 deaths due to the virus were reported taking the case fatality rate to 2.53%.The state health department stated out of 1,38,45,897 laboratory samples, 19,92,683 have tested positive ie 14.39%.Currently 2,21,280 people are in home quarantine and 2,094 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-dist-reports-303-new-covid-19-cases-4-deaths-101610986519630.html
18-01-2021||Other||Pune district’s positivity rate rises to 7.4%||PUNE The positivity rate of Pune district has increased to 7.4 per cent in the second week of January as compared to 6.3 per cent reported in the first week of this month, according to the data of the district health office.Positivity rate is the number of samples that test positive for the infection for every 100 samples that are tested.The number of tests, meanwhile, have also come down to 48,000 in the second week of January as compared to 60,000 in the first week.Rajesh Dehmukh, Pune district collector, said, “There is a marginal fall in the Covid-19 numbers if we compare the first week and the second week of this month.”“At its peak the positivity rate was close to 25-30 per cent which is now below 10 per cent. However, we have instructed the machinery to increase testing, but currently they are also busy with the vaccination process,” he said.In the first week of December 2020, the district reported a positivity rate of 8.8 per cent and over 61,000 samples were tested out of which 5,394 tested positive for the Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 infection.The district figures include Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) and Pune rural.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-district-s-positivity-rate-rises-to-74-101610986519109.html
18-01-2021||Other||SII to dispatch Covishield to multiple countries by month-end||PUNE The city-based Serum Institute of India (SII), largest vaccine manufacturer, has provided 11 million Covishield doses to the central government. These doses are being administered to healthcare staff and frontline workers in the first phase of the inoculation drive being carried out across the country.Dr Suresh Jadhav, executive director, SII, speaks to Steffy Thevar on how they delivered the vaccine in the shortest possible time and about the plan to deliver it to other countries.Is there any communication on further purchase order from the Centre or any requests from other states in India?Currently, we have 90 million doses stocked at our facility ready for dispatch. We have a purchase order for about nine million doses from Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunisation (GAVI) for India which would be dispatched in the next couple of days. The demands made by other countries would not hamper the demand supply for the Indian market. SII would be exporting Covishield to Brazil. Which other countries are likely to get the vaccine and how much?The work on export of vaccine to Brazil will begin likely by month-end and about two million doses is likely to be sent. Currently, the stock is at our cold chain storage which would be sent once things are finalized. Some of the other countries which would also get the vaccine include mostly neighbouring countries like Bangladesh, Bhutan, Nepal and Sri Lanka and also Morocco. Depending on the demand we will be sending about 0.5 million to five million doses to each of these countries. The exports would begin by the end of this month. What has been the costing strategy for Covishield, which is still one of the cheapest Covid vaccines in the world?The costing strategy for any vaccine or for any product in that matter is if there is more requirement then the cost is brought down. In our case we could supply the vaccine in the shortest possible time as the infrastructure was ready. We had the laboratory ready as our expansion plan of other products was underway. Due to Covid-19 the other products got delayed and we could use the available infrastructure for the mass production of Covishield. Multiple mutations regarding the Sars-Cov-2 have been reported in recent days will the vaccine be effective against these mutations We can safely say that Covishield is effective against the currently reported mutations. Be it the mutations reported from the United Kingdom, Brazil, South Africa and even India, our study has found that the vaccine would work as effectively against the virus as it did for the previous strain. This is corroborated by multiple international laboratories too. As of now we can say that the current reported mutations will not alter the efficacy of the vaccine, but for future mutations we cannot say for sure. What special arrangements were made during the past ten months to prioritise vaccine mass production?Our staff was working in full strength in three shifts whenever needed. The government also approved working permission for us since we manufacture life saving drugs. In the given circumstance the Drug Comptroller of India permitted us to manufacture the vaccine even before it could be made available for marketing. This was something unusual as it does not exist in the Indian laws. We got special permission as per the situation, but this was not the first time that vaccines have been manufactured in such a large quantity within a short time. Such emergency decisions were taken during H1N1 and Ebola where vaccines were administered to people from affected areas within months.Some are hesitant to take the vaccine and there are few cases of minor adverse effects. Your comments.Minor adverse effects are natural. We already have had about 60 per cent people who have come forward to take the vaccine which is a good percentage. People would always be hesitant towards any new vaccine or injection at the first time, however, under clinical trials thousands of people across the globe have already been administered with the vaccine. India is a prime example of how vaccines helped eradicate diseases from the world. For example in case of smallpox, India reported the last case in 1970 and by 1979, World Health Organisation (WHO) has declared the eradication of smallpox from the world. Also, in 2011 Indian reported the last case of wild polio and just a few years before that we were reporting the highest number of polio cases in the world. With successful vaccination drives, India can lead the world in eradicating another virus which will need people’s support. Apart from Covishield, which other vaccine candidates is SII manufacturing currently?We are also manufacturing Covovax, full length recombinant Sars-Cov-2 glycoprotein nanoparticle vaccine adjuvant with Matrix M from Novavax Inc, COVIVAXX, RBD VLP display vaccine from SpyBiotech, SII Covac measles viral vector based technology from University of Pittsburgh and COVI-VAC, Live Attenuated Vaccine (Codon de-optimized) from Codagenix.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sii-to-dispatch-covishield-to-multiple-countries-by-monthend-101610986459573.html
18-01-2021||Other||Vaccination drive to resume in Punr from today||PUNE After a gap of two days, the Covid-19 inoculation drive will resume in the city and the rest of the district on Tuesday. In the district, vaccination will takes place at 31 centres, while in the city, eight centres will offer the inoculation. Authorities have now decided to call 120 people in, each day for vaccination, instead of the earlier figure of 100. “We witnessed that around 80 per cent of those who registered showed up on January 16, the first day of vaccination. In the light of this, we increased the number to 120 from January 19, in the hope that at least 100 health-care professionals will turn up,” said Ayush Prasad, CEO of Zilla Parishad. “We have seen that many beneficiaries were not able to come due to work hours. And so we will be calling and scheduling healthcare workers to come and take the vaccine,” said Ayush Prasad. On January 16, 1,802 healthcare workers were vaccinated at 31 centres across Pune district. Prasad added that of these, 302 beneficiaries showed mild symptoms. “That is about 9 per cent showed a mild reaction, post vaccination, in 72 hours,” said Prasad. “Of the 302, 300 showed some post vaccination reaction. They were administered medicines and kept under observation for four to five hours. These reactions are a natural response of the body. However, two beneficiaries, one from Wagholi and one from Daund showed a severe reaction and are still under observation. They are doing okay, however, just to be sure they are kept under observation. The cause of the reaction is not due to the vaccination,” said Prasad. In the first round of vaccination on January 16, 438 healthcare professionals received the jabs of the 800 targeted in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits. Whereas 456 people out of 800 received the vaccination in the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC). And in rural Pune, 908 healthcare professionals were vaccinated out of 1,500 targeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vaccination-drive-to-resume-in-punr-from-today-101610986459014.html
18-01-2021||Other||205 healthcare workers get Covid vaccine jab at NDA Khadakwasla||PUNE At least 205 healthcare and frontline workers were vaccinated at the National Defence Academy (NDA) Khadakwasla on Monday.The event was flagged off by Lt Gen Asit Mistry, AVSM, SM, VSM, Commandant, National Defence Academy, remembering sacrifices made by healthcare and frontline workers, while combating the pandemic.He applauded the contribution of ‘Trishakti Healers’ – Military Hospital, Khadakwasla in helping the academy contain the spread of Covid-19 and continue with training of cadets, as per the “new normal”.He further added that this vaccination drive will subsequently address the populace in Khadakwasla & Girinagar Military Garrisons, duly prioritised as per organisational policy, including the, 2,000 odd NDA cadets, the future leaders of Indian Armed Forces.He said, “The vaccine is safe and efficacious and I appeal to all to be part of this national effort.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/205-healthcare-workers-get-covid-vaccine-jab-at-nda-khadakwasla-101610986399152.html
18-01-2021||Lucknow||Bird flu scare: Relief for poultry business as UP lifts ban on import||The Uttar Pradesh government on Monday lifted the ban on import of poultry from other states following an advisory from the Central government to this effect. The move has come as a big relief to the poultry traders in the state.The order to lift the ban was issued after chief minister Yogi Adityanath approved a proposal to this effect on Monday, sources said.On January 10, the UP government had issued a circular declaring the whole state as a “controlled zone”, putting a ban on import of all kinds of live birds, including poultry, into UP from other states till January 24.The ban was put in view of avian influenza (bird flu) cases being reported from neighbouring states, such as Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana and Punjab. The government was supposed to review the ban after January 24 and take a call depending on the situation.“We have withdrawn the earlier ban order midway with immediate effect on Centre’s advice,” principal secretary, animal husbandry, Bhuvnesh Kumar said.The order also quoted a report by the director, animal diseases, to make a case for lifting the ban. According to that report, the department took 2,811 swab and 1,013 serum samples and also examined 43 dead birds during a statewide surveillance till January 15. “But only 11 (0.54 per cent) samples were found to be positive which is very low,” the order said.Also read: Tandav makers say sorry after a torrent of criticism over web seriesThe Centre’s advisory, according to sources, said that not only there was no evidence of the avian influenza virus spreading from birds to human beings but the virus is also destroyed at 70 degree Celsius temperature and there was no risk from eating well-boiled eggs and meat.“Moreover, while emphasising the need for lifting the ban, the Centre also said the virus in UP was mostly affecting wild birds and poultry birds were not hit, barring sporadic cases,” sources said.The Centre saw the poultry import prohibition as a knee-jerk reaction to the situation.Sources, however, added the ban was lifted mainly due to financial losses it was causing to people engaged in the poultry business in UP as well in states from where poultry birds are imported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bird-flu-scare-relief-for-poultry-business-as-up-lifts-ban-on-import-101610985295614.html
18-01-2021||Other||State’s three-tier sports plan for athletes aims to negate months lost to pandemic||PUNE After a pandemic-impacted year – the Maharashtra state sports department is ready to change gears as far as sporting activities go.Currently the state has a three-layer programme in place for athletes to be trained – high-level performance academies, district-level training centres and divisional academies.“The academy at the Shiv Chhatrapati Sports Complex will be a high- performance centre where players who have won medals at the national and international level will train,” said Om Prakash Bakoria, state sports commissioner, after the launch of the Khelo India Centre of Excellence at the Shiv Chhartapati Sports Complex in Balewadi, on Monday.“At the divisional-level, academy players in priority sports will be given training.Maharashtra has selected weightlifting, judo, boxing, fencing, table tennis, gymnastics, athletics, triathlon, track cycling, archery, shooting and hockey as its priority games.High performance academies and divisional academies are residential academies, while district training centres will not provide lodging facilities.“We are in the process of finalising our district training centres where talent searches and training will be conducted,” added Bakoria.The state has divisional level academies at – Nagpur, Ahmednagar, Gadchiroli, Amravati, Nashik, Aurangabd, Kolhapur and Thane.“Keeping players of all levels in one place will not bring out the best results. This division will also help athletes improve before getting enrolled at the high performance centre in Pune,” added Bakoria.The state will also finalise locations for smaller Khelo India centres which will run under a central government programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/states-three-tier-sports-plan-for-athletes-aims-to-negate-months-lost-to-pandemic-101610979673021.html
18-01-2021||Other||IMD to use three models to better weather forecasts||Pune: For more accurate weather forecasts in 2021, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) will be using data from three weather prediction models. Speaking at the annual monsoon e-workshop and national e-symposium on “Cloud and Precipitation Processes” on Monday, DS Pai, scientist and head, climate research and services, IMD, Pune, said the three models will be used by the weather department to ensure that the predictions are more detailed and accurate. Pai said the three models will forecast monsoon based on various factors. “A multi-model ensemble (MME), the Nigam model developed by professor Sumant Nigam and his team from the University of Maryland, US, and MME forecast based on calibrated rainfall forecasts obtained through principal component regression models of different observed climate variables prior to the monsoon season will be used to forecast the weather system in 2021,” said Pai. Pai said that various models have been used to forecast rainfall during the southwest monsoon in the last decade. “For 2020, southwest monsoon forecast by models were indicating heavy rainfall. However, the seasonal rainfall was relatively less, but near to normal. Expect for July 2020, the rainfall predicted by IMD was underestimated in most months. However, we upgraded the forecast. We observed weak La Nina conditions likely during the late monsoon of 2020. This affected the rainfall system and we were able to forecast that correctly,” said Pai. He said that the weather department has several models which are rainfall calibrated and some predict in a particular way. “The deficiency of one model can be fulfilled by other models. For example, in 2020, 102 per cent of rainfall was forecasted, but the observation was 109 per cent. Such discrepancies can be avoided by using a multi-model approach for forecast,” said Pai. Pai said that 2020 did not see a single monsoon depression, but only excess monsoon with many low pressure systems. “There are two reasons to this. One was that the system formed was very close to the coast and entered into land very quickly. Second is that the easterly jet was very strong which did not allow any system to develop,” said Pai. Jet streams are strong winds that can push air masses around and affect weather patterns, according to the weather officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/imd-to-use-three-models-to-better-weather-forecasts-101610974332554.html
18-01-2021||Other||Vaccine here, but don’t let guard down: Mumbai civic body||Though the vaccination programme against Covid-19 commenced in the city on Saturday, the civic body has maintained that the daily caseload might not decline immediately in the city. According to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), it will take three-four months to understand the effect of vaccination on the daily caseload. However, citizens must follow Covid-related precautions for the next six months at least, officials have said. On Saturday, BMC started vaccinating the city’s healthcare workers. In Phase-2 of the vaccination drive, frontline workers will be immunised. BMC expects that the chances of potential silent spreaders among these two categories will go down, once the first two phases end. However, vaccinating these two groups will be a long process, and the virus will come under further control only after more population gets immunised. “It will be very premature to draw a relation between the declining cases and the start of the vaccination process. On Saturday, we gave the first dose and the second one will be given 28 days later. It will take 14 more days after the second dose to develop antibodies. Hence, vaccination is a very long process. For three-four months, there will be no downward trend that can be attributed to the vaccination drive. For the next few months, wearing a mask, washing hands and social distancing are the best practices to fight Covid-19,” said additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani.On Saturday, BMC commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal had told reporters that citizens should not lower their guard despite the start of immunisation. “Citizens will be required to wear masks for at least another six months and follow hygiene and social distancing,” he said.BMC plans to vaccinate 130,000 healthcare workers in Phase-1 of the vaccination programme. “After three months, we will be in a situation where at least 1.30 lakh would have been vaccinated. But this number is very small to conclude that the daily caseload will come down. The more we vaccinate, the more we will control the spread of the virus,” said a BMC official.In the second phase, frontline workers such as police personnel, civic officials etc will be immunised. The third phase will target citizens aged above 50 as well as those suffering from comorbidities. “Currently, Mumbai has the capacity to store 10 million vaccines, and we can vaccinate 15,000 people every day at our current capacity. But this number can go up to 100,000, if private institutions are involved in the vaccination,” said Chahal.On Saturday, 1,926 health workers were vaccinated till 5pm, said BMC. A total of 200 staffers, including 80 vaccinators, conducted the process and no untoward incident or adverse medical reaction was reported among the vaccine beneficiaries.Officials were forced to suspend the vaccination drive due to glitches in the CoWIN app. “The drive is halted till Monday as the Centre is trying to fix the glitches in the CoWIN app used for the registration of vaccine beneficiaries. Once the glitches are resolved, we’ll be intimated about resuming the process by the state,” the official said.Meanwhile on Sunday, the city reported 531 cases, taking the tally to 302,757. The toll surged to 11,244 after seven new fatalities were reported. The fatality rate is 3.85%.The recovery rate stands at 93.7% after 283,845 patients have been discharged after Covid-19 treatment. There are 6,779 active cases in Mumbai.Dharavi, one of the former hot spots that has shown signs of drastic improvement, recorded only 10 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking its tally to 3,890 total cases, of which 3,559 patients have been discharged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vaccine-here-but-don-t-let-guard-down-mumbai-civic-body-101610970793026.html
18-01-2021||Other||4 robbers held after encounter in Punjab’s border town of Patti; fifth dies of drug overdose||Four robbers were arrested after an hour-long encounter on the outskirts of Patti town in Tarn Taran district on Monday morning. Police said the fifth member of the gang died due to suspected drug overdose during the encounter. More than 100 rounds of fire were exchanged in the encounter that left two policemen and the four accused wounded with bullet injuries. All injured are undergoing treatment at Patti civil hospital. The incident took place at 11am when the accused were on their way from Patti to Tarn Taran, the police said, adding the accused, who faced around 50 criminal cases in Amritsar and Tarn Taran districts, had committed six robberies in the past 24 hours. WEAPONS, DRUGS SEIZED FROM ACCUSED Those arrested have been identified as Gurjinder Singh of Manakpura village, Rajbir Singh, alias Raju, of Chohla Sahib, Fateh Singh of Bhikhiwind, and Jagjit Singh, alias Jaggi, of Naushehra Pannuan village. The fifth member, who died during the encounter, was identified as Gurmeet Singh, alias Gopi, of Jatta village in Tarn Taran. Though all four arrested accused were injured, Gurmeet was not harmed physically. All accused are in their 30s, the police said, adding that three sophisticated country-made pistols, narcotics, including opium, smack and intoxicated pills, and two cars, a Maruti Suzuki Swift Dzire and a Renault Pulse, were confiscated. Constables Sarabjit Singh and Bikramjit Singh are undergoing treatment. SPATE OF ROBBERIES, CARJACKINGSenior superintendent of police Dhruman H Nimbale said robberies were reported from petrol stations in Tarn Taran on Sunday. Two of incidents of carjacking were reported at Sarhali and Chohla Sahib on Monday morning. “We had information that the accused were on their way from Patti to Tarn Taran. A team led by station house officer (SHO) Patti city, Lakhbir Singh confronted the accused at which they opened fire in which constable Sarabjit Singh, who was driving the car, was hit by a bullet in his rib. After this, our team caught two of the five accused,” said the SSP. He said, “Three of the five accused fled and hid in Mahi resort near Kairon village. The area was cordoned off and a heavy police force from the district, including the superintendent of police (SP) and deputy superintendent of police (DSP), was deployed to arrest the accused. They continued firing from their hideout in the palace towards the police team. Around 80 rounds were fired.” On Sunday, the accused had looted three petrol stations and a car at gunpoint. The petrol pump at Bhikhiwind was looted in which an employee was shot at by the accused. A case was registered at Patti city police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/4-robbers-held-after-encounter-in-punjab-s-border-town-of-patti-fifth-dies-of-drug-overdose-101610970733420.html
18-01-2021||Other||Five steps to creating and registering a Last Will & Testament||Step 1To register a Will, as per Section 59 of the Indian Succession Act, 1925, the person must be of legal age and sound mind. A Will can be drawn up through a lawyer. A Will is executed by ensuring signature of testator in the presence of the two witnesses.Step 2It would be beneficial if a Will is registered and properly stamped as it helps in ensuring proper execution. Registration of the Will happens at the office of the sub-registrar. One must submit address proof, photographs and witnesses to sign the will.Step 3Once the Will is drafted, a witness should accompany the person to the registrar for registration. Once it’s registered, it can be kept in safe custody with a lawyer or in a bank locker. If you select a registrar to safeguard your will, put will in a sealed cover.Step 4In case you want to revise or modify certain clauses in your Will, it can be done through Codicil, a document enlisting the amended parts of the will. It is then attested by the testator in the presence of two witnesses and kept along with the will with the registrar.Step 5If the person whose Will is with the registrar dies, any person may apply for the opening of the cover containing that will. The registrar will only open the cover after confirming that the testator is dead. The original will remain in the registrar’s custody. “Execution of a Will makes it easier for your family to sort everything out. It is especially important if you have children who depend on you financially, or if you want to leave something to people outside your immediate family,” says Avinash Pathak, advocateNOTE: A Will may be revoked or altered by the owner at any time prior to his/ her death. Registration of the will is not mandatory, as under the Indian Succession Act, 1925, it’s considered to be a personal choice of the testator. However, it’s advisable to register it, if its contents are to be abided by after the person’s death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/five-steps-to-creating-and-registering-a-last-will-testament-101610969532864.html
18-01-2021||Other||Mother, sons suffocated to death as they sleep with angithi in room||Three members of a family, including two children, died of suffocation as they slept with a coal-brazier (angithi) to keep themselves warm in a room at Hamadwala Uttad village in Ferozepur district on Sunday night. The deceased were identified as Rajbir Kaur, 35, Sahilpreet, 12, and Ekampreet, 5. Police sources said prima facie no foul play was suspected. Rajbir’s father-in-law, Kewal Singh, first noticed the absence of the family on Monday morning. He was sleeping in another room but failed to notice the deaths until morning. “The family has a few cattle at home. As Rajbir was not spotted at the time of milking the animals, Kewal got concerned as the room in which she and her sons were sleeping was locked from inside,” a family member said. On breaking open the door, the extended family of the victims found them dead. Police took the bodies to the civil hospital in Ferozepur district for post-mortem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mother-sons-suffocated-to-death-as-they-sleep-with-angithi-in-room-101610969112803.html
18-01-2021||Lucknow||Ten BJP candidates file for nomination for UP legislative council polls||Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Dinesh Sharma and former IAS officer AK Sharma were among 10 BJP candidates who filed their nomination for the biennial polls to the Uttar Pradesh Legislative Council on Monday.Besides them, an independent candidate, Mahesh Chandra Sharma, also filed his nomination for the coming elections, Returning Officer, B.B Dubey said.Monday is the last day for the filing of nominations for 12 legislative council seats, which will fall vacant on January 30.The scrutiny of papers will be held on January 19 and names can be withdrawn till January 21.The polling is scheduled to take place on January 28 and the counting will be done an hour after the completion of the pollsChief Minister Yogi Adityanath and senior ministers were present during the filing of nominations.Those who filed their nominations include state unit BJP president Swatantra Dev Singh Lakshman Prasad Acharya, Kunwar Manvendra Singh, Govind Narayan Shukla, Salil Bishnoi, Ashwani Tyagi, Dharamveer Prajapati and Surendra Chaudhary.The BJP has aasserted that it will win 10 out of 12 seats. In the 403-member UP Legislative Assembly, the BJP has 310 MLAs, SP 49, BSP 18, Apna Dal (Sonelal) has 9, Congress 7 and the SBSP 4.There are three Independent MLAs while the RLD and the Nishad Party have one MLA each.Of the 12 MLCs whose tenure is expiring, six are from the Samajwadi Party (SP). They include Ramesh Yadav, Ahmed Hasan, Ashu Malik, Sahab Singh Saini, Ramjatan Rajbhar and Virendra Singh.The tenure of BSP's Pradeep Jatav and Dharamveer Ashok is also coming to an end. The term of Naseemudin Siddiqui, who left the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and joined the Congress, is also coming to an end.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ten-bjp-candidates-file-for-nomination-for-up-legislative-council-polls-101610967623364.html
18-01-2021||Other||Monday Musings: Should the police act or not? When the law is made to order||Earlier last week, many in Pune began receiving phone calls from the police seeking personal details, such as address and photo id. In some cases, police personnel even visited homes to collect the photo ids and other documents. All this was part of an exercise by the police against those caught violating curfew-related norms during the Covid- induced lockdown. The police have already clarified that they are in process of filing chargesheets, and for this, details such as photo id, residence address and phone numbers of those who violated orders are being gathered. These are offences police lodged mainly during March, April, May and June, when Pune, along with other parts of Maharashtra were under strict lockdown. In Pune, as many as 28,000 people have violated rules such as not wearing masks, stepping out of home during curfew orders, and keeping shops open beyond deadlines. The police action caused an uproar with many crying that the move is unnecessary when the law enforcement agencies have not been effective in dealing with criminals. The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) jumped into the fray and wrote to home minister Anil Deshmukh – he belongs to the same party – with a request to intervene and ask the Pune police chief not to go ahead with the action. The NCP’s intervention came after some of the civic activists, who otherwise ask for transparency, honesty and accountability from every government agency, expressed unhappiness against the police action. Is this the first instance where police are being asked not to pursue cases? In the past, governments have on multiple occasions approved withdrawal of police cases filed during political and social agitations. The latest being the Maha Vikas Aghadi government’s decision on December 31, to take back cases between November 2014 to December 2019. Most of these cases are related to the Maratha protests as well as the Aarey agitation against the Metro carshed. Earlier, the Fadnavis government had cleared similar cases between 2005 and 2014. Among the key cases in which the government made a plea in the court seeking withdrawal was one against Shiv Sena leader Neelam Gorhe and Uddhav Thackeray’s personal assistance Milind Narvekar. Both, among others, were booked for hatching a conspiracy allegedly to create law and order problem in Pune during a bandh called by Shiv Sena in 2010. Maharashtra, of course, is not the only state to have withdrawn cases. In all the protests from 2005 and 2019, where the government has decided to withdraw cases, there was violence too, making the common citizen suffer. The spate of withdrawal of criminal as well as non-criminal cases against politicians, their workers and the aam aadmi point not just to the subverting of the rule of law, but also indicate the overpowering stranglehold of the political establishments. In the latest episode involving cases against common citizens, police have invoked Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code. Section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, provides penalties for disobeying any regulation or order made under the Act. These are according to Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code under disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant. Any move to take back cases registered lawfully for any violation only undermines the legitimacy of state, an absence of which can lead to chaos. During lockdown, when people were roaming the roads without purpose, police came under criticism for inaction. Now that the police are trying to take cases filed against those violating the norms to their logical conclusion by filing chargesheets, they have once again come under criticism. While any withdrawal must be “with the consent of the court”, the court itself has to see that the withdrawal is to meet the ends of justice and not for an improper reason such as political expediency.Yogesh Joshi can be contacted at yogesh.joshi@htlive.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/monday-musings-should-the-police-act-or-not-when-the-law-is-made-to-order-101610968215511.html
18-01-2021||Other||No spectators at Attari border on Republic Day amid Covid pandemic||No spectators will be allowed on the Indian side of the Attari-Wagah joint checkpost on Republic Day in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. A Border Security Force (BSF) official said though the public will not be allowed, a decision is yet to be taken on whether the coordinated parade with Pakistan will be held this time or not. The joint parade was held on Independence Day last year when the pandemic was at its peak. Since the Covid-19 outbreak last March, only the flag-lowering ceremony is conducted at sunset on the Indian side of the border. India and Pakistan had suspended the entry of spectators in view of Covid-19 though the neighbouring country re-opened its border for spectators in October. Since then, Pakistan Rangers have been holding their daily military parade and ceremony. “Due to the coronavirus pandemic, no spectator will be allowed to enter the joint check post (JCP) at Attari this Republic Day. But we have yet to decide our programme, including the parade ceremony, to celebrate the day on the border,” said a senior Punjab BSF official, requesting anonymity. Another BSF official at the JCP said though the programme for Republic Day is yet to be received from the authorities, the parade is expected to be held. He said the celebration may be on the lines of the one held in August when the beating the retreat ceremony was held without spectators. The live musical band performance was also conducted on Independence Day. The BSF and Pakistan Rangers have not been exchanging sweets on special occasions at the border since India abrogated Article 370, which granted special status to the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir in August 2019. The troops at Attari-Wagah border had last exchanged sweets on Eid-ul-Fitr and on Republic Day in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-spectators-at-attari-border-on-republic-day-amid-covid-pandemic-101610967372864.html
18-01-2021||Other||Hyderabad man sets 10-year-old son ablaze for not studying||Angry over his 10-year-old son not focusing on studies, a man poured turpentine oil and set him ablaze, police said on Monday.The boy suffered 60 per cent burns and is undergoing treatment in a government hospital, they said.The boy's father, a labourer, is absconding, police said, adding, the incident took place at the Kukatpally Housing Board area here on Sunday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hyderabad-man-sets-10-year-old-son-ablaze-for-not-studying-101610965048635.html
18-01-2021||Other||Now, SIT files chargesheet against Punjab ex-DGP Sumedh Singh Saini in Kotkapura firing case||Faridkot: The special investigation team (SIT) probing the 2015 police firing incidents on Monday filed a chargesheet against former director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini in the Kotkapura firing case. The SIT named Saini as an accused in a supplementary chargesheet filed in the court of judicial magistrate Ekta Uppal. The court has summoned the accused for hearing on February 18. Saini was named an accused in the Kotkapura police firing case on October 10 last year. The move comes three days after the SIT, led by inspector general of police (IGP) Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh, filed a chargesheet against Saini and IGP Paramraj Singh Umranangal , who is under suspension, for the 2015 Behbal Kalan firing. FOUR CHARGESHEETS AGAINST SEVEN ACCUSED With this, the SIT has filed four chargesheets, including three supplementary ones against seven accused. The seven accused comprise six police officials and a former Shiromani Akali Dal MLA in the Kotkapura case. The first chargesheet was filed against former Moga senior superintendent of police Charanjit Singh Sharma in May 2019. The second in June 2019 in which six people, including former SAD MLA Mantar Brar, Umranangal, former SSP Sharma, ADCP Paramjit Singh Pannu, then Kotkapura DSP Baljit Singh and then Kotkapura SHO Gurdeep Singh Pandher, were named as accused. In the third chargesheet, the Ranjit Singh panel report was made a part of the SIT’s chargesheet. 22 CALLS BETWEEN SAINI, UMRANANGAL ON OCT 14, 2015 The SIT had claimed in the previous chargesheets that when the firing incidents at Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan took place on October 14, 2015, at least 22 phone calls were exchanged between Saini and Umranangal. The SIT claimed that its investigation had found that Umranangal was in constant touch with Saini and after getting directions from him, he told the then SSP Sharma and others to use force on the protesters. According to the chargesheet, the police action on protesters was the result of a conspiracy hatched by politicians and senior police officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/now-sit-files-chargesheet-against-punjab-ex-dgp-sumedh-singh-saini-in-kotkapura-firing-case-101610960952057.html
18-01-2021||Delhi||It is voluntary, don't accept it: Delhi HC on WhatsApp's privacy policy||The Delhi High Court on Monday said accepting the new privacy policy of social messaging app WhatsApp was a "voluntary" thing and one can choose not to use or join that platform if one did not agree with its terms and conditions."It is a private app. Don't join it. It is a voluntary thing, don't accept it. Use some other app," Justice Sanjeev Sachdeva said to the petitioner, a lawyer, who has challenged WhatsApp's new privacy policy which was slated to come into effect in February but has been deferred till May.The court also said that if the terms and conditions of most mobile apps are read, "you would be surprised as to what all you are consenting to"."Even Google maps captures all your data and stores it," the court said.The court further said it could not understand what data would be leaked according to the petitioner and since the issue requires consideration, it will be listed on January 25 due to paucity of time on Monday.The central government also agreed with the court that the issue needs to be analysed.  WhatsApp and Facebook, represented by senior advocates Kapil Sibal and Mukul Rohatgi, told the court that the plea was not maintainable and many of the issues raised in it were without any foundation.They further told the court that private chat messages between family and friends would remain encrypted and cannot be stored by WhatsApp and this position would not change under the new policy.The change in policy would only affect the business chats on WhatsApp, they said.The petition, by a lawyer, has contended that the updated privacy policy violates users right to privacy under the Constitution.The plea has claimed that the new privacy policy of WhatsApp allows full access into a user's online activity without there being any supervision by the government.Under the new policy, users can either accept it or exit the app, but they cannot opt not to share their data with other Facebook-owned or third party apps. The lawyer appearing for the petitioner claimed that the option not to agree with the new policy was given to users in European nations, but not in India. PTI HMP SA||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/it-is-voluntary-don-t-accept-it-delhi-hc-on-whatsapp-s-privacy-policy-101610960449642.html
18-01-2021||Bangalore||Former Karnataka CM Siddaramaiah lashes out at Maharashtra CM over border issue||Former Karnataka Chief Minister, Siddaramaiah on Monday condemned Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray's remarks on "incorporating Marathi-speaking areas in Karnataka" into Maharashtra.In a series of tweets, Siddaramaiah, Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Assembly said: "I strongly condemn the statement made by Uddhav Thackeray about our Belagavi. Belagavi is an integral part of Karnataka. Don't try to instigate us by bringing up the issue which is already resolved."Karnataka and Maharashtra have been at loggerheads for decades over areas along their border in districts like Belagavi, Karwar and Nipani.Siddaramaiah added, "Mahajan report is final with respect to Belagavi border issue. Uddhav Thackeray, don't try to politicize the issue which is already decided. You are not just a Shiv Sena activist. Don't forget that you are also a responsible Chief Minister."Siddaramaiah also requested Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa to give a befitting response on this matter."We will never compromise or politicize on matters related to land-water-language of Karnataka. Protecting our State is our responsibility. Karnataka Chief Minister should officially give a befitting response to the stupid comments made by Uddhav Thackeray," he said.On January 17, Chief Minister Office of Maharashtra tweeted, "Bringing back Marathi linguistic and cultural regions from Karnataka to Maharashtra will be the real tribute to the martyrs who lost their lives in the fight of Belgavi border dispute. We are united and committed to this. With these words, we give homage to the martyrs."On November 18, last year Yediyurappa had condemned Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar's remarks about incorporating Belgaum (Belagavi) and some other areas of Karnataka into Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/former-karnataka-cm-siddaramaiah-lashes-out-at-maharashtra-cm-over-border-issue-101610959445387.html
18-01-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: A (mid-air) walk to remember||Open sky. Nobody. Just you and your solitude, and a quiet walk mid-air.Footover bridges are among the most escapist places of a city, especially when suspended in places that don’t appeal to crowds during certain times of the day (outside the rush hours, for instance). Like the one streaming out of exit 3, in Old Faridabad metro station. That facility for pedestrians remains deathly quiet during noons when you can hear the air rock its metal body with a hissing sound.But no bridge in the entire National Capital Region can match the haunting feeling experienced here on the footbridge spanning over the Signature Tower Chowk in Gurugram.This afternoon, the crisscrossing roads and flyovers are punctuated with cars and bikes, but the long bridge seems detached from the world. The escalators are still. The staircase is painted over with shifting patterns of daylight and shade. Up on the bridge, the sound of traffic has acquired an interesting character. Rather than being an irritant, it now fascinates, as if a classical music composer had weaved together a myriad of dissonant noises into a rhapsody dedicated to the chaos of modern life.As the breeze blowing along the bridge sweeps the fine gravel and sand from their hideouts, they drift haphazardly, making scratchy noises on the metal flooring on settling down.Now, the view.The 1pm sky is without its customary mist or fog, and so clear that one could as well paw the blue out of it. Far off distances seem within grasp while the nearby high-rises are scattered like packs of socially-distanced stalagmites. Directly below, a labourer is digging the ground, his face is bent downwards but the yellow helmet glints in the sunshine.The bridge overlooks the highway to Jaipur and also to an underpass, whose long curvy skylight, before it disappears into the ground, looks like a python lounging under the winter sun.On returning to the earth, the bridge again seems remote. Now a man enters its empty corridor. From the pavement below, he is looking like a small ant moving across a tablecloth. He suddenly stops, takes out what appears to be his mobile, and stretches out the phone-holding arm, probably clicking a full-body selfie.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-a-mid-air-walk-to-remember-101610920250656.html
18-01-2021||Delhi||DDA asks residents for input on Delhi’s Master Plan 2041||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) has sought suggestions from the public for the city’s new vision document, Master Plan of Delhi-2041.The move comes months after the DDA and the National Institute of Urban Affairs (NIUA), which has been roped in by the DDA to prepare the MPD-2041, held a two-month-long public consultation last year.A senior DDA official said that this is being done to ensure maximum participation from the public before the draft of MPD-2041 is prepared. “People can give their suggestions and share their ideas about what kind of the city they want Delhi to be. The idea behind this exercise is to get maximum participation,” said the official.DDA on January 6 also tweeted along with a link of the form for suggestions from the public, “Be a part of RE-INVENTING DELHI! DDA is preparing Delhi’s next Master Plan for 2041. Being a resident of Delhi, click on the link below & aid in creating a vision for your city that will steer the next master plan. 5 statements! 10 minutes of your time!”In the form, DDA has asked people about the issues they face currently which they want to be addressed in the next vision document. The land-owning agency has also asked people to list five important things they must address to ensure planned and sustainable development of the city. DDA officials say that no deadline has been set for the exercise so far.From rampant commercialisation due to mixed land use to poor implementation of MPD-2021 to frequent amendments in the plan to regularise “illegal” developments, Resident Welfare Associations (RWAs) say that the next master plan should take into account “ground realities” and provide solutions to local problems.In the last 14 years, when mixed land use was allowed in Delhi, RWAs say it has led to commercialisation of residential areas.Rajiv Kakria, convener, Save Our City campaign and a resident of Greater Kailash-I, said, “It has destroyed the residential character of neighbourhoods. Today, safety and security has become our utmost concern due to rampant commercialisation of residential areas. We don’t know who is entering our areas. It has destroyed the social fabric. Our top priority is that residential, industrial and commercial areas should have dedicated space. Safety and security of residential areas should be maintained.”BS Vohra, president of East Delhi RWA joint front, said, “Apart from mixed land use, the new Master Plan should also focus on making the city roads more pedestrian friendly. There is an urgent need to find a solution to the problem of traffic congestion.”While RWAs want the problem of rampant commercialisation to be addressed, traders’ associations in the capital want planned commercial spaces and a permanent solution to the problem of sealing.Praveen Khandelwal, secretary general, Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT), said, “Development of commercial space has not kept pace with the city’s growth. DDA should assess the requirement for commercial space and plan accordingly. There is a need to provide planned commercial spaces in the city and also protect present businesses from sealing and demolition action.”NGOs and experts working for the welfare of under-privileged people in turn want the DDA to reach out to these people also so that they can have a say in the plan.Shalaka, coordinator of ‘Main Bhi Dilli’ campaign (a collective of individuals and organisations working on creating awareness about the MPD-2041), and member of Indo-Global Social Service Society (IGSSS), a voluntary organisation, said, “It is good that the DDA is reaching out to people. But there is a need to organise mass outreach programme so that people living in unauthorised colonies and slum clusters also get a chance to give their inputs. They will not be able to fill-up the form online.”While the DDA is asking people to give a broad vision for the city, citizens want an issue-based discussion on various aspects of MPD-2041.Atul Goyal, president of URJA, a collective of RWAs in the city, said, “There are several components of MPD which require detailed discussion. The DDA should have issue-based discussion with people on mixed land use, transportation, redevelopment, development of unauthorised colonies impact on plotted developments. There should be a provision to audit. We should know what all has been achieved.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dda-asks-residents-for-input-on-delhi-s-master-plan-2041-101610919598522.html
18-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Search for an affordable house lands 19 in fraud net||Sometime around November 2018, Dr. Shivali Seth, a Delhi-based dermatologist, came across a newspaper advertisement regarding an affordable housing scheme being launched by a private developer in southwest Delhi’s Chhawla. The developer claimed that the scheme was under the Delhi Development Authority’s (DDA) land pooling policy.“Since the advertisement had the DDA’s name and the scheme was lucrative and affordable, I invested R12.37 lakh, after my name figured in the list of people selected in the lucky draw. I did some basic online and physical verification of the real estate developer and the proposed site which threw up some red flags. Two months later, I found out that the housing scheme was fake with no DDA connection at all. All my hard-earned money was gone,” said Seth, a single mother.Pushkar Rawat from Uttam Nagar, who worked in a private company, said he took loans and invested ₹7 lakh in 2018 in a similar proposed housing scheme in Dwarka, after getting reference from a relative. But he sound found himself cheated, when in November he read about the fraud and the arrest of the company’s two office bearers by Delhi Police.“The company’s office is closed and its executives who processed the flat’s booking and payments have switched off their phones. I am paying nearly ₹6,000 every month as interest for the loan I had taken. I lost my job during the lockdown and am struggling to pay the loan interest and make ends meet,” said Rawat.Owning a house in Delhi is a dream for many. But like Rawat, Seth and thousands of home buyers, this dream turned into a nightmare after being duped by various developers and promoters, who allegedly tricked them into investing in different housing schemes by fraudulently using the DDA’s land-pooling policy, which is yet to become operational.In the last one and a half years, Delhi Police’s economic offences wing (EOW) has registered 19 cases of cheating and fraud against various developers and housing society groups. So far, EOW has arrested 13 officer bearers of four companies – Revanta Multi State CGHS Ltd, Aerocity Dwarka, Rudra Welfare Society, and Eminent Officers Welfare Society. Three of the four arrested office bearers of Revanta group are now out on bail, at least three EOW officials probing these cases said.“The fraudsters had launched web portals and various types of electronic advertisements were being sent to attract homebuyers and dupe them in the name of allotting flats. It was also revealed that a Nigerian gang was also involved in duping people, through online transactions, in the name of the DDA’s land pooling policy. A special investigation team (SIT) was formed to probe the cases,” said one of the officers.The DDA had notified its land pooling policy for the first time in 2013 and later in 2015. But it is only in 2018, the land-owning agency started work on it. Currently, the DDA is in the process of getting land owners in 95 urbanised villages to come together to pool their land. So far, DDA says 6500 hectares (approx.) of land has been pooled. DDA officials say that they are yet to start planning for its use.Joint commissioner of police (EOW) OP Mishra said that even as the land pooling policy planning was in the early stage, various builders and promoters have grabbed this as an opportunity to exploit the situation by luring in and duping innocent flat buyers. They often promised flats in Dwarka, Chhawla, Najafgarh and Rohini under the scheme.“They raised huge amounts for advance bookings in the name of registration and allotment,” he said.By the time the DDA could learn about this fraud in 2014-15 and begin issuing public notices to warn people to stay away from “any illegal offer of registration of plots or flats under the land pooling policy”, many real estate firms set up their offices in Delhi, mostly in Dwarka and its neighbouring areas, and hundreds of home buyers had already invested their money in various housing schemes, which only existed on “attractive brochures and papers”, the EOW officials said.Officials said the DDA began receiving complaints from cheated homebuyers in 2018 and the authority contacted the EOW, which by then had also received similar complaints. After preliminary verification, the first case was registered in December 2019 against the Revanta Group, which alone had duped more than 4,000 homebuyers of over Rs450 crore, said the officials.“The company offered flats in L-Zone Dwarka under the DDA’s land pooling policy, even though the authority had not allotted any land for any housing project there. The company’s founders purchased lands in Dwarka at very high rates – R10 crore per acre against the circle rate of R53 lakh. Land facilitation agencies were incorporated and direct land deals with farmers were avoided to siphon off the funds. One of the members sold his own land posing as a farmer,” said Mishra.The joint CP said that the company hired facilitation agencies and paid them around ₹115 crore for bringing homebuyers by contacting them through phone calls, text messages and emails.When contacted, founder member and former president of Revanta group Satender Maan (out on bail) said, “We purchased 48 acres of land using the investors’ money but the problem began when the DDA reduced the floor area ration (FAR) and we informed investors that they will either have to pay more money for the extra land or would get reduced size flats. Many filed police complaints and civil suits. After registering the case, the police freezed our bank accounts and we could not progress in our project.”When contacted regarding the frauds, the DDA released a statement and said, “DDA has time and again cautioned home buyers and investors against fraudulent practices by some developers and societies to lure people into buying houses under the false pretext of land policy. Any person interested or being given promise of any land or apartments under any land pooling scheme, must go through the instructions and details about the scheme on DDA’s website so as to safeguard their interests and avoid any trap by fraudsters floating and advertising false and fictitious land pooling schemes. DDA is again requesting the aggrieved persons, who have invested in the name of fraudulent land pooling schemes, to approach the EOW and file formal complaints against the fraudsters.”EOW officials said that there are many victims of similar frauds. “We are doing campaigns to make people aware of this land pooling policy frauds and come forward to file their complaints, if they have been duped,” added Mishra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-search-for-an-affordable-house-lands-19-in-fraud-net-101610919106466.html
18-01-2021||Delhi||‘No Car Sunday’ organised in Connaught Place||Scores of Delhiites, including youngsters, gathered in Connaught Place on Sunday morning, cycling and walking, with a message for people to ditch their private vehicles for a day.The campaign called, ‘No Car Sunday’, which was first started by a group of teenage environment activists as a local initiative to discourage neighbours from using their cars for one day of the week to help reduce vehicular emissions in the national capital, has now become a multi-city campaign that was organised on Sunday in Mumbai, Bangalore and Lucknow.The initiative is now being backed by Fridays for Future (India chapter), Let Me Breathe, Vrikshit Foundation, My Right to Breathe and Extinction Rebellion (India).Sixteen-year-old Aditya Dubey, who was among the youngsters who started this campaign, said that this was initiated to encourage public participation to send out the message that every citizen of the country can contribute to making the environment cleaner for the coming generations.“I am an asthmatic myself and I know how difficult it is hundreds like me in Delhi to just exercise our basic right to breathe. Things only get worse for us during the winters. We all know the contribution that vehicular emissions make to the rising pollution in the country and our small contribution can go a long way in reducing that,” said Dubey.Many youngsters like Dubey came out to the streets of Delhi with the same message, coaxing the adults to start using more sustainable modes of transportations such as cycles, public transportation or walking as much as possible.Participants stood with posters reading, “clean air everyday’, ‘this is my space to walk’, and ‘reclaiming my right to breathe’. The participants cycled and used the Yulu bikes from central Delhi’s Shivaji Stadium metro station as a symbolic gesture to reclaim the streets for cyclists and walkers.The Delhi government has also introduced a similar concept in 2015, calling it ‘car free day’ where in some roads of the city private vehicles were not allowed to ply for selected days. The concept, however, was not sustained.Bhavreen Kandhari, environmental activist, who is also backing this campaign, said that this initiative by children and young adults is a wake-up call for adults to start doing their bit for the environment.“We are planning to increase the ambit of this campaign and want that the government should also take interest and get involved in this initiative that has been taken up by children of this city. Today (Sunday) when we took the campaign to the streets we saw that there was a great appreciation and acceptance to this concept,” Kandhari said.She also said that while the ‘No Car Sunday’ was being encouraged because it is easier for people to avoid using the vehicles on a weekend, people can choose any convenient day when they would not take their cars out.“We are privileged and many in the city own multiple cars, but there are the less privileged ones who are the direct victims of air pollution that is aggravated by our vehicular emissions. We need to do this for them, and for all of us,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-car-sunday-organised-in-connaught-place-101610918794843.html
18-01-2021||Delhi||Govt to work on enhance teacher training and cutting dropout rates: Manish Sisodia||The first seven-day international education conference held by the Delhi government concluded on Sunday with deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia announcing that moving forward, the state government would work on enhanced teacher training, strengthening school management committees (SMCs), working on an interactive curriculum, and cutting dropout rates.“We are already working on forming a new curriculum and new state board. We also want to examine students graduating from our schools and see what their thoughts are on caste, creed, religion, gender biases, corruption, honest governance and environmental issues. After working on foundation, the question is on how to work on the mindset of students,” the education minister said.While referring to the issue of students dropping out, Sisodia said, “Struggling children who leave the system to pick up jobs outside is where we need to figure out how skill training can come into play, and how we can provide support to them.”The week-long conference saw 22 education experts from India and other countries including the United Kingdom, USA, Germany, the Netherlands, Finland, Singapore, and Canada. The final day of the conference also saw Andhra Pradesh education minister Audimulapu Suresh highlighting reforms initiated by their government and extending an invitation to the Delhi education team to visit Andhra Pradesh.“In Andhra Pradesh, in the past 19 months, we allocated 16%-18% out of our total budget to the education department to show our commitment,” Suresh said, while talking about the key reforms in the southern state, including bilingual textbooks from classes 1-6, improved monitoring and regulatory mechanisms, and incentivisation of SMC participation through ‘parent committees’.Sisodia said, “Education ministers from all states should work together to create better systems for India. I would like to learn from Andhra Pradesh on how regulation and autonomy manifest on the ground through state-level legislation, especially the reformed structure of Anganwadi workers.”Some of the key takeaways across panel discussions during the week included the link between political will and educational reforms, building inclusive administrative tools to support teacher training, and moving away from ‘heavy content-based syllabi’ to a reduced interactive curriculum.During the course of the conference, setting up cadre of specialist teachers, collaborative professional development, shared lesson-planning, and providing teachers with agency and autonomy along with increased interaction with parents were suggested as key measures for improvement of school education and teacher training.“Our focus will now be on further bridging the gap between SMCs and parents by increasing parent participation. The ownership parents have showcased in the past few years has been a positive change for us,” Sisodia said.The Directorate of Education officials also presented their findings on the low class 9 pass percentage. “Though there was progressive decline in the pass percentage (55.96%) from 2013-14 onwards, the results have been improving from 2016-17 and went up to 64.49% in 2019-2020,” the government said in a statement.Rajesh Prasad, principal secretary (education), said the national capital was “a fertile ground” to implement the National Education Policy 2020. “Lots of aspects from NEP are already covered in Delhi’s education reforms. It is now time to focus on interactive teaching rather than carrying on examination-oriented teaching and rote-learning to transform the educational landscape of the country,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/govt-to-work-on-enhance-teacher-training-and-cutting-dropout-rates-manish-sisodia-101610918101525.html
18-01-2021||Delhi||BJP MCD councillor Aarti Yadav joins AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in a statement on Sunday said that a current councillor of the municipal corporation of Delhi (MCD), Aarti Yadav, has joined the party from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).Yadav had won the 2017 municipal polls as an independent candidate and joined the BJP, ahead of the Lok Sabha elections in 2019Yadav, who is the councillor of ward no 49 in southwest Delhi’s Kapashera, said on Sunday, “I want to work for the people in my ward and I can see opportunity to do good work only in the AAP. There is too much corruption in the BJP.”The AAP’s MLA Atishi said, “Aarti Yadav, along with former councillor from the same ward, Anil Yadav, have joined the AAP. We welcome them. Several leaders of the BJP are fed up with the corruption of the BJP-ruled MCDs. To contribute towards development-centric politics, they are joining the AAP.”The BJP dismissed the allegations as “baseless”.BJP-Delhi spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said, “These are baseless allegations. Her (Yadav’s) switching allegiance at regular intervals reflects that she is not interested in public service but she is on a lookout for some sort of political power. Moreover, such political switching of loyalty ahead of municipal elections by power seekers is nothing new. The BJP is not worried about this.” Delhi will go to the municipal polls in 2022.While the AAP is in charge of the city government, the BJP rules all three municipal corporations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/bjp-mcd-councillor-aarti-yadav-joins-aap-101610917387952.html
18-01-2021||Delhi||246 new Covid-19 cases in Capital — positivity rate hits another low||Delhi on Sunday recorded 246 new cases of Covid-19 — the lowest since May 9 when 224 new cases were recorded – and eight more deaths, according to the state government’s daily health bulletin.“We can comfortably assume that the third peak in Delhi is over. It is even better now that the vaccine has arrived. However, I still urge people to continue wearing masks and take all necessary precautions against Covid-19,” Delhi’s health minister Satyendar Jain said in a press conference on Sunday.The city, on Sunday, also recorded a positivity rate of 0.36% which, health officials said, is also the lowest so far.Sunday’s health bulletin recorded 67,463 tests, of which 40,102 were conducted using the RT-PCR method believed to be more accurate in terms of sensitivity and specificity. The other tests were done through rapid antigen kits, which dish out quicker results, but are known to be far less accurate than RT-PCR tests.So far, 632,429 people in Delhi have been diagnosed with Covid-19 since the first case was recorded on March 2. Of these, 10,746 have died.On Saturday, 4,319 people in Delhi were vaccinated across 81 centres in the city, as India began the world’s largest Covid-19 immunisation programme. As many as 8,100 healthcare workers – the top priority group for vaccination – were supposed to take the vaccination on the first day in Delhi. The drive in the city will resume on Monday.“It is a good thing that the vaccine has arrived at a time when Delhi is witnessing a low number of cases. However, people must not let their guards down at this juncture, even after vaccination which acts as an additional shield against potential infection but does not negate all chances. People must continue to wear masks, adhere to social distancing norms and take other precautions,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the communicable diseases department in the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/246-new-covid-19-cases-in-capital-positivity-rate-hits-another-low-101610915496515.html
18-01-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19 check-ups helping in early diagnosis of cancer||As Mumbai records a spike of Covid-19 infections, the pandemic seems to have given an unexpected advantage to those diagnosed with the infection: many have reported being diagnosed with cancer at an early stage during Covid-19 check up, thus allowing them to get treated sooner than they might have otherwise. Dr Avneendra Prasad, 66, contracted Covid-19 in August. While undergoing CT scan, doctors observed a lump in his chest. In the beginning, doctors believed it to be a reaction of the virus and administered antibiotics. But when the size of the lump didn’t subside, they performed a biopsy which confirmed it as a malignant tumour. On October 30, he underwent surgery at the Asian Cancer Institute (ACI). Soon after the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic in March last year, a chest CT scan was made mandatory for all symptomatic Covid-19 patients; all symptomatic patients admitted to a hospital or Covid Care Centre had to undergo one.“At present, I am on chemotherapy. But I am thankful that I contracted Covid-19 and got diagnosed at an early stage, or else my chances of survival would have been very low,” Prasad, a resident of Powai, said. According to Mumbai Cancer Registry, on an average, Mumbai records around 14,000 cases of cancer every year. And while there is no data available for how many were diagnosed early due to CT scans, city doctors whom HT spoke to said the numbers were sizeable. “Most cancers get detected at a late stage where the chances of recovery reduce. But with this coincidental diagnosis, these patients are getting the opportunity to start their treatment at the earliest,” said Dr Rajat Bhargava, head of the radiology department, Fortis Hospital, Mulund. “Since the outbreak of the pandemic, we are diagnosing five to 10 Covid-19 patients with cancer. The most common among them are breast cancers. We have also caught lung, kidney and blood cancer among Covid-19 patients,” said Dr Neemish Kamat, senior consultant, radiology department, Nanavati Hospital.A CT scan uses X-rays to make detailed cross-sectional images of a body. Instead of taking one or two images like a regular X-ray, a CT scanner takes many pictures and a computer then combines them to show a slice of the part of the body. It is considered more effective than the routine X-rays. Covid-19 patients are being diagnosed with undetected cancer of the lungs, which is tricky because the symptoms are difficult to separate from that of the pandemic. “Some symptoms of Covid-19 resemble lung malignancies. So, it is quite complicated to identify cancer in an infected person. The rule of compulsory CT scan has proved to be a boon for such patients,” said Dr Suhas Vilasrao Aagre, medical and hemato-oncologist at ACI who treated Prasad.Other types of cancers have also been caught during Covid-19 treatment: breast, bone and kidney, among other types.A 47-year-old based in Kurla was completely unaware of the spread of the cancer in his kidney and lungs, till he was diagnosed with Covid-19 in July. During a chest CT scan, doctors at Global Hospital, Parel, found a malignant tumour in the middle of his lungs and further discovered that he had kidney cancer.“When we ran his chest CT scan, we found the tumour. Then to check if the cancer has spread further, we found out that his kidney had also turned cancerous. Now, the patient is under immunotherapy. It was a completely coincidental diagnosis which left the patient shocked,” said his treating doctor, Dr Pradeep Rao, director, urology and renal transplant, Global Hospital, Parel.Due to coincidental diagnosis of cancer at an early stage, many patients are getting a new lease of life. “This coincidental cancer detection during Covid-19 treatment highlights the need to undergo regular health checkups, especially those with smoking habits or with a family history of cancer,” Rao said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-check-ups-helping-in-early-diagnosis-of-cancer-101610915586742.html
18-01-2021||Delhi||Health care workers in Delhi who skipped vaccine shot to be allotted another slot||Health care workers in Delhi who do not receive a Covid-19 vaccine shot despite being registered to get a dose will be allotted another slot, senior government officials said, as the administration looks to build confidence and minimise purported hesitancy among residents of the national capital.“We have to work on building confidence. Those who do not turn up at vaccine centres in the first phase despite being registered will get another slot. However, we are yet to decide whether that window for healthcare workers should be accommodated before vaccination starts for frontline workers or after that,” said a senior official in the Delhi government who did not wish to be identified.The official, who asked not to be named, said a health care worker’s name would be removed from the priority list, if they miss the second slot.With the vaccination drive launched on Saturday, around 8,100 healthcare workers in Delhi were slotted for the first day of the jabs. However, of these, just 4,319 (around 53%) turned up at the 81 vaccine centres in the Capital. Around 240,000 healthcare workers in Delhi have been registered for the first phase of the drive, which will resume from Monday.“The turnout figure in Delhi for the first day is at par with the rest of India. But the number is likely to increase in the days to come. The government is making its best efforts to ensure that,” Delhi’s health minister Satyendar Jain said in a press conference on Sunday.According to data compiled from states by HT, 200,297 people across the country were vaccinated on Saturday, against an estimated 300,000 who were slated to receive their first dose of either the Covishield or Covaxin jab.After healthcare workers, the vaccine will be given to front line workers, which include police officers, fire officials, home guards, sanitation employees, school teachers and employees of several agencies and departments that were engaged in Covid-19 management. Delhi has an estimated 600,000 front line workers, and the registration process for this category is underway.The government will this week intensify its awareness drive to allay concerns regarding vaccination, said a second senior government official.“Starting Sunday, all registered vaccine candidates will get a call from the district surveillance teams. The caller will try to engage with the candidate over potential risks, concerns and try to allay fears, if any.”Currently, candidates receive text messages informing them of the date and time of the scheduled vaccination, as well as the location of the respective centre.The second official said the government has also asked agencies and departments to start conducting group-counselling for their staff – largely frontline workers — to ensure they are ready to receive the vaccine when their turn arrives.A senior doctor from All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), who asked not to be named, said, “There are some who are extremely excited about the vaccination drive. However, some others would like to wait and see what happens, and some who prefer to avoid getting immunised at the moment. The fears especially revolve around potential adverse effects — both short and long-term.”On Saturday, Delhi recorded 51 instances of minor adverse reactions such as mild fever, rashes and swelling at the site of injection, while one recipient — an AIIMS staffer — suffered a severe allergic reaction, or anaphylaxis, after receiving a dose of Covaxin. The staffer was admitted to hospital on Saturday, and discharged on Sunday, AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria confirmed.Dr Suneela Garg, professor of community medicines department at Maulana Azad Medical College, said, “With time, more people will turn up. Efforts are being made on several fronts to ensure confidence building and reduce hesitancy. For counselling drives in the days to come, the government can also take help of people who have been vaccinated and engage them in group discussions with potential candidates.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/health-care-workers-in-delhi-who-skipped-vaccine-shot-to-be-allotted-another-slot-101610914958453.html
18-01-2021||Mumbai||‘Want govt to focus on education sector’, says Anand Gupta||It’s been 10 months since Anand Gupta, 26, left his hostel room at the Tata Institute of Social Sciences in Mumbai complex, shortly before the nationwide lockdown was announced in March 2020 to curb the spread of the coronavirus.A second-year Masters student in development studies, Gupta and his batch mates vacated the hostel and returned home after classes ended in March, planning to come back by May to take the exams that were suspended in light of the lockdown. But the en-masse transfer of classroom lectures and teaching online upended his plans.Gupta is now stuck in his ancestral village on the outskirts of Lucknow in Uttar Pradesh with no clear path ahead. Internet connectivity in the village is poor, making it more difficult for him to follow lectures, amid uncertainty over when he would be back in a physical class.“Many of us are stuck in villages where 4G network is very scarce so attending regular online lectures online turned into a nightmare for many of us,” said Gupta.Many of his friends were forced to miss important class work as the mobile network connectivity is not enough to stream lectures every day.He lives with his parents and two siblings and usually attends lectures on his phone, but adds that connectivity problems are hurting his studies. “It has been an uphill task for me to tackle,” he said.Gupta said he is acutely aware of the digital divide in the education sector, quoting the recent recently released Annual Status of Education Report (ASER 2020), “The ASER survey highlighted only 11% children had access to live online classes during days of lockdown, painting a very tragic picture. Loss of income for people in the low-income strata of the society directly affected the future of children in the society,” he added.Across India, Gupta’s problem is shared by millions of school and college students who went to their homes in rural districts after the lockdown was clamped on March 25. But poor internet penetration meant that they couldn’t attend all lectures, missed exams or waited for months for certainty on test schedules, results and job placements.Gupta says the digital divide distresses him personally because it puts his future in jeopardy. “Online lectures are like seeing the Taj Mahal on website or visiting it on virtual reality platform of Zoom. Physical lectures are more like going to Agra and visiting the Taj Mahal,” he added.A study published in International Journal for Community Medicine and Public Health in September 2020 found 51% of college and university students in India had symptoms of depression and another 37% had that of anxiety because of irregular classes, increased financial stress of families and disturbed sleep.Gupta wants to continue higher studies, and claimed that in the last few months, money paid by the government to doctoral students has been irregular, and that many students in the higher education sector were also suffering from erratic payment of money from central or state government bodies. As a Masters student, he doesn’t receive any fellowship money.For the Union budget, Gupta wants the government to regularise payment and hike the fellowships. “Fellowship money is what many research scholars survive on, in some cases, their families too. This budget should also focus on timely payment of fellowship money and if possible, higher remuneration as well,” said Anand.Gupta also hopes that the Centre focuses on the education sector, which gets roughly 4.6% of the Gross Domestic Product in spending, to help students adjust to the new normal of online classes and examinations||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/want-govt-to-focus-on-education-sector-says-anand-gupta-101610913227679.html
18-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi schools to open for classes 10 and 12 from Monday||From masks, sanitisers, and physical distancing markers to thermal scanners and sensor taps, schools in the national capital have taken several measures to ensure that the return of class 10 and 12 students to the campus after 10 months is smooth and safe. Schools in the national capital had been closed since March last year due to the Covid-19 pandemic.While most government schools in the capital are reopening for board students on Monday, several private schools said they would reopen later once the online pre-board exams are over and parental consent for return of students has been acquired.Madhulika Sen, education advisor at Tagore International School, said, “The notice was issued with only five days in hand. Our online pre-board exams are currently underway and will only be completed by next week. So we will use this time to implement all protocols, speak to parents for their consent before reopening in February. The syllabus has already been covered and we will have time for revision and practicals. Students are likely to be called three days a week initially with no more than 15 students per room which is one-third of the original capacity of our classrooms.”Last week, the Delhi government allowed all public and private schools in the national capital to call students of classes 10 and 12 back to the campus from January 18 for pre-board preparations and practical work. The schools have been asked only to call students with the consent of the parents and follow all the Covid-19 precautions.Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Sunday held a review meeting with officials from the education department on the matter. “Everyone is excited and a little nervous at having Class 10 and 12 students back in schools from tomorrow for practical/counselling. All preparations – sanitizers, masks, and social distancing measures – are in place,” he tweeted.Tania Joshi, principal of The Indian School which has over 300 students appearing for class 10 and 12 boards this year, said, “We will reopen sometime later this week as are waiting for parental consent slips to form the batches. Thermal scanners and oximeters are present in the school along with sanitisers and emergency masks for those students who need it. Sanitising machines have also been installed on every floor. Class hours have been reduced from six hours to two hours and initially, we will only be calling 50 students to school from both classes to ensure parents and students both feel comfortable. Only 10 students will be allowed per laboratory with at least three staff members to ensure supervision.”Teachers and principals in the national capital have been concerned about practical classes and offline doubt-clearing sessions for students since the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) announced dates for class 10 and 12 board exams last month. Board practical exams will begin from March 1 and written exams will be conducted between May 3 and June 10.BP Dhyani, principal of a Delhi government school in Trilokpuri, said they are all set to reopen Monday with masks, sanitisers, and physical distancing markers in place. “Through existing WhatsApp groups, we had asked children to bring a signed copy of consent form to school on Monday. We have also made arrangements to keep printed copies of the form ready in case any parent wants to sign it tomorrow after coming to school. The students who could not arrange school uniforms this year will be allowed to come in their home clothes. The idea is to facilitate their learning for upcoming board exams. With teachers deployed for Covid-19 duty, that too might be a challenge,” he said.Schools will also hold orientation programmes and put up posters and notices detailing the Covid-19 guidelines. “We will hold orientation sessions reminding students of little things like opening doors using elbows, keeping their masks on at all times and carrying pocket sanitisers. Parents have also been asked to pick and drop their children as per the specified schedule. Teachers have also designed and put up posters on Covid-19 safety guidelines as well. We have installed web-cams in our classrooms to ensure that classes can be live-streamed for those who choose not to attend offline classes,” said Alka Kapur, principal of Modern Public School in Shalimar Bagh, which has over 400 students appearing for their class 10 and 12 boards this year.Geeta Gangwani, principal of Bal Bharati School in Rohini, which will reopen later this month once their pre-board examinations are over, said they will have daily orientation for students. “We have also prepared a presentation for parents which focuses on how children should behave before entering school, while being in school, and after they leave school. Exhaustive training of support staff will also be undertaken in the coming week,” she said.The school has installed sanitisers, fogging machines, thermal scanners, and disinfectants which will be sprayed in-between batches. “The students will be here only for three hours and we will have to disinfect the area before the other batch comes in. We have also installed taps that can be operated by feet in washrooms. Physical distancing markers have been put up between classrooms and washrooms. Teachers will ensure that children are not gathering anywhere, including washrooms and will be checking the queues in the corridors before excusing the child,” she said.Richa Sharma, principal of The Sanskriti School, which is reopening Tuesday, said they will have seven students per laboratory, which has a capacity of 30 students. The school also sent consent forms to parents of those students who were being called to school as per their roster. “Each batch will have a teacher and attendant to ensure that physical distancing is followed at all times. A task force has also been formed which is supervising entry-exit protocols, cleaning, managing consent forms among other things.”Trisha Kakkar, a class 12 student at The Indian School, said, “My parents have allowed me to return to school and I am really excited about it. Along with practical lessons, we will be able to see our teachers and interact with them one last time as this is our last year of school. Though we won’t be able to do much because of Covid-19 protocols, returning to school will have a positive impact on us and will only motivate us to study harder.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-schools-to-open-for-classes-10-and-12-from-monday-101610912633094.html
18-01-2021||Other||Civic body polls: AAP to meet state election commissioner over possible misuse of govt machinery||Chandigarh The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Sunday expressed apprehension of possible misuse of government machinery by the ruling Congress to win the upcoming municipal corporation, municipal council and nagar panchayat elections in the state. Leader of Opposition (LOP) Harpal Singh Cheema said a delegation of the party MLAs would meet state election commissioner Jagpal Singh Sandhu on Monday to demand free and fair elections. There were apprehensions of rigging by the ruling party to win the elections as this government had nothing for the people, he said. Announcing that the AAP would fight any attempt of the ruling party to rig the elections, Cheema said that like the previous SAD-BJP government, there were fears of misuse of the government resources by the Congress to influence the local body polls. He appealed to voters not to come under any pressure from the government. “Choose the right and honest candidates in the elections to exercise the voting right independently,” he appealed to the people. 129 candidates named for 10 local bodies The AAP, which is contesting the elections on its symbol, announced the names of the party candidates for 129 wards of 10 municipal bodies, including Ajnala nagar panchayat, Dasuya municipal council, Khanna municipal council, Kothaguru nagar panchayat, Kurali municipal council, Lalru municipal council, Patran municipal council, Patti municipal council, Samana municipal council and Hargobindpur municipal council, according to state unit chief Bhagwant Mann. He said that crores of rupees were being swindled in municipal corporations and municipal committees. It was a golden opportunity for the people this time to bring change by electing councillors who would work for the people, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/civic-body-polls-aap-to-meet-state-election-commissioner-over-possible-misuse-of-govt-machinery-101610911985454.html
18-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra to inoculate its citizens four days a week||day after the vaccination drive kicked off in the state and the country , the Maharashtra government on Sunday sought resolution of the technical glitches in the CoWIN app, while saying its next vaccination session will start from Tuesday. The state had late on Saturday put its drive on hold for two days. Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said the state will carry out inoculation four days a week, as per the guidelines from the Centre.The CoWIN platform assists programme managers, while conducting vaccination sessions. Data of the beneficiaries is populated onto CoWIN and the session allocation, details of vaccination to the beneficiary, information about the next dose will be captured and communicated digitally. On day one, the state faced technical issues with the app, which initially did not send out automated messages to beneficiaries to arrive at vaccination centres. Besides that, senior officials said the app was functioning slowly, hampering the pace of the programme, leading them to go for offline data collection.However, the health department on Sunday refuted claims that the drive was suspended after CoWIN developed glitches. The department said no vaccination session was planned for Sunday. “There is no suspension of the immunisation drive in the state. We are going by the government of India guidelines, which has said only four sessions in a week. It is shut tomorrow [Monday] for rectification of technical glitches in the CoWIN app,” said Tope, who was on a visit to Osmanabad said.Dr DN Patil, state immunisation officer, said, “At some place sessions [which includes identification, vaccination and observation steps] were not created, so beneficiaries could not be selected. Initially, messages could not be sent. Today, we had a video conference with the Government of India. They have not given any timeline for issues to be resolved. They have just said that it will be done. We explained to them what issues we faced.“Not just Maharashtra, other states, too, faced technical issues. They [Centre] have asked us to continue with vaccination wherever it works online. Where it is not possible, they have asked us to go ahead manually. We can collect vaccination details through Google Sheets. When apps start working, we will upload on the app.”There was a lot of time being taken in the session steps to go ahead, probably due to load on the server on the first day... Not just Maharashtra, but other states too have complained that the app was lagging. Yesterday, we took the permission to do [immunisation] offline, but the go-ahead came quite late in the evening.”With the go-ahead for offline entry of data, the state is expected to start the vaccination process again from Tuesday. Patil said that the Centre is insistent on online process, but has given a nod for offline as well, where app is not working or there is no internet. “Vaccination is equally important than app and data collection. People should get vaccinated and the programme will go on. We will start the vaccination process by Tuesday. We will do it four days a week because we do not want to hamper our routine immunisation work,” Patil said.The health minister, meanwhile, sought the addition of a module in the CoWin app to add the data of the remaining people in the first phase of inoculation. In a meeting held via video-conferencing with union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan, Tope also sought the technical issues in the app to be sorted out.“In the first phase of vaccination [in the country], 30 million people are frontline workers, 1 million are health workers, and 260 million are senior citizens, and people with co-morbidities. The data collection for the third category has not started yet as there is no module in the Co-Win app. I have asked for inclusion of this module in the app at the earliest so that we can start uploading the data on the app and subsequently intimation can be given to beneficiaries in time,” Tope said.The health minister said that he also reminded the Centre to send the remaining 750,000 doses of the vaccine. “Maharashtra still needs 750,000 doses, which I sought to be delivered in the next few days. I am confident that the Centre would provide them soon,” he said. The state had sought 1.75 million doses and has got around 1 million so far.Meanwhile, Maharashtra on Sunday added 3,081 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 1,990,759. The state now has 52,653 active cases in the state. Maharashtra also reported 50 fatalities in the state, pushing the toll to 50,438. Mumbai, meanwhile, reported 531 fresh infections, taking the city’s tally to 302,757. The city recorded seven fresh fatalities, taking the death toll to 11,244.Of the 50 deaths reported on Sunday, 21 occurred in the last 48 hours and eight in the last week. The remaining 21 deaths are from the period before last week.Sunday also saw 2,342 recoveries which took the total recoveries to 1,886,469. The recovery rate in the state stood at 94.76%. In the past 24 hours, the state tested 62,901 samples, while so far the state has tested 13,806,387 samples and has an overall positivity rate of 14.42%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-to-inoculate-its-citizens-four-days-a-week-101610911812046.html
18-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Principals worry about Class 10 students as schools remain closed||As schools in the city remain closed for physical classes until further orders, principals are concerned about Class 10 students who are set to appear for their board exams this year. “Since schools have remained shut for the past several months, students have not got enough practice of writing papers. We were hoping that if schools begin, we could conduct some offline sessions with the students, to prepare them for the exams,” said Prashant Redij, spokesperson of the Mumbai Principals’ Association.As per Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) order issued on Friday, schools in the city will remain closed and only board exams can be conducted as per the schedules of respective boards. Schools, however, said that students want to write their prelim exams in the offline format. “It will help them understand the paper pattern that was introduced newly last year. We are worried that students who are already weak might suffer, as they will not get the needed guidance offline,” said a teacher from a civic body school. Most schools have conducted their unit tests and semester exams online this year. Many were awaiting guidelines on the conduct of prelims. They are now hoping that the government allows them to conduct prelims. Mahesh Palkar, education officer of the BMC said, “Only examinations that are prescribed by the board will be permitted in schools. If the board declares that schools can conduct prelims and lays down guidelines for the same, we will allow them with necessary precautions.”Barring Mumbai, schools in other parts of the state reopened for students of Classes 9 to 12 from November 23. On Friday, the education department announced that Class 5 to 8 can begin offline classes from January 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-principals-worry-about-class-10-students-as-schools-remain-closed-101610909946269.html
18-01-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University semester exams likely to be conducted online||The examinations for students of odd semesters in Panjab University are likely to be conducted online.The matter was discussed in a committee meeting on Saturday, which was attended by varsity officials and principals of affiliated colleges. Almost all the members agreed that the examination should be held online. The varsity is, however, yet to take the final call.Last year, PU had conducted the semester exams for final year students online due to the pandemic. Despite deliberations, PU has not been able to decide on the mode for over a month now.PU controller of examinations Jagat Bhushan said, “Most likely the semester exams will be held online. We are waiting for approval from the vice-chancellor.”The development comes after inputs and suggestions were invited from college principals regarding the modalities of conducting the semester exams earlier this month. During the meeting, other modalities were also discussed including time duration and paper set up.The semester examinations for undergraduate and second-year postgraduate courses are likely to be held from the middle of February, and the semester examinations for first-year postgraduate batches is likely to be held in the second week of March.Students of PU teaching departments as well as affiliated colleges have expressed concerns over the inability of the university to take a call.A varsity official said, “Maybe another meeting will be held in the coming days and the final decision will be taken.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-semester-exams-likely-to-be-conducted-online-101610909826266.html
18-01-2021||Chandigarh||Public bike sharing in Chandigarh: 11,000 users ride 35,000km in a month, save 11,617 tonnes in carbon emissions||In the first month after its introduction in the city, the public bicycle sharing (PBS) has garnered an impressive public response.Launched on a pilot basis by the Chandigarh Smart City Limited (CSCL) on December 10 with only 225 cycles available at 25 docking stations, the PBS has now around 11,000 regular users. More than 15,000 people have downloaded the mobile app, Smart Bike.Under the PBS, residents can rent cycles to commute through the city for ₹5- ₹10 for half an hour. They can also avail annual membership with one-time payment.“We have received a positive response from city residents. People have travelled more than 35,000 km on the cycles of PBS, which has saved 11,617 tonnes in CO2 emissions. The cycles have been used for an aggregate of 4,840 hours,” said NP Sharma, chief general manager, CSCL.The well-thought out location of docking stations, quality of cycles, city-wide network of cycle tracks, now night lighting being made available on these tracks, and higher awareness levels among residents can be credited for the success of the system, said Sharma.1,250 cycles, 155 docking stations by MayIn the next phase, by May this year, 1,250 cycles will be added and dockets will be increased from 25 to 155.Currently, the 25 docking stations are spread across prominent locations in the city such as Rock Garden, High Court and Sukhna, PGIMER, Sectors 17, 22, 34, 35 and 43. In addition to these, “we will also introduce docking stations near people’s houses like adjacent vacant spaces near milk booths. This is expected to give further boost to the usage of the cycles,” added Sharma.Of the 225 bicycles currently available, 100 are pedal-assisted electric bicycles (e-bikes). Learning from the usage pattern in the first month, the number of e-bikes will be increased to 75% in the next phase of installation.In total, 5,000 bicycles will be provided in the city along with a network of 617 docking Stations spread throughout the city giving last mile connectivity to the users. “This size of the project will make it India’s largest and densest PBS network. The project will be developed in 4 phases of 1,250 cycles and 155 docking stations each, within a time span of 18 months, having the features of pedal assisted e-bikes along with the charging facility at the docking stations,” said Sharma.All the bicycles are provided with GPS-enabled locking arrangement and will be monitored by a Command and Control Centre having 24x7 facility of helpline for users. The project is being implemented and operated by the concessionaire M/s Smart Bike Tech Private Limited, Hyderabad, for the period of 10 years on public private partnership (PPP) basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/public-bike-sharing-in-chandigarh-11-000-users-ride-35-000km-in-a-month-save-11-617-tonnes-in-carbon-emissions-101610909525932.html
18-01-2021||Delhi||AIIMS guard who showed severe allergic reaction to vaccine released from hospital||The 22-year-old security guard who was admitted into the intensive care unit (ICU) for severe allergic reaction, or anaphylaxis, after receiving a Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) on Saturday, was discharged on Sunday.“He is stable and has been discharged,” confirmed Dr Randeep Guleria, director, AIIMS, Delhi.He was the only severe reaction reported in Delhi on the first day of the national vaccine roll-out. Anaphylaxis causes skin rash, nausea, vomiting, difficulty breathing, and shock, if not treated promptly.The hospital had been administering Covaxin that is developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research.According to doctors at AIIMS, the security guard had complained of uneasiness, palpitation, headache, and developed rash after 10-15 minutes of having been given a shot. He was moved to the icu, and remained under observation of specialists for a day before being discharged on Sunday evening.In all, Delhi reported 51 minor reactions such as rashes, swelling at the site of injection, or fever on day one of the Covid-19 vaccination drive.A senior NDMC official, who asked not to be named, had said that two cases of mild AEFI (adverse effects following immunisation) symptoms were reported at Charak Palika Hospital. Two of the hospital’s health care workers who took the Covid-19 vaccine in the afternoon, had reported slight tightness in the chest during the observation period.“They were immediately attended to by the AEFI team and kept under observation. They felt normal within half-an-hour and were discharged. There is nothing to be worried about AEFI cases, as such symptoms are normal to occur after any vaccination,” the official had said.As per the Covid-19 vaccination operational guidelines, a recipient of the vaccine would need to be kept under observation in a separate waiting area at the vaccination site for at least 30 minutes, to monitor their health condition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aiims-guard-who-showed-severe-allergic-reaction-to-vaccine-released-from-hospital-101610907954351.html
18-01-2021||Mumbai||Explain why disabled student not admitted for medical course: Bombay HC||The Bombay high court (HC) has directed the Union of India (UoI), National Medical Commission (NMC) and the state, to respond to a petition filed by a student with a non-dominant amputated upper limb, alleging discrimination after she was not allowed to pursue a medical science course on the grounds of her disability. The aspiring student has claimed that in the past students like her have got admitted to such courses, hence the denial to her was arbitrary. The matter will be heard on January 20. A division bench of justice SC Gupte and justice SP Tavade, while hearing the petition filed by Anita Shinde, was informed by advocate Gaurav Bansal that his client had appeared for the 2020 National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) and had secured 60.64%, hence applied for admission to the undergraduate (UG) medical course under the person with disability reservation. Bansal submitted that as per a 2019 notification of the Medical Council of India, Shinde who has an upper limb disability was deemed to be eligible for admission. Bansal submitted that though the commissioner of the Disability Welfare Commission had directed the Disability Assessment Board, which termed Shinde to be ineligible for admission to the UG medical course, to consider the disability of the petitioner with necessary assistive devices and thereafter make the decision, the board had not paid heed and refused her admission to a seat in the medical course. Aggrieved by the discriminatory conduct of the board and denial of a seat she had approached the HC. Shinde’s petition further pointed out that the NMC had issued a notification in 2019, which enumerated technical standards that disabled students had to fulfil to be eligible for admission to a medical course. The petition states that as the notification was based on outdated standards which were being followed in the USA in 1979, the standards mentioned in the notification did not align with existing standards and hence the notification should be set aside. After hearing the submissions, the court sought to know the stand of the UoI, NMC and state and asked them to respond within a week and posted the hearing of the petition on January 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/explain-why-disabled-student-not-admitted-for-medical-course-bombay-hc-101610907665023.html
18-01-2021||Other||One booked for kidnapping minor girl in Pune||The Shivajinagar police have lodged a complaint against an unidentified person for kidnapping a 17-year-old minor victim of flesh trade rescued during a racket busted by the city police recently.The Bharati Vidyapeeth police had rescued three minor girls and a woman in November 2020. The rescued persons were later shifted to an observation home in the city. On Saturday they were taken to the court for the hearing.According to the first information report, the minor had come to court number four at Shivajinagar, along with woman constables.She requested to answer nature’s call and after that was untraceable. Preliminary investigation revealed that someone fleeced her to escape from the court premises.The police have registered a case under Section 363 (kidnapping) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/one-booked-for-kidnapping-minor-girl-101610905205848.html
18-01-2021||Other||Pune district: Nine with mild adverse reaction stable, say officials||The condition of nine healthcare workers who developed mild Adverse Effects Following Immunization (AEFI) on Saturday is stable and all of them, according to health department officials, are doing “fine” as on Sunday.Out of the 1,802 beneficiaries who got vaccinated on Saturday, nine reported minor adverse effects during inoculation programme. Eight out of nine from Pimpri-Chinchwad area developed mild adverse reaction while another healthcare worker from Wagholi in Pune district showed similar symptoms. Almost 24-hours later, all of them are reported to be stable, said officials.According to Dr Pawan Salve, additional health chief, Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation’s (PCMC), all of the eight beneficiaries from PCMC who reported mild adverse effects post-immunization are now stable. “None of them required any admission or medication post the effect. They were just minor symptoms,” he said.The district health department official said, one healthcare worker from Wagholi is also doing fine. The PMC did not report any incident of AEFI.The eight AEFI incidents reported were Jijamata hospital (1), Akurdi Hospital (2), Sangavi Hospital (3), Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial hospital (2) while one was reported from Pune’s rural primary health centre at Wagholi.All these were minor effects and the beneficiaries had multiple factors to contribute to the effects said doctors at the site including fasting, psychological anxiety over-vaccination and others.Ayush Prasad, Zilla Parishad Chief Executive Officer (CEO), said, “The one incident reported was of a nurse who reportedly did not have proper food even after her night shift and she was overwhelmed by the vaccination process. The doctors at the centre immediately checked her and confirmed that it was entirely a psychological experience. She was reported to be healthy and back to normal.”Salve said, “All of them were just minor incidents complaining of fever, body ache or headache. We have not reported any follow-up as of yet since it was a Sunday. I cannot speak for others, but we have reported every minor incident reported at our hospital.”As per the central health ministry, both vaccines could have reported minor to severe adverse effects. The letter issued by National health mission additional secretary Dr Manohar Agnani issued to state immunization officers and mission directors. The letter states minor adverse effects for both the vaccines, Covisheild and Covaxin as injection site tenderness, injection site pain, headache, fatigue, myalgia, malaise, pyrexia, chills, arthralgia, nausea, fever, body ache, abdominal pain, nausea and vomiting, dizziness- giddiness, tremor, sweating, cold-cough and injection site swelling for both the approved vaccine doses, Covisheild and Covaxin.For purposes of reporting, AEFIs has been classified as minor, severe and serious. Severe AEFI includes those that can be disabling and rarely life-threatening; do not lead to long-term problems. Examples of severe reactions include non-hospitalized cases of anaphylaxis that has recovered, high fever (>102 degrees F). While serious AEFI results in death, requires inpatient hospitalization, results in persistent or significant disability and AEFI cluster which evokes significant parental/community concern.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-district-nine-with-mild-adverse-reaction-stable-say-officials-101610905204589.html
18-01-2021||Delhi||Shorter parade, age cap on guests: Covid-19 casts a shadow on Republic Day||The annual Republic Day parade at Rajpath will curtailed both in terms of spectators and the spectacle due to the coronavirus pandemic and the ongoing farmers protest. Officials privy to the preparations said only 25,000 people will be allowed to watch the parade on Rajpath compared to over 100,000 people who usually turn up for the event. They said only 4,000 people from the general public will be allowed. Rest of the spectators will be VVIP and VIP guests.Spectators need either passes or tickets to watch the parade. Also, nobody will be allowed at the free standing areas, located near the boat club and at India Gate lawns where thousands gather each year to watch the grand parade.Also, only those above the age of 15 years and below 65 will be allowed to watch the parade, officials said. In order to ensure social distancing, bleachers or stands along the Rajpath have been replaced with chairs. The new norms have been laid down in view of the coronavirus pandemic, a senior Delhi Police officer said, requesting anonymity.This year, the main parade consisting of the marching contingents from the three arms of the defence forces, weapon systems and groups from the paramilitary, will conclude at the India Gate, instead of going up to the Red Fort. However, the tableaux will be allowed to go up to Red Fort grounds.Another officer, privy to the developments, who wished not to be named, said the decision of not taking the parade up to the Red Fort and restricting it within the New Delhi district will help containing movement of the participants. This will also prevent overcrowding of people on the route from India Gate up to the Red Fort, he said.“The New Delhi district will be sealed and entry tickets or passes will be checked on the periphery of the New Delhi districts. Some of these check points fall at ITO, Dhaula Kuan, Aurobindo Chowk and near Ranjeet Singh flyover. Someone visiting the parade will have to show their ticket or pass along with their identity proof having the same name as on the ticket or pass issued. Tickets and passes that are issued in the visitor’s name will not be transferable,” the officer added.Deputy commissioner of police, Eish Singhal, who is the Delhi police’s spokesperson, explained the security has been set up in multiple layers – the outer cordon, middle cordon and inner cordon. People will be allowed from the outer cordon under strict watch where pickets and check points will be set up. Here, people will be stopped for random checking. However, only those with Republic Day tickets or passes will be allowed through the inner cordon.The size of the marching contingents from the armed forces and the paramilitary will be smaller. These squads will only have 96 participants compared to 144 in the ordinary courseIndependence Day celebrations were also hit by the pandemic this year, with fewer VIPs attending the event the Red Fort.“Thermal screening will be conducted at all entry points and for those running temperature be isolated immediately in resting booths where a doctor and paramedic staff will be stationed,” the officer said.Sanitisers, face masks and gloves will also be made available at the venue, the officer added.Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung hospital said, precautions being taken are necessary. “The guidelines are necessary in view of the pandemic. Such mandates are required to contain the spread of the virus. Government must have decided the restrictions on number of visitors based on these factors. It is advisable that people watch the Republic Day celebrations on their TV sets this year,” Kishore said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rday-parade-to-be-curtailed-only-4-000-from-general-public-to-be-allowed-on-rajpath-101610904905515.html
18-01-2021||Other||Case filed against filmmaker-actor Mahesh Manjrekar for allegedly slapping, abusing man||A complaint has been registered against filmmaker-actor Mahesh Manjrekar (62) for allegedly slapping and abusing a man on the Pune-Solapur highway, said police on Sunday.The incident took place on Friday night and a non-cognizable offence has been registered at Yavat police station.The complainant identified as Kailas Satpute, in his complaint said that his vehicle hit Manjrekar’s car from behind after Manjrekar applied sudden brakes. After that, Manjrekar stepped out of his car and after an argument between the two he allegedly slapped and abused Satpute.Despite repeated attempts, Manjrekar could not be contacted for comments.Inspector Bhausaheb Patil of Yavat police station said, “The incident took place on Pune-Solapur highway on Friday night near Yavat when Manjrekar’s car was hit by another car. It led to a verbal altercation between them. The person who lodged the complaint has claimed that he was slapped and abused by Manjrekar and based on that we have registered a non-cognizable offence in this regard.”Pune rural SP Abhinav Deshmukh said, “It is a non-cognizable case. We will not investigate further, but if the complainant wishes to go the court for further relief, he can do so.”The police issued a warning to the filmmaker and he was allowed to go.Manjrekar has been booked under Indian Penal Code Sections 323 (Voluntarily causing hurt) and 504 (Intentional insult).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/case-filed-against-filmmaker-actor-mahesh-manjrekar-for-allegedly-slapping-abusing-man-101610899324353.html
18-01-2021||Other||Man held for assault on cop in Pune||The Kothrud police on Sunday arrested a man for obstructing a police constable from performing his duty and physically assaulting and threatening him.The incident took place at Erandwane chowk on Friday.The accused arrested has been identified as Rahul Bharam, a resident of Kelewadi.Kaustabh Nidalkar, posted at Kothrud police station has lodged an FIR against Bharam in connection with the incident.According to the FIR, there was a fight between Bharam and another person identified as Rahul Wagh. Nidalkar was taking Wagh’s complaint when Bharam objected and threatened him. He also physically assaulted and abused Nidalkar.Police sub-inspector YB Padvale who is the investigating officer in the case said, “Bharam has been arrested in connection with the assault case.”The police have invoked Indian Penal Code (IPC) 353 (Assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty ), 332 ( Voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty ), 504 ( Intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace ) and 506 ( criminal intimidation).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-held-for-assault-on-cop-101610899323735.html
18-01-2021||Other||Healthcare staff in Pune back on duty after inoculation, vow to continue fight against Covid||After spending just about half an hour under observation after getting the Covid-19 vaccine on Saturday most of the healthcare professionals from the city returned to attending patients.Jayshree Dhalpe, nurse, Rajiv Gandhi Hospital which is run by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), said that after she received the jab on Saturday she resumed duty as she did not face any discomfort or adverse after-effects of the vaccine.“The day went as usual and I was a part of the vaccination drive, so after the observation period I resumed work,” said Dhalpe.Dhalpe had tested positive for the virus in May 2020. “I have seen many patients lose their lives due to Covid-19. I feel taking the vaccination is the best option for all of us,” she said.Sanghmitra Sawant, nurse, Aundh District Hospital, said that she resumed her Intensive Care Unit (ICU) duty after being under observation period.“I am currently on duty at the ICU ward. So there is always a fear of getting infected with the virus. I am hopeful that the vaccine will keep us safe from the virus,” said Sawant.Dr Tanvi Lokapur, consultant radiologist at Ruby Hall Clinic said, “I got the vaccine shot at 2:30pm on Saturday. I was under observation for 30 minutes for any reactions or allergies. I did not experience any discomfort. On Sunday morning, there was a little headache but I am totally fine now. I have rested enough for the weekend and will be joining work tomorrow.”She added that these unusual times, the vaccine was developed quickly to address the need. “I feel safe about the vaccine. And with the new strain, the vaccine will provide more safety to each one of us,” added Dr Lokapur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/healthcare-staff-back-on-duty-after-inoculation-vow-to-continue-fight-against-covid-101610899263731.html
18-01-2021||Other||Pune district reports 10 deaths and 496 new Covid-19 cases in 24 hours||On Sunday, Pune district reported 10 deaths due to Covid-19 infection in 24 hours. The district reported 496 fresh positive cases on Sunday which took the final count to 3.82 lakh Covid-19 cases of which 3.58 lakh have recovered, 7,902 have been reported dead and 15,986 are active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals or in home isolation.The city reported 271 new cases taking the final toll to 1,95,769 and five deaths took the death toll to 4,457. PCMC reported 123 new cases taking the final case count to 95,714 while two deaths were reported on Sunday which took the death toll to 1,299. Pune rural reported 102 new cases which took the final cases to 90,674 while three deaths were reported which took the death toll to 2,109.The state health department reported that 2,342 patients were discharged on Sunday taking the final count of such cases to over 18.86 lakh. The recovery rate in the state is 94.76%. Also, 3,081 new cases in the state were reported on Sunday taking the total cases to over 19.90 lakh. In addition, 50 Covid-19 deaths were reported in the state taking the death toll to 51,637. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.55%. Of 1,38,06,387 laboratory samples, 19,90,759 have tested positive (14.42%) for Covid-19 till Sunday. Currently 2,25,308 people are in home quarantine and 2,045 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-district-reports-10-deaths-and-496-new-covid-19-cases-in-24-hours-101610899143750.html
18-01-2021||World||Xi Jinping, PM Modi expected for 'virtual' Davos in era of pandemic||Organisers of the World Economic Forum (WEF) are expecting leaders including Chinese President Xi Jinping, Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi, German Chancellor Angela Merkel and South African President Cyril Ramaphosa for a virtual gathering next week — after Covid-19 canceled the annual in-person event of Davos, Switzerland.Forum founder Klaus Schwab said the aim of the virtual Davos Agenda week meeting starting Jan. 25 is to restore trust and engage all stakeholders in business, government, civil society and beyond to help build a “more peaceful and prosperous post-corona era.”The event runs throughout the week with daily themes on subjects like economic systems, responsible growth, cooperation and the harnessing of technologies in the 4th Industrial Revolution - a common theme at Davos events.Borge Brende, the forum president, said Xi and Modi will be joined also by Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga and South Korean President Moon Jae-in for the event, and such leaders will consider “the role that Asia will play in the recovery.”Others expected include Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, French President Emmanuel Macron and President Ivan Duque of Colombia.Exceptionally this year, forum organizers are planning to hold the annual event that draws thousands of elites in-person this spring in Singapore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/xi-jinping-pm-modi-expected-for-virtual-davos-in-era-of-pandemic-101610992985326.html
18-01-2021||World||Biden names Rohit Chopra as director of consumer protection bureau||President-elect Joe Biden has named yet another Indian-American to a senior position in his administration. Rohit Chopra will head the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), an agency that seeks to safeguard the interest of consumers from large financial institutions.Chopra, whose appointment was announced on Monday along with several others, is currently serving as a commissioner at the Federal Trade commission, which protects consumers from unfair trade and business practices in the marketplace.The CFPB was proposed and founded by Elizabeth Warren during the presidency of Barack Obama.He had previously served as assistant director of the CFPB, leading its efforts on student loans. He also served as a special advisor at the US department of education.Chopra, who went to Harvard and Wharton, is among the many Indian Americans appointed by Biden in senior positions in the White House and the administration, including Neera Tanden, who will be a member of the cabinet as head of the office of budget and management; Vivek Murthy, surgeon general; and Vinay Reddy, director of the president’s team of speech writers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-names-rohit-chopra-as-director-of-consumer-protection-bureau-101610990900496.html
18-01-2021||World||Pak EC suspends membership of 154 lawmakers over failure to submit asset details||The Election Commission of Pakistan (ECP) on Monday suspended the membership of 154 members of the country's Senate, national and provincial assemblies after they failed to submit statements of their assets and liabilities.The lawmakers will remain suspended until the submission of their financial statements, Dawn reported. According to the Pakistan daily, every year ECP suspends the membership of several lawmakers for not submitting the statements. In 2020, more than 300 lawmakers had failed to submit their details.As per the country's laws, lawmakers are required to submit their financial statements, along with those of their spouses and children, by December end each year.The noted Pakistani lawmakers whose names feature in the list are Minister for Inter-provincial Coordination (IPC) Fehmida Mirza, Minister for Science and Technology Fawad Chaudhry, Minister for Maritime Affairs Ali Haider Zaidi and Khalid Maqbool Siddiqui.Responding to the ECP's decision, Ali Haider Zaidi, Federal Minister for Maritime Affairs said that he had submitted the asset declaration to the ECP on January 5."I filed my taxes on Dec 28, 2020 and submitted the asset declaration form with the ECP on January 5, 2021. Don't understand the fuss!" Zaidi tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pak-ec-suspends-membership-of-154-lawmakers-over-failure-to-submit-asset-details-101610988740374.html
18-01-2021||World||FBI probes tip that woman stole laptop from Pelosi’s office to sell to Russia||The Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) is probing whether a woman from Pennsylvania, who was part of the mob that stormed the US Capitol on January 6, stole a laptop or hard drive from House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s office and planned to sell it to the Russians. In an arrest warrant filed late Sunday, the federal agency said that it is seeking Riley June Williams on charges related to the breach of Capitol, adding that the feds are also investigating a claim that the woman stole a laptop or hard drive from Pelosi’s office.According to the affidavit, a witness, described as a former romantic partner of Williams, dialled FBI’s telephone tip line, claiming that he saw Williams in video footage taken from inside the US Capitol building. The caller said that Williams “intended to send the computer device to a friend in Russia, who then planned to sell the device to SVR, Russia’s foreign intelligence service.” The witness further added that the plan fell through "for unknown reasons" and that Williams "still has the computer device or destroyed it."The FBI has reviewed a video report from ITV News, a British television network, in which Williams, wearing a green t-shirt and brown trench coat, is believed to be present. The agency stated that the woman can be seen physically directing other intruders to proceed up a staircase by repeatedly yelling “Upstairs, upstairs, upstairs.” The agency has confirmed with the Capitol police that the staircase depicted in the video leads to Pelosi’s office.“It appears that WILLIAMS has fled. According to local law enforcement officers in Harrisburg, WILLIAMS’ mother stated that that WILLIAMS packed a bag and left her home and told her mother she would be gone for a couple of weeks,” the affidavit says.The woman did not provide any information to her mother about her intended destination and changed her telephone number. She has also reportedly deleted her social media accounts on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, Reddit, Telegram, and Parler. Pelosi’s deputy chief of staff had earlier confirmed that a laptop was stolen from a conference room but was only used for presentations.A laptop from a conference room was stolen. It was a laptop that was only used for presentations. https://t.co/S7YGPnLaWyOver 125 people have been arrested in connection with the attack on the Capitol which had disrupted the Congressional proceedings for the certification of President-elect Joe Biden’s win. The rioters stormed the Capitol building after the conclusion of outgoing President Donald Trump's speech in which he repeatedly made baseless claims of electoral fraud.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/fbi-probes-tip-that-woman-stole-laptop-from-pelosi-s-office-to-sell-to-russia-101610988641080.html
18-01-2021||World||Pandemic response probe team says WHO, China could have acted faster||The World Health Organization and Beijing could have acted faster when Covid-19 first surfaced in China, a group investigating the global response has concluded.In its second report, the Independent Panel for Pandemic Preparedness and Response said that an evaluation of the "chronology of the early phase of the outbreak suggests that there was potential for early signs to have been acted on more rapidly".Covid-19 was first detected in the central city of Wuhan in late 2019, before seeping beyond China's borders to wreak global havoc, costing more than two million lives and eviscerating economies.In its report, the panel found it was "clear" that "public health measures could have been applied more forcefully by local and national health authorities in China in January."The panel also criticised WHO for dragging its feet at the start of the crisis, pointing out that the UN health agency had not convened its emergency committee until January 22, 2020.And the committee failed to agree to declare the novel coronavirus outbreak a Public Health Emergency of International Concern (PHEIC) -- its highest alert level -- until a week later."It is not clear why the committee did not meet until the third week of January, nor is it clear why it was unable to agree on the (PHEIC) declaration... when it was first convened," the report said.Since the beginning of the crisis, the WHO has faced harsh criticism over its response, with claims it dragged its feet on declaring a pandemic and on recommending face masks.The WHO came under especially fierce attack from outgoing US President Donald Trump, who accused the organisation of botching its handling of the pandemic and of being a "puppet of China".Against that backdrop, WHO member states last May agreed a resolution calling for an "impartial, independent and comprehensive evaluation... to review experience gained and lessons learned from the WHO-coordinated international health response" to the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pandemic-response-probe-team-says-who-china-could-have-acted-faster-101610989036330.html
18-01-2021||World||China calls Pompeo 'Mr. Liar'; dismisses charge against Wuhan’s bio-lab||China on Monday vented out its anger against outgoing US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo calling him "Mr. Liar" and dismissed as "conspiracies and lies" the allegations by the State Department that the COVID-19 may have emerged from Wuhan’s bio-lab and had links to the Chinese military.China, which faced global criticism after the virus became a pandemic claiming over two million lives, has been vehemently asserting that the coronavirus has emerged in several places in the world, while it only reported it first.But Beijing is more resentful of outgoing US President Donald Trump and Pompeo for alleging that the virus may have emerged from the premier Wuhan Institute of Virology (WIV), which researches Zoonotic diseases.A latest document issued by the US State department reinforcing its previous allegation that the virus may have emerged from the WIV, coinciding with the visit of a WHO inquiry team of scientists to Wuhan has further riled Beijing.Reacting angrily to the US document, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying told a media briefing here on Monday that "the statement and the list are full of conspiracies and lies, which are consistent with certain US officials who have dealt with the pandemic in a passive way and constantly shifted the blame to others. The list is another US-made list of lies".The US document said "for more than a year, the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) has systematically prevented a transparent and thorough investigation of the COVID-19 pandemic’s origin, choosing instead to devote enormous resources to deceit and disinformation"."The US government does not know exactly where, when, or how the COVID-19 virus - known as SARS-CoV-2 - was transmitted initially to humans. We have not determined whether the outbreak began through contact with infected animals or was the result of an accident at a laboratory in Wuhan, China," it said."The virus could have emerged naturally from human contact with infected animals, spreading in a pattern consistent with a natural epidemic," it said."Alternatively, a laboratory accident could resemble a natural outbreak if the initial exposure included only a few individuals and was compounded by asymptomatic infection. Scientists in China have researched animal-derived coronaviruses under conditions that increased the risk for accidental and potentially unwitting exposure," it said."The US government has reason to believe that several researchers inside the WIV became sick in autumn 2019, before the first identified case of the outbreak, with symptoms consistent with both COVID-19 and common seasonal illnesses."This raises questions about the credibility of WIV senior researcher Shi Zhengli’s public claim that there was ‘zero infection’ among the WIV’s staff and students of SARS-CoV-2 or SARS-related viruses," it said.Significantly, China has honoured Shi who has earned the moniker of 'Bat Woman' for her passionate research into bats and viruses as an "advanced worker of the Chinese Academy of Sciences".The honour coincides with the arrival of the WHO team which is expected to visit the WIV.Shi now has alleged in the official media here that mink, not the bat or pangolin could be a possible host of the origin of the novel coronavirus, and called on the world to probe samples from more susceptible animals to determine when the virus moved to humans.The state department document also alleged that "for many years the United States has publicly raised concerns about China’s past biological weapons work, which Beijing has neither documented nor demonstrably eliminated, despite its clear obligations under the Biological Weapons Convention".Pompeo’s latest tweets against China on a host of issues, including its political system, official media, Beijing’s response to COVID-19, Xinjiang, Hong Kong and the South China Sea, "fully showed that some US politicians ignored public safety and lives, go against science and are obsessed with making propaganda about conspiracies and spreading 'the political virus'," Hua said."This is also the final madness staged by Pompeo, this Mr. Liar," she said."What I want to emphasise is if the US truly respects science and facts, it should open the Fort Detrick laboratory and make questions about its over 200 overseas labs open to the public, while inviting WHO experts to look into the origins and answer the international community's suspicions," she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-calls-pompeo-mr-liar-dismisses-charge-against-wuhan-s-biolab-101610987958538.html
18-01-2021||World||US Capitol lockdown lifted after authorities bring fire in homeless camp under control, reports AP||The US Capitol complex was shut down for about an hour on Monday out of an abundance of caution after a small fire broke out nearby, underscoring security jitters days before President-elect Joe Biden's inauguration.The Capitol Police in a statement said the lockdown was lifted and the fire nearby was contained."Out of an abundance of caution the US Capitol complex was temporarily shutdown. There is no threat to the public," the US Secret Service said on Twitter.The lockdown follows the Jan. 6 attack on the US Capitol by supporters of outgoing President Donald Trump, some calling for the death of Republican Vice President Mike Pence as he presided over the certification of Democrat Biden's November election victory.The Capitol Police earlier said that as a precautionary measure its acting chief shut down the complex, which consists of the Capitol, its grounds and several buildings.The city's fire department posted on Twitter that firefighters put out a fire outside near the Capitol complex."There were no injuries," the department said. "This accounts for smoke that many have seen."Participants in the rehearsal for Biden's inauguration were held in the Capitol rotunda and other indoor areas, according to a Reuters witness. Biden will be sworn in on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-capitol-lockdown-lifted-after-fire-in-homeless-camp-brought-under-control-101610988438337.html
18-01-2021||World||Pak PM Imran pitches for border markets with Afghanistan, Iran||Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan on Monday directed the authorities to set up border markets along the country’s borders with Afghanistan and Iran to boost employment opportunities and help curb smuggling.The decision to establish border markets was taken in September last year with the objective to provide jobs and promote peace.Khan chaired a review meeting here to discuss the establishment of such markets to provide job opportunities to local people and to control smuggling, according to his office."The establishment of these markets is critical for the prosperity of the population living in border areas of Balochistan and merged districts of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa," Khan said.Khan was briefed on steps taken at the federal and provincial levels for the establishment of border markets to provide improved business facilities, trade promotion and employment opportunities to the local population.The meeting concluded that out of 18 proposed border markets four will be established under pilot project.Balochistan, which shares borders with both Afghanistan and Iran, is Pakistan’s largest and most volatile province. It faces a multi-faceted threat from several armed groups, including the Taliban and other movements, seeking the province’s secession from Pakistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pak-pm-imran-pitches-for-border-markets-with-afghanistan-iran-101610987725065.html
18-01-2021||World||Biden aims for unifying speech at daunting moment for US||President-elect Joe Biden will take the stage for his inaugural address at perhaps the most difficult starting point for a president since Franklin Roosevelt began his first term by assuring a nation scarred by the Great Depression that “we have nothing to fear but fear itself.”But memorable turns of phrase like Roosevelt's are more the exception than the rule when it comes to inaugural addresses.Former President Barack Obama in his memoir noted that singer Aretha Franklin's showy hat and a glitch in Chief Justice John Roberts' administration of the oath of office got more attention than his speech in the days following the first Black president's address, delivered as the nation was mired in recession and a growing malaise over two intractable wars.Now, with the coronavirus raging, unemployment claims soaring and partisan divisions sharpening, Biden faces a fraught moment as he prepares to deliver a speech that aides say he wants to use to “call Americans to unity.” “The situation he faces is absolutely brutal,” said Cody Keenan, who served as a chief speechwriter for Obama and assisted with his two inaugural addresses.He added that Biden in many ways is ”the perfect president for the moment, because he is not hyperbolic, he's not a bomb thrower, he's surrounded himself with policy wonks who already have all these plans. I think what we are going to hear him talk about is 'Here's where we are, here's what we have to get done.' I think that's going to go a long way just to making people feel better."With the current mood of the country, Biden's consistent focus on restoring “the soul of America” may be of greater value to the nation than any soaring oratory, in the view of some Democratic allies of the incoming president.“It is entirely possible that this inaugural is one we remember for generations to come, because of the gravity of this moment” said David Litt, who served as an Obama speechwriter and wrote the comedic memoir, “Thanks, Obama: My Hopey Changey White House Years.” “But I also think it's possible that the signature speeches of the Biden administration come at less expected moments and that would be par for the course.”The inaugural address is as much a celebration of the peaceful handover of power as it is a set piece for a new or reelected president to lay out a vision for the nation. In recent memory, inaugural addresses have followed a predictable structure: The nation has challenges but there is hope to solve the problems if the president's agenda is embraced.One tradition dating back at least to Jimmy Carter's 1977 inaugural is for the incoming president to offer the nation's gratitude to the outgoing president — a moment of graciousness intended to put aside the strife of the political campaign and signal to Americans that it's time to come together as a nation.President Donald Trump won't be there to hear it. He's already said he won't attend the inauguration — the first outgoing president to skip his successor's swearing-in since Andrew Johnson did not attend Ulysses S. Grant's inauguration in 1869.Ari Fleischer, who served as press secretary for President George W. Bush, said there are still ways that Biden's speechwriting team can continue the tradition of honoring the peaceful transition of power by simply giving a nod to the past presidents and Vice President Mike Pence, who are expected to be at the Capitol for the address.Biden chief of staff Ron Klain said during a recent event hosted by The Washington Post that the president-elect has been chipping away on the address through the entire transition — taking time every few days to write and rewrite his thoughts. His speechwriting team is led by longtime Biden collaborator Vinay Reddy.More important than flowery oratory is substantively demonstrating how Biden will take steps to begin unifying a country that remains emotionally raw because of the pandemic and a divisive election cycle that culminated with the violent insurrection at the Capitol, Fleischer said.“Don't dwell on today's difficulties. Focus on tomorrow's answers,” Fleischer advised. “Soaring oratory is just not Joe Biden. The effectiveness of his speech is going to be much more about what he says than how he says it.”Edward Frantz, a presidential historian at the University of Indianapolis, said Biden's daunting moment has parallels to what Roosevelt faced in 1933 as he sought to rally support for his agenda, as well as to Rutherford B. Hayes, who delivered his inaugural address in 1877 after winning by a single Electoral College vote in an election in which he and his allies alleged fraud in several states.In addition to pushing a message of unity for Americans, Biden should signal to the world that the United States will recalibrate after four years of Trump, Frantz said. That may be easier said than done, though.“How do you talk about returning to new normal while also not seeming arrogant about the United States' position in the world — especially after what's transpired over the last four years of the Trump administration and also with what foreign observers watched in horror as the riots transpired,” Frantz said. “There really is no parallel to what Biden faces.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-aims-for-unifying-speech-at-daunting-moment-for-us-101610985117374.html
18-01-2021||World||Bhutan to receive Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine from India||Bhutan Prime Minister Lotay Tshering on Monday announced that Thimphu will receive Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine from India to help the country fight the Covid-19 pandemic.Noting the 'value of the old ties' between the two countries, Tshering said that New Delhi will provide coronavirus vaccines for free."If we have to buy the vaccines then we may to spend USD 6 million. His Majesty was informed by the GoI that they value the old ties with Bhutan and will help Bhutan. We have told GoI that we plan to vaccinate the whole eligible population in one go and they said they understand," PM Tshering was quoted by The Bhutanese."GoI (Government of India) has announced that they will provide vaccines for free and if we have to procure vaccines then His Majesty has said he would even provide from his personal resources," he added.As per the Bhutanese daily, Tshering also informed that Bhutan King Jigme Khesar Namgyel Wangchuck has commanded that all Bhutanese abroad to get vaccinated."His Majesty has commanded that all Bhutanese abroad should be vaccinated too and if required then the embassies and missions will provide the resources if the vaccine has to be paid for," said Bhutan PM.This comes after the Nepal Government approved the emergency use of the 'Covishield' vaccine last week, which is being manufactured by the Serum Institute of India (SII).The Indian side assured that the "requirements of Nepal would be in priority consideration after the roll-out of vaccines", said the Nepal Embassy following the approval of the vaccine.Last week, Nepal Foreign Minister Pradeep Kumar Gyawali had said that India is a frontrunner in starting vaccinating people against Covid-19 and this "has given us great hope.""Today as we wait for the availability of Covid-19 vaccines, India is one of the frontrunners. This has given us great hope. I take this opportunity to congratulate India and its innovative companies for success. Being next door, we believe we too will be availing these vaccines," Gyawali said in a speech during an event organised by the Indian Council of World Affairs at Sapru House here.He also lauded India's achievements in infrastructure, industrialisation and decades of successful democratic practice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bhutan-to-receive-oxford-astrazeneca-covid-19-vaccine-from-india-101610986039039.html
18-01-2021||World||Inauguration rehearsal evacuated after fire in homeless camp||The US Capitol complex temporarily locked down Monday during a rehearsal for President-elect Joe Biden's inauguration after a fire in a homeless encampment about a mile away sent a plume of smoke into the air and caused security concerns.But law enforcement officials said there was no threat to the public and the fire was not believed to be a threat to the inauguration. The evacuation of some participants and the lockdown were ordered by the acting chief of Capitol Police in an abundance of caution, officials said. District of Columbia firefighters responded and put out the fire.Biden was not participating in the rehearsal.A riot Jan. 6 at the US Capitol by Trump supporters has prompted anxiety and massive security concerns about the inauguration on Wednesday. Secret Service increased security in and around the Capitol a week early in preparation, and the city center is essentially on lockdown with streets blocked, high fencing installed and tens of thousands of National Guard and other law enforcement officers stationed around the area.Participants were ushered from the West Front of the Capitol. Those who had gathered for a walk-through, including a military band, were directed to head indoors and moved in the direction of a secure location inside the Capitol complex.People involved in the rehearsal said security officials yelled “this is not a drill.”The US Secret Service, which is in charge of security for the inauguration, said there was no threat to the public.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-capitol-temporarily-shut-down-reports-reuters-citing-us-secret-service-101610986132411.html
18-01-2021||World||Fear of Covid-19 spread forces Sri Lanka to reduce its Parliament sessions||Sri Lanka has curtailed this week’s Parliament sessions to just two days from the scheduled four days after nine people tested positive for coronavirus in the Parliament complex, an official said on Monday.Parliament's Director of Communications Shan Wijetunga said a total of 943 tests were conducted in Parliament, out of which 32 were on MPs, while the rest were done on Parliament staff and security personnel.While all the 32 MPs tested negative, 9 people tested positive for Covid-19, including 4 staff members and as many security personnel, he said.The Committee on Parliamentary Business has decided that Parliament will meet on Tuesday and Wednesday only, following the Covid-19 cases reported last week, the official said.Priyal Nishantha, a state minister, has tested positive. Nishantha had consumed the locally-produced anti-Covidtonic along with several other parliamentarians last month, the official said, adding that the political parties represented in Parliament have agreed to limit this week's sessions due to pandemic concerns.Despite ongoing fears, the government will open the airports for foreigners from January 21.Tourism Minister Prasanna Ranatunga said the authorities had learned lessons from a pilot project which brought in groups of Ukrainian tourists."The pilot project has been a success and there were over 1500 Ukrainian tourists who came, bringing in 42 million rupees", Ranatunga said.Sri Lanka was hit by the second coronavirus wave in October. Earlier last month, Sri Lankan authorities said they would resume international flight operations from December 26.However, the latest date for re-opening international travel was also deferred. Chair of Airports Authority GA Chandrasiri said the delay was caused by the new strain of coronavirus, which has forced parts of Europe into tougher virus restrictions.The Sri Lankan government incentivised air travel in the months following the COVID-19-induced air travel break, offering zero parking fees and landing costs for international operators.Sri Lanka had seen a major surge in Covid-19 infections since early October. The number of deaths which stood at just 13 by October has now gone past 260 while the number of cases is above 53,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/fear-of-covid-19-spread-forces-sri-lanka-to-reduce-its-parliament-sessions-101610980232826.html
18-01-2021||World||PDM announces new round of anti-government rallies across Pakistan||The 11-party opposition alliance - Pakistan Democratic Movement (PDM) on Monday announced its new round of anti-government rallies across the country.After a meeting of the PDM steering committee in Islamabad, PDM Chief Maulana Fazlur Rehman said that they will hold its first rally of the new phase in Rawalpindi's Liaquat Bagh on February 5, SAMAA TV reported.According to the PDM chief, the next rally will be held in Hyderabad on February 9 and it will be followed by another public gathering in Sialkot on February 13.This comes as PDM is set to plan a protest outside the Election Commission of Pakistan (ECP) on January 19 against a foreign funding case in 2014.Rehman said that the foreign funding case against the Prime Minister Imran Khan-led government has been under trial for the past couple of years but the ECP has yet to announce a verdict, SAMAA TV reported.Accusing Imran Khan of seeking the biggest National Reconciliation Ordinance (NRO) in the foreign funding case, the PDM chief said "Foreign funding case is the biggest scandal in the country's history and Imran Khan is the main accused in the case."PDM had organised several rallies including those in Peshawar, Gujranwala, Karachi, Quetta, Multan, and Lahore since October 16.The PDM has announced the protest as it has demanded the resignation of Imran Khan by January 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pdm-announces-new-round-of-anti-government-rallies-across-pakistan-101610982784892.html
18-01-2021||World||Man arrested after allegedly hiding 3 months at Chicago airport due to Covid-19||A California man who told police that the coronavirus pandemic left him afraid to fly has been arrested on charges that he hid in a secured area at Chicago's O'Hare International Airport for three months.Aditya Singh, 36, is charged with felony criminal trespass to a restricted area of an airport and misdemeanour theft after he was arrested Saturday. At a court hearing on Sunday, a judge ruled that the Orange, California, man could be released if he paid $1,000, but said that Singh was prohibited from setting foot in the airport.As of Monday morning, Singh remained in the Cook County Jail.Assistant Public Defender Courtney Smallwood said Singh does not have a criminal record. She also said it was unclear why Singh, who is unemployed, came to Chicago or if he has ties to the area.During the hearing, Assistant States Attorney Kathleen Hagerty said that Singh was spotted by two United Airlines employees, who asked him for identification, the Chicago Tribune reported. Singh lowered his mask and showed a badge that actually belonged to an operations manager at the airport who had reported it missing in late October, Hagerty said.The employees called police, who took Singh into custody. Singh was “scared to go home due to COVID,” Hagerty said, and told authorities that he'd found the badge and that other passengers at the airport had given him food.Before she granted Singh bail, Cook County Judge Susana Ortiz was clearly troubled that someone could remain in a secured area for so long at the airport without anyone noticing.“The court finds these facts and circumstances quite shocking for the alleged period of time that this occurred,” the judge said. “Being in a secured part of the airport under a fake ID badge allegedly, based upon the need for airports to be absolutely secure so that people feel safe to travel, I do find those alleged actions do make him a danger to the community."Singh is scheduled to return to court Jan. 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/man-arrested-after-allegedly-hiding-3-months-at-chicago-airport-due-to-covid19-101610983854434.html
18-01-2021||World||How might EU react after Russia arrests opposition leader Alexei Navalny||European countries have criticised the arrest of Russian opposition politician Alexei Navalny on his return home after being poisoned and some have called for European Union sanctions against Moscow.Here are some of the measures which the EU might consider taking, based on proposals mooted in previous cases when the West considered sanctions against Russia.Targeted travel bans/asset freezesWestern countries may consider targeted sanctions on Russian individuals deemed to have been involved in Navalny's arrest and any decision to jail him.The EU and the United States already have travel bans and asset freezes in place against Russians accused of responsibility for human rights abuses, including Navalny's poisoning and the 2009 death in jail of Sergei Magnitsky, a lawyer arrested after accusing Russian officials of tax fraud.Economic sanctionsThe EU already has sanctions in place on Russia's energy, financial and arms sectors, and a ban on doing business with Crimea, over Moscow's seizure of the peninsula.Toughening such sanctions would require unanimity among the EU's 27 member states. While some, such as Poland, are open critics of Moscow, others, such as Hungary, might be less willing to back tougher economic sanctions against Russia.Nord stream 2Berlin faces calls to take punitive steps over the Nord Stream 2 pipeline that is being built to carry natural gas directly from Russia to Germany. Most of its construction is complete.Some EU countries say the pipeline will undermine the traditional gas transit state, Ukraine, and increase EU reliance on Russia for energy.The United States, keen to increase shipments of liquefied natural gas to Europe, opposes the pipeline and this month told EU companies it suspects are helping build Nord Stream 2 that they face a risk of sanctions. Zurich Insurance Group decided to drop out of the project following the call.Germany has supported the project so far, arguing it is a commercial venture, and government spokesman Steffen Seibert said on Monday that had not changed.TurkstreamTurkStream is another pipeline project, which will carry Russian natural gas to southern Europe through Turkey.Russia started gas exports via TurkStream to Turkey last year and supplied the first gas via Bulgaria to Serbia in early 2021. Any action considered over TurkStream would be intended in effect to suspend its further expansion to Europe.The Russian foreign ministry has said that sanctions threats against pipelines amount to "political pressure" and "unfair competition".Sovereign debtAnother possible response that might be considered is limiting foreign investors' ability to hold Russia's sovereign debt.OFZ bonds are an important source of cash for state spending.Disconnecting Russia from SWIFTAnother possible step that could be considered is disconnecting the Russian financial system from global SWIFT interbank payments, which would make international financial transactions nearly impossible.Andrey Kostin, chief executive of Russia's second largest bank, VTB, has said such a move would be comparable to a declaration of war.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/how-might-eu-react-after-russia-arrests-opposition-leader-alexei-navalny-101610983528329.html
18-01-2021||World||Man hospitalised in Germany after camel bites him in face||A 54-year-old man has been hospitalized in northern Germany after being bitten in the face by a camel, police said Monday.The employee of the Perleberg Zoo, located between Berlin and Hamburg, was cleaning the camel enclosure on Sunday morning and feeding the animals when one turned suddenly and bit him, police said.Police characterized the injuries as “serious” and said the man, whose name was not released, was being treated in a local hospital.The zoo is closed at the moment under German coronavirus lockdown restrictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/man-hospitalised-in-germany-after-camel-bites-him-in-face-101610980870167.html
18-01-2021||World||Jailed Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny urges Russians to take to streets||Jailed Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny on Monday urged Russians to take to the streets in protest at his treatment in a video clip released after a judge ordered he be remanded in pre-trial detention for 30 days."Don't be afraid, take to the streets. Don't go out for me, go out for yourself and your future," Navalny said in the video, posted on YouTube.Navalny was detained at a Moscow airport on Sunday after flying home for the first time since he was poisoned last summer. The United Nations and Western nations told Russia to immediately free the opposition politician and some countries called for new sanctions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/jailed-kremlin-critic-alexei-navalny-urges-russians-to-take-to-streets-101610979872650.html
18-01-2021||World||Russian judge orders to jail Kremlin critic Navalny for 30 days: Spokesperson||A Russian judge on Monday ruled that Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny should be held in custody for 30 days until Feb. 15, his spokeswoman said, a day after he was detained upon his arrival in Moscow."The court arrested Navalny for 30 days. Until February 15," Kira Yarmysh, his spokeswoman, wrote on Twitter.Navalny was detained at a Moscow airport on Sunday after flying home for the first time since he was poisoned last summer. The United Nations and Western nations told Russia to immediately free the opposition politician and some countries called for new sanctions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russian-judge-orders-to-jail-kremlin-critic-navalny-for-30-days-spokesperson-101610979373587.html
18-01-2021||World||Started process of appointing Turkey representative after new law, says Facebook||Facebook Inc said on Monday it had started the process of appointing a legal entity as a local representative in Turkey in compliance with a new social media law which critics have said will muzzle dissent.The law allows authorities to remove content from platforms, rather than blocking access as they did in the past. The move has caused concern as people turn more to online platforms after Ankara tightened its grip on mainstream media.The company said its decision did not change its community standards, which outline what is and what is not allowed on Facebook, nor its process for reviewing government requests."We will withdraw the representative if we face pressure on either," the company said in a statement, adding that it remains committed to maintaining free expression and other human rights in Turkey.Other companies have also appointed representatives in line with the recently amended Internet law. YouTube, owned by Alphabet Inc's Google, said a month ago it had taken such a decision..In previous months Facebook, YouTube and Twitter had faced fines in Turkey for not complying with the law.Companies that do not follow the law will ultimately have their bandwidth slashed by 90%, essentially blocking access.Twitter said in a report this month that Turkey, which has historically been responsible for the highest number of content removal requests, ranked fourth in the first half of last year, accounting for 10% of all global legal demands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/started-process-of-appointing-turkey-representative-after-new-law-says-facebook-101610979388112.html
18-01-2021||World||EU to push member states to target vaccinating 70% of population by summer||The European Union’s executive arm will urge member states to set a target for vaccinating at least 70% of the bloc’s population by this summer, according to a draft of the latest pandemic response recommendations due to be released Tuesday.The European Commission will also vow to agree with member states by the end of this month on a protocol for vaccination certificates “which can be recognized and used in health systems across the EU -- and which could be scaled up globally in coordination with the World Health Organization,” according to the draft of the document seen by Bloomberg.Such certificates could replace quarantines and test-requirements, proving that “you are no longer high-risk for travel.”The draft policy paper, which is still subject to changes until it’s formally adopted on Tuesday, comes amid an increase in infections that has forced EU governments to prolong recession-inducing lockdowns. It also follows an underwhelming rollout of vaccinations across the continent that has left the EU lagging behind the US, the UK and other developed nations.EU leaders will seek ways to up their game when they hold a video conference on Thursday, which is meant to be informed by the latest commission proposals. Among the most controversial issues on the table is a push for the introduction of vaccination certificates that would allow travel to resume -- at least for those who receive the jab.The idea, which the commission paper appears to adopt, reflects the eagerness of tourism-dependent economies like Greece to salvage this summer’s tourism season. Countries such as France, however, are reluctant to adopt the use of such certificates for the time being, as they would appear to make vaccines mandatory, at a time when they aren’t available to everyone due to supply constraints.Travel Ban“To ensure an ambitious vaccination effort concrete targets are essential,” the commission’s document also says. “By March 2021, member states should have vaccinated a minimum of 80% of health and social care professionals and people over 80 years old,” and “by summer 2021, member states should have vaccinated a minimum of 70% of the adult population.”The commission’s recommendations, which aren’t binding for member states, also include:The commission will also vow “to speed up the approval process for new production facilities” and help member states set up vaccination centers and electronic reservation systems for vaccination. The proposals reflect concerns among member states that current production capacity for the approved vaccines is insufficient.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-to-push-member-states-to-target-vaccinating-70-of-population-by-summer-101610978877526.html
18-01-2021||World||Russia prepares earliest-ever Arctic LNG shipment to Asia||Russia is preparing to make the earliest-ever shipment of liquefied natural gas to Asia, taking advantage of thinning ice in the Arctic Ocean and paving the way for a record-long navigation season this year.The super-chilled cargo from Novatek PJSC’s Yamal LNG facility in early May will beat last year’s record for the start of eastbound voyages through the Northern Sea Route by almost two weeks if the plan works out, according to people familiar with the situation. It will travel with an ice-breaker.The Northern Sea Route, stretching more than 3,000 nautical miles (5,556 kilometers) between the Barents Sea and the Bering Strait, is the shortest passage between Europe and Asia. Yet its eastern part is usually shut for navigation for several months at the start of the year due to thick ice, limiting shipment potential. Its increased use underscores how quickly the pace of climate change is accelerating in the Earth’s northernmost regions.The exact timing of the LNG shipment will depend on the thickness of the ice and weather conditions, said the officials, who asked not to be identified as the schedule is not public or finalized.“The possibility of such a voyage in May is under discussion,” Nikita Sekretarev, spokesperson for Russian shipping company Sovcomflot PJSC, said declining to provide further details. Sovcomflot provides the Christoph de Margerie tanker to Novatek’s Yamal LNG project.Russia’s state nuclear corporation Rosatom, which operates the Northern Sea Route, declined to comment on the schedule.Russia expects the passage to rival the Suez Canal as Arctic ice thins out. But climate experts warn that an increase in ocean-going vessels through the route could cause more damage to the environment.Last year saw another period of intense heat. Especially in parts of the Arctic and northern Siberia, where temperatures in some regions were more than 6 degrees Celsius higher than average.The warming allowed Novatek to send an eastbound LNG cargo via the NSR with ice-breaker support in late May in 2020 -- the earliest start to the navigation season in the area so far. Shipments continued to Asia through January, a record-long navigation season in the eastern Arctic.February RecordEarlier this month, Novatek sent two LNG ice-class tankers, the Christophe de Margerie and the Nikolay Yevgenov, to China through the NSR. The vessels don’t need ice-breaker support as the current conditions in the eastern Arctic are mild, according to Rosatom.The Christophe de Margerie crossed the Arctic and reached Cape Dezhnyov, located between the Chukchi Sea and the Bering Strait, late Saturday evening Moscow time, sailing 2,474 nautical miles in almost 11 days, according to Sovcomflot’s statement emailed on Monday.The voyage confirms that “commercial transportation of cargoes in the eastern area of Russia’s Arctic in autumn-winter season is possible for one to two months longer, bringing the year-round navigation via the Northern Sea Route one step closer,” Sovcomflot said.However, the tankers, scheduled to deliver the super-chilled cargoes to China in late January, will use an ice-breaker on their return to Russia across the passage in February, according to the industry officials.Until now, a cargo ship has never made a February voyage in the eastern Arctic, according to Sovcomflot, who owns the Christophe de Margerie.Sovcomflot confirmed the plans for the tanker. The U.S.-based Teekay LNG Partners LP, the owner of the Nikolay Yevgenov, did not respond to Bloomberg’s request for a comment.The planned February return voyage is part of “the systemic efforts to gradually extend transit navigation in the eastern sector of the Arctic,” the Sovcomflot spokesman said. “In the future, the goal is to set up a safe round-the-year navigation” across the Northern Route, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russia-prepares-earliest-ever-arctic-lng-shipment-to-asia-101610977624710.html
18-01-2021||World||Zimbabwe banks shut 17% of branches as virus drives digitization||Zimbabwean banks have closed about 17% of their branches as an escalation in the number of coronavirus infections spurs lenders to shut their doors for the time being and accelerate a digitization drive.Of the 300 branches in the country, 10% were permanently closed last year due to the digitization push. An additional 23 branches are now temporarily under lock and key in response to a strict 30-day lockdown that started on Jan. 5, the Zimbabwe Bankers’ Allied Workers Union said.“There is a high possibility that some may never be re-opened in the foreseeable future,” Shepherd Ngandu, the assistant secretary-general of the union, said by text message.While banking is deemed an essential service and is exempt from a total shutdown, lenders have opted to downscale to minimize infection risks. The companies rotate half their branch staff every two weeks.The nation’s economy has been in decline for the past two decades amid shortages of everything from foreign exchange to pay for imports to food. Public hospitals are under strain due to a shortages of beds and equipment, according to the Zimbabwe Association of Doctors for Human Rights.Zimbabwe Health Minister Denies Hospitals Overwhelmed by VirusOwing to the thrust to offer more digital services, the labor union estimates that about 100 workers were made redundant last year. In the prior year, nearly 300 out of the 4,000 employees in the industry were dismissed, five times more than in 2018.“For now, there are no direct job losses related to Covid-19, but we are beginning to see banks perfecting their digitalization platforms during these times, leading to possible job losses this year and beyond,” said Ngandu.Ralph Watungwa, the president of the Bankers’ Association of Zimbabwe, didn’t respond to a text message seeking comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/zimbabwe-banks-shut-17-of-branches-as-virus-drives-digitization-101610970974462.html
18-01-2021||World||‘Appalling’: World leaders react to Alexei Navalny’s arrest in Russia||Several leaders across the world condemned the arrest of Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny, who was detained by police on Sunday night as soon as he landed in Moscow for the first time after being treated in Germany for poisoning. Russia’s Federal Penitentiary Service (FSIN) said that the opposition leader has been arrested over his failure to report to them as per the terms of a suspended sentence and probation period.Navalny has been at the forefront of the anti-corruption struggle in Russia and has organised several demonstrations in the past against President Vladimir Putin and his political allies. The 44-year-old Kremlin critic has been jailed several times over various charges, including embezzlement and holding unauthorised protests, which the Russian leader has repeatedly denounced as politically motivated.Here’s how the world reacted over Navalny’s arrest:United StatesThe outgoing secretary of state Mike Pompeo said that the detention was the latest in a series of attempts to silence Navalny and other opposition figures who are critical of Russian authorities. The top US diplomat urged the Russian government to provide a “level playing field” for candidates seeking to compete in the electoral process.“Confident political leaders do not fear competing voices, nor commit violence against or wrongfully detain political opponents,” Pompeo said in a statement.Jake Sullivan, the national security advisor for president-elect Biden, called for the immediate release of Navalny, demanding that the perpetrators of the poison attack must be held accountable. Taking to Twitter, Sullivan said that the attacks on Navalny are not only a violation of human rights, but also an affront to the Russian people who want their voices heard.Mr. Navalny should be immediately released, and the perpetrators of the outrageous attack on his life must be held accountable. The Kremlin’s attacks on Mr. Navalny are not just a violation of human rights, but an affront to the Russian people who want their voices heard.GermanyGerman Chancellor Angela Merkel on Monday condemned Navalny’s “arbitrary” arrest and demanded his immediate release. According to news agency AFP, Merkel’s spokesperson Steffen Seibert said that the Navalny’s arrest violates the principles of the rule of law.German foreign minister Heiko Maas also called on Russian authorities to immediately release Navalny, denouncing the arrest as “utterly incomprehensible”. Maas told German public television that Navalny consciously chose to return to Russia because he feels the country is “his personal and political home”, adding that the obligations to civil liberties should also apply to the prominent critic of Putin.United KingdomCalling Navalny a victim of “despicable crime”, UK foreign secretary Dominic Raab said that the arrest of the Russian leader was “appalling”. “Rather than persecuting Mr Navalny Russia should explain how a chemical weapon came to be used on Russian soil,” Raad said in a statement, referring to the poison attack on Navalny in which nerve agent from the Novichok group was used.European UnionUrsula von der Leyen, the president of the European Commission, condemned Navalny’s arrest and called on Russian authorities to immediately release him. She highlighted that the detention of political opponents is against Russia’s international commitments. “We also continue to expect a thorough and independent investigation on the attack on Alexei Navalny's life. We will monitor the situation closely," von der Leyen said in a statement. European Council president Charles Michel also made a similar appeal.The detainment of Alexey #Navalny upon arrival in Moscow is unacceptable. I call on Russian authorities to immediately release him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/appalling-world-leaders-react-to-alexei-navalny-s-arrest-in-russia-101610977155737.html
18-01-2021||World||California health official calls for pausing Moderna Covid-19 vaccine after allergic reactions reported at one clinic||California's State Epidemiologist, Dr Erica Pan, called for pausing administration of Moderna's coronavirus vaccine due to a high-than-usual number of severe allergic reactions."A higher-than-usual number of possible allergic reactions were reported with a specific lot of Moderna vaccine administered at one community vaccination clinic. Fewer than 10 individuals required medical attention over the span of 24 hours," Pan said in a California Department of Public Health statement.More than 330,000 doses of this particular lot were distributed to 287 health care providers across California earlier this month, the statement said.Moderna, the Centres for Disease Control and Prevention, and the US Food and Drug Administration are currently undertaking a review of the batch in question.The epidemiologist acknowledged that getting any vaccine is not without risk, but available data on similar vaccines show that one severe allergic reaction per 100,000 inoculations can be expected, well below the current posting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/california-health-official-calls-for-pausing-moderna-vaccine-101610976722414.html
18-01-2021||World||No direct cause, says Norway over death of 33 people after Covid-19 vaccination||Norway has said there is no direct link between the deaths of 33 elderly citizens, who died after being inoculated against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), and the vaccine they were given, adding that all of them were already seriously ill. "All of these patients have had serious underlying illnesses. We can’t say that people die from the vaccine. We can say that it may be coincidental. It is difficult to prove that it’s the vaccine which is the direct cause," Steinar Madsen, medical director at the Norwegian Medicines Agency (NMA), was quoted as saying by Bloomberg.Sigurd Hortemo, the chief physician at the NMA, also said that "reports suggest that common adverse reactions to mRNA vaccines, such as fever and nausea, may have contributed to a fatal outcome in some frail patients."As of Friday, Norway had been using Pfizer-BioNTech's coronavirus vaccine shots. The Pfizer shot is based on the mRNA technology that guides the cells of the host body to fight off the virus. The first Europe-based report on the safety of the Pfizer shot is to come by the end of January.Also Read | Norway says Covid-19 vaccines may be too risky for elderly, terminally sickNorway has till date vaccinated around 42,000 people with the first dose of the Pfizer shot, especially to those considered at high risk including the elderly.Hortemo had also said that Norway is vaccinating elderly and people in nursing homes with critical underlying conditions, therefore it is expected that deaths close to the time of inoculation may occur. In Norway, an average of 400 people die each week in nursing homes and long-term care facilities, NMA added.NMA and the National Institute of Public Health have been jointly assessing the cases of adverse effects after the vaccine. The Nordic country's medicine agency also emphasised on the evaluation of every person to assess if the benefits of the vaccination outweigh the risk of its adverse effects.Madsen believed the results won't be any different with the Moderna vaccine too. He said that it is possible that the side effects of the vaccination in some cases, "tip the patients into a more serious course of the underlying disease. We can’t rule that out." However, he added, that almost all nursing home patients have been vaccinated and the deaths account for "one under 1000."Norway has reported total 58,651 coronavirus cases and 521 deaths till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/no-direct-cause-says-norway-over-death-of-33-people-after-covid-19-vaccination-101610976556571.html
18-01-2021||World||Joe Biden announces deputies for second spots in federal agencies||President-elect Joe Biden on Monday nominated five deputies to serve in the second spots of federal agencies, rounding out leadership that can take over governing after he is inaugurated on Wednesday.The nominees, who must be confirmed by the Senate, are Jewel H. Bronaugh at Agriculture, Polly Trottenberg at Transportation, Andrea Palm at Health and Human Services, Elizabeth Klein at Interior and Cindy Marten at Education. All are women.Klein, Palm, Bronaugh and Trottenberg worked in their same departments during the Obama administration.Bronaugh would be the first Black woman to serve in the senior role at Agriculture. Biden had been under pressure to nominate a Black person to be Agriculture secretary but went with Tom Vilsack, who had the role under President Barack Obama.Palm would be returning to HHS as it becomes one of the highest profile departments, working to fight the coronavirus pandemic.Marten is currently superintendent of the San Diego Unified School District. She began her career in education as a classroom teacher. She has stressed the need to reopen schools closed due to the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-announces-deputies-for-second-spots-in-federal-agencies-101610976218961.html
18-01-2021||World||Imran Khan under 'immense pressure' to resign by Jan 31, says PML-N||Rejecting the claims about the federal government's pressure on the Pakistan Democratic Movement (PDM), Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz (PML-N) spokesperson Marriyum Aurangzeb has said it is Prime Minister Imran Khan who is under "immense pressure" from the 11-party opposition alliance to resign by January 31.The PML-N spokesperson said that the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) ministers are making "a hue and cry" as the Pakistani citizens are standing with the opposition parties in a bid to oust Imran Khan, Dawn reported."Due to PDM movement to get the resignation of the 'incompetent' government, the PTI ministers are making a hue and cry as the people supported the stance of the opposition," Marriyum told reporters on Sunday after an organisational meeting of the party, as quoted by Dawn.This comes as PDM is set to plan a protest outside the Election Commission of Pakistan (ECP) against a foreign funding case in 2014. PML-N vice president Maryam Nawaz would lead a rally from Rawalpindi on that day, said the PML-N spokesperson."On January 19, lawyers, doctors, nurses and farmers will all have to leave their homes and join PDM (protest)," she said. Furthermore, Marriyum stated that the deadline for the resignation of the "selected government" was January 31."Setting the date of the foreign funding case on February 13 is a result of our pressure. I hope the Election Commission will not come under pressure to make a decision in the case," she added.Last week, Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP) Bilawal Bhutto-Zardari had asserted that the only way to remove Prime Minister Imran Khan and his government was to table a no-confidence motion.Bilawal had vowed to convince the members of the PDM on the strategy, while also calling on the premier to voluntarily step down because of his "failure at all fronts," Dawn reported."It is the only way out... We are not anarchists. We believe in democracy and legal process. This is the only way out, I think. We need to go through the parliament for every move," he said at the press conference."We will try to bring the PDM and allied parties on one page on this option. We believe in democratic norms and this is why we always resist the role of the establishment in making or breaking governments," Bilawal added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/imran-khan-under-immense-pressure-to-resign-by-jan-31-says-pmln-101610974982717.html
18-01-2021||World||Sinovac says its Covid vaccine more effective with longer dosing interval||China's Sinovac Biotech said on Monday that a clinical trial in Brazil showed its Covid-19 vaccine was almost 20 percentage points more effective in a small sub-group of patients who received their two doses longer apart.The protection rate for 1,394 participants who received doses of either CoronaVac or placebo three weeks apart was nearly 70%, a Sinovac spokesman said.Brazilian researchers announced last week that the vaccine's overall efficacy was 50.4% based on results from more than 9,000 volunteers, most of whom received doses 14 days apart, as outlined in the trial protocol.The spokesman said a small number of participants received their second shot late due to a various reasons, without elaborating.The dosing interval for Covid-19 vaccines has become a hot topic of debate among scientists, regulators and governments.UK regulators have said a Covid-19 vaccine from AstraZeneca and Oxford University is more effective when there is a longer gap between doses than initially envisaged.Britain has also decided to allow a longer gap between doses of a Covid-19 vaccine from Pfizer and BioNTech, even though the companies say they only have efficacy data for a shorter period between shots.The Sinovac spokesman cautioned the robustness of the data from the sub-group was weaker than the 50% result, which is based on the combined data of those receiving doses two or three weeks apart.While Sinovac's researchers had said early stage trials showed a four-week interval induced the stronger antibody response than two weeks, this is the first time the company has released efficacy data from a Phase III trial with dosing patterns that differ from its trial protocol.Sinovac has yet to release global results of its Phase III trials, but its Covid-19 vaccine has been approved for emergency use in several countries, including Brazil, Indonesia and Turkey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sinovac-says-its-covid-vaccine-more-effective-with-longer-dosing-interval-101610973084814.html
18-01-2021||World||From the Bubonic plague to 2021, why lockdowns look set to stay||A year after the lockdown imposed in the Chinese city of Wuhan shocked the world, the tactic is turning out to be an enduring tool for quelling the coronavirus almost everywhere.When the first large-scale lockdown in modern times was implemented in China on Jan. 23 at the start of the Covid-19 pandemic, it was then deemed unproven and unthinkable, particularly by democratic governments who balked at the implications for human rights violations of limiting citizens’ freedom of movement on such a huge scale.Yet almost 12 months on, the U.K. is in the midst of its third nationwide lockdown as it battles a mutated strain of the coronavirus. In Australia, the recent discovery of one case in Brisbane prompted a three-day lockdown. And China, which is experiencing its biggest outbreak since the start of the pandemic with over 500 cases, locked down three cities surrounding Beijing this month.“Prior to Covid-19 there was a strong global health discourse that argued against lockdowns and similar mass quarantines. This is but one area of thinking that the current pandemic has overturned,” said Nicholas Thomas, an associate professor in health security at the City University of Hong Kong.“As far as is possible, lockdowns are going to become part of the essential toolkit for governments to use in addressing the ongoing as well as future outbreaks,” he said.Wartime measuresThe speed with which China locked down millions of people when the pandemic broke out marked the first time that the measure had been taken on such a massive scale in modern times.Until last year, severe lockdowns were synonymous with the waves of bubonic plague that swept through Europe from the 14th century. Even during the Spanish Flu of the early 20th century, no lockdowns were centrally imposed. China did, however, impose three major lockdowns in recent history: during a bubonic plague outbreak in its northeast in 1901, and two short ones following the 2008 Sichuan earthquake and another amid a bubonic plague outbreak in Gansu province in 2014.Foreign countries who were taken aback at the Wuhan lockdown found themselves doing much the same just months later as the virus spread uncontrollably.After an infectious disease reaches a certain number of people, lockdowns can’t be avoided because no other measure can stem spread, said Jiang Qingwu, a professor of epidemiology at Shanghai’s Fudan University.Though it’s clear that there remains a large gulf between what the Chinese government is able to impose on its citizens during a lockdown compared to democratic countries. Ever quick to declare what the government routinely refers to as “wartime” measures in response to relatively low numbers of infections, local authorities also ensured compliance by actions such as totally sealing off residential compounds. In some cases, people are not allowed to leave to get food, with deliveries arranged to them instead.China’s unproven antiviral solution: quarantine of 40 millionAccording to the authors of a study conducted by Bloomberg Economics comparing how democratic countries fared against more authoritarian ones in dealing with the pandemic, “a rapid and stringent lockdown is the kind of knee-jerk reaction that comes more naturally to authoritarian than democratic regimes.”In China’s latest lockdown in Shijiazhuang, the capital of Hebei province, the stringent measures are reminiscent of those from the Wuhan lockdown, which ended on April 8 after infections dwindled to zero. Residents in the northeastern city, 180 miles (290 kilometers) southwest of Beijing, are required to stay home for seven days as the city embarks on a second round of mass testing for the entire population of 11 million as cases in the region exceed 500. Flights and trains into and out of the city have been halted, as well as almost all public transport.In contrast, democracies such as the U.K. in their versions of lockdowns have generally allowed people to leave the house to purchase essentials such as food and medicine, walk their dogs or exercise. Schools remained open in France’s autumn lockdown, while in its latest two-week lockdown this month, Israel is allowing people to gather outdoors in groups of up to 10, with exemptions for religious activities.U.K. faces harder lockdown restrictions as Covid infections soarBut there’s also been examples of democratic governments imposing extreme rules. One state government in Australia, where officials have reacted fiercely to flareups, banned even outdoor exercise and dog-walking during a brief lockdown in November.Winter resurgenceChinese authorities argue that the country’s bounceback from the crisis proves that their approach works. And a winter resurgence of the virus in countries like South Korea, Japan and Sweden, which originally saw success with a minimal-disruption approach that avoided lockdowns, buttresses the argument for stricter measures, particularly as fatigued citizens flout stay-at-home advice.The best and worst places to be in Covid: U.S. sinks in ranking“Given the huge number and high density of China, we have proved that [these measures] are very effective,” Mi Feng, spokesperson at the country’s National Health Commission, told Bloomberg News.In addition to concerns over civil liberties, many governments remain hesitant to impose the sorts of full lockdowns as seen in China because of the economic cost -- though research by the International Monetary Fund’s latest World Economic Outlook showed that if countries were decisive in taking such measures, they performed better in terms of protecting the economy. New Zealand is one such example, recording just 25 deaths after quickly imposing lockdowns, with life resuming to near normality soon after.Early lockdowns saved jobs in government responses to pandemicHowever, even China, whose economy has roared back to life, is cognizant of economic pressure. Since the Wuhan lockdown, authorities have tellingly steered clear of shutting down economically significant cities like Beijing despite substantial flareups. Officials turned largely to aggressive contact-tracing during an outbreak in the capital last summer.“Effective as lockdowns are, they are costly,” said Yanzhong Huang, Director of the Center for Global Health Studies at New Jersey’s Seton Hall University. “Even for China, it’s unsustainable in the long term,” he added, likening reflexive lockdown decisions to “shooting cannonballs at mosquitoes.”With vaccinations drives now being rapidly rolled out across major western countries and China, the hope is that lockdowns will be far less common in 2021, though substantial uncertainty remains over how long it’ll take to vaccinate enough of the world population to safely re-open the global economy.Despite the economic implications, Covid-19’s legacy is likely that lockdowns will continue to be deployed during outbreaks of highly communicable diseases in the future, especially since they’re now a familiar concept to people everywhere for the first time in a century.“Restrictive quarantine itself is not a new invention and its application dates back to the Black Death in the medieval times,” said Huang. “But it’s ironic that such an old method remains the most effective despite the tremendous progress in medical sciences.”Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/from-the-bubonic-plague-to-2021-why-lockdowns-look-set-to-stay-101610955893874.html
18-01-2021||World||Germany prepares for further coronavirus measures||Germany's health minister on Monday said that although measures to contain the spread of coronavirus had started showing an effect, further efforts were needed to bring the virus permanently under control."The (infection) numbers seem to be decreasing, which is good, but we are still a long way from where we want to be," Jens Spahn told broadcaster ARD.Chancellor Angela Merkel and the 16 state premiers will discuss next steps on Tuesday.The number of new coronavirus infections has been decreasing in recent days and the occupancy of beds in intensive care units by Covi-19 patients has recently declined by 10-15%, according to Spahn.However, the state premiers are concerned about new variants of the coronavirus that appear to be more contagious.Finance Minister Olaf Scholz told public broadcaster RBB on Monday he could imagine extending the current lockdown by two weeks until mid-February.Stricter requirements for companies to allow employees to work from home, a compulsory wearing of FFP2 masks in certain areas, restrictions on public transport and an introduction of curfews are being debated.The number of confirmed coronavirus cases in Germany increased by 7,141 to 2,040,659, data from the Robert Koch Institute (RKI) for infectious diseases showed on Monday. That was more than 5,000 less cases then the week before.The reported death toll rose by 214 to 46,633, according to the tally.Foreign Minister Heiko Maas fuelled discussions regarding privileges for people who had been vaccinated against COVID-19 on Sunday by saying those should be allowed to go to restaurants and cinemas earlier.His comments contrasted with other German ministers, who have opposed such special rights, fearing it could lead to inequalities in society at a time when not everyone has the opportunity to get inoculated.Maas's proposal were "out of the question" as long as it is not proven that a vaccination stopped people from transmitting the virus too, a justice ministry spokesman said on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/germany-prepares-for-further-coronavirus-measures-101610961323433.html
18-01-2021||World||China’s economy grows by 2.3% in 2020, bucking global Covid-19 slowdown trend||China's economy, which was the first to be hit by the coronavirus pandemic and early to recover from its impact, grew 2.3 per cent in 2020, registering the lowest annual growth rate in 45 years, but bucking the trend of slowdowns being experienced by major world economies.The Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of the world's second-largest economy grew by 2.3 per cent, expanding to USD 15.42 trillion in dollar terms in 2020, according to the data released by China's National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) on Monday.In the local currency, the GDP exceeded 100-trillion-yuan (USD 15.42 trillion) threshold to 101.5986 trillion yuan, it said.The Chinese economy which suffered a 6.8 per cent slump in the first quarter in 2020 after it went into lockdown following the emergence of the deadly coronavirus in Wuhan staged a steady recovery after quickly containing the Covid-19, while the virus turned into a global pandemic, hitting all major economies around the world, including India.Aided by strict virus containment measures and emergency relief for businesses, the Chinese economy staged a steady recovery.In the fourth quarter of 2020, China's GDP expanded 6.5 per cent year on year, faster than the 4.9-per cent growth in the third quarter, the NBS said.The country's economic operation has recovered steadily with employment and people's well-being effectively guaranteed, the NBS said, adding that the major tasks of economic and social development have been completed better than expected.Partly, China’s global exports of medical supplies, specially relating to coronavirus, has also contributed to growth in manufacturing and exports.China's job market grew at 5.6 per cent but below the government's annual target of around six per cent.According to the data, a total of 11.86 million new urban jobs were created in 2020, completing 131.8 per cent of the target set for the whole year, the NBS said.In December, the surveyed urban unemployment rate was 5.2 per cent, flat with the same period of the previous year.But the emerging new clusters of coronavirus in the country prompted China to strengthen controls, casting a shadow over higher growth projections for this year.Ning Jizhe, the head of the NBS, said that "the main targets of economic and social development (in 2020) have been completed better than expected"."China is expected to become the only major economy in the world to achieve positive economic growth throughout the year," he said, adding that quarterly GDP growth "have returned to the normal level".Analysts say with global bodies like the International Monetary Fund projecting growth rate above eight per cent this year, China's economy could be picking up pace."The GDP data shows the economy has almost normalised. This momentum will continue, although the current Covid-19 outbreak in a couple of provinces in northern China might temporarily cause fluctuation," said Yue Su, the Principal Economist for the Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU)."The government's strong anti-coronavirus measures that help effectively contained the spread of the virus, the flexible countercyclical macroeconomic policies, as well as the efforts taken to deepen reform and opening up to the outside world, have all contributed to the better-than-expected economic results in 2020," Cao Heping, a professor at the School of Economics of Peking University, told the state-run Global Times.Observers say the nature of the recovery of the Chinese economy has been distinctly lopsided as the industrial prong of China's economy vastly outgrew consumption, with exports helping power growth, even as imports struggled to gain momentum.Consumption plays an important role as China's 14th Five-Year Plan being implemented envisages massive overhaul of the country's domestic market to boost consumption in order to reduce China's reliance on shrinking exports markets.According to the NBS data, China's retail sales of consumer goods, a major indicator of consumption growth, fell 3.9 per cent year on year in 2020. Sales of consumer goods reached 39.2 trillion yuan (about USD 6.05 trillion) last year.As per the NBS data, China's value-added industrial output, an important economic indicator, went up 2.8 per cent year on year in 2020.The growth accelerated from a rise of 2.3 per cent registered in the first 11 months of last year.In Q4, the industrial output grew 7.1 per cent year on year, 1.3 percentage points higher than that recorded in Q3. December alone saw the output growth rise to 7.3 per cent, up by 0.3 percentage points from November, the NBS data showed.The output of the manufacturing sector went up 3.4 per cent year on year last year, the fastest among the three major sectors, which also include mining and the production and supply of electricity, thermal power, gas and water, the NBS data said.The mining output edged up 0.5 per cent year on year, while the production and supply of electricity, thermal power, gas and water reported a year-on-year growth of 2 per cent.Industrial structure continued to improve last year, with the output in high-tech manufacturing and equipment manufacturing industries expanding by 7.1 per cent and 6.6 per cent, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinas-economy-grows-by-2-3-in-2020-bucking-global-covid-19-slowdown-trend-101610970878460.html
18-01-2021||World||Virginia capital braces for pro-gun demonstration in wake of Capitol siege||Gun rights activists will converge on the Virginia state capital on Monday for an annual demonstration that falls at an especially tense time this year, after the January 6 siege of the US Capitol and two days before the presidential inauguration."Lobby Day" has authorities on alert in Richmond, about 110 miles (175 km) south of Washington, DC, where Democratic President-elect Joe Biden will be sworn in on Wednesday, replacing Republican President Donald Trump.Lobby Day takes place in a highly polarized climate, following a year in which anti-racist and white nationalist demonstrators clashed across the United States, and as strident Trump supporters cling to hope he can remain in power.Nationwide pro-Trump demonstrations scheduled for Sunday largely fizzled after the FBI issued warnings and several states deployed the National Guard."We're showing up to remind them that we're still here," a gun rights activist, who identified himself only as Trevor, told Reuters outside the Virginia statehouse on Sunday evening, walking the perimeter to help plan the protest.Virginians traditionally petition their lawmakers on Lobby Day at the start of the state's General Assembly session, with the pro-gun Virginia Citizens Defense League taking a leading role in recent years.Other groups including the anti-government "boogaloo" movement will attend Monday, as could liberal demonstrators. Lobby Day always falls on Martin Luther King Jr. Day, a national holiday honoring the civil rights leader assassinated in 1968.Boogaloo boys also walked the perimeter of the statehouse on Sunday, striking poses with semiautomatic rifles for photographers.Philip Van Cleave, leader of the defense league, said demonstrators would come from as far away as New York and Texas. The group says it plans to petition state lawmakers to loosen gun curbs, as it has done during many Lobby Days in the past."We've been doing this for 25 years," Van Cleve added. "We've never had a single problem. No arrests, nothing."Police estimated last year's crowd at 22,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/virginia-capital-braces-for-pro-gun-demonstration-in-wake-of-capitol-siege-101610970019497.html
18-01-2021||World||Detained Kremlin foe Navalny rushed to court, Moscow tells West to butt out||Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny was rushed to a court hearing inside a police station on Monday, a day after he was detained at a Moscow airport when flying home for the first time since he was poisoned last summer.Navalny, in a video from inside the police station, called the move an example of lawlessness and lashed out at President Vladimir Putin, accusing him of throwing the criminal code out of the window in fear.The Kremlin was expected to comment on his case later on Monday, but usually refers questions about the 44-year-old opposition politician to law enforcement agencies.Navalny's detention was ordered by Moscow's prison service in relation to alleged violations of a suspended prison sentence in a case he says was trumped up.Monday's court hearing, parts of which was live streamed by Navalny, may rule for him to be held in custody until a different court decides whether to convert that suspended 3.5 year sentence into real jail time.Four masked police officers detained Navalny at passport control on Sunday evening, the first time he had returned home after being poisoned by what German military tests showed was a Novichok nerve agent, a version of events the Kremlin rejects.Western nations told Russia, which could face punitive sanctions over its conduct, to immediately free Navalny. The Russian Foreign Ministry quickly rejected those calls, telling them to mind their own business."Respect international law, do not encroach on national legislation of sovereign states and address problems in your own country," Russian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova wrote on Facebook.Navalny's case could trigger new sanctions against Russia, especially against an $11.6 billion project to build a natural gas pipeline from Russia to Germany, with some EU countries saying they want the bloc to swiftly impose such measures.The rouble weakened as investors weighed the risk of new sanctions against Moscow.The foreign ministers of Germany, Britain, France and Italy called for Navalny's release. Lithuania said on Sunday it would ask the EU to swiftly impose new sanctions on Russia. Czech Foreign Minister Tomas Petricek said he wanted the bloc to discuss possible sanctions.Jake Sullivan, one of U.S. President-elect Joe Biden's top aides, told Moscow to free Navalny, and U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said on Twitter he was deeply troubled by Moscow's decision to arrest Navalny.Sergei Lavrov, the foreign minister, told a news conference that Western countries' expressions of outrage over the detention were designed to distract their own citizens from domestic problems.He said the Navalny case had gained artificial resonance in the West and that Moscow was unfazed by potential damage to its image."We should probably think about our image, but we're not young ladies going to a ball," Lavrov told reporters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/detained-kremlin-foe-navalny-rushed-to-court-moscow-tells-west-to-butt-out-101610970234386.html
18-01-2021||World||After roof shattering victory, Kamala Harris faces daunting challenges||Kamala Harris is all set to become the first woman to be the vice president of the United States after her inauguration on January 20, 2021. She is also the first Black woman and a woman of South Asian descent to hold the office. Harris has broken every possible glass ceiling and now has to live up to the expectations of her boss, president-elect Joe Biden, and all those who voted her in.The incoming administration has set out four key priorities of turning around the economy, tackling Covid-19, addressing climate change and racial justice. “She [Harris] has a voice in all of those. She has an opinion in all those areas,” Harris’ chief spokeswoman Symone Sanders was quoted by the Associated Press.Covid-19: Harris had promised that the first 100 days of her term in office would focus on getting control of the coronavirus pandemic and ensuring equitable distribution of the vaccine for all. “The Biden-Harris Covid-19 response plan will include: Setting up community vaccination sites nationwide, Scaling up testing and tracing, Providing paid sick leave to contain spread of the virus, Addressing health disparities,” she had tweeted on January 16.The Biden-Harris COVID-19 response plan will include:✓Setting up community vaccination sites nationwide✓Scaling up testing and tracing✓Providing paid sick leave to contain spread of the virus✓Addressing health disparitiesEconomic revival: Joe Biden announced a $1.9 trillion coronavirus relief bill last Thursday to revive the US economy. Harris had been consistent in her support for increasing the limit of the stimulus check given to Americans to $2000 from $600 given presently. She has also been interacting with small business owners across many states expressing her support. “Our economic team members have track records of not only standing up for workers and unions, but spurring innovation, and creating opportunity for small business owners,” she has said.Also read: Indian-Americans nominated for key roles in Biden administrationRacial justice: An active proponent of racial justice and equality, Harris has been vocal in her support to the minority communities across America. She expressed her anguish about the killing of George Floyd in May 2020, following which widespread protests against police brutality erupted in the US.“We’ll show every child in America—regardless of their color or gender—that there are no limits to who can lead and hold positions of power in our country,” she referred to her election to the office.Climate Change: The US witnessed an active hurricane season, damages caused due to the wildfires in California and Oregon. “Starting on January 20th, we'll tackle this crisis [climate crisis] head-on here and around the world,” she had promised. She had also promised to invest in science and technology and restore trust in scientists in tackling climate change..@JoeBiden and I will listen to the scientists. pic.twitter.com/N0JloKI44w(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/after-roof-shattering-victory-kamala-harris-faces-daunting-challenges-101610968993038.html
18-01-2021||World||England aims to ease lockdown measures by early March under vaccine plan||The UK government will aim to start lifting the pandemic lockdown in the first half of March, after stepping up its mass vaccination program this week.Vaccines Minister Nadhim Zahawi said a gradual easing of restrictions could begin in the “first, second week of March.” He said it needed to be two to three weeks after the mid-February target to vaccinate the four most vulnerable groups so that the shots could take effect.From Monday, millions more people will be offered the vaccine -- including over-70s and those deemed “clinically extremely vulnerable” -- which Prime Minister Boris Johnson has called a “significant milestone” in the immunization effort.England is in its third national lockdown, with schools closed and people ordered to stay at home as the government attempts to control a surge in cases. There are currently more than 37,000 coronavirus patients hospitalized, and the daily death toll remains high -- with another 671 deaths recorded Sunday.Johnson’s government is pinning its hopes on the vaccination program to end the crisis. The National Health Service will begin delivering injections to the two new groups this week because some areas of England have already vaccinated the top two priority groups: the over-80s and front-line health and care workers.Ten new mass vaccination centers will open this week -- including at a racecourse, cathedral and rugby ground -- taking the total in England to 17, with more to follow. There are also 1,200 hospitals and GP-led sites offering injections.Zahawi said there would be a “gradual lifting” of the “non-pharmaceutical interventions.” He told Times Radio: “You’re talking about the first, second week of March, where you should be seeing very clear evidence of a break in the correlation between infection rates and hospitalization and obviously death, because this is a race against death.”The profound impact of 10 months of restrictions on businesses and workers means the government is under increasing pressure to do more to help the poorest families.The UK’s main opposition Labour party will turn up the heat Monday by forcing a vote in the House of Commons on extending a boost in benefit payments -- worth more than 1,000 pounds ($1,355) a year -- beyond March 31. A group of Conservative lawmakers, the Northern Research Group, has also insisted ministers must extend the benefits uplift.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/england-aims-to-ease-lockdown-measures-by-early-march-under-vaccine-plan-101610968715556.html
18-01-2021||World||EU gender pay gap still significant, warn trade unions||Women in Europe doing jobs requiring the same skills as jobs done by men are still being paid significantly less, according to a study by the the European Trade Union Confederation (ETUC).The major trade union organization, which represents 45 million members in 38 European countries, compared wages in two countries from Western and Eastern Europe — Germany and Romania — looking at women working in the sector of household appliances and men working in car manufacturing.The organization looked at several criteria including skills, physical effort and responsibility. It compared full-time workers of the same age and with a permanent contract working for medium-sized companies. In Germany, ETUC said, women in the white goods sector earn €865 less per month in gross income than men making cars, for jobs requiring similar skills.In Romania, where wages are significantly lower, the average difference in net income is €244, ETUC said.“Comparing the pay of women and men in the manufacturing sector shows clearly how women are paid less even when their jobs require the same levels of skill and physical effort as those of men,” ETUC deputy general secretary Esther Lynch said. “The COVID crisis has also exposed the deep-rooted bias behind wages for professions dominated by women, with carers and cleaners recognized as ‘essential’ despite being amongst the lowest paid.”Last year, using data from the EU's statistical office, the trade union organization said women would have to wait for another 84 years and the next century to achieve equal pay at the current pace of change.ETUC called on the European executive commission to quickly come forward with its pay transparency directive. European Commission president Ursula von der Leyen had planned to present measures to introduce binding pay transparency measures in the first 100 days of her mandate, but the proposals have yet to be unveiled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-gender-pay-gap-still-significant-warn-trade-unions-101610967718377.html
18-01-2021||World||Pakistan, Turkey are two countries but one nation: Pak Air Force chief||Pakistan Air Force (PAF) Chief Marshal Mujahid Anwar Khan said that Pakistan and Turkey are "two countries, one nation" as the Imran Khan government desperately seeks to salvage its relations with Ankara amid deteriorating relations with middle east and gulf countries.According to Geo News, the Air Chief was addressing a meeting comprising board members of the Association of Justice Defenders and Strategic Studies Center (ASSAM) in Turkey on Friday.The Air Chief said that Pakistan fully supports Turkey on Cyprus and other regional issues and also stands by Ankara in its war against terrorism.Pakistan's declining relations with its two biggest sources of foreign remittances and foreign exchange-- Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates (UAE)-- is "bad news" for its already ailing economy, said scholar Salman Rafi Sheikh.The Khan regime's tilt towards Turkey is reflected in his recent foreign policy choices, including its stated willingness to revive the dormant transnational rail service linking Istanbul, Tehran and Islamabad (ITI) in 2021.The ITI transnational railroad is expected to enhance connectivity via China's Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) by providing a direct rail connection between China and Turkey via Iran. China's presence in the line's revival is of central importance.In an opinion piece in Asia Times, Salman Rafi Sheikh said Pakistan is tentatively reorienting its foreign policy away from Saudi Arabia and the UAE towards China's New Silk Roads.Last August, Saudi Arabia asked Pakistan to repay early a USD 3 billion soft loan, Islamabad tried to defuse the tensions by quickly dispatching its current army chief General Qamar Javed Bajwa."While Pakistan tentatively expands its ties with Iran and Turkey, Saudi Arabia and the UAE have applied clear pressure on Pakistan's two biggest sources of foreign remittances at a delicate economic juncture, undermining - at least for now - Islamabad's ability to chart a truly independent and perhaps more forward-looking foreign policy," the scholar noted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-turkey-are-two-countries-but-one-nation-pak-air-force-chief-101610967763386.html
18-01-2021||World||Indian woman dies in UAE after husband accidentally rams car into her||A 45-year-old Indian woman died after her husband accidentally rammed their car into her while parking at a vehicle enclosure in the UAE's Ajman emirate, according to a media report on Monday.Liji and her husband (name withheld) had gone for a health check-up at a community hospital on Saturday, The Gulf News reported quoting a source close to the family.Liji was standing in front of the car, giving her husband directions to park it, when the vehicle accidentally raced forward, trapping Liji against the compound wall, said Sajad Nattika, president of the Indian Association, Umm Al Quwain.Liji and her husband -- both natives of Kerala -- have two children, the newspaper reported.Their son is an engineering student in India. Their daughter, who is the younger amongst the two, studies at a school in Umm Al Quwain, where the family has settled for nearly a decade now.Nattika said the Indian community in Ajman was in shock after the tragic accident.Ajman Police is investigating the case. The Indian association is supporting the family to repatriate the mortal remains, the daily reported.Consul for Press, Information and Culture, at the Indian Consulate in Dubai Neeraj Agrawal said, “The Consulate offers its heartfelt condolences to the family and all the assistance required from our side.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indian-woman-dies-in-uae-after-husband-accidentally-rams-car-into-her-101610967684314.html
18-01-2021||World||Covid-19: Singapore urges national carrier Singapore Airlines to be first in world to vaccinate all staff||Singapore on Monday urged workers at its national airline to help make it the world's first carrier with all staff vaccinated against Covid-19, with Singapore Airlines CEO Goh Phong Choon also encouraging employees to receive shots.Vaccinating Singapore's 37,000 frontline aviation and maritime staff is seen as key to reopening borders of the island-state, which is preparing to host events such as the World Economic Forum's annual meeting and the Shangri-La Dialogue Asian security summit in a few months' time.Singapore Airlines (SIA), in which state investor Temasek is the biggest shareholder, lacks a domestic market to cushion it against the coronavirus border closures which have shattered the aviation industry globally. It said last year it had cut 4,300 jobs, or around 20% of its staff."SIA (Singapore Airlines) can be the first vaccinated international airline of the world. Try to get that done," Transport Minister Ong Ye Kung told aviation workers at a vaccination drive at the airport on Monday.More than 5,200 SIA employees have signed up to be vaccinated since staff started being inoculated last week, according to a memo sent to staff by CEO Goh on Monday.An SIA spokesman said that represented about 50% of those eligible for the vaccine, which is being offered for free to residents by the government on a voluntary basis."Vaccinations are widely expected to be the game-changer in facilitating the opening of borders once again," Goh said."This will also be an important differentiator in the airline industry...I strongly urge everyone who is eligible to get vaccinated as soon as possible."Unlike other mass vaccination programmes in the United States and Britain, Singapore is administering the jabs having largely contained the disease locally.The plans have stirred rare hesitancy among some due to the low risk of infection and concern about any possible side effects from rapidly developed vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/singapore-urges-national-airline-to-be-first-to-vaccinate-all-staff-101610967099636.html
18-01-2021||World||Italian PM Conte seeks to save his government from falling||Italian Premier Giuseppe Conte was fighting for his political life Monday with an address to the lower chamber of Parliament that aims to shore up support for his government, which has come under fire from an ally over plans to relaunch the country's pandemic-ravaged economy.Conte lost his majority with the defection of Cabinet ministers belonging to former Premier Matteo Renzi’s tiny but key Italia Viva (Italy Alive) party. Renzi has faced harsh criticism for the power play during a pandemic. But with billions of European Union pandemic funds expected to flow into the country, he has defended the move as necessary to prevent Conte from amassing too much power.Conte will address the lower house on Monday and the Senate on Tuesday. Each speech will be followed by a voice vote that is tantamount to a confidence vote. The Senate vote, where Renzi’s party has 18 members, is expected to be decisive.Conte, a lawyer by training hailed for his mediation skills, was tapped by Italy's 5-Star Movement to run the government after the indecisive 2018 election led to a governing coalition of the 5-Stars with a right-wing group led by League party leader Matteo Salvini.That government fell when Salvini, then interior minister, mounted a failed power grab. Conte was able to form a new government with the support of the left-wing Democratic Party, which then included Renzi, a former Italian premier. Renzi later defected from the party he once ran, giving himself the ability to shake up the government by yanking loyal ministers.While Conte enjoyed broad support during the first phase of the pandemic, which overwhelmed Italy first in the West after emerging in China, he has come under criticism for making decisions and policy without consulting Parliament. Renzi acted after Conte unveiled a plan to manage the EU recovery funds himself, which was widely seen as accumulating too much power.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/italian-pm-conte-seeks-to-save-his-government-from-falling-101610966596782.html
18-01-2021||World||China's Chang'e-5 lunar probe retrieved samples weighing lesser than 2kg target||Lunar rocks retrieved by a historic Chinese mission to the moon weighed less than initially targeted, but China is still willing to study the samples with foreign scientists, the mission's spokesman said on Monday.China became the third country ever to secure lunar samples when its unmanned Chang'e-5 probe, named after the mythical moon goddess, brought back 1.731 kg (3.8 lb) of samples last month, falling short of the 2 kg (4.4 lb) planned.The probe had estimated the lunar rocks to have a density of 1.6 grams per cubic millimetre, based on data from past missions by other countries, said Pei Zhaoyu, the mission spokesman.Going by that figure, the probe stopped taking samples after just 12 hours, apparently assessing that the target had been reached."However, from tests, the actual density might not be that high," Pei told reporters. "We originally planned to use 22 hours to complete the work of surface sampling, but, in fact, we stopped after 12 hours."But China is still open to cooperating with all nations in studying the samples, he said, including the United States.For years, US laws have limited its space agency NASA from directly cooperating with China."We didn't set restrictions between countries," Pei said. "Whether or not two countries could carry out related cooperation is a matter for two sides."China has not yet received any access request for samples, he said, adding that the rocks were still in a pre-treatment stage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinas-chang-e-5-lunar-probe-retrieved-samples-weighing-lesser-than-2kg-target-101610966177855.html
18-01-2021||World||Covid-19 vaccination: Immunisation figures in countries with highest caseloads||Vaccination drives against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) are underway in several countries, and according to data accumulated by Bloomberg, 42.2 million vaccine doses have been administered in 51 nations. The global caseload of Covid-19 is at over 95 million of which more than 2 million people have lost their lives, the Johns Hopkins University's coronavirus tracker shows.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageHere’s a look at vaccination status in countries with highest Covid-19 caseloads:1. US (23.9 million cases): The United States, which has the highest Covid-19 caseload in the world, was among the first countries to launch a vaccination drive. Data from Bloomberg and Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) shows 14.3 million shots have been administered in the country since December 14, 2020, Day 1 of vaccination drive.2. India (10,571,773): The largest vaccination drive against Covid-19 began on January 16 in India, whose caseload is the second-highest in the world. In the first two days of the drive, 224,301 people received vaccine shots, said the Union health ministry.3. Brazil (8,488,099): Its Covid-19 caseload is the third-highest and Brazil is yet to begin its vaccination drive. Its health regulator, Anvisa, approved the country’s first two vaccines on Sunday - CoronaVac from China’s Sinovac and the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine.4. Russia (3,552,888): Last August, Russia claimed to have developed the world’s first vaccine against Covid-19 and has named it Sputnik V. As of January 11, as per the official account of the vaccine, more than 1.5 million people have been vaccinated in the world’s largest nation.5. United Kingdom (3,405,740): The UK was the first country in the world to launch a vaccination drive against Covid-19 on December 8 and has administered the first dose to more than 3.8 million people so far. From Monday, another 5 million will become eligible to receive a vaccine shot.6. France (2,969,091): Vaccination drive started in France on December 27, 2020, but the government has come under criticism for a “slow rollout.” There are 422,127 people who have been vaccinated so far, as the government aims to have carried out 1 million vaccinations by the end of January.7. Italy (2,381,277): Italy, too, started vaccinating its citizens on December 27. As of January 17, 1,153,501 people have been vaccinated, figures from the country’s health ministry show.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-vaccination-immunisation-figures-in-countries-with-highest-caseload-101610966220184.html
18-01-2021||World||China locks down another three million after travelling salesman spreads virus||Nearly three million people were put under lockdown in China Monday after a surge in coronavirus cases linked to a travelling salesman in the country's northeast.While China has largely brought the virus under control, a sharp rise in cases in the past few weeks has prompted fresh lockdowns, travel restrictions and multiple rounds of mass testing.Monday saw three million residents of two cities in northeastern Jilin province placed under new measures, as China reported 109 new infections.More than 19 million people across China's northeast are now barred from leaving their homes, and in some cases can only apply for permission to go grocery shopping once every three days.Authorities have traced over a hundred infections in Jilin province to an asymptomatic travelling salesman from neighbouring Heilongjiang, where authorities last week declared a state of emergency.The salesman had travelled to two different cities, now locked-down, and given healthcare workshops to middle-aged and elderly residents, according to local officials.An investigation has been launched into the health care centres that hosted the workshops to determine whether their operations constitute illegal business activities.Health care workshops which sometimes market products claiming to boost "longevity" have been accused of preying on vulnerable groups in China, particularly the elderly.The People's Daily, a state-run newspaper, ran a commentary on Monday lambasting the workshops as "risking lives for money, under the guise of caring about the health of the elderly".Lockdowns were also extended across other areas of China's northeast over the weekend, including one district of Harbin, currently hosting a popular ice sculpture festival that is usually a big draw for tourists.But local authorities partially lifted lockdowns in two cities in Hebei province outside Beijing -- which has accounted for the majority of cases in recent weeks -- though some 12.5 million are still being told to stay home.Over 20,000 residents of villages in the area have been sent into quarantine in a centralized location, state media reported last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-locks-down-another-three-million-after-travelling-salesman-spreads-virus-101610966606261.html
18-01-2021||World||Afghanistan Army kills 8 Taliban terrorists in Takhar province||As many as eight Taliban terrorists were killed and seven were wounded in Khawja-Ghar district of Takhar province by Afghan National Army on Sunday."8 Taliban were killed and 7 others were wounded in Khawja-Ghar district of #Takhar province by Afghan National Army last night (Sunday)," Ministry of Defense, Afghanistan tweeted.Besides the attack in Takhar province, Afghan Army killed 25 Taliban terrorists and wounded eight others in a preemptive operation in Zheria and Arghandab districts of Kandahar province yesterday.The Army also discovered two hideouts and three strongholds along with a large amount of their ammunition."25 Taliban were killed and 8 others were wounded in preemptive operation of ANA in Zheria and Arghandab districts of #Kandahar province, yesterday. Additionally, 2 hideouts, 3 strongholds and a large amount of their ammunition and weapons were destroyed," MoD said in a subsequent tweet. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/afghanistan-army-kills-8-taliban-terrorists-in-takhar-province-101610966336717.html
18-01-2021||World||'Brexit carnage': Shellfish lorries stack up near Downing Street||At least 10 shellfish lorries parked on roads near Number 10 Downing Street and the British parliament in central London on Monday after a series of problems exporting fish to the European Union due to Brexit.One lorry, with the slogan "Brexit Carnage", parked just metres from Downing Street - the official office of Prime Minister Boris Johnson. Police were asking the lorry drivers for details.Many Scottish fishermen have not been able to export their stocks to Europe since the start of the year after the introduction of catch certificates, health checks and customs declarations added lengthy delays to their delivery times, prompting European buyers to reject them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/brexit-carnage-shellfish-lorries-stack-up-near-downing-street-101610966054532.html
18-01-2021||World||UK man on a mission to find long-lost hard drive with bitcoin worth $280 million||James Howells, a 35-year-old software engineer, accidentally threw away his hard drive containing bitcoins at least eight years ago, which is worth more than $280 million now. The resident of Newport, Wales has once again started his search for the drive and urged local city officials to let him dig through landfill sites.What had happened?The man claims that he had two identical-looking hard drives and threw away the one which had the 'private key' required to access and spend the 7500 units of cryptocurrency stored on his computer while cleaning his office in 2013.A private key is a form of encryption, a digital signature that provides an algorithmic proof that the transaction was done by the owner. Bitcoin has a decentralised system operated by a network of computers. Every transaction is done through a wallet with a 'private key to encrypt and decrypt information.Why is it trending today?Howells has again raised his demand to dig the landfill to locate his drive. Even in 2021, he is confident that he will find his gold at the end of the trash, however, local civil authorities have again rebuffed his demand citing the cost involved sans any guarantee."The cost of digging up the landfill, storing and treating the waste could run into millions of pounds — without any guarantee of either finding it or it still being in working order," the Newport City Council's spokesperson was quoted as saying by CNBC.In order to locate his long lost drive, Howells has also promised 25 per cent of the bitcoins to his city's 'Covid Relief Fund', with an added promise to fund the excavation with an unknown hedge fund. If found, the promised donation would amount to $70.8 million.Also Read | Bitcoin retreats from $40,000 level strategists view as key"As far as I am aware they have already rejected the offer,” Howells had told CNBC in an interview. “Without even having heard our plan of action or without being given a chance to present our mitigations to their concerns regarding the environment, it’s just a straight-up ‘no’ every time," he added.The cryptocurrency has been booming since March last year and had on Monday from a record level of $40,000. The analysts believe dollar weakness, probability of faster inflation in recovering the global economy could be the factors driving quadrupling pace of the largest cryptocurrency, Bloomberg said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-man-on-a-mission-to-find-long-lost-hard-drive-with-bitcoin-worth-280-million-101610965635075.html
18-01-2021||World||Insider attack threat looming on Biden inauguration: What do we know so far||While the US department of homeland security implemented a security lockdown in downtown Washington DC ahead of the inauguration of president-elect Joe Biden, the threat of an insider attack has prompted the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) to screen all the 25,000 National Guard troops entering the capital in order to thwart any danger looming over the event.FBI director Christopher Wray had earlier highlighted the potential threats from armed individuals in close proximity to government buildings and officials, but the massive undertaking by US defence officials on the possible threat from service members now reflects the extraordinary security concerns that have gripped the US capital.What do we know so far?In the aftermath of the Capitol riots and online chatter on far-right groups over armed protests, law enforcement agencies have been reportedly taking extra precaution for Biden’s inauguration week. During a briefing on internal security last Friday, the FBI director had said that the agency is tracking calls for potential armed protests and activity leading up to the inauguration. “If we find that an individual poses a violent threat, then we and our partners will take advantage of every lawful authority and method we’ve got to disrupt any attempt or attack,” Wray told the briefing.Watch | Biden swearing-in: Security beefed up at statehouses in US amid small protestsAround 25,000 members of the National Guard from across the United States have started entering Washington to secure the inaugural event scheduled for January 20, which is at least two and a half times the number for previous inaugurals. US army secretary Ryan McCarthy told the Associated Press on Sunday that he has warned commanders to be on the lookout for any problems within their ranks. “We’re continually going through the process, and taking second, third looks at every one of the individuals assigned to this operation,” McCarthy was quoted as saying by the news agency.However, McCarthy said that he has not seen any evidence of threats, so far, and officials vetting the security personnel hadn’t flagged any issues, adding that National Guard members also receiving training on how to identify the threat of potential insider attack. General Daniel R Hokanson, chief of the National Guard Bureau, reportedly said that there are good processes in place to identify any such potential threats.“If there’s any indication that any of our soldiers or airmen are expressing things that are extremist views, it’s either handed over to law enforcement or dealt with the chain of command immediately,” Hokanson was quoted as saying by the Associated Press.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/insider-attack-threat-looming-on-biden-inauguration-what-do-we-know-so-far-101610964396975.html
18-01-2021||World||Alexei Navalny lawyer says denied access to Moscow police cell||Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny is being denied access to legal representation, his lawyer said Monday, after the Kremlin critic was detained at a Moscow airport on arrival from Germany.Navalny lawyer Olga Mikhailova told the Echo of Moscow radio station she was not being permitted to see her client, who was being held at a police station near the airport after he returned to Russia on Sunday."I am not being allowed into the building of the police department in the district of Khimki," she said.Navalny's spokeswoman Kira Yarmysh said on Twitter that two of the opposition leader's lawyers had been allowed to enter the police building, but that they were not given access to him.Navalny, a prominent critic of Russian leader Vladimir Putin, heads the Anti-Corruption Foundation, which on Monday described his detention as "illegal"."Navalny is a Russian citizen. He was illegally detained," the group wrote on Twitter.The 44-year-old's arrest by police at Moscow's Sheremetyevo airport Sunday sparked a wave of calls for his release from Western countries.Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said Monday that the international condemnation was an attempt to divert attention from domestic problems in Western countries."It looks like Western politicians see this as an opportunity to divert attention from the deepest crisis the liberal development model has found itself in," he said.jbr/mm/bp||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/alexei-navalny-lawyer-says-denied-access-to-moscow-police-cell-101610962827751.html
18-01-2021||World||Kamala Harris prepares for central role in Joe Biden's White House||Kamala Harris will make history on Wednesday when she becomes the nation's first female vice president — and the first Black woman and the first woman of South Asian descent to hold that office.But that's only where her boundary-breaking role begins.With the confluence of crises confronting Joe Biden's administration — and an evenly divided Senate in which she would deliver the tie-breaking vote — Harris is shaping up to be a central player in addressing everything from the coronavirus pandemic to criminal justice reform.Symone Sanders, Harris' chief spokeswoman, said that while the vice president-elect's portfolio hasn't been fully defined yet, she has a hand in all aspects of Biden's agenda.“There are pieces that Biden may specifically ask her to champion, but outside of that she is at the table for everything, involved in everything, and giving input and feedback and being a supportive partner to him on all pieces," she said.People working closely with Harris on the transition resist the idea of siloing her into any specific issue early on, because the sheer number of challenges the Biden administration faces means it will be “all hands on deck” during their early months.They say she'll be involved in all four of the major priorities they've set out: turning around the economy, tackling COVID-19, and addressing climate change and racial justice.“She has a voice in all of those. She has an opinion in all those areas. And it will probably get to a point where she is concentrating on some of the areas more specifically,” Sanders said.“But right now, I think what were faced with in this country is so big, its all hands on deck.”Harris has been closely involved with all of Biden's biggest decisions since winning the election in November, joining him for every one of his key meetings focused on Cabinet picks, the Covid-19 relief bill, security issues and more.The two talk over the phone nearly every day, and she travels to Delaware sometimes multiple times a week for transition events and meetings.Those involved in the transition say both have taken seriously Bidens insistence that he wants Harris to be the “last voice in the room” on key decisions.Biden is known to turn to Harris first during meetings to ask for her opinion or perspective on the matter at hand.Biden and Harris knew each other prior to the 2020 presidential campaign in part through Harris friendship with Biden's deceased son, Beau. But they never worked closely together.Since joining the ticket, and particularly since the election, Harris has made efforts to deepen their relationship and is in frequent contact with the president-elect, people close to Harris say.That personal relationship, according to presidential historian Joel Goldstein, will be key to their success as working partners.“The relationship of the vice president to the president is the most important relationship. Establishing mutual understanding and trust is really a key to a successful vice presidency,” Goldstein said.Goldstein pointed to Biden and President Barack Obama's relationship as a potential model for the incoming team.Biden and Obama were from similarly different backgrounds and generations and also entered the White House with a relatively fresh working relationship.But their relationship and mutual understanding grew throughout the presidency, and Obama trusted Biden with some of his administrations biggest endeavors, like the implementation of the 2009 Recovery Act and the troop withdrawal from Iraq.Harris is said to be looking at Biden's vice presidency as a guide for her own.But unlike Biden during his first term, Harris will face constant questions about her political future.While Biden has skirted questions about whether he plans to run for reelection, at 78 hell be the oldest president in history, leaving questions about whether he'll retire at the end of his term.That would make Harris the immediate frontrunner in any 2024 Democratic presidential primary.Early in the vice presidential vetting process, her potential presidential ambitions gave some Biden allies pause. But since her selection, Harris has proven a loyal partner to Biden, rarely if ever contradicting him publicly.Still, California Rep. Barbara Lee, who was the first Congressional Black Caucus member to endorse in the primary when she backed Harris, said the vice president-elect is not afraid to speak her mind.“Shes no shrinking violet," Lee said. "If she believes that one decision should be made versus another she's going to weigh in and give her thoughts and opinions.”Biden has a personal affection for the work of diplomacy and deep relationships with global leaders that Harris can't match. But aides say she'll be deeply involved in the administration's diplomatic priorities simply because of the sheer amount of issues that will take up Biden's time.She may also be given a particular aspect of the administration's coronavirus response to oversee.One of her main priorities early on is certain to be the passage of the USD 1.9 trillion coronavirus relief bill that Biden announced Thursday.Those working with Harris on the transition say that while Biden will be intimately involved with ushering the package through the Senate because of his longstanding relationships with longer-serving lawmakers, Harris knows the newer members and can help build fresh relationships in Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kamala-harris-prepares-for-central-role-in-joe-biden-s-white-house-101610961268655.html
18-01-2021||World||UK’s vaccination programme expands to cover over-70s||Millions of people aged 70 and over and those clinically extremely vulnerable to COVID-19 will be invited to get their vaccinations as the National Health Service (NHS) expands the rollout of the vaccines to the next priority groups from Monday.The NHS has so far been working to vaccinate the first two priority cohorts recommended by the Joint Committee on Vaccination and Immunisation (JCVI), which are care home residents and staff, and those aged 80 and over and frontline health and care staff.Vaccinating these groups will remain the priority, but vaccination sites which have enough supply and capacity for vaccinating further people are allowed to offer vaccinations to the next two cohorts – those aged 70 and over and clinically extremely vulnerable people.“Today is a significant milestone in our vaccination programme as we open it up to millions of more people who are most at risk from Covid-19,” said UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson.“We are now delivering the vaccine at a rate of 140 jabs a minute and I want to thank everyone involved in this national effort. We have a long way to go and there will doubtless be challenges ahead – but by working together we are making huge progress in our fight against this virus,” he said.The expansion means that areas that have already vaccinated the majority of care home residents, frontline health and care staff and people aged 80 and over to keep up the momentum and start vaccinating further at-risk people, helping the NHS to reach the government’s commitment of offering vaccinations to the top four JCVI priority groups by the middle of February.“Now that more than half of all over-80s have had their jab, we can begin vaccinating the next most vulnerable groups. Where an area has already reached the vast majority of groups 1-2, they can now start opening up the programme to groups 3-4,” said UK Health Secretary Matt Hancock.“We are working day and night to make sure everyone who is 70 and over, our health and social care workers and the clinically extremely vulnerable are offered the vaccine by the middle of February and our NHS heroes are making huge strides in making this happen," Hancock said.It comes as the NHS staff start delivering the two available Covid vaccinations – Pfizer/BioNTech and Oxford/AstraZeneca – at a rugby ground, racecourse, food court and cathedral from Monday as 10 new large-scale Vaccination Centres open up.The new sites mean there will be 17 Vaccination Centres offering people an alternative to the around 1,200 hospitals and GP-led services offering the vaccine service. Latest data released shows that the NHS has delivered more than 3.79 million jabs so far, including vaccinating more than one in three people aged 80 and over.“The NHS vaccination programme has got off to a strong start with our hard-working staff delivering more than 3 million vaccinations while also dealing with the latest wave of coronavirus infections,” said Professor Stephen Powis, NHS England’s medical director.“The rapid progress we have already made is testament to NHS staff who are pulling out all the stops to vaccinate the most vulnerable while caring for so many people who are seriously ill with Covid. In the most challenging of circumstances we are seeing the very best of the NHS,” he said.The message for eligible people is that anyone who cannot or does not want to travel to Vaccination Centres can wait to be vaccinated by their local GP service or hospital. The priority groups are being invited when it is their turn and the NHS has cautioned that people must wait for intimation and cannot just turn to get vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uks-vaccination-programme-expands-to-cover-over70s-101610962057743.html
18-01-2021||World||China to sanction US officials for 'nasty behaviour' over Taiwan||US officials who have engaged in "nasty behaviour" over Chinese-claimed Taiwan will face sanctions, China's Foreign Ministry said on Monday, after Washington lifted curbs on exchanges between US and Taiwanese officials.Sino-US ties have worsened as China has already condemned this month's easing, announced by US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo in the waning days of President Donald Trump's presidency.Further adding to China's anger, the US ambassador to the United Nations, Kelly Craft, spoke last week to Taiwan President Tsai Ing-wen, after a planned trip to Taipei was called off.Asked at a daily news briefing how China would follow through on its pledge to make the United States "pay a heavy price" for its engagements with Taiwan, ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said some US officials would face sanctions."Owing to the wrong actions of the United States, China has decided to impose sanctions on responsible US officials who have engaged in nasty behaviour on the Taiwan issue," she said, without elaborating.When asked about US sanctions on six mainland and Hong Kong officials announced last Friday over the mass arrests in Hong Kong, Hua said that China has decided to impose sanctions on US officials, members of Congress, personnel at non-governmental organisations and their family members over their "nasty behaviour" on the Hong Kong issue.China said last month it would sanction US individuals as a reciprocal response to the U.S. sanctions on more than a dozen Chinese officials. It was unclear from Hua's reply on Monday whether the Hong Kong-related sanctions were new.Hua also did not specify the names of the US officials under sanction and the nature of the sanctions.Democrat Joe Biden will be sworn in as president on Wednesday, and a new team will take over at the State Department, including a new secretary of state.China says Taiwan is the most important and sensitive issue in its relationship with the United States, and has previously announced sanctions on US companies selling weapons to Taiwan, though it has not been clear how, or if, they were enforced.Beijing has responded to increased US support for Taiwan, including arms sales and visits by senior US officials, by stepping up military activity near the island, including flying its air force aircraft nearby.Relations between the United States and China, the world's two biggest economies, have plunged to their lowest level in decades, with disagreements on issues including Taiwan, Hong Kong, human rights, the coronavirus pandemic, the South China Sea, trade and espionage.China last year unveiled sanctions on 11 US citizens, including lawmakers from Trump's Republican Party, in response to Washington's sanctions on Hong Kong and Chinese officials accused of curtailing political freedom in the former British colony.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-to-sanction-us-officials-for-nasty-behaviour-over-taiwan-101610960499943.html
18-01-2021||World||Germany finalises 2020 budget with less new debt than expected||The German government has finalised its 2020 budget with net new debt of below 150 billion euros ($181 billion), which is roughly a third less than the originally planned borrowing of nearly 218 billion euros, government sources told Reuters on Monday.Berlin needed less debt because earmarked money for public investment did not flow into projects as quickly as expected, coronavirus aid was not tapped by as many firms as anticipated and the pandemic-related hit to tax revenues was smaller than projected, two officials told Reuters on condition of anonymity.Nonetheless, new borrowing in 2020 was the highest in German history, easily surpassing the previous record of 44 billion euros in 2010, following the financial crisis.Finance Minister Olaf Scholz is planning net new debt of up to 180 billion euros this year to continue rescue and stimulus measures and shield Europe's largest economy from the impact of a potentially aggressive new wave of infections.A finance ministry spokesman declined to comment.The finance ministry is expected to present details of its final 2020 budget on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/germany-finalises-2020-budget-with-less-new-debt-than-expected-101610960216116.html
18-01-2021||World||UAE suspends visa-free travel for Israelis until July||The United Arab Emirates has suspended an agreement to inaugurate visa-free travel for Israelis to the Gulf country until July 1, citing the spread of the coronavirus pandemic, Israel’s Foreign Ministry said.Until then, Israeli citizens seeking to travel to the UAE will need to obtain a visa, as will UAE citizens seeking to travel to Israel, the ministry said on Monday. The UAE has taken a similar step regarding travel from most European countries, as well as India and Pakistan, the Israeli ministry said.Israel is in its third lockdown and discussing the possibility of extending it beyond January 21 as the number of new cases remains high.The UAE ratified the agreement on visa-free travel with Israel last week and it was set to go into effect 30 days from then. The agreement follows a normalization accord between the countries signed in September.The announcement of the suspension comes a day after Israel’s cabinet voted to require all people returning from the UAE and Brazil to quarantine in government-run hotels. A similar decision made previously regarding travelers returning from South Africa and Zambia was extended for 10 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uae-suspends-visa-free-travel-for-israelis-until-july-101610959798553.html
18-01-2021||World||UK is vaccinating 140 people per minute on average, says minister||The United Kingdom is vaccinating 140 people per minute against Covid-19 on average, Vaccine Deployment Minister Nadhim Zahawi said on Monday.The United Kingdom, which has the world's fifth worst official Covid-19 death toll, is racing to be among the first major countries to vaccinate its population - seen as the best way to exit the pandemic and get the economy going again.Latest figures show the United Kingdom has vaccinated 3,857,266 people with a first dose and 449,736 with a second dose."It is going well, we're vaccinating on average 140 people, that's first jab, literally a minute. That's the average so some areas are doing better," Zahawi told Sky."You'll see that improve as we open more of the large vaccination centres, 17 in total by this week and 50 by the end of the month.""Today, in some areas where they've done the majority of their over 80s, letters are going out to the over 70s and those who are clinically extremely vulnerable," he said.He said the 24-hour vaccine offering would begin to be piloted in London by the end of the month.Key workers such as teachers, the police and shopworkers could move to the top of the list for a vaccine once all those over 50 have been offered a shot, Zahawi said."Teachers, police officers, shop workers, those who through no fault of their own other than the work that they do may come into contact with the virus in much greater volume, should be top of the list," Zahawi told Times Radio.Britain is currently rolling out the vaccine to the most vulnerable first, starting with those who are in care homes or over 80 years of age.Zahawi said he would work with the Joint Committee on Vaccination to establish who gets the shot next in phase two of the roll out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-is-vaccinating-140-people-per-minute-on-average-says-minister-101610958573872.html
18-01-2021||World||Western anger over Navalny case meant to distract from problems at home: Russia||Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said on Monday that Western countries' expressions of outrage over the detention of Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny were designed to distract their own citizens from domestic problems.Police detained Navalny on his arrival in Moscow on Sunday after he flew home from Germany for the first time since he was poisoned last summer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/western-anger-over-navalny-case-meant-to-distract-from-problems-at-home-russia-101610958995560.html
18-01-2021||World||UK says vaccine manufacturing lumpy, supply not as good as hoped||Britain's vaccine rollout is limited by "lumpy" manufacturing and Pfizer's changes to its production could lead to brief supply disruption, Vaccine Deployment Minister Nadhim Zahawi said on Monday.Zahawi told LBC radio that the United Kingdom was hoping for 2 million vaccines a week from AstraZeneca but that those numbers will not be reached until mid February."It's been a bit lumpy," Zahawi said of vaccine manufacture."There's bound to be delays. Any new manufacturing process has challenges at the outset, it is lumpy, it begins to stabilise and get better and better week in, week out," he told the BBC."The Pfizer BioNTech vaccine is a messenger RNA chemical, difficult chemical to manufacture, very very challenging but they're doing really well, they want to do more which is why they're reconfiguring to add volume to the whole world.""That could delay supply but I'm confident we can meet our target."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-says-vaccine-manufacturing-lumpy-supply-not-as-good-as-hoped-101610958989587.html
18-01-2021||World||Germany calls for Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny's immediate release||Russia should "immediately" release Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny, German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas said Monday after a wave of Western condemnation of his detention at a Moscow airport.Navalny "took the conscious decision to return to Russia because he sees it as his personal and political home", Maas said, adding it was "totally incomprehensible" that the Russian authorities arrested him on his arrival Sunday.The 44-year-old was detained at Moscow's Sheremetyevo airport less than an hour after he flew in from Germany, where he had been recovering from the poisoning with a nerve agent he says was ordered by President Vladimir Putin.The United States, the European Union, several EU governments, Canada and a senior aide to US President-elect Joe Biden immediately called for his release, with some in the EU urging new sanctions against Moscow.Rights groups joined the calls, with Amnesty International saying Navalny had become a prisoner of conscience and accusing Russian authorities of waging "a relentless campaign" to silence him.Maas, noting that Russia is bound by its own constitution and international obligations, said "these principles must also be applied" and Navalny "should be released immediately".Germany also wanted Russia to "investigate thoroughly the (poison) attack and bring the perpetrators to justice", the minister said.Russia's FSIN prison service said Navalny was wanted for "multiple violations" of a 2014 suspended sentence for fraud, adding that "he will be held in custody" until a court ruling.Navalny fell violently ill in August on a flight from Siberia and was later flown to Berlin in an induced coma. Western experts concluded he was poisoned with the Soviet-designed nerve toxin Novichok.The Kremlin denies any involvement and Russian investigators have said there are no grounds to launch a probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/germany-calls-for-kremlin-critic-alexei-navalny-s-immediate-release-101610956699659.html
18-01-2021||World||West condemns Putin critic Alexey Navalny’s detention in Moscow||Russian police detained opposition leader Alexey Navalny, an outspoken critic of President Vladimir Putin, as he arrived in Moscow after being treated in Germany for poisoning, drawing immediate criticism from the U.S. and Europe.Navalny, 44, was met by officers at passport control as he landed in Moscow on a plane from Berlin Sunday, according to a live video feed on his YouTube channel. The Federal Penitentiary Service said he had been detained for violating the terms of a suspended sentence, state-run Tass reported.“This is my home,” he told reporters who’d traveled with him Sunday shortly before he was detained. “I’m not scared of anything.” Navalny boarded the flight knowing that he could face a lengthy prison term if he returned.U.S. Secretary of State Michael Pompeo -- who departs with the rest of the Trump administration on Wednesday -- condemned Russia’s decision and called for Navalny’s immediate and unconditional release, echoing similar demands from the European Union and Biden’s incoming national security adviser.“We note with grave concern that his detention is the latest in a series of attempts to silence Navalny and other opposition figures and independent voices who are critical of Russian authorities,” Pompeo said in a statement on Sunday.Navalny, whose anti-corruption exposes and success in galvanizing anti-government votes have increasingly needled the authorities, had been recovering in Germany from a nerve-agent attack in August that he and Western governments blamed on Putin.Surrounded by Russian law enforcement upon landing in Moscow, Navalny kissed his wife, Yuliya, goodbye before walking off with police. Authorities said he would be held pending a court decision on his sentence set for Jan. 29. He spent the night in a cell in a police station in Khimki, a Moscow suburb near the airport, but hadn’t been given access to a lawyer, his allies said.Dozens of his supporters were detained by police at Moscow’s Vnukovo Airport, where he had appealed to them to meet him. The flight was diverted to another airport shortly before arrival.Read More: Putin, Poison and the Importance of Alexey Navalny: QuickTakeThe move to imprison the most prominent opponent of the Russian president marks the biggest crackdown by Putin in recent years. Coming days before U.S. President-elect Biden takes office, it could trigger an immediate clash with the new Democratic administration.Jake Sullivan, incoming President Joe Biden’s national security adviser, blasted the Kremlin and called for Navalny’s release.Navalny returned home amid rising political tension ahead of Russian parliamentary elections this autumn and support for the Kremlin falters amid the coronavirus downturn. Putin, 68, whose two-decade rule makes him the longest-serving leader since Soviet dictator Josef Stalin, last year overturned term limits, allowing him to stay in power until 2036. Speculation that he may step down far sooner is building.“There were only two choices for Navalny -- to stay in Germany or come home. If he remained an émigré, in Russia people would quickly lose interest in him,” said Alexei Makarkin, deputy director of the Center for Political Technologies in Moscow. “His calculation is he’ll become a symbol of resistance behind bars and a big risk for Putin.”European Council President Charles Michel, who speaks for the EU on foreign affairs, called Navalny’s detention unacceptable. It’s “yet another attempt to intimidate the democratic opposition in Russia,” Polish Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki said on Facebook.Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia are calling on the EU to “consider imposition of restrictive measures” on Russia if Navalny isn’t freed, Lithuanian Foreign Minister Gabrielius Landsbergis said on Twitter.Russian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova denounced the comments by Sullivan and other officials as “prepared ahead of time,” calling on them in a Facebook post to “respect international law, don’t infringe on the national legislation of sovereign countries and deal with the problems in your own country.”Russia issued an arrest warrant for Navalny after accusing him of violating the conditions of a 3 1/2 year suspended fraud sentence by not appearing in person for regular summons. It asked a Moscow court on Jan. 11 to replace it with a prison term. The opposition politician also potentially faces separate charges of embezzlement punishable by as many as 10 years in prison.While for years Navalny was repeatedly jailed for weeks at a time and faced assaults on the street -- at one point nearly losing his eye -- the poisoning attack marked the most serious attempt to kill him. Russia denied any involvement and said it found no proof the opposition politician was poisoned, accusing him of fabricating it as part of working for the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency.With Navalny ignoring the threat to arrest him, the Russian authorities’ response looks set to further sour ties with a once-close partner, Germany, and other European states led by France.German Chancellor Angela Merkel, whose country offered treatment to Navalny after his near-fatal poisoning during a campaign trip to Siberia, visited him in the hospital and provided personal security guarantees. The EU sanctioned six Russian officials in October for the use of the banned Novichok chemical weapon in the attack.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/west-condemns-putin-critic-alexey-navalny-s-detention-in-moscow-101610956087789.html
18-01-2021||World||Trump administration plans to designate Houthis as terrorists||In what could be the last act of President Donald Trump, US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo announced on 10 January that the US Administration would designate Yemen's Ansar Allah movement (Houthis) as a terrorist organization.He added that the designation would take effect on 19 January, i.e. the day before Trump leaves office and (President-elect Joe) Biden is sworn in. This move is expected to exacerbate further the grave humanitarian situation in Yemen, this poor, worn-torn country in the Arabian Peninsula, about which the UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres warned that "now is in imminent danger of the worst famine the world has seen for decades."Pompeo insisted that the move would "deter further malign activity by the Iranian regime", while he stressed that the US administration plans "to put in place measures to reduce their impact on certain humanitarian activity and imports into Yemen."He added that the US is prepared to work with the United Nations and aid groups to help the humanitarian effort. Pompeo said that licenses and guidance would also apply to certain humanitarian activities conducted by non-governmental organizations in Yemen and to certain transactions and activities related to exports to Yemen of critical commodities like food and medicine.Houthis, who profess a sect of Shiite Islam, captured Yemen's capital Sanaa, along with much of the country's north-western territory in late 2014 and 2015. The region borders Saudi Arabia, which together with the United Arab Emirates, supports militarily the internationally recognised government of President Abdrabbuh Mansour Hadi that was ousted by the Houthis, who are backed by Iran. The conflict escalated in 2015 when a Saudi-led coalition launched a military operation to defeat the Houthis and restore PresidentHadi's rule. In the ensuing civil war, it is believed that more than 110,000 people were killed.The lack of safe drinking water, caused by depleted aquifers and the destruction of the country's water infrastructure, has also caused the largest, fastest-spreading cholera outbreak in modern history, with the number of suspected cases exceeding 1 million. Yemen is also facing an outbreak of the covid-19 pandemic.Mark Lowcock, United Nations Under-Secretary-General for Humanitarian Affairs and Emergency Relief Coordinator, speaking during a recent Security Council videoconference meeting, said that the most urgent priority in Yemen right now is to prevent a massive famine. Sixteen million Yemenis are poised to go hungry this year, and about 50,000 already find themselves in the midst of a small famine, he said, adding: "Every decision the world makes right now must take this into account." He also stressed the fact that Yemen imports 90 per cent of its food -- with nearly all that food entering through commercial channels that aid agencies cannot replace.David Beasley, Executive Director of the United Nations World Food Program (WFP), has said that even without the designation of Houthis as terrorists, famine looms, with 11 million people already in crisis and 5 million at an emergency level. "To stave off famine, at least USD 1.9 billion is needed for 2021, as only USD 386 million in confirmed contributions have been received... The shortage means 9 million people now receive half-rations, and without required assistance, starting in February, only quarter-rations can be provided. The designation (of Houthis as a terrorist organization) is going to be a death sentence to hundreds and thousands, if not millions."What is quite disappointing, is that every time there is a glimmer of hope in Yemen, it is almost immediately frustrated by an adverse event or action, which overturns any progress made. This happened again on December 30 2020, when a plane carrying members of the recently formed Yemeni government landed at Aden International Airport in the southwest of Yemen.As passengers disembarked, there were explosions and gunfire, leaving 28 people dead and 107 others injured. None of the passengers were hurt in the attack and the Yemeni cabinet members were quickly transported to Masquid Palace for safety. Later, an attack also occurred near the Palace.Yemen's Foreign Minister Ahmad Awad bin Mubarak initially blamed the Houthis for the attack, but provided no evidence substantiating the claim. The Houthis denied responsibility and put blame on the continued infighting between the government and the Southern Transitional Council, which they said was the party most likely to have carried out the attack.On 10 January US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo announced that he intended to designate the Houthis as a Foreign Terrorist Organization, using the airport attack as an example of the Houthis' terrorist capabilities.Mark Lowcock, United Nations Under-Secretary-General for Humanitarian Affairs and Emergency Relief Coordinator, has said that the most urgent priority in Yemen right now is to prevent a massive famine. He added that he was not questioning the intent of the US administration's decision.However, he emphasized that its likely humanitarian impact will be "a large-scale famine on a scale that we have not seen for nearly 40 years. Licences and exemptions for aid agencies will not prevent that, but a reversal of the decision will", he concluded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-administration-plans-to-designate-houthis-as-terrorists-exacerbating-the-humanitarian-crisis-in-yemen-101610955325954.html
18-01-2021||World||Italy’s PM Giuseppe Conte may not have enough votes to halt political turmoil||Italian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte risks emerging weakened from a parliamentary showdown this week even if he can muster enough votes to hold on to power.Conte faces a confidence vote in the lower house of parliament late Monday, which he’s likely to win, but he could face a similar vote in the Senate on Tuesday, where he has less room for maneuver after former ally Matteo Renzi withdrew his backing.Conte needs about a dozen more votes in the Senate to restore an outright majority in the 321-strong upper chamber after the defection of Renzi’s party. Renzi, a former premier, told Rai television on Sunday that his 18 senators will probably abstain, which would be enough for Conte’s government to survive, but with its authority seriously damaged.Without an absolute majority in the Senate, Conte could soldier on for several weeks while he seeks to win over more lawmakers. But he might have to forge a new coalition and negotiate a new program to remain premier, officials said. All this while battling to keep the Covid-19 pandemic in check and seeking to revive the country’s battered economy.If the attempt to garner more support fails, early elections could possibly take place in June, the officials said. But the fact that many coalition lawmakers would lose their seats in a vote, with the center-right opposition poised to triumph, makes a ballot a remote prospect for now, they said.Conte in a 12 p.m. lower-house speech will appeal to centrists and pro-European forces, as well as any lawmakers who could break from Renzi’s party, as he attempts to forge a pact lasting until the end of the legislature in 2023, newspaper Corriere della Sera reported Monday. He will prioritize the European Union’s recovery fund, the need for a wider budget deficit, and the coronavirus vaccination campaign, Corriere said.“Our goal was never to kick Conte out,” Renzi said on Rai. He said he’s open to negotiations if his red lines, including a demand to tap credit lines linked to the European Stability Mechanism for health spending, are taken into account.While officials from the main parties in the coalition, the Democrats and the Five Star Movement, view it as difficult to patch things up with Renzi, governing without a firm parliamentary majority would put key legislation in jeopardy, including budget laws.One scenario would see Conte submitting his resignation to seek a new mandate as prime minister and have more time to negotiate with parties, although some officials have ruled out the possibility he would do it before any vote.President Sergio Mattarella, who would oversee the process of forging a new government, has pressured Conte to ensure a quick resolution to the crisis and has insisted he must have a stable majority if he is to remain premier, officials with knowledge of the matter said.A group of centrists courted by the majority said on Saturday they wouldn’t back Conte’s government, Ansa news agency reported, citing the UDC party.To bring senators on board, Conte’s supporters -- chiefly from the center-left Democrats and other centrists -- have been warning of the risk of a snap election, which would likely lead to a center-right alliance taking power, according to officials campaigning of behalf Conte, who asked not to be identified discussing confidential deliberations.They’ve also argued that calling a general election in the midst of a global pandemic would damage Italy’s international credibility and risk unnerving investors. Instead, Conte’s backers have urged senators to focus on approving a plan to spend the windfall from the European Union’s recovery fund.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/italys-pm-giuseppe-conte-may-not-have-enough-votes-to-halt-political-turmoil-101610953399070.html
18-01-2021||World||Israel trades medical data with Pfizer to maintain supply of Covid-19 vaccines||After sprinting ahead in the race to inoculate its population against the coronavirus, Israel has struck a deal with Pfizer, promising to share vast troves of medical data with the international drug giant in exchange for the continued flow of its hard-to-get vaccine.Proponents say the deal could allow Israel to become the first country to vaccinate most of its population, while providing valuable research that could help the rest of the world. But critics say the deal raises major ethical concerns, including possible privacy violations and a deepening of the global divide that enables wealthy countries to stockpile vaccines as poorer populations, including Palestinians in the Israeli-occupied West Bank and Gaza, have to wait longer to be inoculated.Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu — who is stumping ahead of the country's March elections as Israel's vaccinator-in-chief — said earlier this month that he reached the deal with Pfizers chief executive to speed up vaccine deliveries to Israel.“Israel will be a global model state," he said. "Israel will share with Pfizer and with the entire world the statistical data that will help develop strategies for defeating the coronavirus.”Israeli Health Minister Yuli Edelstein told The Associated Press the government will turn over data to “see how it influences, first of all, the level of the disease in Israel, the possibility to open the economy, different aspects of social life, and whether there are any effects of the vaccination.”Pfizer's vaccine, developed with German partner BioNTech, has received emergency approval from the US Food and Drug Administration and the European Union's regulatory agency and is believed to provide up to 95 per cent protection against Covid-19. But much remains unknown, including its long-term protection and whether it can prevent transmission of the virus.Israel, home to some 9.3 million people, is considered an ideal place for studying these questions. Its mandatory universal health care is provided by four publicly funded HMOs with meticulously digitized medical records. This centralised system has helped Israel administer more than 2 million doses of the vaccine in under a month. Israel has also purchased doses of the Moderna and AstraZeneca vaccines.The inoculation blitz is a matter of national pride. It also is at the center of Netanyahus reelection campaign as he seeks to deflect attention from his ongoing corruption trial, Israel's deep economic crisis and the latest virus surge.The Health Ministry has recorded over 543,00 cases since the beginning of the pandemic and nearly 4,000 deaths. Israeli officials say they aim to have most of the country vaccinated by the end of March, just around election day.But the exact quid pro quo between Israel and Pfizer is unclear, even after a redacted version of the agreement was released by the Israeli Health Ministry on Sunday.Neither Israel nor Pfizer would say how much Israel has paid for the vaccines, though Edelstein called it a “classical win-win” for both sides. Israeli media have reported that Israel paid at least 50 per cent more than other countries. The data is reportedly being shared with the World Health Organisation, but the global body did not respond to repeated requests for comment.Earlier this month, the head of the WHO appealed to drugmakers and wealthier countries to “stop making bilateral deals,” saying they hurt a U.N.-backed effort to widen access. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus did not single out any countries or companies.Last week, Dr. Siddhartha Datta, WHO Europes program manager for vaccine-preventable diseases and immunization, said the agency is trying to collect “disaggregated” data — based on age, gender, local area, employment and other factors — and reporting on any safety issues as the vaccines are deployed.Israel had already announced the acquisition of millions of vaccine doses before the Pfizer deal was announced. It's unclear how the quantity or pace of deliveries has changed, or whether the vaccines have been diverted from other countries.The arrangement has drawn attention to the unequal distribution of vaccines between rich and poor nations. A recent estimate from the International Rescue Committee said that the WHO's global COVAX campaign is likely to vaccinate only 20% of the worlds lower-income countries by the end of 2021.“This is a shady, under-the-table deal that preferences certain countries over others without any transparency,” said Lawrence Gostin, a professor of global health law at Georgetown University in Washington. “In the end, its going to be low- and middle-income countries that are going to be left behind."Dr. Nadav Davidovitch, head of the school of public health at Israel's Ben Gurion University and an adviser to the government on coronavirus policy, said the deal has raised troubling concerns about the deepening disparity of vaccination efforts.“In order to eradicate Covid-19 or at least control it in an efficient manner, we need to see the global picture,” Davidovitch said.That disparity is particularly striking in the case of Israel and Palestinians in the West Bank and Gaza Strip, who live under varying degrees of Israeli control and have yet to receive any vaccines.While vaccinating its own Arab citizens and Palestinian residents of Israeli-annexed east Jerusalem, Israel says it is not responsible for inoculating the Palestinians. Edelstein said Israel will consider helping once it takes care of its own citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/israel-trades-medical-data-with-pfizer-to-maintain-supply-of-covid-19-vaccines-101610952804171.html
18-01-2021||World||Samsung’s billionaire heir Lee Jae-yong ordered back to prison for bribery||Billionaire Samsung scion Lee Jae-yong was sent back to prison on Monday after a South Korean court sentenced him to two and a half years over his involvement in a 2016 corruption scandal that spurred massive street protests and ousted South Korea’s then-president.WATCH | Samsung scion jailed for bribery in South Korea corruption scandalIn a much-anticipated retrial, the Seoul High Court found Lee guilty of bribing then-President Park Geun-hye and her close confidante to win government support for a 2015 merger between two Samsung affiliates that helped strengthen his control the country’s largest business group.Lee’s lawyers had portrayed him as a victim of presidential power abuse and described the 2015 deal as part of “normal business activity.”Wearing a mask and black suit and tie, Lee was taken into custody following the ruling. He didn’t answer questions by reporters upon his arrival at the court.Injae Lee, an attorney who leads Lee Jae-yong’s defense team, expressed regret over the court’s decision, saying that the “essence of the case is that a former president abused power to infringe upon the freedom and property rights of a private company.”He didn’t specifically say whether there would be an appeal. Samsung did not issue a statement over the ruling.Lee Jae-yong helms the Samsung group in his capacity as vice chairman of Samsung Electronics, one of the world’s largest makers of computer chips and smartphones.In September last year, prosecutors separately indicted Lee on charges of stock price manipulation, breach of trust and auditing violations related to the 2015 merger.It isn’t immediately clear what his prison term would mean for Samsung, Samsung didn’t show much signs of trouble during previous time Lee spent in jail in 2017 and 2018, and prison terms have never really stopped South Korean corporate leaders from relaying their management decisions from behind bars.Samsung is coming off a robust business year, with its dual strength in parts and finished products enabling it to benefit from the coronavirus pandemic and the prolonged trade war between United States and China.Samsung’s semiconductor business rebounded sharply after a sluggish 2019, driven by robust demand for PCs and servers as virus outbreaks forced millions of people to stay and work at home.The Trump administration's sanctions against China's Huawei Technologies have meanwhile hindered one of Samsung's biggest rivals in smartphones, smartphone chips and telecommunications equipment.Lee, 52, was originally sentenced in 2017 to five years in prison for offering 8.6 billion won ($7 million) in bribes to Park and her longtime friend Choi Soon-sil. But he was freed after 11 months in February 2018 after the Seoul High Court reduced his term to 2½ years and suspended his sentence, overturning key convictions and reducing the amount of his bribes.The Supreme Court last week confirmed a 20-year prison sentence for Park, who was convicted of colluding with Choi to take millions of dollars in bribes and extortion money from some of the country’s largest business groups, including Samsung, while she was in office from 2013 to 2016.The ruling meant that Park, who also has a separate conviction for illegally meddling in her party’s candidate nominations ahead of 2016 parliamentary elections, could potentially serve 22 years behind bars until 2039, when she would be 87.Choi is serving an 18-year prison sentence.In a news conference Monday, South Korean President Moon Jae-in said he has no immediate plans to grant presidential pardons to Park and another imprisoned former president, Lee Myung-bak, who’s serving a 17-year term for corruption.Conservative politicians and some members of Moon’s liberal party have endorsed the idea of pardoning the former presidents for the sake of “national unity” as the country’s deeply split electorate approaches the presidential elections in March 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/samsungs-billionaire-heir-lee-jae-yong-ordered-back-to-prison-for-bribery-101610952725285.html
18-01-2021||World||Vaccine disparities raise alarm as Covid-19 variants multiply||Global gaps in access to Covid-19 vaccines are raising concerns that the continued spread of the coronavirus will breed more dangerous versions of the pathogen, weakening medical weapons and further crippling economies.In a race to catch up with emerging coronavirus variants, wealthy countries are already benefiting from potent vaccines. While the U.S., Britain and European Union have given citizens about 24 million doses so far -- more than half of the shots administered globally -- vast numbers of countries have yet to begin their campaigns.Disparities in immunity pose a threat to both have and have-not states. Giving the coronavirus an opportunity to advance and generate new mutants would have significant economic and public-health consequences, adding to the pain as the death toll surpasses 2 million.Growth Forecast“We cannot leave parts of the world without access to vaccines because it’s just going to come back to us,” said Charlie Weller, head of vaccines at health research foundation Wellcome. “That puts everyone around the world at risk.”Countries are relying on effective immunizations to save lives and revive businesses. The World Bank’s projection for 4% growth this year depends on widespread deployment of vaccines. Surging Covid cases and a delay to the delivery of inoculations, however, could limit expansion to just 1.6%.High-income countries have secured 85% of Pfizer Inc.’s vaccine and all of Moderna Inc.’s, according to London-based research firm Airfinity Ltd. Much of the world will be counting on U.K. drugmaker AstraZeneca Plc, whose vaccine is cheaper and easier to distribute, along with other manufacturers such as China’s Sinovac Biotech Ltd.Of 42 countries rolling out Covid vaccines as of Jan. 8, 36 were high-income countries and the rest were middle-income, according to World Health Organization Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus. A growing number of countries are pursuing their own supply deals, in addition to participating in a global collaboration known as Covax.Future MutantsUrgency is increasing as the pandemic extends into a second year. New variants that surfaced in the U.K., South Africa and Brazil appear to spread significantly faster than earlier versions. Just in the past month, a “new dimension of risk has opened up for the world,” said Rajeev Venkayya, president of Takeda Pharmaceutical Co.’s vaccines business.Reducing deaths and illnesses has been seen as the main driver of delivering vaccines rapidly, said Venkayya, who worked in the George W. Bush administration to develop a U.S. pandemic flu plan and directed vaccine delivery for the Gates Foundation.“We now understand it’s also very, very important to control transmission,” he said, “not just to protect those most vulnerable populations, but also to reduce the evolutionary risk associated with this virus.”While there’s no evidence to suggest the current crop of vaccines are ineffective against those variants, future mutants may be less responsive, Wellcome’s Weller said.Drugmakers say they could tweak their shots to counter new variants within weeks if needed. The likelihood that such adaptations will be necessary has increased, Venkayya said.“The longer the virus is allowed to continue in different parts of the world where we don’t have a vaccine,” said Anna Marriott, health policy adviser at the anti-poverty group Oxfam, “the greater the danger of new variants that could be more aggressive, more virulent or transmissible.”Covid shots have been tested for their ability to prevent symptoms, not transmission. Still, their performance in clinical trials gives an indication of how effective they might be against spread.Effectiveness GapThe rollout of shots from Pfizer-BioNTech SE and Moderna that achieved efficacy levels of about 95% has raised questions about whether everyone will have access to such high levels of protection.“The gap isn’t just about access to vaccines,” said Yanzhong Huang, senior fellow for global health at the Council on Foreign Relations. “It’s also about access to effective vaccines.”One of the shots lower- and middle-income countries are relying on, from AstraZeneca and the University of Oxford, sparked worries in Australia that it may not be effective enough to generate herd immunity. Health authorities there, however, said they believe it will be comparable to the Pfizer and Moderna shots in preventing people from getting seriously ill.The vaccine developed by the U.K. partners, introduced in the country earlier this month, delivered an average efficacy rate of 70%. That appeared to climb to 80% with a longer gap between doses, based on limited data available, according to regulators. Lengthening that period to as many as three months from one allows more people to get protected faster, while data show the level of antibodies also increases, an AstraZeneca spokesman said.“An optimized regimen which allows the vaccination of many more people upfront, together with a robust supply chain, means we can have a real impact on the pandemic,” he said in an email.Four vastly differing protection rates have been released on Sinovac’s shot, ranging from about 50% to more than 90%. The Chinese developer said the lower number seen in a trial in Brazil is due to participants being medical workers facing a high risk of contracting Covid.“Despite the difference in efficacy rate, they all point to the vaccine’s ability for protection, especially against mid- and severe disease,” Sinovac said.While the picture is still coming into focus, cleared vaccines are likely to be similarly effective in preventing serious sickness and death, said Takeda’s Venkayya. Where they could diverge is on side effects, the duration of protection and impact on transmission, an even more critical factor in light of new variants, he said.Even shots with a lower efficacy level could have a considerable impact. U.S. regulators set a 50% threshold for deeming a candidate effective. But they would require a higher percentage of people willing to get vaccinated to achieve herd immunity, Huang said.If less-effective vaccines are distributed to emerging markets, it could have significant economic implications, too, and “sharpen differences in pandemic outcomes across countries,” Justin-Damien Guenette, a senior economist at the World Bank, wrote in an email.Many countries are depending on Covax, which aims to deploy vaccines equitably to every corner of the planet. Yet not all lower- and middle-income nations are waiting for a lifeline. Countries such as South Africa and Malaysia are also pursuing their own supply deals through direct talks with manufacturers, and some regions are set to receive Pfizer’s vaccine as well.‘Losing Patience’“There seem to be indications that countries are losing patience,” said Huang of the Council on Foreign Relations.Covax has secured access to almost 2 billion doses, with deliveries due to begin in the first quarter, and set a goal of vaccinating up to a fifth of countries’ populations by the end of the year. That’s far short of the levels of two-thirds or more that many nations are targeting. Some may not get vaccines until 2024, researchers estimate.The mobilization is ramping up. India, a nation of more than 1.3 billion people, kicked off a massive inoculation drive on Saturday, an effort expected to encounter challenges as it extends into rural areas.Vaccine advocates have called on rich countries to share while pushing companies to scale up manufacturing capacity. While it’s early, the trends are concerning, Venkayya said.“Success is defined as getting vaccines to people everywhere,” he said, “and we’re not yet successful in that endeavor.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/vaccine-disparities-raise-alarm-as-covid-19-variants-multiply-101610948424837.html
18-01-2021||World||Global methane emissions equaled Europe’s carbon footprint in 2020||Emissions of planet-warming methane fell last year as oil and gas production declined, but they were still equivalent to the European Union’s total carbon dioxide emissions. Oil and gas operations emitted just over 70 million metric tons of methane into the atmosphere in 2020, according to the International Energy Agency’s latest edition of its annual Methane Tracker report released on Monday. Emissions were 10% lower than the estimate for 2019 amid production cuts and the introduction of new methane regulations. “The task now for the oil and gas industry is to make sure that there is no resurgence in methane emissions, even as the world economy recovers, and that 2019 becomes their historical peak,” said IEA executive director Fatih Birol. “Early action on methane emissions will be critical for avoiding the worst effects of climate change.” Methane emissions are the second-largest cause of global warming after carbon dioxide. While methane is less abundant in the atmosphere than carbon dioxide, and has a shorter lifetime, it absorbs much more energy than CO₂, so it’s a more powerful greenhouse gas. Agriculture remains the largest source of human-caused methane emissions, while the energy sector comes next. Oil production is responsible for around 40% of the energy industry’s methane emissions, with the natural gas value chain accounting for the remaining 60%. Detecting methane emissions has been a challenge in the past because they are mostly caused by hard-to-detect leaks, but over the last few months new satellites have provided a way to identify large discharges.Methane emissions need to fall 70% over the next decade, a decline equivalent to eliminating CO₂ emissions from all cars and trucks across Asia, according to the report. Fixing methane leaks would be cost-effective for energy companies because the captured methane can be sold as natural gas. The cost of repairs and maintenance needed to capture methane can often be paid for by the value of the additional gas brought to the market. Still, lower natural gas prices during 2020 made methane abatement less appealing. While that could change if natural gas prices rise, as they have done in recent weeks, regulatory action will be essential to tackle emissions, IEA said. The organization called for governments to address the issue during United Nations climate talks in Glasgow in November. The gathering, known as COP26, should be an opportunity for governments and companies to include methane emissions in their promises to lower their environmental footprints in order to slow down climate change. “One important avenue, especially for countries with large oil and gas sectors, will be to include commitments on methane in their new or updated pledges in advance of the COP meeting,” Birol said. “This is the moment for governments to raise ambitions not only on CO₂ but also on methane.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/global-methane-emissions-equaled-europe-s-carbon-footprint-in-2020-101610947978219.html
18-01-2021||World||Donald Trump's farewell planned for Wednesday morning ahead of Joe Biden's oath||White House officials are planning a farewell ceremony for Donald Trump as he leaves Washington on Wednesday morning for the last time as president, according to a copy of the invitation seen by Bloomberg News.The event is scheduled for 8 am at Joint Base Andrews just outside the nation’s capital, where the outgoing president will make his departure aboard Air Force One for Florida. Invitations have been circulated to supporters, including former administration officials and other backers, asking them to arrive by 7:15 am.Trump has decided to skip the January 20 inauguration of his successor, Joe Biden, at the US Capitol, becoming the first living US president in more than a century to choose not to attend the regular exchange of power. Trump will instead be at his Mar-a-Lago resort as the incoming president is sworn in at noon that day.A White House spokesman declined to comment.Some White House aides will be on the South Lawn for the lift-off of the presidential helicopter with Trump aboard, though the attendance will be limited. Strict security measures throughout downtown Washington and especially near the White House will make it too difficult for outside guests to access the campus.Trump’s decision not to attend the inauguration was announced on Jan. 8 by the president, two days after a mob of his loyalists ransacked the Capitol in a riot that left five people dead. An unprecedented security cordon now encircles the heart of the nation’s capital in the wake of that attack.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-s-farewell-planned-for-wednesday-morning-ahead-of-joe-biden-s-oath-101610941102418.html
18-01-2021||World||South Korea's Moon urges Biden admin to follow up on Kim, Trump summit||South Korean President Moon Jae-in said on Monday that U.S. President-elect Joe Biden should hold talks with North Korea to build on progress that President Donald Trump had made with leader Kim Jong Un.Biden takes office on Wednesday amid a prolonged stalemate in negotiations aimed at dismantling North Korea's nuclear and missile programmes in exchange for U.S. sanctions relief.Moon, who had offered to be a mediator between Pyongyang and Washington, said he will seek an early chance to promote North Korea as Biden's foreign policy priority so that he will follow through on an agreement reached by Trump and Kim at their first summit in Singapore.The two leaders vowed to establish new relations and work toward complete denuclearisation of the Korean peninsula in that joint statement, but their second summit and ensuing working-level talks fell apart."The inauguration of the Biden administration would provide a turning point to newly start U.S.-North Korea dialogue, South-North dialogue, to inherit the achievements that were made under the Trump administration," Moon told a New Year news conference."The dialogues can pick up the pace if we restart from the Singapore declaration and seek concrete measures in the negotiations."Kim vowed to beef up nuclear capabilities at the ruling Workers' Party's rare congress last week, and that pledge highlighted the need to reopen negotiations for a peace deal, Moon said.Moon said the issue of joint South Korea-U.S. military drills, which Pyongyang has long condemned as a rehearsal for war, can be discussed by reviving an inter-Korean military panel.Moon also called for a diplomatic solution with Japan to prevent the planned sale of Japanese corporate assets to compensate victims of forced labour, saying it would be "undesirable" for bilateral relations.The two countries are at odds over legacies from Japan's 1910-45 colonial rule, and some former labourers have secured a court order to seize domestic properties of Japanese firms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/south-korea-s-moon-urges-biden-admin-to-follow-up-on-kim-trump-summit-101610945086876.html
18-01-2021||World||Indonesia quake death toll at 81 as country battles series of disasters||A powerful earthquake that struck Indonesia's Sulawesi island last week has killed at least 81 people and displaced more than 19,000, the country's disaster mitigation agency said, as search and rescue efforts continued on Monday.The 6.2-magnitude quake, part of a string of disasters to hit the Southeast Asian archipelago in recent weeks, struck West Sulawesi in the early hours of Friday morning, sending thousands fleeing from their beds.Disaster mitigation spokesman Raditya Jati said in a statement on Monday that 81 people were confirmed to have died, while more than 250 had been seriously injured.There was also significant damage to hundreds of homes, a mall, a hospital and several hotels.With thousands displaced, authorities were also working to stem the spread of the coronavirus among evacuees, including by conducting rapid antigen tests, the official said.Aside from the earthquake, the world’s fourth-most populous country also suffered a plane crash on Jan. 9 that killed 62 people as well as a deadly landslide in Java and the eruption of the Merapi and Semeru volcanoes.And President Joko Widodo was due to fly to the province of South Kalimantan on Borneo island on Monday to view flood damage after at least 15 people had died following weeks of torrential rains.Straddling the so-called Pacific Ring of Fire, Indonesia is regularly hit by earthquakes. In 2018, a devastating 7.5-magnitude quake and subsequent tsunami struck the city of Palu, in Sulawesi, killing thousands.The country’s meteorology agency has warned of aftershocks in Sulawesi, along with the risk of extreme weather and other flood dangers in the coming weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indonesia-quake-death-toll-at-81-as-country-battles-series-of-disasters-101610944931588.html
18-01-2021||World||Many Australians urge PM Morrison to rebuke MP for Covid disinformation||Three-quarters of Australians have called on Prime Minister Scott Morrison to censure a member of parliament over Covid-19 disinformation.A poll published by the think tank Australia Institute on Monday found that 76 per cent of Australians agreed that Morrison "has a responsibility to clearly and publicly criticize" members of his governing Liberal National Party coalition who spread misinformation about the pandemic.It comes after government MP Craig Kelly shared posts on social media earlier in January likening mask mandates for children to child abuse."Forcing children to wear masks is causing massive physical & psychological harm - that can only be defined as child abuse," he wrote.The poll found that disapproval of Kelly was strong across party lines with 77 per cent of coalition voters agreeing that he should be censured.In the wake of the post the peak body for Australian doctors, the Australian Medical Association (AMA), called on Morrison to publicly condemn Kelly and others who were "torching the foundation of community health and science.""Hopefully we can get the leaders being very strong and clear in their advice and strong about supporting science," AMA Vice President Chris Moy said.The Australia Institute also found that 56 per cent of voters agreed that Morrison should criticize or condemn outgoing U.S. President Donald Trump for his role in inciting the capitol hill riots.Morrison condemned participants in the riots for the "terribly distressing" scenes but has not addressed Trump's role.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/many-australians-urge-pm-morrison-to-rebuke-mp-for-covid-disinformation-101610944399864.html
18-01-2021||World||Donald Trump, so far, not planning to pardon himself: Reports||U.S. President Donald Trump at this point is opting not to issue a pardon for himself as he prepares an expansive list of more than 100 pardons and commutations for release on Tuesday, a source familiar with the effort said.White House advisers have said Trump has privately debated with advisers whether to take the extraordinary step of issuing a pardon for himself but some administration officials have cautioned Trump against a self-pardon because it would make him look guilty.Many scholars have said a self-pardon would be unconstitutional because it violates the basic principle that nobody should be the judge in his or her own case.Others have argued that a self-pardon is constitutional because the pardon power is very broadly worded in the Constitution. Historical texts made clear that the nation’s 18th century founders discussed self-pardons, but opted not to include an explicit limitation on that power.Trump was impeached by the Democratic-led House of Representatives last week on charges of inciting the storming of the U.S. Capitol on Jan. 6 by pro-Trump protesters. His case is to face a Senate trial and if convicted, he could be disqualified from seeking another run for the presidency in 2024.The source, speaking on condition of anonymity, said so far Trump does not plan to pardon himself and also does not plan to issue preemptive pardons for members of his family, another subject he has discussed privately with advisers.Trump, who has already issued two waves of pardons in the past month, met advisers on Sunday to finalize a list of more than 100 pardons and commutations, the source said.CNN reported that Dr Salomon Melgen, a prominent eye doctor from Palm Beach who is in prison after being convicted on dozens of counts of health care fraud, is expected to be on the clemency list.The source said the clemencies were expected to be issued on Trump's last full day in office on Tuesday. Skipping the inauguration of President-elect Joe Biden, Trump leaves on Wednesday morning to begin his post-presidency at his Mar-a-Lago club in Palm Beach, Florida. His presidency ends at noon on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-so-far-not-planning-to-pardon-himself-reports-101610941721626.html
18-01-2021||World||Biden expected to pick FTC member Chopra to head consumer financial regulator||U.S. President-elect Joe Biden is expected to nominate Federal Trade Commission (FTC) member Rohit Chopra to head the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), according to two people familiar with the new administration's plans.Also Read | Biden swearing-in: Heavily fortified statehouses around US see small protestsChopra, whose consumer advocacy views align with Democratic Senator Elizabeth Warren, had been considered a top candidate for the job running the agency created after the 2008-2009 financial crisis.A spokeswoman for Biden's transition office did not respond to a request for comment.Also Read | FBI vetting Guard troops in DC amid fears of insider attackThe CFPB, championed by Warren, has been beloved by Democrats as a watchdog to help level the financial playing field for middle-class Americans but reviled by Republicans as too powerful and unaccountable. Millions of Americans who lost jobs and income due to the coronavirus pandemic are turning to help from the financial institutions the CFPB seeks to regulate.The Trump administration, which ends on Wednesday, weakened the agency's enforcement powers and won a Supreme Court ruling to allow the president discretionary authority to fire its director.That could backfire now. Chopra's expected nomination suggests that Biden intends to fire current CFPB director Kathy Kraninger, a Trump appointee whose term officially ends in 2023.Chopra helped Warren set up the CFPB and served as the agency's first student loan ombudsman. Progressives have sought to return it to a tougher stance, reversing Trump's rules on payday lending and debt collection agencies as well as scrapping proposals that could prevent low-income Americans from getting mortgages.Other liberal priorities include stamping out exorbitant lending rates, addressing the student debt burden and gaps in minorities' access to credit as well as overhauling the credit reporting system. As a presidential candidate, Biden proposed letting the CFPB offer its own credit ratings for consumers."Rohit has a proven record of challenging corporate abuse on behalf of everyday families who don't want to be cheated," said the Progressive Change Campaign Committee, a liberal advocacy group that had promoted Chopra, on Twitter.Chopra's appointment would take a key advocate for strong regulation of big technology companies off of the FTC.Chopra backed a lawsuit last month by that agency that accused Facebook Inc of using a "buy or bury" strategy with competitors that may force the company to sell off WhatsApp and Instagram.In 2019, he voted against a $5 billion fine against Facebook for privacy failures, saying that while it "sounds like a lot," the settlement did not go far enough to prevent repeated abuses. He has also pressed social media companies for more information on how they use personal data and warned lawmakers that consumer data posed a threat to competition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-expected-to-pick-ftc-member-chopra-to-head-consumer-financial-regulator-101610941141591.html
18-01-2021||World||FBI vetting Guard troops in DC amid fears of insider attack||US defense officials say they are worried about an insider attack or other threat from service members involved in securing President-elect Joe Biden’s inauguration, prompting the FBI to vet all of the 25,000 National Guard troops coming into Washington for the event.The massive undertaking reflects the extraordinary security concerns that have gripped Washington following the deadly Jan. 6 insurrection at the US Capitol by pro-Trump rioters. And it underscores fears that some of the very people assigned to protect the city over the next several days could present a threat to the incoming president and other VIPs in attendance.Army Secretary Ryan McCarthy told The Associated Press on Sunday that officials are conscious of the potential threat, and he warned commanders to be on the lookout for any problems within their ranks as the inauguration approaches. So far, however, he and other leaders say they have seen no evidence of any threats, and officials said the vetting hadn't flagged any issues that they were aware of.”We’re continually going through the process, and taking second, third looks at every one of the individuals assigned to this operation,” McCarthy said in an interview after he and other military leaders went through an exhaustive, three-hour security drill in preparation for Wednesday’s inauguration. He said Guard members are also getting training on how to identify potential insider threats.About 25,000 members of the National Guard are streaming into Washington from across the country — at least two and a half times the number for previous inaugurals. And while the military routinely reviews service members for extremist connections, the FBI screening is in addition to any previous monitoring.Multiple officials said the process began as the first Guard troops began deploying to D.C. more than a week ago. And they said it is slated to be complete by Wednesday. Several officials discussed military planning on condition of anonymity.“The question is, is that all of them? Are there others?” said McCarthy. “We need to be conscious of it and we need to put all of the mechanisms in place to thoroughly vet these men and women who would support any operations like this.”In a situation like this one, FBI vetting would involve running peoples’ names through databases and watchlists maintained by the bureau to see if anything alarming comes up. That could include involvement in prior investigations or terrorism-related concerns, said David Gomez, a former FBI national security supervisor in Seattle.Insider threats have been a persistent law enforcement priority in the years after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks. But in most cases, the threats are from homegrown insurgents radicalized by al-Qaida, the Islamic State group or similar groups. In contrast, the threats against Biden’s inauguration have been fueled by supporters of President Donald Trump, far-right militants, white supremacists and other radical groups. Many believe Trump’s baseless accusations that the election was stolen from him, a claim that has been refuted by many courts, the Justice Department and Republican officials in key battleground states.The insurrection at the Capitol began after Trump made incendiary remarks at the Jan. 6 rally. According to McCarthy, service members from across the military were at that rally, but it’s not clear how many were there or who may have participated in the breach at the Capitol. So far only a couple of current active-duty or National Guard members have been arrested in connection with the Capitol assault, which left five people dead. The dead included a Capitol Police officer and a woman shot by police as she climbed through a window in a door near the House chamber.Gen. Daniel R. Hokanson, chief of the National Guard Bureau, has been meeting with Guard troops as they arrive in D.C. and as they gather downtown. He said he believes there are good processes in place to identify any potential threats.“If there’s any indication that any of our soldiers or airmen are expressing things that are extremist views, it’s either handed over to law enforcement or dealt with the chain of command immediately,” he said.The insider threat, however, was just one of the security concerns voiced by officials on Sunday, as dozens of military, National Guard, law enforcement and Washington, D.C., officials and commanders went through a security rehearsal in northern Virginia. As many as three dozen leaders lined tables that ringed a massive color-coded map of D.C. reflected onto the floor. Behind them were dozens more National Guard officers and staff, with their eyes trained on additional maps and charts displayed on the wall.The Secret Service is in charge of event security, but there is a wide variety of military and law enforcement personnel involved, ranging from the National Guard and the FBI to Washington’s Metropolitan Police Department, US Capitol Police and US Park Police.Commanders went over every aspect of the city’s complicated security lockdown, with McCarthy and others peppering them with questions about how the troops will respond in any scenario and how well they can communicate with the other enforcement agencies scattered around the city.Hokanson said he believes his troops have been adequately equipped and prepared, and that they are rehearsing as much as they can to be prepared for any contingency.The major security concern is an attack by armed groups of individuals, as well as planted explosives and other devices. McCarthy said intelligence reports suggest that groups are organizing armed rallies leading up to Inauguration Day, and possibly after that.The bulk of the Guard members will be armed. And McCarthy said units are going through repeated drills to practice when and how to use force and how to work quickly with law enforcement partners. Law enforcement officers would make any arrests.He said Guard units are going through “constant mental repetitions of looking at the map and talking through scenarios with leaders so they understand their task and purpose, they know their routes, they know where they’re friendly, adjacent units are, they have the appropriate frequencies to communicate with their law enforcement partners.”The key goal, he said, is for America’s transfer of power to happen without incident.“This is a national priority. We have to be successful as an institution,” said McCarthy. “We want to send the message to everyone in the United States and for the rest of the world that we can do this safely and peacefully.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/fbi-vetting-guard-troops-in-dc-amid-fears-of-insider-attack-101610940769441.html
18-01-2021||World||Biden swearing-in: Heavily fortified statehouses around US see small protests||Small groups of right-wing protesters — some of them carrying rifles — gathered outside heavily fortified statehouses around the country Sunday, outnumbered by National Guard troops and police brought in to prevent a repeat of the violence that erupted at the U.S. Capitol. As darkness fell, there were no reports of any clashes.Security was stepped up in recent days after the FBI warned of the potential for armed protests in Washington and at all 50 state capitol buildings ahead of President-elect Joe Biden's inauguration on Wednesday.Crowds of only a dozen or two demonstrated at some boarded-up, cordoned-off statehouses, while the streets in many other capital cities remained empty. Some protesters said they were there to back President Donald Trump. Others said they had instead come to voice their support for gun rights or decry government overreach.“I dont trust the results of the election,” said Michigan protester Martin Szelag, a 67-year-old semi-retired window salesman from Dearborn Heights. He wore a sign around his neck that read, in part, “We will support Joe Biden as our President if you can convince us he won legally. Show us the proof! Then the healing can begin.”As the day wore on with no bloodshed around the U.S., a sense of relief spread among officials, though they were not ready to let their guard down.The heavy law enforcement presence may have kept turnout down. In the past few days, some extremists had warned others against falling into what they called a law enforcement trap.Washington State Patrol spokesman Chris Loftis said he hoped the apparently peaceful day reflected some soul-searching among Americans.“I would love to say that its because weve all taken a sober look in the mirror and have decided that we are a more unified people than certain moments in time would indicate,” he said.The security measures were intended to safeguard seats of government from the type of violence that broke out at the U.S. Capitol on January 6, when far-right Trump supporters galvanised by his false claims that the election had been stolen from him overran the police and bashed their way into the building while Congress was certifying the Electoral College vote.The attack left a Capitol police officer and four others dead. More than 125 people have been arrested over the insurrection.Dozens of courts, election officials and Trumps own attorney general have all said there was no evidence of widespread fraud in the presidential race.On Sunday, some statehouses were surrounded by new security fences, their windows were boarded up, and extra officers were on patrol. Legislatures generally were not in session over the weekend.Tall fences also surrounded the U.S. Capitol. The National Mall was closed to the public, and the mayor of Washington asked people not to visit. Some 25,000 National Guard troops from around the country are expected to arrive in the city in the coming days. U.S. defense officials told The Associated Press those troops would be vetted by the FBI to ward off any threat of an insider attack on the inauguration.The roughly 20 protesters who showed up at Michigan's Capitol, including some who were armed, were significantly outnumbered by law enforcement officers and members of the media. Tensions have been running high in the state since authorities foiled a plot to kidnap Democratic Gov. Gretchen Whitmer last year.At the Ohio Statehouse, about two dozen people, including several carrying long guns, protested outside under the watchful eyes of state troopers before dispersing as it began to snow.Kathy Sherman, who was wearing a visor with “Trump” printed on it, said she supports the president but distanced herself from the mob that breached the U.S. Capitol."Im here to support the right to voice a political view or opinion without fear of censorship, harassment or the threat of losing my job or being physically assaulted,” she said.Ohio Gov. Mike DeWine, a Republican, said he was pleased with the outcome but stressed that authorities "continue to have concerns for potential violence in the coming days, which is why I intend to maintain security levels at the Statehouse as we approach the presidential inauguration.”Utah's new governor, Republican Spencer Cox, shared photos on his Twitter account showing him with what appeared to be hundreds of National Guard troops and law enforcement officers standing behind him, all wearing masks. Cox called the quiet protests a best-case scenario and said many ”agitating groups" had cancelled their plans for the day.At Oregon's Capitol, fewer than a dozen men wearing military-style outfits, black ski masks and helmets stood nearby with semiautomatic weapons slung across their bodies. Some had upside-down American flags and signs reading such things as “Disarm the government.”At the Texas Capitol, Ben Hawk walked with about a dozen demonstrators up to the locked gates carrying a bullhorn and an AR-15 rifle hanging at the side of his camouflage pants. He condemned the insurrection at the U.S. Capitol and said he did not support Trump.“All we came down here to do today was to discuss, gather, network and hang out. And it got blown and twisted completely out of proportion,” Hawk said.At Nevada's Capitol, where demonstrators supporting Trump have flocked most weekends in recent months, all was quiet except for a lone protester with a sign.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-swearing-in-heavily-fortified-statehouses-around-us-see-small-protests-101610940836797.html
18-01-2021||World||Small numbers of protesters gather at fortified US statehouses||Small groups of right-wing protesters — some of them carrying rifles — gathered outside heavily fortified statehouses around the country Sunday, outnumbered by National Guard troops and police brought in to prevent a repeat of the violence that erupted at the US Capitol.As darkness began to fall, there were no reports of any clashes.Security was stepped up in recent days after the FBI warned of the potential for armed protests in Washington and at all 50 state capitol buildings ahead of President-elect Joe Biden's inauguration on Wednesday.Crowds of only a dozen or two people demonstrated at some boarded-up, cordoned-off statehouses, while the streets in many other capital cities remained empty.Some protesters said they were there to back President Donald Trump. Others said they had instead come to voice their support for gun rights or oppose government overreach.“I don't trust the results of the election,” said Michigan protester Martin Szelag, a 67-year-old semi-retired window salesman from Dearborn Heights. He wore a sign around his neck that read, in part, “We will support Joe Biden as our President if you can convince us he won legally. Show us the proof! Then the healing can begin.”As the day wore on with no bloodshed around the US, a sense of relief spread among officials, though they were not ready to let their guard down.The heavy law enforcement presence may have kept turnout down. In the past few days, some extremists had warned others against falling into what they called a law enforcement trap.Washington State Patrol spokesman Chris Loftis said he hoped the apparently peaceful day reflected some soul-searching among Americans.“I would love to say that it's because we've all taken a sober look in the mirror and have decided that we are a more unified people than certain moments in time would indicate,” he said.The security measures were intended to safeguard seats of government from the type of violence that broke out at the US Capitol on Jan. 6, when far-right Trump supporters galvanized by his unproven claims that the election had been stolen from him overran the outnumbered police and bashed their way into building while Congress was certifying the Electoral College vote.The attack left a Capitol Police officer and four others dead. More than 125 people have been arrested on charges related to the insurrection.Dozens of courts, state election officials and Trump's own attorney general have all said there was no evidence of widespread election fraud.On Sunday, some statehouses were surrounded by new protective fences, had boarded-up windows and were patrolled by extra police. Legislatures generally were not in session over the weekend.Tall fences also surrounded the US Capitol. The National Mall was closed to the public, and the mayor of Washington asked people not to visit. Some 25,000 National Guard troops from around the country are expected to arrive in the city in the coming days.The roughly 20 protesters who showed up at Michigan's Capitol, including some who were armed, were significantly outnumbered by law enforcement officers and media.At the Ohio Statehouse, about two dozen people, including several carrying long guns, protested outside under the watchful eyes of state troopers before dispersing as it began to snow.Kathy Sherman, who was wearing a visor with “Trump” printed on it, said she supports the president but distanced herself from the mob that breached the US Capitol."I'm here to support the right to voice a political view or opinion without fear of censorship, harassment or the threat of losing my job or being physically assaulted,” she said.Ohio Gov. Mike DeWine, a Republican, said he was pleased with the outcome but stressed that authorities "continue to have concerns for potential violence in the coming days, which is why I intend to maintain security levels at the Statehouse as we approach the presidential inauguration.”At Oregon's Capitol, fewer than a dozen men wearing military-style outfits, black ski masks and helmets stood nearby with semiautomatic weapons slung across their bodies. Some had upside-down American flags and signs reading such things as “Disarm the government.”At the Texas Capitol, Ben Hawk walked with about a dozen demonstrators up to the locked gates carrying a bullhorn and an AR-15 rifle hanging at the side of his camouflage pants. He condemned the insurrection at the US Capitol and said he did not support Trump.“All we came down here to do today was to discuss, gather, network and hang out. And it got blown and twisted completely out of proportion,” Hawk said.At Nevada's Capitol, where demonstrators supporting Trump have flocked most weekends in recent months, all was quiet except for a lone protester with a sign. “Trump Lost. Be Adults. Go Home,” it read.More than a third of governors had called out the National Guard to help protect their capitols and assist local law enforcement. Several governors declared states of emergency, and others closed their capitols to the public until after Biden's inauguration.Some legislatures also cancelled sessions or pared back their work for the coming week.Even before the violence at the Capitol, some statehouses had been the target of vandals and angry protesters during the past year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/small-numbers-of-protesters-gather-at-fortified-us-capitols-101610938829146.html
18-01-2021||World||WHO team probes coronavirus origin in Wuhan; says 'world may never find patient zero'||The World Health Organization's emergency committee called Friday for globally-ramped up coronavirus sequencing studies in order to combat troubling new variants stalking the globe.The meeting was dragged forward by two weeks for urgent talks on the emerging, seemingly more contagious strains of the virus, as the death toll from the Covid-19 pandemic topped two million, according to an AFP count.The emergency committee came out against countries requiring proof of vaccination from incoming international travellers.However, it said it was time to overhaul recommendations on travel guidance given what was now known about the virus.The WHO said it wanted Covid-19 vaccination under way in every country within the next 100 days, amid concerns that rich nations are hogging the first batches coming off the production lines.And while it sounded the alarm on a new virus variant circulating in Brazil, the WHO warned that the current infection spikes in some countries could be blamed on lapses in behaviour rather than simply the new mutations.Variants and vigilanceThe recently-discovered variants can only be identified by sequencing their genetic code -- an analysis that is not possible everywhere."On variants, (the committee) called for a global expansion of genomic sequencing and sharing of data, along with greater scientific collaboration to address critical unknowns," the WHO said in a statement after the virtual meeting.The committee also called on the WHO to come up with a standardised system for naming new variants to keep them geographically and politically neutral, in a bid to avoid stigmatisation.In its epidemiological bulletin earlier this week, the WHO said the coronavirus mutation first found in Britain had spread to 50 territories, while a similar South African-identified strain has now been found in 20.A third mutation originating in the Brazilian Amazon, is currently being analysed and could impact the immune response, according to the WHO.The situation in northern Brazil's Amazonas state, and particularly its capital Manaus, has deteriorated significantly, with hospitals pushed to the limit said WHO emergencies director Michael Ryan."If this continues, we are going to see a wave that is greater than what was a catastrophic wave in April and May in Amazonas," he told a press conference in Geneva.But Ryan stressed it was "too easy to just lay the blame on the variant" -- saying people and authorities need to accept their share of responsibility for their actions which were driving up transmission.Maria Van Kerkhove, the WHO's Covid-19 technical lead, added: "This virus is dangerous on its own -- variant or not."'Defining moment'On travel, the emergency committee recommended that countries do not require proof of vaccination from incoming travellers, given that the impact of vaccines on reducing transmission is not yet known and the availability of vaccines remains limited.Committee chairman Didier Houssin said that given the disparity of countries' approaches to visas, quarantine and travel bans, it is "really time" for the WHO to reassess what guidance could be provided on international air, land and sea travel.WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said the world was at a "defining moment in the pandemic", as he called for vaccines to be distributed equitably across the globe.Some 46 countries have started their vaccination campaigns, of which 38 are high-income nations."I want to see vaccination under way in every country in the next 100 days so that health workers and those at high risk are protected first," Tedros said.The first cluster of Covid-19 cases was discovered in December 2019 in Wuhan in China.A WHO team of experts arrived in Wuhan on Thursday to start an investigation into the origins of the virus."We may never find who the patient zero was," said Van Kerkhove.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-team-probes-coronavirus-origin-in-wuhan-says-world-may-never-find-patient-zero-101610935040072.html
18-01-2021||World||In last blow to China, Trump admin halts Huawei suppliers||The Trump administration notified Huawei suppliers, including chipmaker Intel, that it is revoking certain licenses to sell to the Chinese company and intends to reject dozens of other applications to supply the telecommunications firm, people familiar with the matter told Reuters.   The action - likely the last against Huawei Technologies under Republican President Donald Trump - is the latest in a long-running effort to weaken the world's largest telecommunications equipment maker, which it says is a threat to US national security and foreign policy interests.   The notices came amid a flurry of US efforts against China in the final days of Trump's administration. Democrat Joe Biden will take the oath of office as president on Wednesday.An Intel Corp spokesman had no immediate comment, and a Commerce Department spokesman did not immediately return requests for comment.In an email seen by Reuters documenting the actions, the Semiconductor Industry Association said on Friday the Commerce Department had issued "intents to deny a significant number of license requests for exports to Huawei and a revocation of at least one previously issued license." Sources familiar with the situation, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said there was more than one revocation. One of the sources said eight licenses were yanked from four companies.Japanese flash memory chip maker Kioxia Corp had at least one license revoked, two of the sources said. The company, formerly known as Toshiba Memory Corp, could not immediately be reached for comment.The semiconductor association's email said the actions spanned a "broad range" of products in the semiconductor industry and asked companies whether they had received notices.    The email noted that companies had been waiting "many months" for licensing decisions, and with less than a week left in the administration, dealing with the denials was a challenge.   A spokesman for the semiconductor group did not immediately respond to a request for comment.Companies that received the "intent to deny" notices have 20 days to respond, and the Commerce Department has 45 days to advise the companies of any change in a decision or it then becomes final. Companies would then have another 45 days to appeal.The United States put Huawei on a Commerce Department "entity list" in May 2019, restricting suppliers from selling US goods and technology to the company.But some sales were allowed and others were denied while the United States ratcheted up the restrictions against the company, including expanding US authority to require licenses for sales of semiconductors made abroad with American technology.Before the latest action, some 150 licenses were pending for $120 billion worth of goods and technology, which had been held up because various US agencies could not agree on whether they should be granted, a person familiar with the matter said.Another $280 billion of licenses for goods and technology for Huawei still have not been dealt with, the source said, but now face a higher likelihood of denial.An August rule said that products with 5G capabilities were likely to be denied, but sales of less sophisticated technology would be decided on a case-by-case basis.The United States made the latest decisions during a half dozen meetings starting on Jan. 4 with senior officials from the departments of Commerce, State, Defense and Energy, the source said. The officials developed detailed guidance with regard to which technologies were capable of 5G, and then applied that standard, the person said.By doing that, the officials denied the vast majority of the roughly 150 disputed applications, and revoked the eight licenses to make those consistent with the new denials, the source said.The US action came after pressure from a recent Trump appointee in the Commerce Department, Corey Stewart, who wanted to push through hard-line China policies after being hired for a two-month stint in the agency at the end of the administration.The United States has targeted Huawei in other ways during the administration. Meng Wanzhou, Huawei's chief financial officer, was arrested in Canada in December 2018, on a US warrant. Meng, the daughter of Huawei's founder, and the company itself were indicted for misleading banks about the company's business in Iran.Meng has said she is innocent. Huawei has denied the claims of spying and has pleaded not guilty to the indictment, which also includes charges of violating US sanctions against Iran and conspiring to steal trade secrets from American technology companies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/in-last-blow-to-china-trump-admin-halts-huawei-suppliers-101610929460346.html
18-01-2021||World||Bird flu outbreak: Japan culled record 5.8 million chickens since Nov 2020||Japan has culled record 5.8 million chickens since November due to bird flu, the NHK broadcaster reported Sunday.According to the news outlet, a highly pathogenic variant of bird flu has been detected at 36 poultry farms in 15 prefectures across the country since November.The previous record dates back to the 2005-2006 season when 5.7 million chickens were culled because of the disease.The total number of exterminated birds is expected to reach six million once the culling is over.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bird-flu-outbreak-japan-culled-record-5-8-million-chickens-since-nov-2020-101610928719431.html
18-01-2021||World||Guatemalan forces clash with migrant caravan, Biden team seeks to halt exodus||Guatemalan security forces on Sunday used sticks and tear gas to beat back a large migrant caravan bound for the United States, just days before the advent of a new US administration, which urged travelers to abandon the journey.Between 7,000 and 8,000 migrants, including families with young children, have entered Guatemala since Friday, authorities say, fleeing poverty and violence in a region hammered by the coronavirus pandemic and back-to-back hurricanes in November."Guatemala's message is loud and clear: These types of illegal mass movements (of people) will not be accepted, that's why we are working together with the neighboring nations to address this as a regional issue," the Guatemalan president's office said in emailed comments.A large section of the caravan clashed early on Sunday with Guatemalan security officials, some 3,000 of whom had mustered by the village of Vado Hondo, about 55 km (34 miles) from the borders of Honduras and El Salvador."We want the Guatemalans to let us past," said Joaquin Ortiz, a Honduran in the caravan. "Because we're not leaving here. We're going to carry on. I want to get through because it's horrible in our country. There's nothing in Honduras."The coronavirus pandemic has battered Honduras' economy, which last year suffered its worst contraction on record.The large contingent of Guatemalan security officers managed to stop the migrants from advancing beyond Vado Hondo, with perhaps as many as half of the people in the caravan dispersing into the nearby hills or heading back the way they came, according to a Reuters witness.Elmer Espinal is traveling with his months-old daughter. He said they were tear gassed by the Guatemalan security forces."My daughter almost choked," said Espinal, a Honduran native. "I want a future for my girls ... there's no work over there in Honduras."Authorities sent buses and trucks for migrants who wanted to voluntarily return home."They keep trying to pass, but we're not allowing them to," said Alejandra Mena, a spokeswoman for Guatemala's immigration agency.Even if the migrants do get past, Mexico is preparing to stop them at its southern border with hundreds of security forces, arguing it must contain the spread of the virus.Guatemalan authorities said that after they administered coronavirus tests, one Honduran migrant tested positive for Covid-19.The robust response suggests that Democratic President-elect Joe Biden may initially benefit from the hard-line policies of outgoing Republican President Donald Trump, who made cracking down on illegal immigration a priority of his administration.Video footage shared by the Guatemalan government showed hundreds of migrants, bounded by a hillside, pressing into a wall of security forces, which used sticks to repel the surge. An unspecified number of people were injured, authorities said.During the chaotic melee, security forces fired off a tear gas canister and used a stun grenade to disperse the crowd, a Reuters photographer said.Between Friday and Saturday, Guatemala had sent back almost 1,000 migrants entering from Honduras, the Guatemalan government said, as the caravan tried to advance toward Mexico.On Saturday evening, the Mexican foreign ministry pressed Central American authorities to halt the caravan's progress, pointing to the need to contain the spread of Covid-19.Mexico, it said, was committed to orderly and regulated migration and would oppose any form of unauthorized entry.The first migrant caravan of the year comes less than a week before Biden takes office on Wednesday promising to adopt a more humane approach to migration than Trump.Still, a Biden transition official, speaking on background, advised people not to make for the United States."Overcoming the challenges created by the chaotic and cruel policies of the last four years, and those presented by Covid-19, will take time," said the official."In the meantime, the journey to the United States remains extraordinarily dangerous, and those in the region should not believe anyone peddling the lie that our border will be open to everyone next month," the official added.The incoming administration will work to address the root causes of migration, expand lawful pathways and rethink asylum processing, the official said.Mexican and Central American authorities have coordinated security and public health measures in a bid to deter mass movement of people across the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/guatemalan-forces-clash-with-migrant-caravan-biden-team-seeks-to-halt-exodus-101610928668727.html
18-01-2021||World||Fragile Italian government faces do-or-die votes in parliament||Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte faces two days of parliamentary votes that will decide if his fragile coalition can cling to power or has lost its majority, pushing Italy into deeper political turmoil.Conte will address the lower house on Monday and the upper house, the Senate, on Tuesday about the future of his government after a junior partner quit the cabinet in a row over his handling of the twin coronavirus and economic crises.Votes will be held in both chambers, with Conte struggling to fill the hole left by the defection of former premier Matteo Renzi and his small Italia Viva party.Attention is especially focused on the 321-seat Senate, where Conte could be 10 votes short of an absolute majority after his efforts to persuade centrists in opposition ranks to rally to his side looked to have failed.Renzi has said his 18 senators will probably abstain on Tuesday. If they do, the coalition will likely win the ballot, but without an absolute majority, the government will be inherently instable and it is not clear if President Sergio Mattarella would let Conte limp on in such a scenario.Further muddying the waters, the co-ruling Democratic Party (PD), will want a cabinet reshuffle and a renegotiation of the coalition pact should the prime minister overcome the challenge in parliament, said a PD official who declined to be named.Italia Viva has said it would return to the coalition if its policy demands are met. "Our problems can be sorted out in two hours," party lawmaker Ettore Rosato told Sky Italia TV.However, both the centre-left PD and its coalition ally, the 5-Star Movement, have said they want nothing more to do with Renzi, accusing him of betrayal.There also seems little chance that 5-Star will accept a key Renzi demand - that Italy apply for a loan from the euro zone's bailout fund, known as the European Stability Mechanism (ESM) - to help its health service deal with COVID-19. The pandemic has killed almost 82,000 Italians, the sixth highest toll in the world."I will never vote for a government that considers itself the best in the world, that has seen 82,000 deaths and has not taken the ESM," Renzi told state broadcaster RAI on Sunday.Critics of the loan scheme say it could come with unwelcome conditions and note that no other EU state has tapped the fund.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/fragile-italian-government-faces-do-or-die-votes-in-parliament-101610928431045.html
18-01-2021||World||Anxious US sees subdued weekend after girding for unrest||Smothered in security ahead of Joe Biden’s inauguration, the US and state capitals remained mostly peaceful Sunday despite law enforcement’s concerns about widespread protests and violence.Officers from the federal Bureau of Prisons patrolled the sidewalks along Pennsylvania Avenue in Washington, which connects the White House and Capitol Hill, the scene of chaos on Jan. 6. Workers erected extra fencing around FBI headquarters. The National Mall, typically a flurry of tourist activity, remained in full lockdown as stunned Washingtonians said the barriers, checkpoints and National Guard troops resembled a scene out of wartime Iraq.Across the country, most protests were subdued, even in places where demonstrators came with weapons -- like in Michigan, one of six states where the FBI had warned last week of the potential for large-scale, armed unrest.“I’m out here essentially to be peaceful and also show people that even armed protesters can be peaceful,” said a protester who called himself Preacher outside the state capitol in Lansing. Carrying an assault rifle and several magazines of ammunition on his chest, he said he supported President Donald Trump but refused to give his real name.“The majority of us are peaceful and condemn the riots at the Capitol building,” he said, adding that the turnout was thin because many right-wing groups had advised people to stay away.In recent days, some armed groups called on members to overwhelm law enforcement. But they may have been spooked by authorities’ response to the Capitol seizure, said Jared Holt of the Atlantic Council’s Digital Forensic Research Lab. With more than 100 of those who attacked the Capitol arrested, purported plans to attack state capitols have been replaced with calls for peaceful protest.In both publicly accessible social media channels and private platforms, users were expressing a commitment to avoiding physical conflict. Holt and other researchers are hopeful that Sunday’s muted protests portend well for Wednesday’s inauguration.“Even in extremist communities, there’s a really big push to discourage attendance at state capitol protests,” he said. “I can’t pretend to have a crystal ball, but what we’re seeing play out so far today is reassuring.”The crowds who turned out in Michigan on Sunday to oppose Biden’s inauguration were small -- fewer than 100 people -- compared with those that gathered in May to protest quarantine orders by Democratic Governor Gretchen Whitmer, who also was the target of a kidnapping plot foiled months later.Lansing Mayor Andy Schor, a Democrat, said he was pleasantly surprised the protest was tame, but stressed that police and the National Guard will remain on duty.“We heard people wanted to inflict chaos on our city, and we wanted to be prepared,” Schor said in a telephone interview. “I’d rather be over-prepared. Up to now, I’m glad we have a nonviolent protest. We’ll stay vigilant.”Insurrection? Sedition? Incitement? D.C. Riot Guide: QuickTakeIn Salem, Oregon, a handful of armed demonstrators gathered outside the Capitol on Sunday morning. Conditions remained civil even when counterprotesters showed up, according to the Oregonian newspaper.At a small protest in Salt Lake City, shouts of “You are redcoats!” were directed at Utah National Guard and police stationed at the Capitol, according to local TV station KUTV. One of the 20-some demonstrators, some of whom were armed, said through a bullhorn: “We do not support keeping the dictator Donald Trump in office.”In Madison, Wisconsin, National Guard troops armed with automatic weapons, shields and body armor deployed near the Capitol. A man who drove a vehicle up the steps of the building was arrested overnight for driving while intoxicated, but no political motivations were cited in the incident.In Georgia’s Capitol in downtown Atlanta, an expected armed militia rally never materialized after the building was heavily fortified with National Guard troops and vehicles parked in front of all entrances. And an expected march in the city by gun-rights supporters didn’t occur.As a gentle snow fell Sunday in Montpelier, the capitol of Vermont, troopers patrolled a mostly deserted landscape by the gilded dome of the state house.About 50 counterprotesters gathered at City Hall, They were hardly a fearsome presence, according to a reporter from the Burlington Free Press. The demonstrators waved at passersby and ate pancakes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/anxious-us-sees-subdued-weekend-after-girding-for-unrest-101610928098302.html
18-01-2021||World||Russia detains Vladimir Putin critic Alexei Navalny on return to Moscow||Russian police detained opposition leader Alexei Navalny, an outspoken critic of President Vladimir Putin, as he arrived in Moscow after being treated in Germany for poisoning, an arrest that’s set to pose an early test for Joe Biden’s incoming administration.Navalny, 44, was met by officers at passport control as he landed in Moscow on a plane from Berlin Sunday, according to a live video feed on his YouTube channel. The Federal Penitentiary Service said he had been detained for violating the terms of a suspended sentence, state-run Tass reported.Navalny, whose anti-corruption exposes and success in galvanizing anti-government votes have increasingly needled the authorities, had been recovering in Germany from a nerve-agent attack in August that he and Western governments blamed on Putin.“This is my home,” he told reporters who’d traveled with him Sunday shortly before he was detained. “I’m not scared of anything.” Navalny boarded the flight knowing that he could face a lengthy prison term if he returned.He kissed his wife, Yuliya, goodbye before walking off with police. Authorities said he would be held pending a court decision on his sentence this month.Dozens of his supporters were detained by police at Moscow’s Vnukovo Airport, where he had appealed to them to meet him. The flight was diverted to another airport shortly before arrival.The move to imprison the most prominent opponent of the Russian president marks the biggest crackdown by Putin in recent years. Coming days before U.S. President-elect Biden takes office, it could trigger an immediate clash with the new Democratic administration.Jake Sullivan, Biden’s national security adviser, blasted the Kremlin and called for Navalny’s release, a demand echoed by the European Union. State Department officials didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment.Navalny returned home amid rising political tension ahead of Russian parliamentary elections this autumn and support for the Kremlin falters amid the coronavirus downturn. Putin, 68, whose two-decade rule makes him the longest-serving leader since Soviet dictator Josef Stalin, last year overturned term limits, allowing him to stay in power until 2036. Speculation that he may step down far sooner is building.“There were only two choices for Navalny -- to stay in Germany or come home. If he remained an émigré, in Russia people would quickly lose interest in him,” said Alexei Makarkin, deputy director of the Center for Political Technologies in Moscow. “His calculation is he’ll become a symbol of resistance behind bars and a big risk for Putin.”European Council President Charles Michel, who speaks for the European Union on foreign affairs, called Navalny’s detention “unacceptable.” It’s “yet another attempt to intimidate the democratic opposition in Russia,” Polish Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki said on Facebook.Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia are calling on the EU to “consider imposition of restrictive measures” on Russia if Navalny isn’t freed, Lithuanian Foreign Minister Gabrielius Landsbergis said on Twitter.Russia issued an arrest warrant for Navalny after accusing him of violating the conditions of a 3 1/2 year suspended fraud sentence by not appearing in person for regular summons. It asked a Moscow court on Jan. 11 to replace it with a prison term. The opposition politician also potentially faces separate charges of embezzlement punishable by as many as 10 years in prison.While for years Navalny was repeatedly jailed for weeks at a time and faced assaults on the street -- at one point nearly losing his eye -- the poisoning attack marked the most serious attempt to kill him. Russia denied any involvement and said it found no proof the opposition politician was poisoned, accusing him of fabricating it as part of working for the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency.With Navalny ignoring the threat to arrest him, the Russian authorities’ response looks set to further sour ties with a once-close partner, Germany, and other European states led by France.German Chancellor Angela Merkel, whose country offered treatment to Navalny after his near-fatal poisoning during a campaign trip to Siberia, visited him in the hospital and provided personal security guarantees. The EU sanctioned six Russian officials in October for the use of the banned Novichok chemical weapon in the attack.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/vladimir-putin-critic-alexei-navalny-detained-by-russia-on-return-to-moscow-101610927751124.html
18-01-2021||India||In probe against Khalistanis, NIA examines people linked to farmers’ protests||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Monday questioned about seven people associated with the farmers’ protests in connection with a case related to an organisation called Sikhs for Justice (SFJ), which advocates secessionism and is allegedly aiding the protesters, people familiar with the development said.Without disclosing their names, NIA officials, who didn’t want to be named, said about 6-7 people were examined on Monday while few were questioned earlier.Most of the people, who appeared before the NIA in last few days, have been examined as “witnesses”, they said.“We have no plans to harass any activists or farm leaders. We are just seeking some clarifications regarding certain information we have,” one of the officers said.About three dozen people including farm leaders, Sikh activities, journalists and even those belonging to entertainment industry in Punjab have been summoned by the NIA as witnesses.Certain farm leaders including Baldev Singh Sirsa have refused to join the NIA investigations after Samyukt Kisan Morcha decided that no farmer who has received the NIA notice will appear before it.The agency is particularly looking into the funding of SFJ and other Khalistani groups for organising protests both in India as well as abroad outside Indian missions.In its summons sent to these three dozen people, seen by HT, NIA has said that they need to attend the examination as “it appears they are acquainted with the circumstances of this case”.As first reported by HT on December 23 last year, NIA had filed a case on December 15 to investigate funding of Khalistani terrorist groups organising on ground campaigns and demonstrations, as well as role of some Non-Government Organisations (NGOs) in it. The agency had named as accused US-based Gurpatwant Singh Pannun, UK- based Paramjit Singh Pamma and Canada resident Hardeep Singh Nijjar who, under the banner of Sikhs for Justice (SFJ), are allegedly collecting funds for these protests.Jasveer Singh, a journalist with UK based channel - KTV - said - “I have been covering the farmers’ protests for two months but I was surprised to receive summons from the agency. I couldn’t go today but I will join the NIA examination on the next date as I have nothing to hide”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-probe-against-khalistanis-nia-examines-people-linked-to-farmers-protests-101610993717689.html
18-01-2021||India||Cold wave claims lives of two nomad children in Kashmir||The death of two minor children aged 10 and 6 of a nomad family in a Kulgam forest one after another in the past two days apparently due to intense cold has triggered a wave of anger and gloom in Kashmir valley.The family of Zubair Ahmad alias Zair Khan from Reasi in Jammu district, had been living up in a ramshackle shed covered with tarpaulin and polythene in a forest area of Devsar in Kulgam district amid an intense cold wave in Kashmir valley.Locals and officials said that Ahmad's 10-year-old son Sahil Zubair, who was suffering from fever for the past few days, died on Saturday.“We are poor people and are living in this shed. This cold killed my son and now my young daughter is also very ill,” sobbing Mumtaz mother of the children told a local journalist on video on Sunday.The couple’s 6-year-old daughter Shazia Jan was rushed to a health facility but could not survive and died on the intervening night of Sunday and Monday.“The two were not brought to any hospital of the district,” said chief medical officer of Kulgam, Dr Fazil Kochak.“The two children have died – one on Saturday and another on Sunday night,” said Rashid Ahmad, Tehsildar Devsar who had gone to the family to give a few blankets and a bag of ration earlier on Saturday.He again returned with additional deputy commissioner Showkat Ahmad Rather on Monday after the girl’s death."They had not informed us of the boy's illness," the tehsildar said.“After the snowfall on January 3, the in-charge of a nearby school had announced that the building is open for the affected. We had given them the option but they did not listen saying that they wanted to take care of their animals. Even today they were asked to shift into the school but they refused. Now they shifted to a few rooms of a nearby house,” said Rashid Ahmad.CPI (M) leader and former MLA of Kulgam, M Y Tarigami blamed the deaths on the 'failure' of the administration.“This tragic incident speaks volumes about the failure of administration in protecting the marginalized sections of society. We must strive and struggle collectively for ensuring justice to our people,” he said in a tweet.Kashmir received very heavy snowfall particularly in Kulgam district between January 3 and 8 blocking the roads in most of the districts. After the snowfall, the valley is reeling under very intense cold with night temperatures plunging to record sub-zero levels. Srinagar, the summer capital of Jammu and Kashmir, recorded a minimum temperature of -8.4 degrees Celsius on January 14, which broke the record of last 25 years.Ahmad’s family, along with three other families, are nomads and normally would move from Jammu to Kashmir in summers along with their flock of animals and then return when winter sets in here. Officials said that this year they had decided to stay put and Ahmad perhaps wanted to work as a labourer.Officials said that Ahmad had three children from his second wife of which only one survives now. They said his children from first wife are older and one of them is married. Ahmad’s daughter-in-law is pregnant and living with them.Additional deputy commissioner Kulgam Showkat Ahmad Rather said the family has been taken to a hospital put under the supervision of medical superintendent Kulgam hospital.“They are saying the children died due to cold but we had asked them to shift into a school beforehand during snowfall but they did not listen. The family is poor and appears very pale. We have now shifted them all including the pregnant daughter-in-law of Ahmad to the hospital for observation,” Rather said.He said that the school in which they were earlier asked to shift was just 30 metres away from their tent in the forest. “They said they wanted to live with the local population where they have shifted now in a house. This is an unfortunate incident. Even an adult may die of cold in these circumstances,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cold-wave-claims-lives-of-two-nomad-children-in-kashmir-101610990907203.html
18-01-2021||India||Govt postpones 10th round of talks with farmers' leaders to Jan 20: Reports||The next round of talks between the representatives of farmers, who are protesting against the three farm laws, and the Centre has been deferred by a day, reports said on Monday. The tenth round of meeting with farmers' unions was scheduled for Tuesday. News agencies ANI and PTI cited officials of the Union agriculture ministry as saying that the talks have been postponed to Wednesday.The farmers have been protesting since November last year to demand the scrapping of farm laws saying they will hurt their livelihoods. A team of 41 representatives of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha has been participating in negotiations with the Centre, which has been represented by Union ministers Narendra Singh Tomar, Piyush Goyal and Som Parkash.Also read | SC panel on farm laws to begin work on January 19Farmers want the farm laws, which were approved by Parliament in September, repealed but the government has rejected their demand. Nine rounds of talks so far have failed to break the deadlock.Earlier in the day, Union agriculture minister Tomar had hoped that protesting farmers' unions will discuss alternatives other than the repeal of the new farm laws in the tenth round of talks as he appealed them not to go ahead with their tractor rally on Republic Day in Delhi.Also read | Will hold peaceful R-Day parade in Delhi: farm unions"We had nine rounds of talks so far. I have always said that farmers' unions should discuss the provisions of the laws. The government is discussing and wants to discuss with an open heart if they point out any problem with provisions of the laws," he said, according to PTI. "I want to appeal to farmers that January 26 is our Republic Day and the country has got independence after much sacrifice. Ensuring that the dignity of the Republic day is not affected is the responsibility of farmers also. I hope they will reconsider their decision," he had said.The minister also said that the central government is fully committed to farmers. The Modi government has rolled out several agri-schemes in the last six years to improve farmers' plight and make farming profitable.Protesting union leaders have said farmers have a constitutional right to take out their tractor rally peacefully and asserted that thousands of people will participate in the proposed event on January 26.The three laws in question, which have been stayed by the Supreme court, are -- Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 and Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-postpones-10th-round-of-talks-with-farmers-leaders-to-jan-20-reports-101610990259933.html
18-01-2021||India||Glitches in Co-WIN portal leads to drop in Covid vaccination percentage in Bihar||Bihar witnessed a drop of more than 10% in the turnout of the targeted group when 14,745 health care workers shoup for vaccination against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) against a target of 28,791 amid technical glitches on the Covid-19 Vaccine Intelligence Network (Co-WIN) portal on day two of the vaccination campaign on Monday.Bihar had witnessed 62% vaccination turnout on the inaugural day of the campaign on January 16.A doctor at the Patna Medical College Hospital (PMCH) reportedly created a ruckus at the vaccination centre when she found that her name was missing from the list despite having received an SMS notification about her vaccination scheduled for Monday.Vaccination officers complained that the Co-WIN portal was slow in responding. As a result, uploading information on it was time consuming and tedious.“The portal is crashing intermittently, leading to delay in vaccination of our health workers. It happened on the inaugural day of vaccination last Saturday and today as well,” said Dr Vidyapati Chaudhary, principal of the Patna Medical College Hospital (PMCH).“We are not getting the names of beneficiaries on time. As a result, we are unable to contact them telephonically. Some beneficiaries have complained that they did not receive any intimation about their vaccination. Sometimes, mid-way through the exercise, names of beneficiaries also disappear from the portal,” added Dr Chaudhary.Officials said they had flagged the Co-WIN portal issue with the central government which was handling it.Given the technical glitches in the portal, many hospital administrators suggested to the state health department on Monday to allow them to prepare the beneficiary list manually from the names of health care workers already enrolled for vaccination on the portal. The state said it would seek a formal nod from the Centre before giving a go-ahead.At present, vaccination officers have to adhere to the list of beneficiaries generated by the government through the Co-WIN portal, a day prior to their vaccination. However, this list was being generated late and with difficulty, officials said.Meanwhile, the AIIMS-Patna prepared a manual list of beneficiaries, as per availability of health care workers, and achieved 100% target for the second day on Monday as well.“We have taken a clearance from the state authorities to prepare a manual list of beneficiaries from among our health care workers who had enrolled for vaccination on the portal,” said Dr CM Singh, superintendent, AIIMS-Patna.“The idea is to vaccinate maximum people in the shortest possible time. Preparing a manual list, depending on availability of health care workers, helps save time and resources,” said Dr Snajeev Kumar, nodal officer for Covid-19 at AIIMS-Patna.Patna, which has 16 session centres or vaccination centres , also witnessed a 6.5% drop in vaccination on Monday as compared to Saturday when 775 out of 1,422 (54.5%) personnel listed on Monday turned up for inoculation.Against 100 beneficiaries listed at each vaccination centre, only 78 turned up at PMCH, 28 at Nalanda Medical College Hospital (NMCH), 76 at Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS), 40 at Guru Gobind Singh Hospital, 24 at Barh sub-divisional hospital (SDH), 39 at Danapur SDH, 10 at Masaurhi SDH, 39 at Bakhtiyarpur primary health centre (PHC), 15 at Bihta PHC, 26 at Dhanarua PHC, 30 at Fatuha community health centre, 30 at Maner PHC, 30 at Phulwarishari PHC, 38 at Paras Hospital, 62 at Ruben Hospital and 87 at BIG Hospital.Patna district magistrate Chandrashekhar Singh had asked Patna civil surgeon Dr Vibha Kumari Singh to sensitise health care workers where vaccination percentage was poor.Efforts to reach executive director of the State Health Society, Bihar, Manoj Kumar, also the state nodal officer for vaccination, proved futile.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/glitches-in-co-win-portal-leads-to-drop-in-covid-vaccination-percentage-in-bihar-101610989366012.html
18-01-2021||India||Stalin accuses AIADMK govt of putting on hold projects brought during DMK rule||DMK chief M K Stalin on Monday accused the AIADMK government of blocking schemes such as the Hogenakkal integrated drinking water project, brought by his party when it was in power. Participating in a people's gram sabha meeting held by his party in Kummanur village in the district, he said the scheme would be fast tracked and also extended to several other villages in Dharmapuri and Krishnagiri districts if the DMK came to power in the assembly elections, due in a few months. Stalin claimed the DMK government had completed 80 per cent of the work on the Hogenakkal integrated drinking water project. "I went to Japan to get funds for the project. But when the AIADMK came to power, it thwarted the plan. We will complete the project when the DMK comes to power," he said. The Leader of the Opposition in the Tamil Nadu assembly claimed the AIADMK government had not implemented any scheme for Dharmapuri district. "The prices of groceries, which were under check during the DMK regime, have now gone up. In four months time, the DMK will form the government in Tamil Nadu with the support of the people," he asserted. Stalin, whose party is aiming to come back to power after being in the opposition for the last ten years, has been touring the state and addressing the people's grama sabha meetings, as a prelude to the campaign for assembly elections, likely in April-May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stalin-accuses-aiadmk-govt-of-putting-on-hold-projects-brought-during-dmk-rule-101610987744128.html
18-01-2021||India||14 people develop AEFI on second day of Covid-19 vaccination drive in Bengal||Fourteen people developed Adverse Event Following Immunization (AEFI) in West Bengal after receiving the Covid-19 vaccines on the second day of the vaccination drive on Monday while glitches in the Co-WIN app led to a drop in the number of people who were administered the vaccine.Two had to be admitted in hospitals, health department officials said.While a 34-year-old woman in Diamond Harbor, around 50 km south of Kolkata, started shivering and vomiting, a 46-year-old woman at Falakata in north Bengal developed respiratory problems and nausea. They were both admitted in hospitals.“In all 14 people developed AEFI. Two of them had to be shifted to hospitals. They are undergoing treatment. The AEFI rate is just around 1 in 1000 which is normal for any vaccination drive,” said a top official of the state health department.According to state health department officials at least 14,110 people received the vaccine on Monday across 207 centres in the state. On the first day of the drive on January 16, at least 15,707 were given the vaccines.“There was some communication gap. The Co-WIN app had developed glitches and was not working smoothly. Many of the selected beneficiaries, who were supposed to receive the vaccine, didn’t turn up as they didn’t receive the SMS. The authorities had to call them individually and inform them,” said a senior official of the state health department.The vaccines would be administered every Monday, Tuesday, Friday and Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/14-people-develop-aefi-on-second-day-of-covid-19-vaccination-drive-in-bengal-101610987735846.html
18-01-2021||India||High level EC team on 3-day Assam visit to take stock of assembly polls||A high-level team of Election Commission of India (ECI) arrived here on Monday on a three-day visit to take stock of preparations for the assembly polls due in April-May this year.The team led by Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) Sunil Arora will hold meetings with the senior bureaucrats and police officers including state chief secretary and director general of police to know about security arrangements.They will also have discussions with leaders of various political parties and poll officials on preparations ahead of the polls. Deliberations will also take place on electoral rolls and poll logistics.“Measures initiated at the polling stations and issues like security, transportation of electronic voting machines (EVMs) especially keeping in view Covid-19 measures will be discussed,” said a senior state government official.CEC Arora and other members of the EC team met district election officers, district superintendents of police and other senior officers on poll preparedness on Monday after their arrival. Similar meetings are scheduled on Tuesday and Wednesday as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/high-level-ec-team-on-3-day-assam-visit-to-take-stock-of-assembly-polls-101610985994445.html
18-01-2021||India||Two Manipur journalists held for article, released after admitting to oversight||Two journalists of a local news portal who were detained under sedition charges for carrying an article in their website on Sunday, were released on Monday after they admitted that oversight led to its publishing, police said.Dhiren Sadokpam, editor-in-chief of the Frontier Manipur, an online news portal and its executive editor A Dhananjoy Sharma also known as Paojel Chaoba, were charged under IPC sections 120B (Criminal Conspiracy), 505 (b) (causing alarm to induce offence against the state) and 34 (common intention) along with UAPA’s Section 39 (supporting terror organisation).According to the police, an article titled ‘Revolutionary journey in a mess’ by one M Joy Luwang was carried in the online news portal on January 8, 2021.The Police claimed that the article openly endorsed revolutionary ideologies and activities, and expressed shock and dismay at the deteriorating character of the armed revolutionaries in Manipur in the last decade.The police had filed a First Information Report (FIR) against the author and two journalists.The article is an attempt to bring hatred, contempt and feeling of enmity against the Rule of Law and the government which is likely to cause fear or alarm to the public inducting them to commit an offence against the state, posing serious threats of internal security issues, the police said in the FIR registered at Singjamei Police Station in Imphal West District.When contacted on phone, Imphal West District superintendent of police (SP) K Meghachandra claimed the journalists apologised and said that there was no bad intention in carrying the article (in the website). “Even though the serious charges were dropped, the case is still alive and the investigation is going on,” the SP said.Ahead of his release, Paojel Chaoba in a letter of undertaking to the SP said that the article’s source was “unverified” and uploaded the article on the website as an “oversight.”Earlier in the day, a joint team of All Manipur Working Journalists’ Union and Editors Guild Manipur met chief minister N Biren Singh, a former editor who once headed the scribes’ body in the state and urged him to release the two journalists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-manipur-journalists-held-for-article-released-after-admitting-to-oversight-101610983718145.html
18-01-2021||India||Retired Odisha professor seeks to donate house for construction of police station||A 70-year-old retired professor of English in Odisha has offered to donate his 3-roomed pucca house in his native village to Odisha police for the construction of a police station.Rabindra Nath Mishra retired as a Reader in English from Ravenshaw University of Cuttack a decade ago. In a letter to chief minister's private secretary, VK Pandian, last month, he offered to donate his three-room newly constructed house in Balitutha village of coastal Jagatsinghpur district to Odisha police so that a police station can be constructed."We don't have a police station in the radius of 12 kilometres on one side (Kujang PS) and on the other side (Ersama PS) at a distance of 14 kilometres. Balitutha is well connected to Cuttack-Paradeep Highway by a black-topped road. Though there are two nationalised banks, a private bank, a telephone exchange, a primary health centre, a high school, an ME School and a primary school at this place, there is no police station nearby. This place is a gateway to Posco/Jindal site. I, along with a number of people of my area met the DGP, Odisha in November 2013 who promised to do the needful, but nothing has borne fruit so far," Mishra wrote in his letter.Though as per norms, there has to be at least one police station in each block, Odisha currently has 627 police stations, double the number of its blocks. Jagatsinghpur district has 14 regular police stations including 11 territorial police stations. With the Ministry of Home Affairs offering financial assistance for the modernisation of police infrastructure, the number of police stations have gone up in the state. On December 30, chief minister Naveen Patnaik inaugurated 6 new police stations.Also read: Tandav makers say sorry after a torrent of criticism over web seriesMishra said he wanted to donate the house which he had constructed four years ago as he does not need for it. "I and my wife, a retired professor of Ramadevi University are settled in Cuttack town. My son is pursuing his Ph D in mechanical engineering in the US while two daughters are busy in their studies and career. As no one is staying in that house which I constructed after spending ₹10.5 lakh, I don't want it to go waste. No one in my family need any money from that house. I want to donate the house for a police station so that law and order situation can be better managed in 11 gram panchayats of my area," he said.Mishra said the current value of the house would be over ₹20 lakh.Jagatsinghpur SP R Prakash said opening a police station depends on its feasibility as well as crime profile of the area. "We have to do crime analysis of the area over the last 3 years. Besides, in this case, the nearest police stations are not very far. But we can think of opening an outpost or beat house in the village for patrolling purposes if my superiors permit it. If we get the permission for opening a beat house or an outpost, re-distribution of staff can be done," said the SP.Last year, a lawyer in Jagatsinghpur had made the district collector the nominee of ₹14 lakh fixed deposit that he kept in two bank accounts. Civil lawyer Basudeb of Jagatsinghpur district in July last year made the district collector of Jagatsinghpur as the nominee in two fixed deposits held by him and his wife. While one deposit was worth ₹2 lakh, another contained ₹12 lakh. The lawyer wanted the money to be used for the underprivileged and the downtrodden people of the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/retired-odisha-professor-seeks-to-donate-house-for-construction-of-police-station-101610984842904.html
18-01-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: SC panel to begin work on farm laws on Jan 19 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.SC panel to begin work on farm laws on Jan 19A committee appointed by the Supreme Court to scrutinise three agricultural laws that have prompted farmers to stage a months-long protest will meet on January 19 for its first round of internal consultations, a member of the panel said. Read moreViolence at BJP roadshow led by Dilip Ghosh, Suvendu Adhikari in KolkataA Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) worker was allegedly injured when some people who carried Trinamool Congress (TMC) flags pelted brickbats at a roadshow led by BJP’s Bengal chief Dilip Ghosh and party leader Suvendu Adhikari in the Tollygunge area of south Kolkata on Monday afternoon. Read moreNitish Kumar says cabinet to be expanded soonThe much-awaited cabinet expansion of the two-month-old NDA government in Bihar may take place this week, chief minister Nitish Kumar hinted on Monday. Read more‘Appalling’: World leaders react to Alexei Navalny’s arrest in RussiaSeveral leaders across the world condemned the arrest of Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny, who was detained by police on Sunday night as soon as he landed in Moscow for the first time after being treated in Germany for poisoning. Read more'Since Kapil Dev, I haven't seen a batsman open his arms like he did': Jadeja in awe of India's 'free-flowing' batsmanFormer batsman Ajay Jadeja has made a pretty bold claim, saying the free-flowing batting of one of India's batsmen from the current squad is probably the most effective he's seen by any India batsman since the legendary Kapil Dev. Read moreApple M1 MacBook Air, MacBook Pro and Mac Mini have a Fast User Switching bugIt looks like some Apple M1 Mac users are facing issues with the Fast User Switching bug. The bug is said to activate the screensaver, not letting the user dismiss it. In case you are unaware, in macOS Big Sur, the Fast User Switching feature lets you quickly move between user accounts, without spending extra seconds in logging out completely. Read moreTandav row: All you need to know about controversies surrounding Saif Ali Khan's Amazon showOn Monday, Tandav creator-director Ali Abbas Zafar apologised for having unintentionally hurt the sentiments of a certain section of the audience, but not before police complaints had been made against him and his cast. Tandav, a political drama that debuted on Amazon Prime Video recently, is about the power struggle that is unleashed after the death of a Prime Minister. Read moreCraving for a beach vacation? These 5 places should be on your must-visit listFor most of 2020, we all stayed inside our homes trying to curb the spread of the novel coronavirus. The last year, took a toll on the livelihoods of people. It especially hit the tourism industry. Read more#WeMetOnTwitter is trending and the memes are hilarious. Seen them yet?Love finds a way whether it's in real life or the virtual one. The latest hashtag #WeMetOnTwitter is the perfect example of this notion. Twitter is currently buzzing with sweet and heartwarming stories of couples who met and fell in love on the micro-blogging platform. Read moreWatch: Farmer protest: Political party meeting plan leads to differences among leadersA face-off is brewing between leaders of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) and chief of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) chief Gurnam Singh Chaduni. The latter's alleged bids to organise a meeting with political parties was labelled as 'unauthorised' by the SKM which claims that it wants to keep the ongoing farmer protests apolitical. Chaduni called the allegations a plot by the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) to break the protest. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-sc-panel-to-begin-work-on-farm-laws-on-jan-19-101610981714762.html
18-01-2021||India||India, Japan sign agreement to give skilled Indian workers access to Japanese job market||India and Japan on Monday signed an agreement to boost the mobility of skilled Indian workers in 14 fields, including nursing, industrial machinery, shipbuilding, aviation, agriculture and the food services industry.The two countries have stepped up trade and economic cooperation across areas, ranging from the steel industry and investments to creating alternative and more resilient supply chains, amid the Covid-19 pandemic.Foreign secretary Harsh Shringla and Japan’s ambassador Satoshi Suzuki signed the memorandum of cooperation (MoC) on a framework for partnership for specified skilled workers (SSWs), whereby Indian workers in 14 categories who meet skill requirements and pass Japanese language tests will be eligible for employment on a contractual basis.Also read: ‘Appalling’ - World leaders react to Alexei Navalny’s arrest in RussiaThe two sides will set up a joint working group of officials to work out operational details and smooth implementation of the programme.“Japan would grant these workers the status of ‘specified skilled worker’. It is also expected that Indian skilled workers who go to Japan under this MoC will acquire new skills while working in Japan,” the external affairs ministry said.More than 38,000 Indians currently live in Japan. In recent years, the composition of the Indian community has changed with the arrival of more professionals, including in IT, engineering, management, finance, and scientific research.Foreign Secretary @harshvshringla signed the Specified Skilled Workers Agreement with Ambassador Suzuki @EOJinIndia today. pic.twitter.com/Zx5qTUWi6PSpeaking at the signing ceremony, Shringla said Prime Minister Narendra Modi has attached “high priority” to the quick operationalisation of the agreement. Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga, during his tenure as the chief cabinet secretary, was one of the main movers of the SSW programme to address the needs of Japan’s skilled labour market, he added.Suzuki said the agreement will open the door for talented and skilled Indians to get jobs in Japan. “I'm confident it takes our friendship further with more Indian people coming to Japan,” he said on Twitter.The 14 fields covered by the agreement include nursing care, material processing, industrial machinery manufacturing, electric and electronic information, construction, shipbuilding and ship-related industries, aviation, agriculture, fisheries, food and beverage manufacturing, food services industry, lodging, automobile maintenance and building cleaning.Shringla noted the agreement is in line with other steps taken by India and Japan to bolster cooperation in skills development. In 2016, the two sides signed the "Manufacturing Skill Transfer Promotion Programme” agreement for training 30,000 people over 10 years with Japanese-style manufacturing skills through the Japan-India Institutes for Manufacturing (JIM) and Japanese Endowed Courses (JECs) in Indian colleges.A total of 13 JIMs and five JECs are already operational.In 2017, the two countries signed the “Technical Intern Training Programme” agreement to allow Indian youth to avail of internships in Japan in manufacturing, healthcare, construction, textiles and agriculture.Japan’s trade with India was worth $17.63 billion in 2018-19. Exports from Japan were worth $12.77 billion and imports were $4.86 billion||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-japan-sign-agreement-to-give-skilled-indian-workers-access-to-japanese-job-market-101610982197561.html
18-01-2021||India||Tandav makers say sorry after a torrent of criticism over web series||Filmmaker Ali Abbas Zafar on Monday offered an unconditional apology for portions of the web series ‘Tandav’ that may have hurt sentiments after multiple police complaints were filed against the filmmaker and officials of Amazon Prime, the over-the-top platform that released the web series last week.The information and broadcasting ministry had also sought an explanation from Amazon Prime officials on allegations that the web-series had hurt religious sentiments.“The cast and crew did not have any intention to offend the sentiments of any individual, caste, community, race, religion or religious belief or insult or outrage any institution, political party or a person, living or dead. The cast and crew of Tandav take cognizance of the concerns expressed by the people and unconditionally apologise if it has unintentionally hurt anybody’s sentiments,” a statement put out by Ali Abbas Zafar on his Twitter handle said.Tandav row: All you need to know about controversies surrounding Saif's showThe apology is seen as an effort to cap the controversy around the web series that provoked a torrent of criticism from a section of political parties. Bharatiya Janata Party leaders were among the most vocal, but leaders of some other parties also spoke out against Amazon’s political thriller that premiered on the streaming platform on Friday.Bahujan Samaj Party supremo Mayawati, for one, tweeted her support to the demand that the filmmakers remove scenes that hurt sentiments. In a tweet, Mayawati said there were protests against some scenes that hurt religious and ethnic sentiments in the web series and it would be appropriate to remove whatever is objectionable so that the atmosphere of peace, harmony and mutual brotherhood in the country is not spoilt.Tandav over Tandav: Why Amazon’s political drama ignited a firestormCongress leader Milind Deora said he didn’t believe in censorship but there was a need to regulate content on OTT platforms.“Though I oppose political censorship, to create a level-playing field, OTT must be subject to the same regulation as TV broadcasters. Several countries are considering or already have similar rules. Keep GoI (Government of India) away by self-regulating through an OTT industry association?” he tweeted.Madhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra has ordered officials to initiate legal action against the makers of the web series and Amazon Prime officials. “The series is a conspiracy to justify the act of ‘Tukde Tukde’ gang and malign the image of the Hindu religion. I have ordered an inquiry to take legal action against the makers of the series,” Mishra told reporters in Bhopal.BJP lawmaker from Maharashtra, Ram Kadam lodged a complaint against the platform and asked I&B minister Prakash Javadekar for a mechanism to regulate content on the OTT platforms.Maharashtra MP Manoj Kotak also shot off a letter to Javadekar, demanding some sort of censorship for programmes telecast on OTT platforms that “are full of sex, violence, drugs, abuse, hate and vulgarity and sometimes they hurt the sentiments of Hindus and religious sentiments.”A letter written by Amit Malviya the head of the BJP‘s IT cell in September last year to Amazon was also shared on social media. In his letter, Malviya had alleged political bias in the content shown on the platform.“I understand that creative liberties and artistic freedom are important when it comes to expressions across mediums but there is a discernible trend in the kind of content that is being pushed on Amazon prime while one would like to think of it as creative pursuits but a considered view from source to believe that it may have more to do with professionals in charge of commissioning the content on the platform,” the BJP leader had said, before going on to accuse Amazon Prime Video’s Aparna Purohit of bias against the ruling party at the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tandav-makers-say-sorry-after-a-torrent-of-criticism-over-web-series-101610981012320.html
18-01-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccination: Health ministry says 3,81,305 beneficiaries inoculated, 580 adverse events reported||A total of 3,81,305 beneficiaries have so far been vaccinated for coronavirus, even as 580 adverse events following immunization were reported in the country, the Union health ministry said on Monday.Addressing a press briefing, Manohar Agnani, Additional Secretary in the ministry, said 1,48,266 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 25 states and Union territories till 5 pm on Monday."A total of 3,81,305 beneficiaries have so far been vaccinated (till 5 pm on Monday) as per provisional reports," he said.Of the 1,48,266 beneficiaries who were administered the vaccine on Monday, 8,656 were from Bihar, 1,822 from Assam, 36,888 from Karnataka, 7,070 from Kerala, 6,665 from Madhya Pradesh, 7,628 from Tamil Nadu, 10,352 from Telangana, 11,588 from West Bengal and 3111 were from Delhi.Agnani said a cumulative 580 adverse events following immunization (AEFIs) and seven hospitalizations have so far been reported in the country since the nationwide Covid inoculation drive which began on January 16.In Delhi, three hospitalisations were reported, out of which, two have been discharged, and one with fainting is under observation at Max Hospital, Patparganj.In Uttarakhand, one of the beneficiaries is stable and under observation at AIIMS Rishikesh, the official stated.In Chhattisgarh, one beneficiary is under observation, while in Karnataka, two cases of hospitalizations were reported, he said."No case of serious/severe AEFI attributable to vaccination till date," the additional secretary added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heath-ministry-says-3-81-305-people-got-covid-19-vaccine-101610980957914.html
18-01-2021||India||Indian, French Rafale jets set to take part in war games in Rajasthan||The air forces of India and France will conduct a joint exercise at the Jodhpur air force station from January 20 to 24 to share best practices, officials familiar with the development said on Monday. Rafale fighter jets from both air forces will take part in the joint exercise that will also see the participation of mid-air refuelling aircraft and transport planes, the officials said.The exercise has been codenamed 'Desert Knight 21'. The French forces are currently deployed in Asia as part of their ‘Skyros Deployment’ and are transiting through India. The exercise is taking place at a time when India and China are locked in a tense border row in the Ladakh sector.Hindustan Times reported on January 1 that Rafale fighters of the French air force will land in Rajasthan this month to participate in joint exercises with the IAF’s Golden Arrows Squadron that was resurrected last September with the induction of the Rafale fighter jets. The Rafale jets will be taking part in an exercise with a foreign air force for the first time.Also read: Violence at BJP roadshow led by Dilip Ghosh, Suvendu Adhikari in KolkataThe IAF’s solitary Rafale squadron will add more muscle with the arrival of at least three more fighter jets by the month-end. The delivery of the three jets will take the number of Rafales in the IAF's inventory to 11. India has ordered 36 warplanes from France for ₹59,000 crore.“The aim of the exercise is to provide operational exposure and share best practices towards enhancing combat capability,” an official said on the condition of anonymity. The current exercise is in addition to the Garuda series of drills that the two air forces conduct.The IAF is operating its Rafale fighter jets in the Ladakh theatre where the military is on its highest state of alert to deal with any misadventure by China. Its current fleet of five Rafale fighters is fully operational and ready to undertake any mission, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-french-rafale-jets-set-to-take-part-in-war-games-in-rajasthan-101610980614903.html
18-01-2021||India||Nitish Kumar says cabinet to be expanded soon||The much-awaited cabinet expansion of the two-month-old NDA government in Bihar may take place this week, chief minister Nitish Kumar hinted on Monday.“It will happen very soon,” he said after emerging from the Patna divisional office where BJP’s Shahnawaz Hussain and Vikassheel Insan Party chief Mukesh Sahni filed their nominations for the legislative council bypolls. He, however, clarified that it will not take place on Tuesday.Kumar, who reached the JD (U) office in the evening, is learnt to have discussed the cabinet expansion with senior party leaders.At the party office, he clarified that expansion will take place soon. “Talks are still on. Once it is over, it will be expanded,” said Kumar.Earlier on Sunday evening, BJP state president Dr Sanjay Jaiswal and deputy chief minister Tarkishore Prasad met the CM for close to 40 minutes. Sources said that cabinet expansion was at the top agenda of the meeting.Sources in the NDA said that the BJP has finally given its nod to the expansion and the same has been communicated to Nitish Kumar, who had said earlier that the BJP was still to hand over the list of probable candidates.NDA sources said that a maximum of 21 or 22 ministers can now be inducted in the cabinet. It is still unclear whether the expanded cabinet will have equal numbers of ministers from both the BJP and the JD (U) despite the latter being the junior partner in the ruling coalition in Bihar with 43 MLAs as compared to the BJP’s 74.Sources in BJP and JD (U) hinted that top leaders had “almost agreed on a 50:50 cabinet berth sharing formula on the lines of seat-sharing before 2020 Assembly and 2019 Lok Sabha polls”.A BJP leader who did not wish to be named said, “Following RJD’s bid to create political instability, the BJP is showing magnanimity in the sharing of cabinet berths with the JD (U).”A total of 14 ministers were sworn in the new cabinet apart from the Chief Minister in November last, five from the JD (U) and seven from the BJP plus two from smaller allies, HAM (S) and VIP.With BJP emphasis on new faces and youths, several names are doing the round. Among the young BJP leaders whose names are being discussed in political circles include those of Samrat Chaudhary, Nitish Mishra, Nitin Naveen and Sanjeev Chaurasia.There is also speculation that former Union minister Shahnawaz Hussain may also be made a minister.The appointment of senior BJP leaders Nandkishore Yadav, Prem Kumar, Vinod Narayan Jha, and Ramnarayan Mandal to various posts in the Vidhan Sabha committees has led political observers to believe that Nitish Kumar's cabinet will have more youngsters from the BJP's side.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nitish-kumar-says-cabinet-to-be-expanded-soon-101610980049401.html
18-01-2021||India||J-K's Ganouri-Tanta village gets electricity for the first time||Ganouri-Tanta village in the mountainous Doda district of Jammu and Kashmir saw the light of an electric bulb for the first time on Sunday, ending the decades of darkness from the lives of the villagers.The electrification work of the village was taken up on the order of Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha, after a group of locals put forward the demand before him at the last "LG Mulaqaat" programme, an official spokesperson said.The LG asked the Doda district administration to ensure electrification of the village within a month.Thanks to the quick action by the district administration, the herculean task of electrifying the remote village was completed in a record time of 15 days.Acting upon the LG's directions, the district administration, in coordination with the Jammu Power Distribution Corporation Limited (JPDCL) and Shalaka officials, started the work on a war footing, despite the adverse weather conditions that made the task extremely difficult.To celebrate the historic moment with the villagers, District Development Commissioner (DDC) Sagar D Doifode visited the village and formally declared it as electrified by lighting a bulb amid huge rounds of applause, the spokesperson said.The DDC congratulated the villagers on getting electricity supply for the first time.He reiterated the resolve of the LG's administration to provide all basic amenities to the people of Jammu and Kashmir, especially those living in far-flung areas.Doifode said the progress of the electrification work of the village was monitored on a daily basis, while providing every logistic support to the JPDCL team associated with the task."The executing team demonstrated great resolve by finishing the work in just half-a-month, 15 days ahead of the deadline," he said. PTI TAS RC||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jks-ganouri-tanta-village-gets-electricity-for-the-first-time-101610979725005.html
18-01-2021||India||Vaccination drive total success in Gujarat, says CM Rupani||Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani on Monday called the Covid-19 vaccination drive a success and said no serious adverse reaction case had emerged from anywhere in the state.Some 12,000 people in priority groups were vaccinated in Gujarat in January 16, the first day of a nationwide inoculation drive.Though some vaccine beneficiaries in Rajkot complained of adverse effects, Rupani said. "Vaccination usually triggers some kind of reaction in the body. However, no serious case has emerged in Gujarat so far. There is absolutely no reason to worry and beneficiaries are being monitored by officials. Vaccination was a total success in Gujarat."Earlier in the day, officials said around 50 of the 100 people vaccinated in Rajkot Civil Hospital complained of headache and fever.However, Dr Umed Patel, members of the Adverse Monitoring Committee for Rajkot, said. "Some 10-12 hours after getting the vaccine, 50 per cent beneficiaries developed minor adverse reactions, such as fever and headache. But, no one is serious. These are normal complications and can be cured with paracetamol."After a break, the vaccination drive will resume on Tuesday in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccination-drive-total-success-in-gujarat-says-cm-rupani-101610973935557.html
18-01-2021||India||Karnataka political leaders blast Thackeray, protests erupt over his statement on border issue||Protests erupted in parts of Karnataka on Monday including in the district headquarters city of Belagavi on Monday in a strong condemnation of Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray's statement on the sensitive border issue.Political leaders cutting across party lines came down heavily on Thackeray. "There is no question of giving even an inch of land from Karnataka to Maharashtra. He should give up issuing statements just for political reasons," Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa told reporters on Monday."I am pained at Maharashtra Chief Ministers remarks that can disturb the prevailing harmonious atmosphere.I expect Shri Uddhav Thackeray, as a true Indian, to show his commitment and respect to the principles of federalism in letter and spirit," Yediyurappa said in a tweet.Thackeray said on Sunday his government is committed towards incorporating into the state the areas of Karnataka where Marathi-speaking people are in majority.This will be the "true tribute" to martyrs of the cause, the Chief Ministers Office (CMO) said in a tweet.Maharashtra claims Belagavi (earlier called as Belgaum) and some other areas, part of the erstwhile Bombay Presidency but currently in Karnataka, on linguistic grounds.Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti, a regional organisation fighting for the merger of Belagavi and some other border areas with Maharashtra, observes January 17 as the 'martyrs day' for those who laid down their lives for the cause in 1956."Bringing Karnataka-occupied Marathi-speaking and cultural areas in Maharashtra will be the true tribute to those who accepted martyrdom in the boundary battle.We are united and committed towards it.Respects to the martyrs with this promise," the CMO tweeted.Maharashtra claims certain areas, including Belagavi, Karwar and Nippani which are part of Karnataka, contending that the majority of population in these areas is Marathi-speaking.On Monday, pro-Kannada organisations held demonstrations and burnt Thackeray's effigy in parts of the State.A few pro-Marathi activists led by local units of Shiv Sena and Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti had organised the 'Martyrs Day' in Belagavi on Sunday.They demanded merger of Belagavi, Karwar, Nippani, Bidar and Bhalki with Maharashtra.Thackeray's statement came on a day when Union Home Minister Amit Shah and Yediyurappa along with his cabinet colleagues and BJP legislators were present in Belagavi bordering Maharashtra to commemorate the victory of BJP backed village panchayat members in the recent elections.Yediyurappa added on Monday that the Marathi people have been living in harmony with Kannadigas in Karnataka.Likewise, Kannadigas living in the border districts of Maharashtra are living in harmony with the Marathi people there.The Karnataka Chief Minister condemned Thackerays comments saying it can disrupt the peace and harmony among people.Hitting out at Thackeray, former Chief Minister and Congress leader Siddaramaiah tweeted, "Belagavi is an integral part of Karnataka.Don't try to instigate us by bringing up the issue which is already resolved."Cautioning Thackeray not to politicise the issue which is already decided, Siddaramaiah reminded him that he is not just a Shiv Sena activist but also a responsible Chief Minister of a state.Lashing out at Thackeray, JDS leader and former Chief Minister H D Kumaraswamy said, "Looking at his tweets, it appears like a statement issued by a terrorist." In his tweets, Kumaraswamy likened Thackeray's statement with Chinese expansionism."Uddhav Thackeray's irresponsible statement that 'Karnataka occupied territories will be annexed to Maharashtra' sounds like Chinese expansionism.Such an expansionism will jeopardise the harmony among states formed on the linguistic ground," Kumaraswamy said in statement.Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi, state Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai and several others condemned Thackeray's statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-political-leaders-blast-thackeray-protests-erupt-over-his-statement-on-border-issue-101610974814591.html
18-01-2021||India||India supplies two mobile harbour cranes to Iran's Chabahar port||India on Monday said it has supplied a consignment of two mobile harbour cranes to Iran's Chabahar port with a total contract value of over USD 25 million.The move will enable the port to carry out seamless cargo handling services."India has supplied a consignment of two Mobile Harbour Cranes (MHC) to Iran's Chabahar port...under a contract agreement for supply of 6 MHC," the Ministry of Ports, Shipping and Waterways said in a statement.The consignment of cranes arrived from Marghera port, Italy and was unloaded successfully on Monday at Chabahar. The cranes are presently undergoing trial run.With 140 metric tonnes lifting capacity, the multipurpose equipment will enable India Ports Global Ltd (IPGL) to provide seamless services for container, bulk and general cargo at Shahid Beheshti Port of Chabahar, it said.This is a step towards India's commitment towards infrastructure development of the Chabahar port.The bilateral contract between Iran and India was signed on May 23, 2016 with a total value of USD 85 million ‎for equipping, mechanising and starting operations at the port under phase- I.To achieve this ambitious aim, a special purpose vehicle (SPV), namely India Ports Global Ltd (IPGL) Mumbai, was incorporated under the shipping ministry.Minister of Ports, Shipping and Waterways Mansukh Mandaviya said Chabahar is a strategic port with great national importance.The delivery of consignment of heavy equipment, including cranes, shows India's commitment to the strategic connectivity of Chabahar port project that will provide access to markets in Central Asia.Development of Chabahar port is the anchor for the expansion of economic and mutual relations between India and Iran and it will give a further boost to the maritime trade between both the countries.The location of Chabahar port has strategic advantage and high potential to provide connectivity among India, Iran, Afghanistan, Uzbekistan and other Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) countries, specially Eastern CIS nations, and boost trade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-supplies-two-mobile-harbour-cranes-to-iran-s-chabahar-port-101610972212537.html
18-01-2021||India||Concerned about accidents due to fog, Agra mayor seeks expressways closure at night||Agra mayor has expressed concern over frequent accidents on expressways due to dense fog at night. Mayor Naveen Jain has written a letter to chief minister Yogi Adityanath to this effect and demanded traffic to be prohibited on the expressways connecting Agra from 8 pm to 8 am.“With the temperature dropping and visibility is decreasing on roads because of fog, there have been many road accidents, especially on the expressways, including the 165- kilometre Yamuna Expressway connecting Agra with and Noida, and the 302-kilometre Agra-Lucknow Expressway,” Jain said.“Traffic should be prohibited on both the expressways from 8 pm to 8 am the next day so that accidents and loss of life at night, including those because of fog, could be controlled,” Jain said.Also read: Violence at BJP roadshow led by Dilip Ghosh, Suvendu Adhikari in Kolkata“Dense fog is leading to a pile-up of vehicles. Relief work, too, takes much time during fog. Because of foggy weather, traffic should not be allowed on expressways at night,” he said in the letter.Dense fog on Sunday morning claimed the life of a driver of a bus which rammed into a stationary truck on the Agra-Lucknow Expressway. Three passengers were injured in the accident.On January 14, a bus passenger was killed after dense fog led to a pile-up of vehicles on the Yamuna Expressway.On January 3, two people, including a driver, were killed in a road accident on the Agra-Lucknow Expressway at night. It was feared that the bus driver may have fallen asleep at the wheel as the sleeper bus rammed into a truck around 1 am.On January 1, a bride was charred in an accident while she was returning in a vehicle with her husband after offering prayers in Mathura.On December 22, five people died after their car collided with a truck near a toll plaza on the Yamuna Expressway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/concerned-about-accidents-due-to-fog-agra-mayor-seeks-expressways-closure-at-night-101610978804351.html
18-01-2021||India||West UP farmers gear up for Republic Day 'Kisan Tractor Parade' in Delhi||A gathering of farmers has unanimously decided that they will drive tractors from west Uttar Pradesh to Delhi on January 25 for the ‘Kisan Tractor Parade’ on Republic Day.The decision was taken at a panchayat held at the Bhartiya Kisan Union's headquarters, in Sisauli, on Sunday, where it was also decided that each tractor would sport two Tricolours.The panchayat also decided to intensify the campaign to mobilise farmers in villages for the parade. BKU president Naresh Tikait, spokesperson Rakesh Tikait, Haurav Tikait and many other leaders attended and addressed the panchayat.Speaking to HT over the phone, young farmer leader and Naresh Tikait’s son, Gaurav Tikait, claimed that people are excited and enthusiastic to participate in the parade in Delhi on January 26 and thousands of tractors from the region will participate.He said that the panchayat has decided that only tractors (no trolleys) will participate in the parade. "Republic Day is a day of pride for every Indian and we would celebrate it with respect and honour," said Tikait.Addressing the panchayat, Rakesh Tikait said that the ongoing movement of farmers is “a battle between a stubborn ruler and farmers”, therefore, farmers need to unite to win the battle.Meanwhile, BKU leaders have intensified their campaign to mobilise farmers for the parade and are visiting different villagers every day to convince farmers why their participation is needed to transform the ongoing movement into a grand success against the “stubborn attitude” of the Union government.Inspired by the movement, villagers have started convening panchayats in various villages. A mahapanchayat was held in Baraut town of district Bagpat, where farmers are sitting on an indefinite demonstration since December 17, to support the ongoing movement in Delhi.RLD leader Kayant Choudhary, BKU leader Rakesh Tikait and many other leaders of opposition parties had visited the protesting farmers to extend their support.In a similar panchayat, villagers of Sarrorpur Kala have decided to ban entry of those leaders who are not backing the farmers’ movement. "It was unanimously decided to boycott those leaders who were not backing farmers in their battle against the farm laws," said a villager, Subhash Nain. Villagers here collected money which was spent in making 25 quintals laddoos and purchased firewood, which was distributed among protesting farmers at Ghazipur on the Delhi border.On Tuesday, another mahapanchayat is proposed in Bagpat distric’s Karnawal village where villagers have in sitting in a protest for the past many days to support the movement. RLD leader Jayant Choudhary will attend the mahapanchayat and farmers will formulate a strategy for the Kisan Tractor Parade.Meanwhile, BKU leaders in Bijnore have evolved a formula of one village, one tractor and 11 people from 3,000 villages of the district as part of their mobilisation drive. BKU district president Digamber Singh said that farmers will participate in a big number along with their tractors in the Kisan Tractor Parade and they have already approached people in over 2,500 villages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/west-up-farmers-gear-up-for-republic-day-kisan-tractor-parade-in-delhi-101610977314796.html
18-01-2021||India||Corporates should encourage whistle-blowing mechanism: Vice President Naidu||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Monday said all corporate groups should encourage whistle-blowing mechanism and provide adequate safeguards to protect whistle-blowers.Addressing the online convocation of the Institute of Company Secretaries of India (ICSI) in Hyderabad, he stressed that it was important to ensure transparency and accountability in all matters of corporate governance to enhance the confidence of all the stakeholders, including shareholders.Underlining the need to protect public money, Naidu said the system has to be foolproof to reduce scope for any irregularity, according to an official statement.Lamenting that the actions of a few have brought bad name to Indian businesses, the vice president urged the young company secretaries to ensure ethics and accountability in corporate governance through their guidance and hand-holding.Describing company secretaries as the conscience-keepers of the corporate, he said it was imperative for them to be upright and not succumb to any pressure from the management.Naidu said that professional bodies like ICSI must ensure that corporate entities were not only professionally competent but law-abiding too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/corporates-should-encourage-whistle-blowing-mechanism-vice-president-naidu-101610975209071.html
18-01-2021||India||Violence at BJP roadshow led by Dilip Ghosh, Suvendu Adhikari in Kolkata||A Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) worker was allegedly injured when some people who carried Trinamool Congress (TMC) flags pelted brickbats at a roadshow led by BJP’s Bengal chief Dilip Ghosh and party leader Suvendu Adhikari in the Tollygunge area of south Kolkata on Monday afternoon.In retaliation, BJP workers allegedly ransacked a number of two-wheelers parked by the roadside and pelted stones at buildings and shops on Deshpran Sashmal Road in the Charu Market area. Minister Aroop Biswas rushed to the spot as local people staged a roadblock in protest against the violence.“Several women were injured by the brickbats thrown by BJP workers. Property of a local mosque was damaged. They also ransacked a TMC office. The BJP workers started the violence when some TMC workers were putting up party flags,” said Biswas.The roadshow started from Tollygunge tram depot and ended at Rashbehari Avenue intersection, covering a stretch of about three kilometres. Adhikari and Ghosh travelled in a decorated mini truck while the BJP workers walked alongside. The BJP workers jumped across the road divider and chased the men who allegedly pelted stones at the roadshow.“This sort of violence is not surprising. Mamata Banerjee and her nephew Abhishek Banerjee cannot stop the BJP with violence,” said BJP state vice-president Jay Prakash Majumdar.The violence which lasted about 10 minutes also took the police by surprise. But there was no comment from the police till the evening.Union minister of state Debasree Chaudhuri, former IPS officer Bharati Ghosh, state vice-president Jay Prakash Majumdar and the party's Kolkata zone convenor Debjit Sarkar were also present at the BJP roadshow. None of the leaders were, however, affected by the violenceThe TMC claimed the violence was a diversionary tactic adopted by the BJP.“The violence was orchestrated by the BJP since Mamata Banerjee announced in the afternoon that she will contest from the Nandigram seat in East Midnapore district from where Adhikari was elected. This was a diversionary strategy by the BJP. TMC flags can be purchased from the market. I can buy BJP flags too,” said minister and TMC spokesperson Tapas Roy.While addressing people at the end of the roadshow, a belligerent Adhikari said, “I congratulate BJP Yuva Morcha (youth front) workers for giving a befitting reply to the attackers. Andar ghus ke mara (they hit back inside their territory).”"If you attack us we will also show you how to hit back," Ghosh warned the TMC said in his speech.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/violence-at-bjp-roadshow-led-by-dilip-ghosh-suvendu-adhikari-in-kolkata-101610975348737.html
18-01-2021||India||Congress leader Abdul Mannan meets Bengal Governor, demands free and fair polls||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Monday said the Opposition Leader in the Assembly and senior Congress legislator Abdul Mannan had met him to emphasise the need for free and fair elections.The Governor said Mannan urged him to take up the matter to Election Commission of India (ECI) for timely action as officials removed by the commission have been serving in key posts in Mamata Banerjee-led state government.Dhankhar said, "He (Mannan) expressed concern that earlier action by the Election Commission of India against officials has turned out to be 'medal' for them as such officers were rewarded with plum postings by West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee.""He (Mannan) questioned the political stance of Additional Chief Secretary of the Home Department, Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order) and many others in West Bengal Government," added Dhankhar.The Governor said Mannan had advocated for the removal of retired 'Officer on Special Duty' appointees for allegedly being 'political' and ECI must take pre-emptive steps including 'suspension' to maintain the sanctity of election. According to Dhankar, the senior Congress leader also suggested keeping away civic volunteers from election duty.West Bengal is due for Assembly polls in mid-2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-leader-abdul-mannan-meets-bengal-governor-demands-free-and-fair-polls-101610975271269.html
18-01-2021||India||SC to consider review plea in EPF pension case: Here's what you need to know||After a gap of 21 months, the Supreme Court is considering the review petition filed by the Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) against its verdict on pensions and the appeal filed by the Union ministry of labour and employment. The verdict has brought hope to millions of pensioners who have waited for a long time for a pension in accordance with their salary.Here’s everything you need to know about the review petition filed by EPFO:1. The three-member bench considering the review petition is headed by Justice UU Lalit.2. Earlier, both Kerala High Court and the Supreme Court had pronounced their verdicts in the favour of the pensioners. But full pension was denied as the appeal of the ministry of labour and employment and EPFO's review plea were pending.3. The Supreme Court of India had upheld Kerala High Court's verdict on a monthly pension from the Employees’ Pension Scheme on April 1, 2019. After this, the ministry of labour filed an appeal against the high court verdict despite the review petition filed by EPFO. The bench headed by the then Chief Justice Ranjan Gogoi ordered to hear both petitions in the open court on July 12, 2019. But no further action was taken in this matter.4. The parliamentary standing committee also sought an explanation regarding the matter last October.5. Senior officials of the labour ministry have given some suggestions in this regard to the cabinet committee with regards to continuing EPFO and making structural changes.6. If the top court upholds its decision further, the structure of EPFO may change significantly as the Supreme Court review is about the PF accounts of the EPFO subscribers.7. EPFO has over 2.3 million pensioners, who receive a pension of ₹1,000 every month. Their contribution to PF is however less than a quarter of it.8. Currently, the maximum limit for EPFO pension has been fixed. On availing 'defined contribution', the members of EPF will be given benefit as per their contribution means their benefits will be directly proportional to the contribution.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-to-consider-review-plea-in-epf-pension-case-here-s-what-you-need-to-know-101610975072037.html
18-01-2021||India||Cong led opposition stages walkout from Kerala assembly||The Congress-led Opposition staged a walkout from the Kerala assembly on Monday after Speaker P Sreeramakrishnan denied permission to move an adjournment motion to discuss the alleged threatening of a poll officer by an MLA during the recent local body polls. Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) MLA N A Nellikkunnu moved the motion, seeking discussion on the alleged threat to the officer by Uduma MLA K Kunhiraman on December 14. The opposition walked out after the Speaker refused permission, saying the incident occurred a month ago and was under the consideration of the State Election Commission. Nellikkunnu and other opposition members returned later and raised the matter as the first submission in the Assembly. On January 9, the SEC sought a report from the Kasaragod district collector on a polling officer's complaint that the CPI(M) legislator from the district had threatened him during the local body polls held in December. K M Sreekumar, Professor, Agricultural Entomology, Kerala Agricultural University at nearby Peelicode, was on election duty as the presiding officer at the polling station. He had complained that Uduma MLA K Kunhiraman had threatened him for verifying credentials of voters. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, in his reply, said the officer had not yet filed a police complaint against the MLA. "However, based on newspaper reports, we have asked the Kasaragod district Crime Branch DySP to look into the matter and submit a report. It's based on the news reports alone," he said. Vijayan also said it was not the duty of the presiding officer to verify the voter ID cards. "In this matter, the presiding officer was examining the ID cards of the voters, which was actually the duty of the polling officers appointed to the booth. The MLA, who reached there to vote, reported this matter to the district collector, who later asked the presiding officer to perform his duties," Vijayan said. He said in Kasaragod alone, 113 cases were registered in connection with the local body polls, 38 of which were filed by workers of Left parties and 37 by the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF). Vijayan also said action would be taken against the culprits in all these cases without any political bias. Sreekumar, a leftist and also president of the Peelicode unit of the Teacher's Organisation of KAU, had accused the MLA of silencing him when he raised a dispute over bogus voting during the third phase of the local body polls on December 14. "Let the first polling officer verify and you keep mum.If you don't listen to what we say,your legs will be chopped off, the complaint, quoting the MLA threatening remarks, had said. Sreekumar had in a Facebook post alleged there were only CPI-M agents at the booth, facilitating unquestioned bogus voting. Senior Election Commission officials had said the polling officer was supposed to report incidents of bogus voting or threats, to police and Returning Officer concerned on the same day or the next day itself. The voting, which was held in three phases,was completed on December 14. the results were declared on December 16 and the Left parties secured a comfortable win.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-led-opposition-stages-walkout-from-kerala-assembly-101610974708091.html
18-01-2021||India||Satellite imagery shows Chinese village in disputed region of Arunachal Pradesh||India on Monday responded cautiously to a report that China has built a village in a disputed region of Arunachal Pradesh by saying that it closely monitors all developments affecting national security and acts to safeguard territorial integrity.The external affairs ministry said the Indian government has stepped up the construction of border infrastructure, including roads and bridges, in response to China’s “construction work along the border areas”.China built a new village, consisting of 101 homes, in Arunachal Pradesh, about 4.5 km “within Indian territory of the de facto border”, NDTV reported while citing satellite imagery from Planet Labs, a private US-based imaging company.The village is located on the banks of Tsari Chu river in Upper Subansiri district, an area along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). This was the same area where five people were detained by Chinese troops last September.Comparing two satellite images provided by Planet Labs, NDTV reported the village had been built sometime in the past 15 months. The first image, from August 26, 2019, did not show any construction activity, while the second, from November 1, 2020, depicted the village with dozens of rows of small and medium-sized structures and roads.The external affairs ministry did not address the issue of the particular village referred to in the report but said: “Government keeps a constant watch on all developments having a bearing on India's security and takes all the necessary measures to safeguard its sovereignty and territorial integrity.”The ministry said in a statement that India had “seen recent reports on China undertaking construction work along the border areas”. It added, “China has undertaken such infrastructure construction activity in the past several years. In response, our government too has stepped up border infrastructure including the construction of roads, bridges etc, which has provided much needed connectivity to the local population along the border.”The government is committed to creating infrastructure along border areas to improve the livelihood of citizens, including in Arunachal Pradesh, the statement said.People familiar with developments, speaking on condition of anonymity, confirmed the existence of the village but pointed out that control over the Upper Subansiri region has been fluid for decades.China claims the whole of Arunachal Pradesh as south Tibet and there are wide divergences in the perception of the border in this area. “The Chinese side doesn’t respect the McMahon Line in Arunachal Pradesh and constructs structures in areas claimed by it,” said one of the people cited above.The Indian side too has bolstered the construction of infrastructure in Arunachal Pradesh and there have been instances of local commanders holding meetings to discuss structures falling in disputed areas, the people said.Sim Tack, a Belgium-based security analyst for Force Analysis, said the village in question in Arunachal Pradesh appeared to be part of China’s recent construction activity to bolster its territorial claims all along the LAC.Tack said the village appeared to be several kilometres “inside the Indian claim” and noted that China has had a “small presence” in this area in the form of a military outpost since about 2000. “So, the Chinese presence is not necessarily new, but what is new is the building of a village to settle people in the area,” he said.“China has been preparing infrastructure on its own side for a long time but now the infrastructure is being created in disputed regions in Ladakh, Arunachal Pradesh and Bhutan. It would appear China is applying such infrastructure to strengthen its territorial claims,” Tack said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/satellite-imagery-shows-chinese-village-in-disputed-region-of-arunachal-pradesh-101610973003146.html
18-01-2021||India||Panipat jail to become first in Haryana to have in-house radio station||Panipat district jail has become the first jail in Haryana to have its own radio station which will be operated and run by the inmates.For this project namely 'Tinka Jail Radio', the jail authorities have selected five inmates out of 940 prisoners and undertrials lodged in the district jail.Joginder Deswal, deputy superintendent of Panipat Jail, said that the project has been initiated by Tinka Tinka Foundation headed by Dr Vartika Nanda. The selected inmates have been given proper training to run daily programmes for the studio set up inside the jail premises. He said that programmes on songs, news, local folk songs and songs on demand will be aired.As per the jail authorities, the RJs included a 24 years old Afghanistan national Nimatullaha, who is in Panipat jail for illegal stay in India without a valid visa and is also facing a murder case in Pune, Maharastra.As per the officials from the jail, Nimatullaha expressed his interest to become the RJ when the jail authorities took auditions of the prisoners.Also read: Scale down deployment of teachers on Covid-19 duty - Manish SisodiaHe is fond of singing and also knows Hindi and Urdu. He has been included in the group for his interest of singing Hindi songs, an official said.Besides, singing, he will also read news in Hindi and Urdu to keep his fellow inmates updated.Another RJ is Surender Gurjar, who is convicted in a murder case and has been in jail for the past two years. Gurjar belongs to Patti Kalyana village of Panipat district. He sings Haryanvi Ragini and he has also created a team of his assistants who can play instruments for the background music.Suresh Kumar, also convicted in a murder case, is another RJ and belongs to Panipat district. Suresh was selected to entertain inmates by singing Haryanvi folk songs.Another RJ and artist Kashish Kumar is a guitarist and sings very well. As per the jail officials, Kashish sings Hindi songs and plays a guitar. He also sang in front of jail minister Ranjit Singh for the trial. “Kashish is a very good guitarist and also sings Bollywood numbers very well,” said Joginder Deswal, deputy superintendent of Panipat Jail.The fifth RJ is Sarwan Kumar of Panipat who is facing a murder case. He was included in the team following his interest in singing.For the technical support, the district jail also has an IT expert Dinesh Kumar, an undertrial in a murder case. Dinesh played a key role in setting up the studio in the jail. Dinesh belongs to Jind district and has a B. Tech degree in computer science.Haryana DG prisons, K Selvaraj said that this is a good initiative that has been taken with the help of Tinka Tinka Foundation. He said that later it will be started in two more jails of Ambala and Faridabad. The officer said that the motive behind this initiative was to entertain, educate, inform and engage the prisoners in positive activities.The mind behind the project, Dr Vartika Nanda, said that Panipat is the first jail of the state to have a radio station to be operated by inmates and for the inmates. She said that five inmates have been selected from the jail and they have been given proper training to run the studio. Officials said each jail barrack will have one speaker and radio programmes will be broadcast for an hour every day.She said that later two stations will be set up in Faridabad and Ambala jails and total 21 inmates have been selected for the radio stations. She said that Tihar jail was first to start such a radio station in 2013. Following this, the foundation had started a station in Agra jail in July 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/panipat-jail-to-become-first-in-haryana-to-have-in-house-radio-station-101610972907685.html
18-01-2021||India||Results of Maharashtra gram panchayat polls in favour of MVA: Deputy CM Ajit Pawar||Results of Gram Panchayat elections in Maharashtra on Monday are good and in favour of the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) of the Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress, deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar said.Speaking to reporters here, Pawar said the overall (political) picture in Maharashtra seems to be changing post the results of Legislative Council elections held last year.Of the six Legislative Council seats for which elections were held in December last year, the BJP won only one while the rest constituencies were bagged by candidates of the ruling MVA.Polling for elections to over 14,000 gram panchayats, out of the total 27,920 gram panchayats in Maharashtra, was held in 34 of the total 36 districts on January 15."As per inputs, the results of Gram Panchayat elections are good and are in favour of the MVA. Party workers of the Congress, Sena and NCP have clinched the victory. In most of these places, the Congress, NCP and Sena retained seats in their respective strongholds. I congratulate all these members for this success," Pawar said.Though the village panchayat elections are not fought on party symbols, panels are fielded by political parties or local leaders.Pawar reiterated that the MVA government was running on the Common Minimum Programme (CMP) under the leadership of Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray.When asked about the Sena's demand for renaming Aurangabad city as Sambhajinagar and opposition by the Congress, Pawar said that any difference of opinions among the three constituents will be ironed out by their leaders."There may be a difference of opinion but we (MVA partners) have come together on the CMP. The MVA government has been running on the basis of the CMP under CM Thackeray since the last one year and will continue to run in future as well," he said.Pawar also criticised the Central government over the ongoing agitation by farmers on borders of Delhi for the repeal of three agri laws."The Centre should understand that farmers are agitating for long. Several rounds of discussions (between farmers and the government) have failed. The Centre is not taking any concrete steps which shows that it doesn't have any interest in resolving the issues of farmers, which amounts to insulting farmers," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/results-of-maharashtra-gram-panchayat-polls-in-favour-of-mva-ajit-pawar-101610971805682.html
18-01-2021||India||Bhawana Kanth to take part in R-Day parade, first woman fighter pilot to do so||Flight lieutenant Bhawana Kanth will be a part of the Republic Day parade this year to become the first woman fighter pilot to take part in India's biggest ceremonial event on January 26, officials said on Monday. She will be a part of the Indian Air Force's (IAF's) tableau that will showcase mock-ups of the light combat aircraft, light combat helicopter and the Sukhoi-30 fighter plane. She is currently posted at an airbase in Rajasthan where she flies the MiG-21 Bison fighter plane.Kanth is also one of the first women fighter pilots in the IAF. She, along with Avani Chaturvedi and Mohana Singh, was inducted into the IAF as the first women fighter pilots in 2016. Ten women have been commissioned as fighter pilots after an experimental scheme for their induction into the IAF’s combat stream was introduced in 2015, a watershed in the air force’s history.Also read | Reaching for the sky: Meet India’s women fighter pilotsKanth, who belongs to Darbhanga in Bihar, was born and brought up in the Refinery Township, Begusarai, where her father worked as an engineer in IOCL. She did her schooling from Barauni Refinery DAV Public School and completed her bachelor of engineering in medical electronics from BMS College of Engineering in Bengaluru.She loves playing badminton, volleyball and adventure sports and is also interested in photography, cooking, swimming and travelling. After clearing Stage I training, she got the opportunity to opt for the fighter stream. Kanth had said after her induction in the IAF, while recalling her first experience of the spin solo on fighter aircraft Kiran, that as she entered the aircraft into a spin and recovered it all by herself at 20,000 feet, doubt started creeping into her mind as to what if the aircraft didn’t recover.“I told myself that if I don’t do it now, I will always be afraid of it. I spun the aircraft and to my surprise, the spin was more vicious or so it seemed. But the fighter pilot in me took over and I told myself come what may I will recover. And the aircraft recovered from spin and so did my confidence,” she had said.Also read | IAF women pilots set to fly Sukhoi-30 this monthThis year, Rafale fighter jet will also take part in the Republic Day parade for the first time. The Indian Air Force has inducted 11 of the 36 Rafale jets ordered by New Delhi at a cost of ₹59,000 crore. Seven more fighters have been handed over to India by Dassault but these are being used for training IAF pilots in France. The third batch of three fighter jets is scheduled to land on January 27.Rafales, Su-30s and MiG-29s, the fighter jets which are part of the IAF's muscular posture in the Ladakh theatre, will be among 45 aircraft taking part in Republic Day flypast.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhawana-kanth-to-take-part-in-r-day-flypast-first-woman-fighter-pilot-to-do-so-101610971108829.html
18-01-2021||India||Rajasthan ends night curfew after Covid-19 review meet, cuts RT-PCR test price||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot announced on Monday the withdrawal of night curfew in the state to fight the Covid-19 pandemic and said the government would announce more relaxations in a phased manner.Gehlot also slashed the rate of RT-PCR (reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction) test at private labs by ₹300. RT-PCR is the confirmatory test for Covid-19 and will now cost ₹500 instead of ₹800 at private labs.The labs were earlier charging ₹1,200 which was reduced to ₹800 in November.“In the Covid-19 review meeting, it has been decided to end the night curfew in the state and to give some relaxation in a phased manner, but it will be necessary to follow health protocols otherwise the number of infected patients may increase,” Gehlot tweeted.In another tweet, he said, “The rate of RT-PCR test in private labs has been reduced from ₹800 to ₹500. It has also been decided that the number of reserved Covid beds in private hospitals with a capacity above 100 beds can be reduced to a minimum of 10.”The Rajasthan government had clamped night curfew in eight 8 districts from 8 pm to 6 am on November 21 after a sudden surge in coronavirus cases. By the end of November, Rajasthan was reporting more than 3,000 Covid-19 cases daily. The cases have now reduced significantly.The night curfew was initially imposed in Jaipur, Jodhpur, Kota, Bikaner, Udaipur, Ajmer, Alwar and Bhilwara district headquarters and a few days later, five more districts headquarters of Nagaur, Pali, Tonk, Sikar and Ganganagar were brought under night curfew.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-ends-night-curfew-after-covid-19-review-meet-cuts-rt-pcr-test-price-101610971051866.html
18-01-2021||India||Srinagar sets up one-stop centre to help women in distress||Sakhi, a one-stop centre to help women in distress, set up in Bemina area of Srinagar, opened on Monday.The centre, an initiative of the Ministry of Women and Child Development, has been set up in association with the district administration.Centre Head Administrator, Bisma told ANI, "This scheme by the Ministry will surely help women who are battling with any form of violence. At the centre, we provide medical help, psychological help, police help or any other legal help free of cost to women who are facing or have faced any form of violence.""This scheme was started by the Ministry in 2015. It has finally been implemented in Srinagar now," she added."Violence can be of several types. It can be domestic violence, sexual harassment, being stalked upon, receiving obscene calls among others. Thus, we work at ground level. We take help from Anganwadi workers. They not only inform people about this centre but also help them reach out to us," she further said.Junaid Alam, the relative of a victim said, "This centre is definitely going to be beneficial for women. Many women feel scared to come out and report such cases. Every facility at this centre is free. No money is required at this centre."The one-stop centre is a completely centrally sponsored scheme under the Nirbhaya Fund.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/srinagar-sets-up-one-stop-centre-to-help-women-in-distress-101610963533170.html
18-01-2021||India||Uttarakhand assembly polls a yr away, BJP starts prep; Cong faces infighting||With just about a year left for the next assembly elections to be held in Uttarakhand, while the ruling BJP presses ahead to chalk out the strategy for elections, the Opposition Congress seems to be entangled in infighting. A few days ago, Uttarakhand BJP president Bansidhar Bhagat formed a five-member committee under the leadership of Rajya Sabha member Naresh Bansal for preparing a road map for the 2022 elections. The committee will give recommendations on the issues to be taken up during campaigning and mass outreach. The five-member committee has, apart from Bansal, state BJP general secretaries Ajaey Kumar, Kuldeep Kumar, Suresh Bhatt and minister Dhan Singh Rawat. Meanwhile, the Congress is yet to bridge the rift caused by former chief minister and party national general secretary Harish Rawat asking the leadership to announce the CM face of the party for 2022 elections and remove him from the collective leadership. Rawat’s statement a few days ago has made the state leadership, including party state president Pritam Singh and leader of Opposition Indira Hridayesh, uneasy as their differences are an open secret.Political experts say such differences would hurt the party’s preparations for the assembly elections. SMA Kazmi, Dehradun-based political expert who has been keeping an eye on the state’s political scenario since its formation in 2000, said, “BJP has always been miles ahead of Congress when it comes to poll preparations. Now with fresh infighting, things don’t seem to look up for the Congress for the coming elections either.”“The Congress can’t compete with BJP in terms of resources, organisational structure, planning and discipline. On top of that, their high command is very weak in comparison to that of BJP’s,” he said. “Since 2002 when ND Tiwari was the state’s first CM in the Congress government, Harish Rawat has been going in a different direction. It continued in Vijay Bahuguna’s time. Till this factionalism ends, the Congress will fail to capitalise on the current public sentiment against CM Trivendra Singh Rawat,” he said. The Congress, however, said that the party would fight unitedly in the 2022 assembly elections. “Our state in-charge Devendra Yadav has said we will be fighting under a collective leadership in the 2022 assembly polls. We are fully prepared for the elections in which the public will bring us back to power against the BJP which has done nothing in its tenure so far,” said state unit chief Pritam Singh. However, BJP state unit vice-president Devendra Bhasin said, “Congress should first put its house in order before dreaming of winning the elections. People of the state know what our government has done for them in terms of development. They are supporting us tremendously.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-assembly-polls-a-yr-away-bjp-starts-prep-cong-faces-infighting-101610970133287.html
18-01-2021||India||Tandav over Tandav: About Hinduphobia, hurt sentiments, FIRs and OTT censorship||For the average OTT buff, the Amazon Prime Video political drama starring Saif Ali Khan, Mohammed Zeeshan Ayyub and Dimple Kapadia is pacy enough for a weekend binge. For cinema connoisseurs and critics, the series is at best mediocre and clichéd and at worst a poorly researched, hammy and forgettable show. And then there are people like the Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP's) Kapil Mishra who have sent a legal notice to the makers of Tandav for allegedly hurting the sentiments of Hindus and Dalits and are demanding a ban on the web series.Tandav is not just limited to Kapil Mishra though. An FIR naming Amazon Prime’s India head of original content Aparna Purohit, apart from the show’s director Ali Abbas Zafar, producer Himanshu Krishna Mehra, and others have also been filed in Uttar Pradesh for hurting religious sentiments. BJP leader Ram Kadam too claims to have filed a complaint at Mumbai's Ghatkopar police station against Tandav. The ministry of information and broadcasting has now purportedly summoned Amazon Prime video officials over the swiftly escalating tandav.Of course, the melee is never complete without Twitterati throwing in its lot with one side or the other. The social media platform has been flooded with messages citing similar sentiments of Hinduphobic content, anti-Hindu propaganda, disrespecting Dalits and more.Also read | Tandav row: Govt summons Amazon Prime executivesAt the heart of all the displeasure is one particular scene in the first episode of the series where actor Zeeshan Ayyub has played a stage performer appearing as Lord Shiva and is heard saying, "Azaadi, what the...?" In the same scene, the narrator on stage tells Lord Shiva that he needs to do something to improve his popularity on social media as opposed to Lord Ram. On this, Zeeshan Ayub asks whether he should come up with a new display picture. Naysayers are calling this an attempt to 'mock' and 'target' the Hindu gods.Also read | Police personnel seen stationed outside Saif's home amid Tandav rowThe controversy once again raises the age-old debate about freedom of expression versus moral policing and censorship. Frankly, without the social media chatter, the controversial Lord Shiva scene could have been a blink-and-you-miss-it moment in the web series. After all, as Hindus, we are only too used to seeing our deities dramatised and even depicted in a humorous light (Ramlila, anyone?). In fact, for decades, there seemed nothing wrong in showing our gods doing funny stuff. Hindu gods and goddesses were humanised, tolerant, friendly and approachable for that reason alone.Not anymore. Because of late, the yardstick has become Islam or Christianity. The common refrain is that this web series would have not dared to depict the Prophet in a similar vein. Is the sentiment factually correct? Yes. But is applying the Islam yardstick on Hinduism correct? Probably not, because unlike an organised religion, Hinduism is more a way of life, kept alive through generations by word-of-mouth, mythical stories and often humorous anecdotes.Also read | 'Tandav is a work of fiction, it's a piece of entertainment first': Sunil GroverBut the bigger fear due to repeated controversies involving OTT platforms revolves around possible censorship of streaming content and what form it will take. In November last year, a gazette notification brought digital audio-visual content on these platforms under the ambit of the information and broadcasting ministry. There are reports that the ministry could opt for self-regulation as the guiding principle. But the fine print is still a secret.Speaking at the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit 2020, Star & Disney India chairman Uday Shankar said that what mattered was the form and substance of the regulatory lens. “Do we want to be over-prescriptive or do we want to let creativity and imagination to have a role?" he had asked.Shankar added that Indian consumers are far more mature than most regulators think and do not need filters applied to everything they watch.Because watching a political drama like Tandav (however hackneyed) is perhaps a much meatier option than the banal and bad 1990s throwback Coolie No 1 streaming on these platforms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tandav-over-tandav-why-amazon-s-political-drama-ignited-a-firestorm-101610969431649.html
18-01-2021||India||BSF constable kills self with service rifle in Tripura||A Border Security Force constable allegedly shot himself with his service rifle in Khowai District of Tripura. An unnatural death case was lodged at Khowai Police Station in this regard, said police on Monday.The autopsy took place on Monday, said police.As per preliminary reports, police said the man was suffering from depression for the past few days.“ We saw his body on Sunday afternoon. His service rifle was also found near his body. We registered an unnatural death case,” said a senior police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsf-constable-kills-self-with-service-rifle-in-tripura-101610969893189.html
18-01-2021||India||Shahnawaz Hussain, Mukesh Sahni set to become Bihar MLCs unopposed||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national spokesman and former Union minister Syed Shahnawaz Hussain and Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) chief Mukesh Sahni on Monday filed their nominations for bye-elections for the Bihar legislative council.Hussain is set to be elected to fill up the vacancy caused by former deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi in the legislative council after his election to Rajya Sabha in December last year. Sahni, who was sworn in as the minister of animal husbandry department in the Nitish Kumar cabinet, is set to be elected to replace Vinod Narayan Jha who had won the assembly election.Both the leaders are set to be elected unopposed as no other person filed nomination against them in view of the obvious majority of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in the state legislature. Monday was the last date of nomination. As the election will be held separately, those having a majority in the lower house would have the convincing advantage in case of voting.Officials of the state legislature said that Hussain, who was first elected to Lok Sabha in 1999 and became a minister in the Union cabinet, would serve as the MLC for a period of almost three and a half years (till May 6, 2024). Sahni, who shed his initial reluctance to become the MLC for a truncated tenure on Union home minister Amit Shah’s intervention, would replace Jha in the council and thereby remain as a member of the upper house for one and half years (till July 21, 2022).Chief minister Nitish Kumar, his deputies Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi, RS member Sushil Kumar Modi, state BJP chief Sanjay Jaisawal, MLC and BJP national media in-charge Sanjay Mayukh were present at the Patna divisional office during the filing of nominations of the two leaders.Kumar congratulated both the leaders on their nominations and said that all four constituents of NDA had been working in close cooperation and would remain so in future. The CM, however, parried a reply to the journalists’ query about the much-awaited cabinet expansion.Usually, nominations for the legislative council elections are filed before the secretary of the legislative assembly, who also serves as the returning officer of the election.However, the Patna divisional commissioner was notified as the returning officer by the Election Commission of India (ECI), as the current assembly secretary Bateshwar Nath Pandey is scheduled to retire within six months.Hussain, who was re-elected to Lok Sabha twice from Bhagalpur, is believed to have been picked by the BJP to offer a formidable face in state politics after Modi was elected to the Rajya Sabha. Many senior BJP leaders said that Hussain might be inducted as a minister in Nitish Kumar’s cabinet which is expected to be expanded later this month. There is no minister from Muslim community, who constitute a sizable chunk of electors in the state.“I am a soldier of the party and willing to serve in any position the party deems fit for me,” Husain told reporters.But many opposition leaders, including Congress leader Prem Chandra Mishra took a swipe at the BJP for “downgrading” Hussain’s status by nominating him for the Bihar legislative council.VIP leaders said that Sahni agreed to become the MLC for a residual term after Union minister Shah asked him to file the nomination and avoid offering fodder to the opposition.The VIP chief has been assured another berth in the council from the governor’s quota. Twelve seats in the upper house have been lying vacant for the past several months for want of recommendations from the state government.Officials of the state legislature said that both Hussain and Sahni would be declared elected unopposed on January 21, the last date for withdrawal of nomination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shahnawaz-hussain-mukesh-sahni-set-to-become-bihar-mlcs-unopposed-101610968940167.html
18-01-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: FIR against makers of web series Tandav and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan TimesFIR against makers of Tandav for ‘hurting religious sentiments’A First Information Report (FIR) has been lodged against the makers of the newly released web series Tandav for promoting enmity and causing public mischief , the Lucknow Police said. Read moreBrisbane Test: India need 324 to win after Siraj claims maiden Test five-forPlaying only this third Test match, fast bowler Mohammed Siraj picked up his maiden five-wicket haul to give India a sniff in the fourth Test against Australia in Brisbane. Read moreMira Rajput's Goa look is about bikinis and Princess Jasmine inspired outfitsGoa has become the new celebrity-favourite holiday destination and the latest couple to visit there are Shahid Kapoor and Mira Rajput. Read moreApple is being sued for not removing Telegram from App Store, here’s whyThe company is also in the news for removing the Parler app that was apparently used for the recent US Capitol riots. Now, the iPhone maker is being sued for not removing an app that is claimed to be used for similar work – Telegram. Read moreCanadian reporter slides downhill unexpectedly during live bulletin, amuses netizensAnwar Knight, a reporter with CTV News, Toronto skillfully reported whilst unexpectedly sliding downhill. The video of the incident is now amusing many. Read moreDelhi schools reopen for Class 10, 12 students; Sisodia inspects Covid protocolsAfter a long break, students reached their respective schools for practical lessons, counseling and doubt-clearing sessions. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-fir-against-makers-of-web-series-tandav-101610968286431.html
18-01-2021||India||Physical hearing on alternate basis resumes in Delhi district courts||All district courts of Delhi on Monday resumed physical hearing on an alternate day basis.The courts will continue taking up the matters through 'video conferencing' on non-physical days.Many lawyers practicing in district courts welcomed the decision and said that it will heal the lawyers of trial court who had suffered financially due to limited hearing in the courts.Bharat Lal Shivhare, a counsel, said that the decision to resume partial physical hearing will help those lawyers, who were suffering financially.Another young lawyer Mehul Prasad, who is practicing in lower courts, expressed happiness about the resumption of physical hearing and said that many lawyers are not technology-friendly and were unable to argue in virtual hearings."This decision will help those lawyers to take up the matter physically and earn money for their livelihood," he stated.An advocate Suresh Prasad even demanded to resume physical hearing completely.In an official statement on Thursday, Delhi High Court said, "In continuation of this Court's earlier Office Orders, the Full Court, in view of the decline in the intensity of spread of Covid-19 pandemic in the NCT of Delhi, has been pleased to order that the Principal District & Sessions Judges and Principal Judge, Family Court (HQs) shall prepare a roster of all the subordinate courts of their respective Districts in such a manner that such courts sit physically on an alternate day basis and continue to take up the matters through video conferencing' on non-physical days. Such Roster should be made effective from January 18."In another statement on Thursday, the Delhi High Court said that 11 benches of the court will hold physical court while the rest will take matters via video-conferencing in view of the decline in the intensity of the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic in the national capital.The subordinate Courts have also been permitted to record evidence (except in those cases where the accused is in custody) while scrupulously adhering to the norms of social distancing when holding Courts physically.It has also ordered that adequate arrangement should be made by all the Principal District and Sessions Judges, in coordination with Director General (Prison) and concerned Incharge (Lockup), for production of Under Trial Prisoners before the physical courts from February 1.Full Court has also ordered that 11 benches of Delhi High Court including two Division Benches, three Single-benches of Civil Side, three Single-benches of Criminal Side and three Original Jurisdiction of Civil shall hold physical Courts with effective from January 18, while the remaining benches will continue to take up the matters through video conferencing as per the roster to be notified on the website of the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/physical-hearing-on-alternate-basis-resumes-in-delhi-district-courts-101610967593334.html
18-01-2021||India||Man arrested for running network of fictitious firms to help businesses evade GST: Officials||A man has been arrested for allegedly running a multi-layered network of fictitious firms for generating fake input tax credit (ITC) worth crores of rupees to help businesses evade GST, according to an official statement on Monday.The Central Goods and Services Tax (CGST) Commissionerate in east Delhi arrested the man and said the total fake ITC quantified so far is ₹82.23 crore generated out of fake billing to the tune of ₹541.13 crore, which is expected to increase as the investigation progresses."The network of fake firms was being operated by one Arvind Kumar who used to pass fake ITC for a commission of 4 to 4.5% of the invoice amount," said the statement issued by the CGST Delhi East Commissionerate.Investigation conducted so far has revealed 46 firms to be fictitious which were being controlled by Kumar and his associates, it said.“These firms had no business activity and had been created solely for the purpose of passing on fake ITC,” the statement said.Through use of extensive data analytics, officers identified and searched 21 premises between Friday and Sunday, which led to the unravelling of a network of fake firms that were operating since 2017 to pass on fake ITC, it said.Kumar was arrested and produced before a court on Sunday, which remanded him in judicial custody of 14 days till January 31, the statement said.The central GST, Delhi Zone has so far made 19 arrests in various cases involving tax evasion of over ₹3,766 crore, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-arrested-for-running-network-of-fictitious-firms-to-help-businesses-evade-gst-officials-101610967692477.html
18-01-2021||India||Amitabh Bachchan voice removed from Covid-19 awareness caller tune: Delhi high court was told||The Delhi High Court was on Monday told that megastar Amitabh Bachchan's voice has been removed from the caller tune on precautions against coronavirus and therefore, nothing remains in the PIL which sought its removal.The submission was made before a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh by the petitioner who said that with the removal of the actor's voice from the caller tune his plea has become infructuous.Taking note of the submission, the court disposed of the petition as not pressed.The petitioner had sought removal of the voice of the megastar from the caller tune on the ground that the actor himself, along with some family members, had been infected by the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amitabh-bachchan-voice-removed-from-covid-19-awareness-caller-tune-hc-told-101610967739448.html
18-01-2021||India||FIR registered in UP against makers of web series ‘Tandav’||A First Information Report (FIR) has been lodged against the makers of the newly released web series ‘Tandav’ for promoting enmity and causing public mischief , the Lucknow Police said.Lucknow deputy commissioner of police (Central) Somen Barma said, “The FIR [lodged at the Hazratganj police station on Sunday] has been lodged against Aparna Purohit, an official of Amazon, series director Ali Abbas Zafar, producer Himashu Krishna Mehra, its writer Gaurav Solanki, and others.” In his complaint, senior sub-inspector Amarnath Yadav, posted at the Hazratganj police station, alleged that he received information that video clips, which are allegedly defamatory against a particular group in the society, were being circulated widely on various social media platforms. On investigating, he found that the clips were from ‘Tandav’ which was released on January 16. A case has been registered under Sections 153A (promoting enmity between groups), 295 (defiling place of worship with intent to insult religion), 505 (statement conducing public mischief), 469 (forgery on purpose of harming reputation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and sections of the IT Act. “A four-member police team is investigating the matter and action will be taken against the accused if the complaint is found to be true,” said the officer. Similar complaints against ‘Tandav’ have also been lodged in Sitapur and Rae Bareli districts. Meanwhile, Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati has demanded removal of the objectionable portions from the show. In a tweet, she said protests were being registered over some scenes of the web series, which hurts religious sentiments. So it would appropriate to remove the objectionable portions.In a similar development, a case has been registered against the producer of web series ‘Mirzapur’ and Amazon Prime for hurting religious sentiments and social beliefs in the Mirzapur district of eastern UP, the Mirzapur Police said. A police officer said that the case was registered following a complaint by Arvind Chaturvedi who claimed that his religious sentiments and social beliefs were hurt by the show. The web series defamed Mirzapur since it was full of abuses and showed illicit relations, Chaturvedi alleged. A case has been registered under Sections 395a (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class), Section 505 (statements or content publishes to creating public enmity), Section 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC and the IT Act, the police officer said. Superintendent of police, Mirzapur, Ajay Singh confirmed the development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fir-against-makers-of-tandav-for-hurting-religious-sentiments-101610967252947.html
18-01-2021||India||Before 2025, we aim to bring down road accidents by 50%: Nitin Gadkari||Union Minister of Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari on Monday said that the government aims to bring down road accidents and its related deaths down by 50 per cent before 2025.While inaugurating the National Road Safety Month at Vigyan Bhawan today, Gadkari said, "If we wait till 2030, 6-7 Lakhs more people will die. So, we have made a commitment that before 2025, road accidents and deaths due to it will be brought down by 50 per cent with help of people's participation."Highlighlight the achievements of the Ministry, he said, "We have achieved the target of constructing 30 kilometres of road per day. I believe that by the end of March, perhaps we will achieve the target of constructing 40 kilometres of road per day."The inaugural function was launched by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways, Nitin Gadkari.Minister of State for Road, Transport and Highways, General (Retd) V.K Singh and CEO, Niti Aayog, Amitabh Kant also participated.Activities planned during the month include the launch of a film on Road safety, flagging off of a National Championship Safe Speed Challenge from Wagah border to Kanyakumari, and giving away of awards for Road Safety, stated the press release by the Ministry yesterday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/before-2025-we-aim-to-bring-down-road-accidents-by-50-nitin-gadkari-101610965158301.html
18-01-2021||India||16-year-old girl's body with throat slit found in Rajasthan's Barmer||A 16-year-old girl was found dead with her slit throat on Monday morning in Rajasthan’s Barmer district, said police. Family members and locals have alleged that the minor was raped, but police said it could be confirmed only after the post-mortem.Anand Sharma, superintendent of police, told HT that on Monday morning around 8.00 am Sheo police in Barmer got information about a body of a 16-year-old girl in a village.According to Sharma, the deceased’s body was found just behind her home in an open ground.Sharma further said that the deceased was living with her mother and two younger brothers. She lost her father a few years ago.Police said that the family has not filed any case yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/16yearold-girl-s-body-with-throat-slit-found-in-rajasthan-s-barmer-101610966193650.html
18-01-2021||India||India's first voter, ex-school teacher: Shyam Saran Negi has never missed an election||India's first voter Shyam Saran Negi cast his vote on Sunday in a polling booth in Himachal Pradesh's Kinnaur in the first phase of the panchayat elections being held in the state. Despite failing vision and aching knees, the 103-year-old Negi exercised his franchise at the Kalpa polling booth, where he was welcomed by the district administration, who laid a red carpet for the retired school teacher.Here’s everything you need to know about Shyam Saran Singh, country’s first voter:1. Born on July 1, 1917, in Kalpa, Himachal Pradesh, Negi cast his first vote on October 25, 1951, in the first elections held in the country since the end of the British rule in 1947. Negi first voted at Chini (now called Kalpa) which is in Kinnaur, 235km northeast of the state capital of Shimla.2. Negi has voted in every general election since then and is believed to be India's oldest voter.3. Negi lived in oblivion for 45 years till the Election Commission tracked him in July 2007 when Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer Manisha Nanda, first learnt about him from the photo electoral roll. M Sudha Devi, a 2003 batch IAS officer then posted as Kinnaur deputy commissioner, went to meet Negi, who was amongst the reputed village men in Kalpa. Negi told Devi that he was the first voter of Independent India and had never missed casting a vote in his entire life.4. In 2010, the then chief election commissioner of India, Navin Chawla, visited Negi's village to honour him as part of the Election Commission's diamond jubilee celebrations.5. Google India produced a public service announcement in 2014 in which Negi talked about his participation in Independent India's first election and reminded viewers of the importance of voting. The video got more views than others launched under the same campaign featuring Bollywood actors like Amitabh Bachchan, Diya Mirza and Arjun Rampal and cricketer Virender Sehwag.6. Negi was the brand ambassador of the Election Commission of India for the 2014 general election.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-first-voter-ex-school-teacher-shyam-saran-negi-has-never-missed-an-election-101610965923188.html
18-01-2021||India||Uttarakhand: Man arrested for drowning two children in a canal||The police arrested a 24-year-old man for allegedly throwing two children of a 29-year-old woman into a canal to drown them in Haridwar. The body of one child has been recovered while other child is still missing, police said on Monday. The man, who started living with the woman and her two children after her husband died two years ago, told police that he thought of the children, aged 6 and 7, as “obstacles” between him and the woman, police said. Superintendent of police, Haridwar (rural), SK Singh said, “The incident took place on Saturday evening in Haridwar district. The police were informed late in the evening that the two children were missing, following which it started searching for them.” Also Read: Uttarakhand BJP forms 5-member panel to prepare for 2022 assembly polls“The search yielded no results. An informer told police that the two children were last seen with the accused heading towards a culvert over a canal. Till then, the accused was pretending to search for the two children along with the police to mislead all. When the police nabbed and questioned him, he broke down and narrated the whole incident,” said Singh. The senior police officer said, “On Saturday around 4pm, when he was alone with the children in the house, he took them out on the pretext of visiting the canal. He pushed them into the canal and came back. Later in the evening, when the woman returned, she saw her children missing and panicked. It was then the villagers informed the police.” The man was arrested on Saturday night after he confessed to the crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-man-arrested-for-drowning-two-children-in-a-canal-101610965992642.html
18-01-2021||India||SC tells Delhi Police to decide on farmers’ Jan 26 tractor rally||Entry of farmers into Delhi is a law and order problem and any decision in this regard should be taken by the Delhi Police, said the Supreme Court on Monday. The statement was made by a three-judge bench headed by CJI SA Bobde while hearing an application filed by Delhi Police to direct farmers not to disrupt the Republic Day celebrations in the Capital on January 26.The matter will now be heard on January 20 when the bench dealing with petitions against the farmer protests will be available. This bench, which last assembled on January 12, comprisesCJI Bobde and Justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian. On that day, the court had stayed the implementation of the three farm laws under challenge and formed a four-member expert committee to study the concerns raised by the farmer unions and submit its recommendations to the court in eight weeks. Also read | Decoding fine print of Supreme Court order on farm lawsBefore adjourning the case, CJI said, “The question of entry (of farmers) into Delhi is a law and order problem. You (Delhi Police) are free to invoke your powers. We have told you earlier too that we cannot be the first authority to determine this. You have enough power under the Police Act to determine who should or should not be allowed entry, what terms and conditions are to be enforced and what should be the numbers.”Attorney General KK Venugopal and Solicitor General Tushar Mehta appeared in the matter for Centre. Venugopal asked the court to make that clarification in its order. He said this was necessary as the matter is being considered by the top court even as lakhs of persons gathered at Capital’s borders as part of the farmer protests want to enter Delhi. There is also the concern of a pro-Khalistani organisation allegedly trying to fund the farmer protests. On the earlier occasion on January 12, AG supported this averment raised by the Indian Kisan Union in its application before the court. It claimed that an organisation by the name of Sikhs for Justice, which is banned for anti-India secessionist movement, is financing the agitation. The Delhi Police in its application further stated that no tractor rally by farmers should be allowed as such a form of protest will malign the nation globally. “The intervention by this court has been grossly misunderstood. We have not taken charge of the entire issue except one. Should the Supreme Court tell police that you have enough powers under Police Act,” said the bench on Monday. SG Mehta told the court that when the matter is taken up on Wednesday, the Centre would make detailed arguments on the dignity attached to the constitutional ceremony of Republic Day parade. In its application, the Delhi Police informed the court of the possibility of a tractor march by certain farmer unions in Delhi. The bench wished to know whether the farmer unions were also being represented in the case. One of the unions, Bhartiya Kisan Union- Lokshakti, informed the bench that it had filed response to the application of Delhi Police and wished to be given permission to hold protest at Ramlila Maidan in the Capital. Another farmer union represented by senior advocate Dushyant Dave was also present during the hearing. The bench will hear both the sides on Wednesday and could even decide on filling up vacancy created by the recusal by one of the members of the four-member Committee. Bhupinder Singh Mann (national president, BKU, and All India Kisan Coordination Committee) refused to be part of the court-appointed committee ,leaving just three members on the panel -- Pramod Kumar Joshi, agricultural economist, director for South Asia, International Food Policy Research Institute, Ashok Gulati, agricultural economist and former chairman of the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices, and Anil Ghanwat, president, Shetkari Sanghatana. BKU- Lokshakti in its response before the court demanded the removal of the remaining three members as well alleging their open bias in favour of the laws as made out by their opinions in public domain. It said, “The principle of natural justice is going to get violated by forming these persons as members of the committee...how they will hear all the farmers on equal parameters when they have already supported these three farm laws.” Instead, the farmer union requested for appointment of a former Supreme Court judge along with farm leaders of protesting farmer unions. The three laws in question, presently stayed by the top court, are -- Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 and Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020. While staying the three legislations, the court said that this extraordinary step was being taken to encourage farmers bodies to convince their members to get back to their livelihood, both in order to protect their own lives and health and in order to protect the lives and properties of others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-tells-delhi-police-to-decide-on-farmers-jan-26-tractor-rally-101610965522518.html
18-01-2021||India||West Bengal assembly election: Mamata Banerjee to contest from Nandigram||Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief Mamata Banerjee announced on Monday that she would contest the crucial 2021 assembly polls from two constituencies—Bhawanipore in Kolkata and Nandigram in East Midnapore. Nandigram is one of most prestigious Assembly constituencies for the TMC because mass movements against land acquisition in Nandigram and Singur during 2006-08 paved the path for Banerjee’s political resurrection. Bhawanipore, on the other hand is Banerjee’s home turf, and she is the MLA from the constituency. “How will it be if I myself contest from Nandigram? It was just my feeling that I shared. Nandigram finds a place in my heart and soul,” Banerjee said as the crowd burst into applause.Also Read: Bengali actor’s 2015 tweet hurt my religious sentiments: BJP leaderTMC MLA from Nandigram and former minister Suvendu Adhikari quit the post and shifted to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on December 19, 2020 when Union home minister Amit Shah had come to the state. “It is my wish. I am not neglecting Bhawanipore. I request Subrata Bakshi (TMC’s state president and Rajya Sabha MP) to include my name in Nandigram too,” Banerjee said. It was Banerjee’s first rally from Nandigram after Adhikari defected to the BJP. The TMC had earlier planned to hold a rally on January 7. It was postponed. The BJP took a jibe against TMC saying that the party is doing this to boost the morale of its workers but it won’t be enough to “stop the ship from sinking”. “Exodus has started within the TMC and Banerjee is trying to stop the exodus and boost the morale of ground-level workers. But such moves won’t be able to save the party. BJP will win more than 200 seats and is coming to power,” said Samik Bhattacharya, the BJP spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/west-bengal-assembly-election-mamata-banerjee-to-contest-from-nandigram-101610964312695.html
18-01-2021||India||Farmers’ protest: Cracks in unions as key leader charts own agenda||A platform of farm unions leading the ongoing agitation against a set of agricultural laws is staring at a split, with a prominent leader spelling out a separate agenda for the protests that includes talking to key political parties. Other unions say they want to keep the protests apolitical. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, a platform of nearly 400 farm organisations leading the protests, on Monday said efforts by Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni to organise an all-party meeting on the farm laws were not “authorised”and this didn’t figure in its official agenda. Also Read: ‘Farmers won’t be scared’: Bhupesh Baghel on BJP ‘maligning’ farm laws stirThe farm unions are on a strike since November to demand the scrapping of three pro-reform farm laws they say will hurt their livelihoods, setting off a key political challenge to the Modi government. A team of 41 representatives of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha has been participating in negotiations with the Union government, represented by Union ministers Narendra Singh Tomar, Piyush Goyal and Som Parkash. Chaduni has been a part of this team. Farmers want three farm laws approved by Parliament in September repealed but the government has rejected the demand. Nine rounds of talks so far have failed to break the deadlock. “The Samyukt Kisan Morcha disassociates itself from the activities of Gurnam Singh Chaduni. His decision for an all-party meeting was never approved or authorised. It is his personal activity,” Hannan Mollah, a key member of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha’s “general body” said. Mollah said all protest activities and agenda related to the movement against farm laws could only be executed after being unanimously passed by the working committee of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha. Chaduni told HT that he would make his stand clear before the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, declining to elaborate, referring this reporter to his spokesperson. Chaduni’s spokesperson Sandeep Topra said Chaduni had not violated any protocol of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha. “If political parties reach out and come to Chaduni for a meeting, how can he say no? He hasn’t shared any stage with political parties.” According to Mollah, farm unions had unanimously decided to keep their agitation “apolitical” and therefore Chaduni’s move was “not acceptable”. On January 17, Chaduni, who is an influential farm leader in Haryana and Punjab, had met leaders of the opposition parties, including the Congress, Aam Aadmi Party and Shiromani Akali Dal in Delhi in an attempt to forge a larger political alliance against the farm laws. “The Samyukt Kisan Morcha is not associated with the ‘all-party meeting’ taken up by Mr Chaduni with political parties,” the farm unions’ platform said in a statement on Monday.The statement also said the Samyukt Kisan Morcha would “inquire” into matter and say what further steps it would take in three days. The government has pushed three agricultural laws to ease restrictions in farm trade, allow traders to stockpile large quantities of food stocks for future sales and lay down a national framework for contract farming. Tens of thousands of farmers protesting on Delhi’s border points say the laws will erode their bargaining power and leave them at the mercy of big corporations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cracks-in-farm-unions-as-key-leader-charts-own-agenda-101610963472637.html
18-01-2021||India||‘Farmers won’t be scared’: Bhupesh Baghel on BJP 'maligning' farm laws stir||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel on Monday hit out at leaders of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for labelling farmers protesting against the three contentious farm laws as “Pakistanis” and “Khalistanis”. Baghel further warned the BJP that the “farmers won’t be scared,” adding that the National Students Union of India (NSUI), the student wing of the Congress, has sent rice and some money for farmers protesting on the borders of Delhi.“Whenever there’s a protest, the BJP tries to malign it. As for protesting farmers, sometimes they (BJP), called them Pakistani and Khalistani. They even alleged that farmers are middleman’s brokers. Regardless of their attempts to suppress, farmers won’t be scared,” news agency ANI quoted Baghel as saying. Several leaders of the BJP have come under fire for alleging that Khalistanis or Sikh separatists have “infiltrated” the ongoing farmers agitation. Among other things, the farmers have also been labelled “Pakistanis,” “Naxals” and “Urban Naxals” by leaders and supporters of the BJP. Farmers have also accused the Centre of harassing those who have supported their protests; several people who have supported the farmers have received notice from the National Investigation Agency (NIA).“The NSUI has organised a program here in support of farmers protesting at Delhi borders. Under the program, they’ve collected 53 tons of rice and ₹68,000 which have been sent to Delhi,” Baghel further said.National Students' Union of India (NSUI) has organised a program here in support of farmers protesting at Delhi borders. Under the program, they've collected 53 tons of rice and ₹68,000 which have been sent to Delhi: Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel https://t.co/kjdZbFJyFvLast week, the Supreme Court stayed the implementation of the three laws until further orders. On Monday, the top court deferred hearing on a plea filed by the Delhi Police seeking an injunction on the proposed tractor march by the farmers on January 26, till Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-won-t-be-scared-bhupesh-baghel-on-bjp-maligning-farm-laws-stir-101610960244535.html
18-01-2021||India||Health ministry says total recoveries in India exceed active Covid-19 cases by over 1 crore||India achieved a significant feat as the total Covid-19 recovered cases leapt over the active caseload by more than one crore on Monday, the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said.The total number of recoveries has touched 1,02,11,342 while the active cases in the country stand at 2,08,012 today."The gap between the two has progressively grown to touch 1,00,03,330. The total recovered cases are nearly 50 times the active cases in the country," the ministry said.India's recovery rate has touched 96.59 per cent.14,457 recoveries were registered in the last 24 hours in the country while the number of new confirmed cases in the last 24 hours is 13,788.India reported 145 casualties due to Covid-19, the lowest in approximately eight months."15 States have contributed 0 deaths, 13 States have contributed between 1 to 5 daily deaths, 4 States have contributed 5 to 10 deaths, 1 State has contributed 10 to 20 deaths and more than 20 States have contributed 2 deaths," the health ministry said.71.70 per cent of the new recovered cases are from seven States and Union Territories.Kerala has reported the highest number of recoveries with 4,408 newly recovered cases in a single day. 2,342 people recovered in Maharashtra in the past 24 hours, followed by 855 in Karnataka.76.17 per cent of the new cases are from six States and UTs. Kerala continues to report the highest number of daily new cases at 5,005. It is followed by Maharashtra and Karnataka with 3,081 and 745 new cases, respectively.Seven States and Union Territories have reported 83.45 per cent of the total fatalities that happened in the last 24 hours. Maharashtra has reported 50 deaths. Kerala saw a fatality count of 21 while West Bengal reported 12 new deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-ministry-says-recoveries-in-india-exceed-active-covid-19-cases-by-1-crore-101610959690381.html
18-01-2021||India||Yediyurappa slams Thackeray on Karnataka-Maharashtra border dispute||Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Monday slammed Maharashtra Chief Minister and said that Uddhav Thackeray's speech on the integration of Marathi language and culture into Maharashtra is contrary to the principles of the Indian Union."The statement of Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray's speech on the integration of Marathi language and culture into Maharashtra is obnoxious. This is contrary to the principles of the Indian Union. Mahajan report is final and true," said Yediyurappa.He further said that it is painful that the Chief Minister of Maharashtra is trying to sabotage an amicable atmosphere."Thus regionalism and talk of linguistics are detrimental to the unity of the country. I condemn this. In Karnataka, the Marathas are living with Kannadigas. While the Kannadigas in the border districts of Maharashtra are living with the Marathas," he added.The Maharashtra Chief Minister on Sunday said that his government will incorporate areas of Karnataka where Marathi-speaking people are in majority into the state."Bringing Karnataka-wide Marathi-speaking and cultural region to Maharashtra will be a tribute to the soldiers who were martyred in this border war. We are united and committed to that. Respects to the martyrs with this promise," the CMO tweeted on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yediyurappa-slams-thackeray-on-karnataka-maharashtra-border-dispute-101610959721559.html
18-01-2021||India||'If you were a man...': Congress MLA caught threatening officer on cam||A Congress MLA in Madhya Pradesh was caught threatening a woman officer in Ratlam district on Sunday. The incident comes days after a former state Congress minister made regressive comments against women.In a video which has gone viral on social media, Congress MLA Harsh Vijay Gehlot can be seen aggressively threatening sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Kamini Thakur.“You are a woman. Had you been a man I would have held you by the collar and then handed the memorandum to you,” Gehlot can be heard saying in the video.Gehlot, with a large number of Congress workers, held a tractor rally on Sunday against the Centre’s three farm laws. They reached SDM’s office to hand over a memorandum. The SDM is reported to be late in coming out to receive the memorandum.Agitated over this, Gehlot threatened the officer and said, “We are waiting here for a long time. I am a public representative of my constituency. I won the election because people voted for me but you don’t treat us seriously.”Kamini Thakur has refused to comment on the incident. However, the BJP attacked Congress leaders for insulting women.BJP spokesperson Rajneesh Agrawal said, “A few days ago, Congress senior leader Sajjan Singh Verma insulted women and now Harsh Vijay Gehlot threatened a woman officer. This shows Congress leaders don't have any respect towards women. A case should be registered against Gehlot for threatening the officer.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/if-you-were-a-man-congress-mla-caught-threatening-officer-on-cam-101610958517228.html
18-01-2021||India||Most airline passengers complained of non-refunds during lockdown: DGCA||While Indians have gradually resumed air travel, a sizeable number of travellers is still struggling to get a refund for their booked air tickets during lockdown. According to a Directorate of General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) report, 61.4% passengers in December complained of issues surrounding refunds. These complaints were largely against national carrier Air India followed by SpiceJet and TruJet. This is despite the Supreme Court’s order to refund all passengers who booked tickets during the lockdown period last year. Jay Bhatia, vice-president of Travel Agents Association of India (TAAI), said, “Air India is refunding the monies through travel agents, but the progress is very slow. Presently immediate refunds are getting processed on our global distribution system (GDS) only below the value of our weekly sales. As regards to SpiceJet, refunds for groups and series of agents is being processed slowly and we are confident that the same shall be settled by the end of this month. Our members had major concerns with GoAir but the airline has assured it would refund all monies by January-end.”Air India, on January 7, 2021, opened automated refunds of air tickets for 24 hours. The airline had specified that it opened the refunded tickets covered under the Supreme Court judgement through travelport and amadeus (computer reservation systems for tourism industry). Also Read: Italy suspends flights from Brazil in response to new coronavirus variantThe December report also stated that 7.33 million passengers travelled by air in December, which is up from 6.35 million in the preceding month. It also stated that domestic airlines flew 15% more passengers in December than November 2020, as travellers felt more confident about flying than before. The number of passengers, however, fell 43.7% from December 2019.DGCA, in its affidavit to the Supreme Court in September 2020, had stated that tickets booked for domestic and international carriers between March 25 and May 3 will be fully refunded within 15 days. DGCA’s affidavit also stated that “If on account of financial distress, if the airlines are not able to do so, they shall provide a credit shell equal to the amount of fare collected. This credit shell shall be issued in the name of the passenger who has booked the ticket.” DGCA affidavit also stated that passengers will be able to use the credit shell up to March 31, 2021 and change the flight sector. This means that a passenger booked on a Mumbai- Indore flight can change his/ her sector and fly to any other destination till March 2021.All this was highlighted after an order was issued by the Supreme Court on June 13, 2020 asking private airlines and the Ministry of Civil Aviation (MoCA) to find a way to refund the airfare of passengers whose flights were cancelled during the lockdown. It was then that meetings were held with all the stakeholders in July and it was decided that tickets booked directly by passengers during lockdown would be fully refunded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/most-airline-passengers-complained-of-non-refunds-during-lockdown-dgca-101610958253081.html
18-01-2021||India||Regional parties AJP, Raijor Dal inch closer to alliance for Assam assembly polls||Assam Jatiya Parishad (AJP) and Raijor Dal (RD), two regional parties formed last year, are inching closer to a pre-poll alliance for the assembly elections due April-May this year. Both the parties are offshoots of the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) protests that rocked the state in December 2019 and claimed five lives. While AJP was launched by student organisations All Assam Students Union and Assam Jatiyatabadi Yuba Chatra Parishad, RD was formed by Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti, a farmers’ body led by activist Akhil Gogoi who is in jail since December 2019 for his role in the anti-CAA protests. On Sunday, RD officially sent a letter to AJP seeking an alliance to form a regional front against BJP and other national parties like the Congress. “We have sent an official letter to AJP for an alliance. The letter has been received by AJP president Lurinjyoti Gogoi. We urge them to give the matter topmost priority so that we can meet and discuss issues soon,” RD’s working president Bhasco De Saikia told journalists. He expressed confidence that RD chief Akhil Gogoi would soon be released from jail to lead the party’s poll campaign. Gogoi is likely to contest from the Sivasagar and Teok assembly seats. “We have already indicated that there would be an alliance among regional parties, including ours and RD, even if there’s no official letter. We will soon have talks and take the process forward,” AJP president Gogoi told journalists on Sunday. He stated that AJP would have to alliance with opposition Congress and appealed to all regional parties without any communal agenda to join forces and defeat the ruling BJP. Meanwhile, BJP is likely to continue its alliance with Asom Gana Parishad and have a new tie-up with United Peoples’ Party Liberal, which is leading the ruling coalition in Bodoland Territorial Council. On the other hand, the Congress, which lost two of its sitting MLAs to BJP last month, is yet to formalise its alliance with All India United Democratic Front or finalise seat-sharing arrangements with any regional outfit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/regional-parties-ajp-raijor-dal-inch-closer-to-alliance-for-assam-assembly-polls-101610958251968.html
18-01-2021||India||'Need to save lives in India': Gadkari inaugurates Road Safety Month||Road transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari on Monday inaugurated Road Safety Month where he highlighted the government's commitment towards safety."Till now, we have been observing National Road Safety Week. But from today, we will observe National Road Safety Month. Seventy per cent of deaths are in the age group of 18-45 years," Gadkari said in his address.There is a need to save lives in India where 415 people are dying every day due to road accidents, he added.Gadkari said that last year, the Indian government had participated in a conference in Sweden, where a vision was conceptualised - to have zero road fatalities in India by 2030."We had promised to reduce such fatalities by 50 per cent. Tamil Nadu has done it, with a success rate of 53 per cent. If we wait till 2030, 6-7 lakh more people will die. So, we've made a commitment that before 2025, road accidents and deaths due to it will be brought down by 50 per cent with help of people's participation," Gadkari said.The minister also called for cooperation among government departments, NGOs and other organisations to ensure awareness about road safety is spread.He also gave details about his ministry has increased the target of per day construction of roads. "We have achieved the target of constructing 30 kilometres of road, I believe that by the end of March, perhaps we will achieve the target of constructing 40 kilometres of road per day," the Union minister said."World Bank and ADB (Asian Development Bank) approved two projects worth ₹7000 crore each. We'll receive approval from finance ministry soon. So, we'll spend ₹14,000 crore to improve black spots - death traps - on roads," Gadkari added.Defence minister Rajnath Singh, Union minister VK Singh and chief executive officer (CEO) of Niti Aayog Amitabh Kant were also present on the occasion.The commemoration of Road Safety Month marks the road transport and highways ministry's commitment for making roads safer for all the road users, according to a government statement.The road transport and highways ministry said that the event is organised throughout the country to create awareness among general public and specially amongst the youth to improve safety on roads.Various activities like display of banners, walkathons, road signage and pamphlets will be carried out and used to increase awareness about road safety.Different departments of state governments like transport, police, PWD, health, education, municipal bodies, as well as vehicle manufacturers and dealers, doctors, PSUs, corporate and various NGOs would be participating in events during the month, the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-to-save-lives-in-india-gadkari-inaugurates-road-safety-month-101610957794715.html
18-01-2021||India||Bengali actor’s 2015 tweet hurt my religious sentiments: BJP leader||Senior Bharatiya Janata Party leader and former governor of Tripura and Meghalaya Tathagata Roy has filed a complaint against Bengali actor Saayoni Ghosh accusing her of hurting his religious sentiments. “I am a regular user of the social media Twitter. Today I found on this media that one Saayoni Ghosh, address unknown, believed to be an actress in Bengali Tv serials, has posted a picture of a woman putting a condom on a Shivalinga,” Roy wrote in his police complaint. The complaint was lodged with the Rabindra Sarobar police station in Kolkata on January 16. He also uploaded the complaint letter on social media on the same day. “The enclosed picture has seriously insulted my religious beliefs. This is an offence under Section 295A of the India Penal Code among other laws,” he wrote in the complaint. Also Read: Schools in Bengal will reopen at appropriate time: Partha ChatterjeeGhosh later deleted it saying that the “obnoxious tweet” from 2015 was uploaded without her knowledge. She tweeted: “I had previously mentioned that this obnoxious tweet from 2015 was uploaded without my knowledge. And the moment I was made aware of that I criticised it and deleted it immediately after informing the public. I never had any intention to hurt the sentiment of my religion.” A senior officer of the police station said that they were looking into the complaint. “The tweet dates back to 2015. The complaint could have been lodged in 2015 had it hurt religious sentiments. But the reason behind lodging the complaint now is clear and simple. The BJP won’t tolerate if anyone raises his or her voice against the party and will brand the person as anti-National or anti-Hindu,” said Kaushik Sen, an actor and director. Ghosh, in a recent discussion on a vernacular media channel, had said that “Jai Shri Ram” should not be used to taunt anybody or frighten anybody. She had said that it was Lord Ram’s name and should be pronounced and said with love.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengali-actor-s-2015-tweet-hurt-my-religious-sentiments-bjp-leader-101610957113719.html
18-01-2021||India||After Saudi Arabia, UAE could seek early repayment of loan to Pakistan||Months after Saudi Arabia had sought the early repayment of a $3 billion loan, Pakistan is facing the possibility of a similar move by the United Arab Emirates (UAE) at a time when the country is grappling with economic difficulties. Saudi Arabia had provided Pakistan a $6.2 billion financial support package in 2018 shortly after Imran Khan became the prime minister – a $3 billion loan and a $3.2 billion deferred oil financing facility. Following a sharp downturn in bilateral ties after Pakistan sought to form an alternative Muslim coalition with Turkey and Malaysia, Saudi Arabia initially withdrew the arrangement for deferred payments for oil purchases and then asked Pakistan last year to repay the loan. As Pakistan prepares to pay the third and final tranche of $1 billion for the Saudi loan, the country is now facing the possibility that the UAE too could seek the early repayment of a $3 billion financial support package announced in December 2018. Also read | Biden has already calmed the Middle EastThe UAE hasn’t indicated whether it will extend a $1 billion loan – part of the $3 billion package – that will become payable on January 24, The Express Tribune newspaper reported, citing sources in Pakistan’s finance minister. The loan can be extended for a year. “In case [the UAE] does not withdraw the facility, the loan would be considered extended for one more year,” a senior unnamed official of Pakistan’s finance ministry said. The ministry didn’t comment on the matter, saying it was a “bilateral confidential matter”. However, the Tribune reported that the Pakistan government is “apprehensive that after Saudi Arabia’s decision to withdraw its bailout package, the UAE might also follow suit”. The UAE had also announced a $3 billion facility for deferred oil payments for Pakistan but later withdrew the facility. As its economic woes mount, Pakistan has turned to its “iron brother” ally, China, for financial support. Pakistan has so far taken three loans from China to repay the $3-billion loan from the Saudi, the Tribune reported. “Beijing gave $1 billion soft loan and two separate financing lines of $1.5 billion and $500 million to pay back the Saudi debt,” the newspaper reported. Khan had travelled to Saudi Arabia twice soon after becoming the premier to secure the financial support package, which allowed his government to negotiate a bailout with the International Monetary Fund. Khan’s government has failed in its efforts to get the suspended $6 billion IMF programme restored. It still has to fulfil key conditions set by IMF, such as introducing a mini-budget and hiking electricity tariffs. According to reports, Pakistan’s central bank’s foreign exchange reserves of $13.4 billion remain fragile, as these largely consist of loans. Short-term loans taken from commercial banks amounted to $4.6 billion as of last November.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-saudi-arabia-uae-could-seek-early-repayment-of-loan-to-pakistan-101610957111854.html
18-01-2021||India||Employee union at GM Motors opposes closure of Telgaon plant, moves court||The employee union at American automobile major General Motors’ Indian plant has moved the Bombay High Court questioning the application filed by the company with the Maharashtra labour department for closure of their plant at Talegaon in Pune district that it has sold to Great Wall Motors (GMW), China's biggest SUV and pick-up manufacturer.It alleged that after January 2020, employees of the company were forced and coerced to accept a voluntary retirement scheme, which the union claimed was not fair and equitable. Total 1,587 employees work at the plant.The petitioner union has opposed the November 20, 2020 closure application on several grounds, and has sought a direction to the Maharashtra government to decide it before expiry of the 60-day period, after which deemed permission for closure will be granted in favour of the company.In the petition, filed through advocate Rahul Kamerkar, the union has said that sometimes in January 2020 reports started emerging that General Motors was being sold to the Chinese auto giant. Thereafter, the petition said the company put up a notice informing its employees that its "legal entity" was being sold to GMW, without clarifying as to what the term "legal entity" meant.“The application for closure is infructuous as the establishment sought to be closed has already been sold," states the petition."On the other hand, the company says that only the Talegaon plant has been sold. If this is the case then the application for closure is clearly unjust and not in public interest as it is being made only to throw the workers on the streets after first selling the establishment where they are working," it adds.The union has further contended that there were no such financial exigencies in the recent past as would justify a closure and alleged that the company wants to sell the land, plant and machinery to GWM for a hefty profit. It also alleged that GWM was not willing to take responsibility for the workers, they are now trying to get rid of them.It added that the government has given General Motors various concessions and subsidies in acquisition of this land, plant and machinery and it was neither in public interest nor in the interest of workers that the company should be allowed to throw the workers into the streets only to facilitate the sale of the land, plant and machinery.Advocate Kamerkar said the petition is likely to come up for hearing before a bench comprising justice Kamalkishor Tated and justice Riyaz Chagla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/employee-union-at-gm-motors-opposes-closure-of-telgaon-plant-moves-court-101610956724858.html
18-01-2021||India||No joint or coordinated parade this year at Attari border on Republic Day||This year, there will be no joint or coordinated parade at the Attari border on Republic Day. Earlier, Pakistan and India used to do a joint parade, which spectators used to watch from both the side.This year, no public will be allowed due to Covid-19 restrictions at the Attari border."No joint or coordinated parade this year at Attari border on Republic Day. No public will be allowed due to Covid-19 restrictions. India will conduct flag-lowering as per daily schedule," a Border Security Force (BSF) senior official said.Also Read | Security forces carry out Republic Day parade rehearsalsSince March 7 public was not allowed at the Attari border due to Covid-19 restrictions.According to sources, Pakistan since the last few weeks have allowed public as they are seen from the Indian side.Also, India is not offering sweets to Pakistan on various occasions due to the tense relationship with Pakistan, sources said.BSF sources have also claimed that a meeting is scheduled this week to decide what can be done on Republic day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-joint-or-coordinated-parade-this-year-at-attari-border-on-republic-day-101610956695528.html
18-01-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Covid vaccination drive gets underway in Delhi on day 2 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid-19 vaccination drive gets underway in Delhi on day 2After administering shots to over 4,300 healthcare workers on the opening day, Covid-19 vaccination teams across the national capital started to give vaccines to more medical staff at various hospitals on Monday. Read more500K trout ova dispatched from Kashmir to 3 other states for rearingFrom Asia’s largest trout farm in south Kashmir’s Kokernag, 500,000 trout ova were dispatched to Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland and Uttarakhand for rearing. Read moreMaharashtra gram panchayat poll results 2021: Trends show Sena, allies in leadRuling Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), Congress in Maharashtra are leading in gram panchayat elections, according to the initial trends from counting that began on Monday morning. Read moreIndia vs Australia: India-origin Australian businessman recalls 'ugly and blatant' racism at SCG during 3rd TestAn Indian-born Australian businessman Darshak Mehta recalled the alleged acts of "ugly" and "blatant" racism during the third Test between India and Australia at Sydney Cricket Ground. Read moreParler can return to App Store provided app gets moderation together, says CookApple CEO Tim Cook said that Parler can make a comeback to the App Store provided the app gets “their moderation together.” Read moreLiger first look: Vijay Deverakonda a cross between a tiger, lion in fiery posterThe first look of Puri Jagannadh’s Liger, which marks south star Vijay Deverakonda’s pan-India debut, is here. The film has Ananya Panday in the lead role. Read moreHonda H'Ness CB 350 road test review: New challenger to the 'Royal' throneSales in the retro classic motorcycle segment have soared in the Indian market lately and Honda is the latest entrant in the 350 cc classic motorcycling space that allures riders of all ages. Read moreShilpa Shetty Kundra's favourite fitness routine releases pent up stress | WatchA simple trick to help cope with stress during the lockdown or work from home amid Covid-19 pandemic is to pick an activity or exercise that you enjoy and Shilpa Shetty Kundra’s latest fitness video is enough to back our claim. Read moreGirl Scout’s adorable virtual sales pitch is the cutest thing you’ll see todayA 6-year-old Girl Scout from Arizona, USA has won the hearts of netizens recently with an oh-so-cute sales pitch for selling Girl Scout cookies. Read moreWatch| Biden swearing-in: Security beefed up at statehouses in US amid small protests||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-covid-vaccination-drive-gets-underway-in-delhi-on-day-2-and-all-the-latest-news-101610952644792.html
18-01-2021||India||Ambani, Adani caught in crossfire over farm laws in India||Two of India’s richest men have landed in an unlikely controversy over farming laws, becoming targets of protesters who allege the tycoons have benefited from their close links to Prime Minister Narendra Modi.For weeks, tens of thousands of farmers have camped outside the nation’s capital, demanding the withdrawal of recently passed legislation they say, without evidence, was designed to allow billionaires such as Mukesh Ambani and Gautam Adani to enter farming. The tycoons say they have no such interest. More than 1,500 phone towers of Ambani’s wireless carrier were vandalized last month and some farmers called for a boycott of their businesses.The fight between the government and the farmers has revived the debate on what Modi’s critics call cozy nexus between the magnates and the popular leader -- accusations they all have denied. The protests, one of Modi’s toughest political challenges yet, follow an eventful 2020 when the combined fortunes of Ambani and Adani swelled by almost $41 billion, even as millions of Indians lost their jobs to the pandemic that pummeled the $2.9 trillion economy.“Everyone loves to hate the rich in times of economic stress,” said Sanjiv Bhasin, a director at investment management firm IIFL Securities Ltd. in Mumbai. “People are venting out their anger at social disparity. It is indeed a new business risk to these large conglomerates. But all the noise will settle when the economy starts growing.”Highlighting the disparity, an Oxfam report in January 2020 said India’s richest 1% hold over four times the wealth of 953 million people who make up the poorest 70% of the country’s population. The wealth of the nation’s top nine billionaires is equivalent to the wealth of the bottom 50% of the population, according to the non-profit body that works against inequality.‘Suit-Boot’The new farm legislation, passed in September, will allow private companies to buy produce directly from farmers, moving from the decades-old system of state-run wholesale buyers and markets that guaranteed a minimum support price. India’s top court last week barred the implementation of the law until the court decides on the matter.Farmers, mostly from the northern state of Punjab, fear that the removal of state support will make them vulnerable to market-driven price fluctuations despite government assurances that a safety net of minimum support prices will continue. About 800 million of the country’s over 1.3 billion people depend directly or indirectly on agriculture, giving the group political clout.Modi, who won a second consecutive five-year term in 2019 with an even bigger majority, has tweeted several times to allay concerns, saying the new laws will cut out middlemen, make farmers more prosperous and India self-reliant.Still, Modi risks letting this political headache snowball into a serious threat. After calling his administration years back as a “suit-boot ki sarkar” -- meaning a government that favors the business elite over the poor -- opposition parties are seizing the opportunity to hit out at him.Responding to the accusations, Ambani’s $174 billion conglomerate Reliance Industries Ltd. issued a statement earlier this month saying it has never done any contract farming or acquired farm land for that purpose, and has no plans to do so. It also vowed to ensure its suppliers will pay government-mandated minimum prices to farmers. The Adani Group clarified in a statement last month that it does not buy food grains from farmers or influence prices.Spokespersons for the Reliance and Adani groups did not respond to emails seeking comment on protesters’ allegations or on India’s wealth disparity. Representatives for the Modi administration and the Prime Minister’s Office in New Delhi didn’t respond to emails seeking comment.Both Adani and Ambani hail from the western Indian state of Gujarat, just like Modi, who served as the state’s chief for over a decade. Both the tycoons have repeatedly aligned their business strategies to Modi’s nation-building initiatives.About two decades ago, Adani cemented his ties to Modi by publicly backing him when a crisis threatened to end the rising politician’s career. Modi was under attack by rivals and businessmen who accused him of failing to prevent bloody sectarian riots in his home state in 2002. Adani created a rival regional industry lobby and helped kick off a biannual global investment summit in Gujarat in 2003 that boosted Modi’s pro-business credentials.Like South Korea’s famed chaebol, Indian conglomerates have been at the forefront of India’s economic growth, especially since a currency crisis forced the government in 1991 to review decades of Soviet-style planning. The modest reforms kicked off three decades ago started allowing private investment in sectors that were mostly controlled by the government. With strained state finances, the capital-starved economy has looked more and more to these tycoons for investments and jobs.‘Gilded Age’Ambani spent most of 2020 raising $27 billion in equity investments -- a record for India -- for his technology and retail businesses from investors including Google and Facebook Inc. He has spelled out an ambitious plan to build these units into a powerful local e-commerce rival to Amazon.com Inc. and Walmart Inc. The Adani group, which started off as a commodities trader in 1988, has grown rapidly to become India’s top private-sector port operator and power generator.“India’s position is similar to America’s Gilded Age, with Ambani and Adani like the modern day Rockefellers and Vanderbilts in the second half of the 19th century,” said James Crabtree, author of The Billionaire Raj: A Journey Through India’s New Gilded Age.During the so-called Gilded Age, the U.S. saw rapid growth and industrialization, helmed mostly by a clutch of powerful business families. But this also led to worsening inequality that sparked labor unrest and railroad strikes. The U.S. government eventually stepped in.Right Model?To be fair, many East Asian nations have followed this developmental path of relying on their “favorite tycoons for nation-building,” Crabtree said, but they were mostly autocratic regimes. “The questions for India are: is this the right model, and can India even pull it off?”The farmers who are protesting are worried by the scale of the ambitions the two tycoons have. They are pressing for the laws to be withdrawn and demanding a guaranteed minimum support price for their produce.“Farmers think these two big corporate houses have links with the power center of India and they have become symbols of crony capitalism,” said Darshan Pal, a senior leader of the Krantikari Kisan Union from Punjab.Separately, Adani’s bid for an airport lease is facing opposition after the local government in the southern state of Kerala challenged it legally. A state minister said last year that Adani winning the bid was “an act of brazen cronyism.”In an Indian court, the Adani group rejected the allegations and said it won the bid through a competitive process. The Supreme Court is scheduled to hear Kerala’s appeal soon, after a lower court ruled in Adani’s favor.As a result of the protests, many retail stores of Reliance have remained shut for months in Punjab, causing millions of dollars in losses. Appealing to the Punjab government last month, Reliance sought protection for its infrastructure and workers, according to a letter seen by Bloomberg News, the contents of which were confirmed by a company spokesman. The conglomerate has also approached a court for remedy.“As long as the gap in income and opportunity is not significantly narrowed via state policy, we can expect those at the top of the pyramid inviting the ire of the growing base of unfair and unequal India,” said Nikita Sud, who teaches international development at the University of Oxford.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ambani-adani-caught-in-crossfire-over-farm-laws-in-india-101610955813506.html
18-01-2021||India||Indian Embassy in China limits republic day flag hoisting ceremony to staff only citing Covid-19 restrictions||The Indian Embassy here on Monday announced that the flag hoisting ceremony for this year's Republic Day on January 26 will be confined to its staff only, citing the resurgence of coronavirus cases in provinces adjoining Beijing and related restrictions.In view of the Covid-19 pandemic-related current scenario in Beijing and its adjoining provinces, Hebei and Heilongjiang and related measures, including restriction of movements, observation of prevention and control measures and prohibition of large gatherings, the flag hoisting ceremony will be held with participation of officials of embassy only, a note from the embassy said.Every year, a large number of Indian diaspora in Beijing and nearby provinces attend the flag hoisting ceremony on the Republic Day and Independence Day at the embassy.According to the official media here, 11 Chinese regions are under de facto lockdown amid the relapse of the coronavirus infections.A team of international experts from the World Health Organisation has arrived in Wuhan, where the deadly virus first emerged in December 2019, to conduct the long-awaited probe into the origins of the deadly coronavirus pandemic.China’s National Health Commission (NHC) on Monday reported 109 newly confirmed Covid-19 cases, including 93 locally transmitted cases that were recorded on Sunday.Of the locally transmitted cases, 54 were reported in Hebei, 30 in Jilin, seven in Heilongjiang, and two in Beijing, the commission said in its daily report.The total number of confirmed Covid-19 cases in China reached 88,336 by Sunday and 4,635 people have died of the disease, NHC said.According to the Johns Hopkins coronavirus tracker, there are 95,045,802 Covid-19 cases globally, with 2,030,842 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-embassy-in-china-limits-republic-day-ceremony-to-staff-due-to-covid19-101610955639125.html
18-01-2021||India||Drugs case: Maharashtra cabinet minister's son-in-law Sameer Khan sent to 14-day judicial custody||A magistrate court in Mumbai sent Sameer Khan, the son-in-law of Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik to judicial custody for 14 days in connection with a drugs case, news agency ANI reported on Monday.The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) arrested Khan on January 13 in the drugs case in which several high-profile personalities, including actors, have been named. His NCB remand is ending today.The prosecutor had said that NCB had found evidence from Khan regarding some chats indicating that he was planning to mix CBD oil and other chemicals with marijuana. He also said that there were multiple transactions amounting more than ₹20,000 by Khan. "Khan was involved in the commercial activity of drugs so we have invoked 27A of the NDPS Act (Punishment for financing illicit traffic and harbouring offenders) act against him," NCB prosecutor said as per ANI.Malik is the cabinet minister under the Shiv Sena-led government in Maharashtra. He is also a spokesperson and Mumbai president of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) which is a part of the government. Following Khan's arrest, Malik on January 14 had tweeted: "Nobody is above the law and it should be applied without any discrimination. Law will take its due course and justice will prevail. I respect and have immense faith in our judiciary."Meanwhile, the NCB also detained a foreign national from a five-star hotel in Mumbai. As per the NCB, the man swallowed a powder-like substance which is suspected to be cocaine. This input was given to the investigating agency by UK national Karan Sajnani, who was arrested on Saturday after 200 kilograms of cannabis and other drugs were seized from his possession.Sajnani was arrested along with Rahila Furniturewala, ex-manager of a Bollywood actress, and her sister Shaista Furniturewala. Recently, Mumbai's renowned 'Muchhad Paanwala' was also arrested in connection with the drug case. Arjun Rampal and his sister Komal were also interrogated by the NCB in Mumbai, regarding the same case.Rampal was questioned by the NCB on November 13, after raids were conducted at his residence on November 9. His girlfriend Gabriella Demetriades was later questioned for six hours on the same day.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drugs-case-maharashtra-cabinet-minister-s-son-in-law-sameer-khan-sent-to-14-day-judicial-custody-101610954597307.html
18-01-2021||India||Goa government to form panel to identify new land for IIT||The Goa government will form a committee to identify alternative land to set up the IIT campus this time to ensure that the fiasco of villager protests over an identified land does not repeat itself, chief minister Pramod Sawant has said. “We have not decided where to shift it yet. The government may form a four to five member committee consisting of educationists, IIT officials and others for verification. We do not want such a problem again,” Sawant told reporters on the sidelines of a function in Margao in South Goa. “The IIT should have a base in Goa. The government is serious about it. The committee will examine location options and the government will take a final decision then,” he added. Late last week, following sustained protests that only gathered in size with neighbouring villages pitching in to support the villagers of Melaulim who were protesting against the IIT for the past six months, Sawant relented and said IIT would be shifted elsewhere ‘respecting the views of the people.’ The decision capped more than six months of protests, largely by Malaulim villagers who had refused to concede land in their village and had set up a blockade at the entrance to the site refusing to allow government surveyors to demarcate the land.There were violent clashes in early January between villagers and Goa Police, resulting in injuries on both sides. In May last year, the Goa government had formally transferred around 10 lakh sq. mts land in Melaulim village in North Goa, for setting up of IIT. IIT Goa has been functioning from a temporary campus at the Goa Engineering College since 2014.Two other sites previously identified by the state government, in Canacona and Sanguem sub districts, for setting up of a permanent campus for IIT were also scrapped in the face of protests from local residents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-government-to-form-panel-to-identify-new-land-for-iit-101610955191571.html
18-01-2021||India||Shiv Sena seeks action against Arnab over leaked WhatsApp chat||Shiv Sena attacked the Centre over the leaked WhatsApp chat of Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami, saying it’s a breach of country’s internal security and demanded action against the TV journalist.The purported WhatsApp conversation between Goswami and then Broadcast Audience Research Council chief executive Partho Dasgupta show that the former was apparently privy to the Modi government’s plan to launch an air strike on Pakistan’s Balakot in retaliation against the Pulwama terror attack, three days before the Indian Air Force bombed the terrorist camp on February 26, 2019. Claiming the chats are a threat to national security, Sena leader and party’s chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut said, “I think this is a threat to country’s internal security. Sometimes, such military secrets are not known to top officials. If a jawan is found to possess any such secrets or documents, he is court-martialled. Here, he [Arnab] knew that Balakot [air strike] will happen. This means there is a breach in national security. What action will the country’s home minister and defence minister take on this? This is a matter concerning defence. We ask them, ‘will you court-martial him?’” Raut said to reporters in Mumbai.The Sena also targeted BJP through its mouthpiece Saamana on Monday and said, “If people from the BJP think that sharing of national secrets is not anti-national and acting on such issues is an emergency-like situation, then their definition of nationalism needs to be examined.”The editorial lauded Mumbai Police for unearthed the TRP scam. The Saamana editorial said Mumbai Police should be given “a lifetime achievement award”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shiv-sena-seeks-action-against-arnab-over-leaked-whatsapp-chat-101610954171661.html
18-01-2021||India||PM Modi performs 'bhoomi pujan' of metro projects for Ahmedabad and Surat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday conducted ‘bhoomi pujan’ of Ahmedabad Metro’s Phase-II and Surat Metro, via video-conferencing. Union home minister Amit Shah, Gujarat governor Acharya Devvrat, chief minister Vijay Rupani and urban affairs minister Hardeep Singh Puri were also present on the occasion.PM Modi said that this marks the commencement of infrastructure worth ₹17,000 crore. “Ahmedabad and Surat are receiving very important gifts today. Metro will further strengthen the connectivity in what are two major business centres of the country,” the Prime Minister said. The rapid expansion of metro network in India in recent years shows the gulf between the work done by our government and the previous ones, he further said.Highlighting the work done by his government, PM Modi said that work is currently underway in 27 cities across the country on more than 1,000 km of metro network. “Before 2014, only 225 km of metro line were operational while over 450 km became operational in the last six years,” he said.Talking about Surat, PM Modi said while it is the eighth-largest city in the country by population, it is also the fourth most-rapidly developing city in the world. Surat is also the second cleanest city in India, he remarked, adding that the city is a great example of “Ek Bharat, Shreshtha Bharat,” and that a “Mini-India” has come up in the city.On state capital Gandhinagar, he said it has undergone a major “image change” in recent years, going from a city known for government services to one which now has a significant presence of youth. As an example, the prime minister mentioned names of various universities in the city. PM Modi also cited various projects to highlight how Gujarat has progressed, and also made a mention of the world’s largest drive vaccination drive against Covid-19, which began in India on Saturday.PM Modi named PRAGATI as a project that doesn’t get the recognition it deserves, mentioning how he himself interacts with various stakeholders through the platform.Ahmedabad Metro’s Phase-II is 28.25 km long, with two corridors. While Corridor-1 is 22.8 km long and connects Motera Stadium and Mahatma Mandir, Corridor-2 is 5.4 km long and connects Gujarat National Law University (GNLU) and Gujarat International Finance Tec (GIFT) City.Meanwhile, Surat Metro Project is 40.35 km long and comprises two corridors as well. Corridor-1 is 21.61 km long, from Sarthana to Dream City and Corridor-2 is 18.74 km long from Bhesan to Saroli. The project will cost a total of ₹12,020 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-performs-bhoomi-pujan-of-metro-projects-for-ahmedabad-and-surat-101610948162436.html
18-01-2021||India||500K trout ova dispatched from Kashmir to 3 other states for rearing||From Asia’s largest trout farm in south Kashmir’s Kokernag, 500,000 trout ova were dispatched to Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland and Uttarakhand for rearing.Brown and rainbow trouts are cold water fish introduced in Kashmir over 100 years ago.The chief trout farming project officer at Kokernag, Mohammad Muzaffar Bazaz, said that 500,000 trout ova were dispatched from the farm to Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland and Bhimtal in Uttarakhand where the directorate of cold water research centre has been established by Indian Council of the Agriculture Research.Bazaz said that the 500,00 trout ova were airlifted so the progeny reach the respective destinations safe and unharmed.Also Read: Farooq Abdullah asks PM to restore 4G internet in J&K; prays for vaccine success“Our staff at the farm worked overnight so these trout ova reach the respective destinations undamaged. The facilities were provided by the principal secretary of the animal husbandry department through the PMMSY scheme.”Spread over 20 hectares, the farm was set up 36 years ago with support from the European Economic Committee. It started with a single hatchery which has now been upgraded to three hatcheries that supply millions of eyed ova and seeds to beneficiaries, including private fish farmers.Bazaz said that Kashmir has two types of fisheries, warm and cold water. “For trout culture, the temperature shouldn’t exceed 20 degrees Celsius. Brown trouts are in abundance in the upper reaches,” he says.Kashmir is also known as an anglers’ paradise—tourists, particularly foreigners, head for high-altitude water bodies as brown trout is found in high-altitude lakes and streams.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/500k-trout-ova-dispatched-from-kashmir-to-3-other-states-for-rearing-101610950691659.html
18-01-2021||NA||Maharashtra Panchayat Election Results 2021 Live: MVA claims victory in polls||The counting for gram panchayat elections in Maharashtra began on Monday, with the results expected in the evening. According to initial trends, the ruling Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress are in a dominant position.Though the village panchayat elections are not fought on party symbols, panels are fielded by political parties or local leaders.About half or 12,711 village panchayats went to the polls on January 15, while 162 panchayats in Gadchiroli will see polls on January 20. The rest of the panchayats were announced unopposed. A total of 2,14,880 candidates were in the fray for 1,25, 709 seats, for which 3,56,221 nominations were filed.Polling for elections to over 14,000 gram panchayats in 34 of the total 36 districts in Maharashtra were held peacefully on Friday. The polls were held with Covid-19 protocols in place.There are 27,920 gram panchayats in Maharashtra.Follow all the updates here:Maharashtra home minister says electorates not happy with BJP's governanceMaharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh said that the MVA has achieved huge success in the state's gram panchayat polls. "The Maha Vikas Aghadi has received a huge success in Gram Panchayat elections. It gives a message that all the three political parties in the alliance Shiv Sena, Congress and Nationalist Congress Party- are working in good co-ordination. The results of the Legislative Council polls held last month had also proved this fact," Malik was quoted as saying by news agency PTI. We are winning in 4500 gram panchayats; voters reaffirmed trust in MVA, says Cong chief ThoratState revenue minister and state Congress chief Balasaheb Thorat said, we are winning about 4500 gram panchayats. BJP's state unit chief Chandrakant Patil and former president Raosaheb Dance could not even retain the Panchayats in their own native villages. Voters have reaffirmed their trust in MVA government and its performance.Bharat Kene of Shiv Sena won Sanvida Kondhari after lucky draw breaks tie with BJPMaharashtra Navnirman Sena wins Kakoli gram panchayatMaharashtra Navnirman Sena wins in Kakoli grampanchayat in Ambernath taluka against the Bharatiya Janata party. The MNS managed to win 4 seats out of the 7.NCP wins 37 panchayats in Katjat-Jamkhed, BJP wins 6 and Congress 1NCP wins 37 of 56 Panchayats in Katjat-Jamkhed assembly segment represented by NCP MLA and Sharad Pawar's grand nephew Rohit Pawar. Six are won by BJP while one goes to Congress.Shiv Sena wins in Khanapur, BJP's state president native villageShiv Sena wins 6 of 9 panchayats in Khanapur, district Kolhapur, native village of BJP's state president Chandrakant Patil.Celebrations post gram panchayat win at Mankoli villageBJP leads with 43 of 70 panchayats in Sena's SindhudurgBJP wins 43 of 70 panchayats in Sindhudurg districts which is assumed to be stronghold of Shiv Sena.MVA emerged winner in panchayat polls, trend to continue in civic polls, says state home ministerMaharashtra Vikas Alliance comprising three parties have emerged winner in the panchayat elections. The trend will continue in all civic polls in future, said State home minister and NCP leader Anil Deshmukh.BJP wins 6 of 11 panchayats in NCP Khadse's village of KothaliBJP wins 6 out of 11 panchayats in kothali the native village of NCP leader Ekanath Khadse, who defected BJP a few months ago.BJP leads with 646 panchayats, Shiv Sena trails at 435BJP jumps to top position by winning 646 panchayats followed by Shiv Sena 435, Congress 331, NCP 323. Results to 2373 panchayats declared so far.'BJP emerging as single largest in gram panchayat polls': Party spokesperson"We are leading in more than 6000 of about 14000 panchayats as per the initial trend," said BJP spokesperson Kesha Upadhye. "Despite ruling parties resorting to all ill practices in the elections, the BJP is emerging is single largest party in village panchayat polls," he added.Voters reafffirmed trust in MVA govt, says Aaditya ThackerayState environment minister Aaditya Thackeray said the voters of Maharashtra have reaffirmed their trust in MVA government. "The ruling alliance will majority of the panchayats in the state," he saidCongress leads with 20 panchayats in Nagpur, followed by BJP with 15Congress has won 20, BJP 15 in Nagpur district out of 49 panchayats so far. Nagpur has 129 gram panchayats.BJP leading in Jalgaon with 75 of 90 panchayatsBJP is leading in about 75 of 90 gram panchayats in Jalgaon in north Maharashtra. Jamner is represented by BJP's Girish Mahajan.NCP wins 6 of 7 panchayats in ParliNCP wins six of seven panchayats in Parli, in Beed district. Parli is represented by state social justice minister Dhananjay Munde.Shiv Sena, BJP neck to neck with around 390 panchayats eachResults for around 1900 panchayats announced so far. Its neck to neck between Shiv Sena and BJP as both the parties have won around 390 bodies each.Shiv Sena ahead with 336 panchayats, BJP trails with over 266Shiv Sena have bagged more than 336 panchayats, while BJP is on the second position with more than 266 panchayats. NCP has bagged over 220 panchayats while Congress is on the fourth position with over 145 panchayats.Shiv Sena leads with 16 panchayats in Congress' stronghold KolhapurShiv Sena leading by bagging 16 panchayats in Kolhapur, which is the stronghold of Congress, NCP trails by winning 13 seats..Shiv Sena bags 87 panchayats in RatnagiriShiv Sena has bagged 87 of 119 panchayats in Ratnagiri.Celebrations at Kalyan west after win in gram panchayat elections||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-panchayat-election-results-2021-live-shiv-sena-leads-with-over-330-seats-101610949118054.html
18-01-2021||India||Delhi: Schools for class 10, 12 students reopen after 10 months||After a 10-month break due to the Covid-19 pandemic, students of classes 10 and 12 returned to the capital’s private and public schools on Monday for practical lessons, counselling, and doubt-clearing sessions.Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who holds the education portfolio, visited Kautilya Government Sarvodaya Bal Vidyalaya in Chirag Enclave on Monday morning to inspect how the school had prepared for the return of students and whether mandatory Covid-19 guidelines were being followed or.As part of the Standard Operating Procedures issued by the Delhi government last week, schools are to maintain all Covid-19 protocols, implement staggered timings, have less than 15 students per classroom or laboratory, and ensure “bubbling effect” i.e. students remain in one batch throughout the course of the classes.Also Read: Govt to work on enhance teacher training and cutting dropout rates: SisodiaJyoti Arora, the principal of Mount Abu Public School in Rohini, said, “We are glad to see students have returned to schools. We have created extra handwashing stations at the school, including setting up sensor taps in washrooms. Speakers have been installed on floors to ensure that physical distancing is maintained at all times.”Schools have also created posters to raise awareness on Covid-19 and also comfort students returning to school after a long break. “We have also created posters and put up important instructions on display boards inside classrooms on Covid-19 guidelines. Our focus will be on giving students the writing practice needed for their board exams so we will be working on practice papers, along with practical classes, revision, and assignments,” said Arora.While most government schools in the capital reopened on Monday, many private schools said they would either reopen later this week or next month following completion of the virtual pre-board examinations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-schools-reopen-for-students-of-classes-10-12-today-101610948650946.html
18-01-2021||India||Maharashtra gram panchayat poll results 2021: Trends show Sena, allies in lead||Ruling Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), Congress in Maharashtra are leading in gram panchayat elections, according to the initial trends from counting that began on Monday morning. Though the village panchayat elections are not fought on party symbols, panels are fielded by political parties or local leaders.Shiv Sena appears to be leading, having bagged the maximum village panchayats so far.About half or 12,711 village panchayats went to the polls on January 15, while 162 panchayats in Gadchiroli will see elections on January 20. Rest of the panchayats were announced unopposed. As many as 214,880 candidates were in the fray for 125, 709 seats and 26,718 members were elected unopposed.The counting in 12,711 panchayats began on Monday morning. Results for more than 1,490 gram panchayats have been announced with Shiv Sena leading in terms of the panchayats won so far. As per sources, the panels led by Shiv Sena have bagged more than 336 panchayats, while BJP is on the second position with more than 266 panchayats. NCP has bagged over 220 panchayats while Congress is on the fourth position with over 145 panchayats.Shiv Sena has bagged 87 of 119 panchayats in Ratnagiri, while in Kolhapur, which is the stronghold of Congress, it is leading by bagging 16 panchayats followed by 13 won by NCP. In Solapur, most of the local bodies were bagged by BJP during its regime in state until 2019. The party saw defeat in most of the panchayats whose results were announced.Former chief minister Prithviraj Chavan-led panel in Karad in Satara district was defeated by BJP-led local panels. In Patan tehsil in Satara district, Shiv Sena has bagged more seats defeating NCP candidates. The tehsil is stronghold of NCP leader Shashikant Shinde. Shiv Sena in leading in Nandurbar, Nashik in north Maharashtra, while NCP leading in Ahmednagar, which is citadel of Congress leader Balasaheb Thorat and BJP’s Radhakrishan Vikhe Patil.“It is true that we are in the fourth position as far as the initial trend is concerned, but almost 90% of the results are yet to be declared. We are sure that we will get lead in Vidarbha from where the results are yet to be announced,” said Congress spokesperson Atul Londhe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-gram-panchayat-poll-results-2021-trends-show-sena-allies-in-lead-101610948470963.html
18-01-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccination drive gets underway in Delhi on day 2||After administering shots to over 4,300 healthcare workers on the opening day, Covid-19 vaccination teams across the national capital started to give vaccines to more medical staff at various hospitals on Monday.Officials said that the vaccination drive started at the Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital at 10 am.The immunisation drive in Delhi was formally kicked off on Saturday by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal from the LNJP Hospital, the state-run facility which offered yeoman service during the pandemic last year.The exercise was carried out at 81 sites,with nearly an even split of government and private hospitals, including six central government facilities -- AIIMS, Safdarjung Hospital, RML Hospital, Kalawati Saran Children Hospital and two ESI hospitals.The rest 75 centres, spanning all 11 districts of Delhi, include Delhi government-run facilities, such as LNJP Hospital, GTB Hospital, Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital, DDU Hospital, BSA Hospital, Delhi State Cancer Institute, ILBS Hospital; and private facilities, such as Max Hospital, Fortis Hospital, Apollo Hospital and Sir Ganga Ram Hospital.In Delhi, a total of 4,319 healthcare workers -- 53.3 per cent of those registered -- got the vaccine shots on the first day of the Covid-19 vaccination drive, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain said on Sunday.Some people did not turn up for coronavirus vaccination at the last moment, he said, adding that the government cannot ask anyone to compulsorily take the jab.He also said that the number of vaccination centres in Delhi will be increased from 81 to 175 soon.Jain noted that a similar trend was observed across the country, with around 50 per cent of those registered getting the jabs on the first day.The vaccine will be administered on four scheduled days of the week -- Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. It will not be given on Sunday, and two others days of the week, when other regular vaccination work will be carried out.So, January 18 is the first working day of the week, since the mega exercise was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi across the country.Oxford Covid-19 vaccine Covishield is being administered at 75 centres, while Bharat Biotech-made Covaxin doses given at the remaining six facilities.The city government has received in total 2.74 lakh doses of the vaccine so far from the Centre, which would be sufficient to cater to 1.2 lakh healthcare workers, Kejriwal had earlier said."Every person will receive two doses, and the Centre has given 10 per cent extra in stock, in case of any mishappening, like damage of vials. There are a total of 2.4 lakh healthcare workers in Delhi who have registered for vaccination, and more doses are expected to arrive soon," he said.One "severe" and 51 "minor" cases of AEFI (adverse events following immunisation) were reported among health workers who were administered the coronavirus vaccine in Delhi on Saturday, according to official figures.An AIIMS security guard had developed an allergic reaction after receiving the vaccine. He was kept under observation of doctors, an official had said on Saturday."His current status is not known... 51 others were discharged after some time," Jain said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccination-drive-gets-underway-in-delhi-on-day-two-101610947237943.html
18-01-2021||India||Farmers’ protest: Chilla, Ghazipur, other key Delhi borders remain closed||Delhi’s borders with its neighbouring states—Haryana and Uttar Pradesh—remained closed at several points on Monday due to the continued agitation by farmers who have been protesting against three new farm laws. The city’s 10 border points—eight with Haryana and two with Uttar Pradesh—remained closed fully or partially after restrictions were first placed at Singhu and Tikri borders on November 26.Delhi’s borders with Uttar Pradesh at Chilla and Ghazipur remain closed for those coming from Noida and Ghaziabad, while the carriageways on the opposite sides are open.Also Read: Supreme Court hearing on farmers’ tractor rally on R-Day todayThe traffic police has advised motorists travelling from Noida and Ghaziabad to take routes passing through Anand Vihar, DND, Loni DND and Apsara borders, which have remained mostly unaffected. The police continue to check these border points for groups of protesting farmers who may try to enter the capital, but it has only slowed down traffic there a little, not choked or blocked it entirely. For borders shared between Delhi and Haryana, the routes passing through Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari, Saboli and Mangesh have continued to remain closed.Jhatikara and Badusarai borders are open for light vehicles and pedestrians only. The traffic police said that they have been diverting traffic from Mukarba and GTK Road. Motorists who need to travel between Delhi and Haryana can choose other border routes such as the Daurala, Kapashera, Rajokri NH-8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar, Jharoda, Badarpur, Surajkund and Dundahera.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-chilla-ghazipur-other-key-delhi-borders-remain-closed-101610947150878.html
18-01-2021||India||UP police lodge FIR after misleading pamphlets on Covid-19 vaccine shots appear||A spate of pamphlets urging people of a particular community against taking anti-Covid vaccine shots and spreading rumours about their ingredients surfaced in the city here on Sunday, prompting police to lodge an FIR against unknown miscreants.The pamphlets, found in posh Rajendra Nagar locality here, appealed to a particular community to avoid taking the vaccines, SP (City) Ravindra Singh said.The leaflets were immediately seized and an FIR was lodged in the Premnagar police station against unknown persons under various sections of the Indian Penal Code for mischief mongering and trying to whip up communal passions, he said.The SP said the police vigil has been stepped up across the city, particularly in sensitive areas, to maintain peace and nab the culprits.Reviewing the vaccination drive, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had cautioned on Saturday, "Some selfish people with vested interests were spreading rumours about the corona vaccine.""We always have to be valiant. There is a need to avoid any kind of rumour and people should wait for their turn," he had said as the drive was launched in the state to break the Covid-19 chain.An official release had said that many doctors and nurses got vaccinated in Balrampur Hospital in the state capital. They were also kept in observation for half an hour and all of them were completely healthy.“Initially, I was scared but after taking the dose, I am feeling completely healthy. I am happy that India is the first country in the world to successfully make the vaccine,” Geeta Devi, the staff nurse of Balrampur hospital, who took the first shot of the vaccine had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-police-lodge-fir-after-misleading-pamphlets-on-covid-19-vaccine-shots-appear-101610946490095.html
18-01-2021||India||Srinagar: Mercury rises a bit, night temperature at -6.4°C||Even as a cold wave continues to sweep Kashmir Valley, there has been slight improvement in the weather with the night temperature being recorded at minus 6.4 degrees Celsius (°C) in Srinagar.For the past week, the Valley is gripped under cold wave with the night temperature hovering around -7 to -8 °C. India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted a wet spell in Kashmir later this week which could end the cold wave. IMD said tourist spot Gulmarg, that had received heavy snowfall, recorded -6°C. Winter capital Jammu recorded an improvement in temperature at 10°C.IMD officials said a Western Disturbance blowing from the Mediterranean is most likely to affect J&K and Kargil district of Ladakh between January 22nd and 25 and will give fairly widespread light to moderate snowfall and rains in the plains of Jammu during the period with main activity on January 24. The Kashmir Valley has been reeling under intense cold which has frozen the water bodies here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/srinagar-mercury-rises-a-bit-night-temperature-64c-101610946071144.html
18-01-2021||India||Security forces carry out Republic Day parade rehearsals||Amid winter chill and foggy conditions, security forces carried out Republic Day parade rehearsals in the capital on Monday morning.Group of special forces, along with senior Indian Army and paramilitary personnel, reached Rajpath at 5 am and practice till 10 am.The security personnel were seen wearing masks during the rehearsal of the parade.People have also been visiting Rajpath to get a glimpse of the rehearsals."We come every day to see the rehearsal. Seeing security personnel full of motivation inspires us," a visitor told ANI.Also read: Thousands of tractors will enter Delhi for disciplined Kisan Republic Day parade, say farm union leaders"It's very difficult to wake up in the early morning but they are here from 2 am and doing much for the country," said Jatin another visitor.Parts of north India remained under the grip of an intense cold wave on Sunday with night temperatures dropping below the 5 degrees Celsius-mark at some places and dense fog enveloping several areas.This year National Security Guard (NSG), the elite force of India for counter-terror operations, has decided to make changes for the Republic Day parade as per the Covid-19 health protocols.NSG commandos will be marching with a distance of more than 1.5 meters from each other. Earlier, they used to march down Rajpath from shoulder to shoulder. The distance will be visible from a distance as NSG commandos will be following the Covid-19 protocols.Also read: Republic Day parade to be shorter, with fewer spectators due to Covid-19 protocolsIndia will celebrate its 72nd Republic Day on January 26 this year, honouring the historic date when the country completed its transition towards becoming an independent republic after the Constitution came into effect.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/security-forces-carry-out-republic-day-parade-rehearsals-101610944720657.html
18-01-2021||India||Bihar bound Shaheed Express derail at Charbagh Railway Station; no casualties||Bihar bound Shaheed ExpressSpecial (04674) got derailed at Charbagh Railway Station during the morning hours of Monday. Government Railway Police (GRP) said that the rescue operation is underway and no casualties have been reported so far.Incident was reported at around 7:40am as the train departed from platform number 9. “The train had arrived at around 7:20am and it got derailed as it began to roll out of the station. No casualties have been reported since the train was moving at a lower speed,” said Saumitra Yadav, superintendent of police (SP), Railways.Officials with Northern Railways (NR) rushed to the spot soon after the control room was informed about the derailment. “Two bogies of the train got derailed. We are shifting the passengers of the affected bogies to other bogies of the same train and will allow to train to depart on its scheduled journey,” said a senior official with NR.Officials said they are on with the rescue operation that is expected to take another couple of hours to clear the track.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-bound-shaheed-express-derail-at-charbagh-railway-station-no-casualties-101610944717914.html
18-01-2021||India||Supreme Court hearing on farmers’ tractor rally on R-Day today||The Supreme Court will be taking up an application filed by the Delhi Police to stop farmer unions from causing any disruption to the Republic Day celebrations in the Capital on Monday. The application will be heard by a three-judge bench comprising Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde and justices L Nageswara Rao and Vineet Saran. The court had issued a notice on the application on January 12, the day when the three farm laws under challenge were stayed and a committee of four experts, formed to hear the concerns of the farmer unions along with the government’s response. The committee was asked to submit its recommendations in eight weeks. Also Read: Farm stir, leadership crisis in Punjab unit pose twin challenges for BJPThe committee initially comprised Bhupinder Singh Mann (national president, Bharatiya Kisan Union and All India Kisan Coordination Committee), Pramod Kumar Joshi (agricultural economist, director for South Asia, International Food Policy Research Institute), Ashok Gulati (agricultural economist and former chairman of the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices) and Anil Ghanwat (president, Shetkari Sanghatana). However, two days after the Supreme Court order last week, Mann refused to be part of the committee and withdrew from the proceedings, which are to begin from January 22. An affidavit filed by Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) Lokshakti demanding the removal of the remaining three members as well will be considered by the court on Monday too. During the earlier hearing, the court had asked the Centre to verify if pro-Khalistani groups were present at the protest being held by farmer unions at Delhi’s borders. This allegation was made by Indian Kisan Union in an application moved before the top court. This union claimed that an organisation by name “Sikhs for Justice”, which is banned for the anti-India secessionist movement is financing the agitation. The bench had asked Attorney General KK Venugopal if this was true. Venugopal supported this averment but sought permission of the court to file an affidavit based on inputs received from Intelligence Bureau. Other petitions demanding the protesting farmers to vacate the border roads and continue at designated protest sites in the Capital instead are also listed before the court. With news reports claiming that certain farmer unions will be taking out a tractor rally in Delhi on Republic Day, the Centre will be pressing for a stay against any such move. The Delhi Police, in its application seeking injunction against the farmers’ proposed tractor rally, told the court that the right to protest can never include maligning the nation globally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-to-rule-on-plea-for-stay-on-farmers-tractor-rally-today-101610944870516.html
18-01-2021||India||Bengal: Co-WIN hurdle continues to plague Covid vaccination drive||Glitches in the Co-WIN app are likely to pose a hurdle on the second day of the Covid-19 vaccination drive in West Bengal on Monday as experts failed to fix the gaps till late on Sunday night. “The app was not functioning properly. Our experts were working on it. Till late on Sunday night, they were facing difficulty in session allocation, listing of beneficiaries and sending of SMS through the software,” said a top official of the state health department. Covid Vaccine Intelligence Network (Co-WIN) app, a mobile application, was developed to monitor the progress of the nationwide vaccination program launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday. On the first day, the vaccination drive had hit a hurdle after the app slowed down because of glitches.Also Read: Co-WIN: Everything to know about the app behind India’s Covid-19 vaccine programme “As SMSes were not going we had to call up the people who were to receive the vaccine individually, and ask them to report on time. The data about beneficiaries had to be entered manually on paper as the app was not opening. Sometimes we could not log in and sometimes the app was too slow even after logging in,” said an official of Canning sub-divisional hospital in South 24 Parganas. More than 20,600 healthcare workers are likely to be vaccinated on the second day of the drive on Monday across 207 centres. “Officials have been asked to focus on two districts - Diamond Harbour and Nadia - as they had registered less than 50% turnout on the first day,” said a senior official. According to the West Bengal government, at least 15,707 people were vaccinated on the first day against a target of 20,700 people. The union health ministry in its tweet had however claimed that only 9,730 people were vaccinated in the state. The state had challenged the centre’s claim. Out of the 15,707 persons who received the vaccine, 14 persons had developed Adverse Event Following Immunization (AEFI). The condition of one nurse had turned serious, and she was later said to be stable. Meanwhile, a war of words broke out between the ruling Trinamool Congerss and the Bharatiya Janata Party after at least two legislators of the TMC received the vaccine on the first day along with health workers.While chief minister Mamata Banerjee had requested the centre to send adequate supply of vaccines and said that the state was ready to bear the cost, the BJP said that the vaccines fell short because TMC leaders were taking it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-co-win-hurdle-continues-to-plague-covid-vaccination-drive-101610942830457.html
18-01-2021||India||India records 13,788 new Covid-19 cases, 145 deaths in 24 hours||India recorded 13,788 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), according to Union health ministry update on Monday. With this, the nationwide tally reached 10,571,773.The number of active cases of the disease came down further to 2,08,012, according to health ministry update at 8 am.The country also saw 145 fatalities due to the disease in the said period which took the death toll to 1,52,419.Also read: In India, the story of Covid-19 vaccinesIndia has been witnessing a fall in the daily as well as weekly fall in the number of Covid-19 cases. In the week ending January 17, the country recorded 107,701 new Covid-19 cases which is down 14.73% from the week before.In terms of death, the total fatalities in the previous week were 1,275, while the corresponding tally the week before was 1,564, as per the health ministry’s numbers.Also, the daily caseload has been less than 20,000 for the last 10 days, according to health ministry.India has launched a massive exercise to inoculate its population against the disease. Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Sunday informed that over 2.24 lakh people vaccinated against Covid-19 till now. More than 17,000 beneficiaries were vaccinated in six states - the second day of the vaccination drive.The six states where the vaccination drive was carried out on Sunday are Andhra Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Manipur and Tamil Nadu.The states and union territories have been advised to plan Covid-19 vaccination sessions four days a week to minimise disruption of routine health services.Also read: 10 Indian states with the highest Covid-19 vaccine beneficiariesPrime Minister Narendra Modi had rolled out the world's largest inoculation drive against Covid-19 on Saturday with two vaccines - Serum Institute's Covishield and Bharat Biotech's Covaxin - which were recently approved by India's drug regulator.According to the government, the shots will be offered first to an estimated one crore healthcare workers and around two crore frontline workers, and then to persons above 50 years of age, followed by persons younger than 50 years of age with associated comorbidities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-13-788-new-covid-19-cases-145-deaths-in-24-hours-101610941555984.html
18-01-2021||India||Adverse events post Covid-19 immunisation: Here’s all you need to know||India on Saturday launched world’s largest Covid-19 vaccination drive. Close to 250,000 healthcare workers were immunised on day one, of which 447 suffered adverse event following immunisation (AEFI). Three needed hospitalisation. While it is being investigated in detail what caused the adverse reaction, here is a look at what World Health Organisation (WHO) defines as AEFI, and all other the terms associated with it.*Vaccine: A biological preparation that elicits immunity to a particular disease. In addition to the antigen, it can contain multiple components, such as adjuvants, preservatives, and stabilisers, each of which may have specific safety implications.*Immunisation: Immunisation is the process whereby a person is made immune or resistant to an infection, typically by the administration of a vaccine. Vaccines stimulate the body’s own immune system to protect the person against subsequent infection.Also read: 10 Indian states with the highest Covid-19 vaccine beneficiaries*Adverse event following immunisation (AEFI): Any untoward medical event that follows immunisation and that does not necessarily have a causal relationship with the usage of the vaccine. The adverse event may be any unfavourable or unintended sign, abnormal laboratory finding, symptom or disease.*Non-serious AEFI: An event that is not serious and does not pose a potential risk to the health of the recipient. Non-serious AEFIs should also be carefully monitored because they may signal a potentially larger problem with the vaccine or vaccination or have an impact on the vaccination acceptability, in general.*Serious AEFI: An event that results in death, is life-threatening, requires in-patient hospitalisation or prolongation of existing hospitalisation, results in persistent or significant disability/incapacity, or is a congenital anomaly/birth defect. Any medical event that requires intervention to prevent one of the outcomes above may also be considered as serious.*Severe vaccine reaction: Vaccine reactions can be mild, moderate or severe. Severe reactions may include both serious and non-serious reactions.*Immunisation stress related responses (ISRR): Stress response to immunisation that may manifest just prior to, during, or after immunisation.Also read: 52 people develop allergic reaction, one severe after receiving Covid-19 vaccine*AEFI by cause (coincidental events): An AEFI that is caused by something other than the vaccine product, immunisation error or immunisation anxiety.*AEFI by cause (immunisation anxiety-related reaction): An AEFI arising from anxiety about the immunisation (See immunisation stress related responses).*AEFI by cause (immunisation error-related reaction): An AEFI that is caused by inappropriate vaccine handling, prescribing or administration, that, therefore, is preventable.*AEFI by cause (vaccine product-related reaction): An AEFI that is caused or precipitated by a vaccine due to one or more of the inherent properties of the vaccine product, whether the active component or one of the other components of the vaccine such as adjuvant, preservative or stabiliser.*AEFI by cause (vaccine quality defect-related reaction): An AEFI that is caused or precipitated by a vaccine due to one or more quality defects of the vaccine product, including its administration device as provided by the manufacturer.*Adverse event of special interest (AESI): A pre-identified and predefined medically significant event that has the potential to be causally associated with a vaccine product that needs to be carefully monitored and confirmed by further specific studies.*Causal association: A cause-and-effect relationship between a causative (risk) factor and an outcome. Causally-associated events are also temporally associated (i.e; they occur after vaccine administration), but events that are temporally associated may not necessarily be causally associated.*Causality assessment: In the context of vaccine AEFI surveillance, a systematic review of data about the AEFI case to determine the likelihood of a causal association between the event and the vaccine received.*Cluster: Two or more cases of the same or similar events related in time, geography (place), and/or vaccine administered. AEFI clusters are usually associated with a particular supplier/provider, health facility, and/or a vial of vaccine or a batch of vaccines.*Contraindication: A situation where a particular treatment or procedure, such as vaccination with a particular vaccine, must not be administered for safety reasons. Contraindications can be permanent (absolute), such as known severe allergies to a vaccine component, or temporary (relative), such as an acute/severe febrile illness.SOURCE: WHO||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/adverse-events-post-covid-19-immunisation-here-s-all-you-need-to-know-101610941930391.html
18-01-2021||India||Man arrested for rape of 13-year-old mute girl in Bihar village||Police have arrested a 50-year-old man for allegedly raping a 13-year-old mute girl at a village in Bagaha police district of Bihar on Sunday. The first information report, lodged on the basis of the girl’s statement, said the accused took the girl to a sugarcane field in his village on January 15 where he sexually assaulted her. “The girl’s family approached police on Saturday evening,” said Kailash Prasad, sub divisional police officer (SDPO).The accused was arrested on Sunday, and the girl was sent for a medical examination the same day, the SDPO said. Police have registered against the accused under Sections 376 (rape), 120B (criminal conspiracy), 504 (intentional insult), 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-arrested-for-raping-13-year-old-mute-girl-in-bihar-village-101610940610227.html
18-01-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: FIR registered against makers of web series 'Tandav' and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.FIR registered in Lucknow against makers of web series 'Tandav'A First Information Report (FIR) has been registered against Amazon Prime's India head of original content Aparna Purohit at Hazratganj Kotwali in Lucknow in connection with the controversy around the web series 'Tandav', news agency ANI reported. Read moreSC to hear Delhi Police's plea to stay tractor rally by farmers on Republic DayThe Supreme Court will take up on Monday an application by the Delhi Police seeking injunction against farmers’ unions from causing any disruption to the Republic Day celebrations in the national capital. Read moreAyodhya mosque project kicks off on R-Day with raising flag, planting treesThe Supreme Court will take up on Monday an application by the Delhi Police seeking injunction against farmers’ unions from causing any disruption to the Republic Day celebrations in the national capital. Read more'That one thing was on my mind,' Shardul reveals what head coach Shastri told him before walking out to bat at GabbaIndia's Shardul Thakur emerged one of the two heroes for India on Day 3 of the fourth Test against Australia in Brisbane. Read moreBigg Boss 14 promo: Arshi Khan cries as Eijaz Khan exits show, Devoleena Bhattacharjee enters houseConfirming rumours that have been doing the rounds, Eijaz Khan will be seen exiting the ongoing reality show Bigg Boss 14, a promo for Monday's episode showed. Read moreR-Day terror threat: Posters in Delhi after govt's Khalistan warning on farm stirDelhi police put up 'wanted terrorist' posters ahead of Republic Day in Connaught Place. Read moreNASA's latest post about neutron stars may intrigue youNASA always uses its social media platforms to educate netizens about exciting happenings in outer space. Its recent share stands testament to that notion. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-fir-registered-in-lucknow-against-makers-of-web-series-tandav-and-all-the-latest-news-101610939779109.html
18-01-2021||India||Women health workers take lead over men in Covid vaccination in UP||The women health workers have taken lead over men in the Covid vaccination held in Uttar Pradesh on Saturday. Out of the total 22,643 healthcare workers who got their first jab, 11,753 were women health workers and 10,890 were male health workers.According to the data of the first round Covid vaccination compiled by the health and family welfare department, 71% healthcare workers got Covid vaccination. In 98 cases, adverse events following immunization (AEFI) were reported out of the 22,643 health workers who received vaccine shots.The backward district like Siddharth Nagar reported 99% turnout, out of the 400 health workers enrolled for vaccination, 396 turned up to get vaccine shots. The turnout in Baghpat was 96%, Ghaziabad 95%, Amroha 93%, Kaushambi 91%, Hardoi 90%, Pilibhit 88%, Mathura and Saharanpur 85% and Sambhal 84%.The districts in which the turnout of health workers was low included Chitrakoot 41%, Firozabad 43%, Maharajganj 47%, Pratapgarh 49%, Etawah 50%, Farrukhabad 51% and Gorakhpur 52%.Hamirpur at 10 reported highest number of adverse events after immunization, followed by Bulandshahar at 7, Mathura and Banda at 5, Gonda, Lalitpur, Mahoba and Amroha at 4 each, Bareilly, Farrukhabad, Jaluan, Pilibhit, Pratapgarh, Prayagraj, Sambhal and Bijnore at 3 each, Gautam Buddha Nagar, Balrampur, Kaushambi, Mainpuri, Mau, Moradabad, Rae Bareli, Siddharth Nagar, Sultanpur and Barabanki at 2 each, Kanpur Dehat, Kheri, Kasganj Jhansi, Hathras, Sant Kabir Nagar, Shamli, Shahjhanpur, Shravasti, Deoria and Varanasi at 1 each.A health department officer said all the adverse events following immunization cases were managed by the doctors at the immunization centers and hospitals. Some of the health workers were discharged while others were put on observation. There was no report of any major complication in any district, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/women-health-workers-take-lead-over-men-in-covid-vaccination-in-up-101610939874571.html
18-01-2021||India||15% dip in India’s Covid-19 cases in week vaccination drive commenced||Vaccinations against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) commenced in India on January 16, the penultimate day of the previous week. It was also a week in which the country saw its lowest daily count of Covid-19 cases since June last-12,584 on January 12, according to the Union health ministry’s dashboard.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe week which marked the beginning of India’s vaccination drive against Covid-19, was also the one during which the country recorded a total of 107,701 new Covid-19 cases, the ministry’s dashboard shows. The break-up is as follows: 16,311 (January 11); 12,584 (January 12); 15,968 (January 13); 16,946 (January 14); 15,590 (January 15); 15,158 (January 16) and 15,144 (January 17). In the week before, the country recorded 126,319 new Covid-19 cases: 16,504 (January 4); 16,375 (January 5); 18,088 (January 6); 20,346 (January 7); 18,139 (January 8); 18,222 (January 9) and 18,645 (January 10). This means that in the previous week, the country’s weekly tally of Covid-19 cases fell by 18,618 or 14.73% from the week before.In the last 10 days, daily new cases have been less than 20,000, the ministry said on Sunday. In fact, in the month of January, only twice has the country recorded more than 20,000 daily cases, on January 7 and January 1 (20,035).#Unite2FightCoronaKerala recorded maximum positive cases (922) in last 24 hours whereas Madhya Pradesh recorded maximum negative cases (433). pic.twitter.com/2PCLS4P2eMIn terms of death, the total fatalities in the previous week were 1,275, while the corresponding tally the week before was 1,564, as per the health ministry’s numbers. This means that India’s new weekly fatalities saw a dip of 289 or 18.47% from those in the week before. The daily deaths in the last 23 days have been below 300, the ministry said.#Unite2FightCoronaSix States & UTs have reported 66.30% of the 181 case fatalities in the past 24 hours. pic.twitter.com/EDwnVutGHVIndia is administering doses of Oxford University-AstraZeneca’s Covishield and Bharat Biotech International Limited’s Covaxin. It has the second-highest tally of Covid-19 in the world, behind that of the United States of America. The country’s tally currently stands at 10,557,985 including 152,274 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/15-dip-in-india-s-covid-19-cases-in-week-vaccination-drive-commenced-101610939793369.html
18-01-2021||India||Glad that schools are opening in Delhi today, tweets Manish Sisodia||Ten months after forced to shut down due to spiralling coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, government and private schools in Delhi are set to welcome senior students back amid safety protocols forced by the infection.Deputy chief minister and education minister Manish Sisodia took to Twitter on the morning of reopening day and said he is glad that the schools are opening in Delhi today."Best wishes to the students of class 10&12th who are going to visit their school today after 10 months... (though it's only for limited purpose and with covid protocols..) But still... I am glad that schools are opening in Delhi today," Sisodia said in a tweet on Monday.Also read: Schools in Delhi to reopen for senior students today - All you need to knowBest wishes to the students of class 10&12th who are going to visit their school today after 10 months... (though it's only for limited purpose and with covid protocols..) But still... I am glad that schools are opening in Delhi today. pic.twitter.com/vmLRIkVl68The move to reopen schools in Delhi comes as the positivity rate in the national capital continues to hover below 1 per cent and the authorities declaring control over the disease outbreak by strict testing and isolating method.The schools will open amid strict adherence to the Covid-19 protocol mandated by the Centre. For now, the classes will only resume for 10th and 12th students in view of the board exams, in a staggered manner with shorter class hours and frequent sanitisation.According to the guidelines, schools that are out of the containment zone areas will only be allowed to open. The students will only be allowed to attend schools with the written consent of parents.Also read: Delhi schools reopen, no assembly, physical activitySeveral private and government schools have installed sanitisers, fogging machines, thermal scanners, and disinfectants which will be sprayed in-between batches. The government has reduced class hours from six hours to two hours and a decision has been taken by schools to initially call only 50 students from both classes.In laboratories, only 10 students will be allowed at a time with at least three staff members to ensure supervision. Volunteers will be deployed to check temperatures and to ensure social distancing is being strictly followed. The medical facilities in schools will remain on standby for any eventuality. The schools will also hold orientation programmes and put up posters and notices detailing the Covid-19 guidelines.The Centre had, in Unlock 5 guidelines, allowed schools to reopen from October 15. However, the decision was left to states/union territories to decide as to when they would resume physical classes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/glad-that-schools-are-opening-in-delhi-today-tweets-manish-sisodia-101610938698258.html
18-01-2021||India||UP: Healthcare workers who didn’t get Covid vaccine can do so on January 22||Healthcare workers, who did not turn up for Covid vaccination on Saturday, will be given another chance to get the jab in the next round, said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, health and family welfare. The health department had registered 31,700 healthcare workers on Co-WIN portal for the first round of the vaccination, of which 22,643 workers came at 317 vaccination centres across UP. The 9,057 healthcare workers who could not make it would be given another chance in the next round of the Covid vaccination, Prasad said. The next round of vaccination is on January 22, preparations for which have started in all districts. “We have an adequate stock of vaccine. The name of the beneficiaries will be uploaded on the Co-WIN portal. They will be informed through SMS about the date and location of the centre where they will be vaccinated,” said Prasad. Also read | Covid-19 vaccination: Key meeting likely today on future course of effortsAfter the second round of vaccination on January 22, the health department will hold vaccination drive twice a week. The dates will be finalised after the second round of vaccination, he said. The first round of vaccination was successful, except for a few minor incidents. There was no report of any serious complications to any beneficiary following the shot. After the vaccination of healthcare workers in the first phase, frontline workers will be inoculated in the second phase, he added. A health department officer said the first round of Covid vaccination had sent the message to people that it’s safe and there are no side-effects. A meeting of health department officers will be held under the chairmanship of health and family welfare minister JP Singh to review the first round of vaccination.  “UP has received 1,055,500 Covishield and 20,000 Covaxin (doses). The state plans to vaccinate 900,000 healthcare workers in the first phase,” said Navneet Sehgal, additional chief secretary, information.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-healthcare-workers-who-haven-t-got-covid-vaccine-yet-can-do-so-on-jan-22-101610939470130.html
18-01-2021||India||Covid vaccination drive to continue as per priority: UP CM Adityanath||A day after the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive was launched, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday said the vaccination drive should continue as per the sequence of priority and central government guidelines. “There must not be any deviation in the sequence of priority of the vaccination drive. The state on Saturday gave vaccine doses to 22,643 persons,” Adityanath said according to a government statement. Adityanath had earlier said that everyone must wait for their turn and no one should plan to jump the queue. Also Read: In India, the story of Covid-19 vaccinesThe chief minister was speaking at the Covid-19 review meeting here. He reviewed Saturday’s vaccination drive and told officials to “organise and execute the vaccination work well.” “Though the state has witnessed a significant drop in Covid-19 cases, utmost alertness should be maintained. Continue sensitising people about Covid-19 using all possible means. All Covid-19 hospitals must be well equipped with medicines, equipment, and medical oxygen,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-vaccination-drive-to-continue-as-per-priority-up-cm-adityanath-101610939410080.html
18-01-2021||India||Senior BJP leader files police complaint against Bengali actor for 'hurting sentiments' through meme||Senior BJP leader and former Meghalaya Governor Tathagata Roy has filed a police complaint against Bengali actress Saayoni Ghosh for a meme shared on Twitter, alleging that it hurt the sentiments of Hindus.Ghosh, however, claimed the meme dates back to February 2015, and was not posted by her, but an act of mischief by someone who hacked her account then."... You have thus committed an offence under Section 295A IPC... Now, be prepared for the consequences," Roy said on Twitter."@sayani06, you have already been reported to Kolkata Police. The complaint is attached. Meanwhile, a person from Guwahati has told me that his religious feelings have been hurt by your meme and he is filing a complaint. I hope Assam Police will take cognizance and ask for remand," he added.The veteran BJP leader also said another person from Bengaluru has complained to the police about the matter.The young actress, in her reply tweeted: "Dear all, a post from 2015 has been brought to my notice which is extremely obnoxious... for all your information, I have joined Twitter in 2010 and after a brief use I lost interest in carrying forward. However, the account remained."Ghosh said she later discovered that her account had been hacked and she needed to retrieve it immediately."For various reasons, we could only do that after 2017 and I got back in touch with the Twitter world with a bang. We have skipped a few unnecessary posts while deleting most," she said.Roy had also taken exception to a recent comment by Ghosh over the chant of 'Jai Sri Ram' by motor cycle-borne youths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/senior-bjp-leader-files-police-complaint-against-bengali-actor-for-hurting-sentiments-through-meme-101610938343751.html
18-01-2021||India||Ayodhya mosque project kicks off on R-Day with raising flag, planting trees||Uttar Pradesh Sunni Central Waqf Board (UPSCWB) would mark the formal beginning of the project to construct a mosque on the allocated five acre land in Dhannipur village of Ayodhya with a tree sapling plantation drive and raising of the national flag on this Republic Day following the November 2019 order of the Supreme Court in the Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid case.Officials with the UPSCWB said the plantation drive would be carried out in the green area of the project that would have plants from all over the world - ranging from Amazon rainforest to the areas in Australia that got destroyed in bushfire.The decision was taken in the meeting which the Board held on Sunday.“I believe there is no better way than to start the project by planting saplings on the five acre land. The plantation would be carried out in the area of the project meant to be developed as a green area. The area would be having plants and trees from all different geographical regions of India and from different parts of the world in order to create awareness for imminent threat of climate change,” said Athar Hussain, spokesperson of Indo-Islamic Cultural Foundation (IICF) - the trust created by UPSCWB to look after the construction of the Dhannipur project which includes a mosque, hospital, museum, library, community kitchen, Indo Islamic Cultural Research Centre and publication house.Hussain said plantation drive would be a part of the Republic Day celebrations on the day. Also, the day would witness flag hoisting. “On 26th January at 8.30AM at the five acre plot of Dhannipur Mosque Project in Ayodhya, there will be a national flag hoisting ceremony followed by plantation of tree saplings by Member Trustees and Chief Trustee of IICF,” added Hussain.The Board meeting that was organised through virtual meet, was attended by all the nine trustees and was chaired by President Zufar Ahmad Farooqi. In the meet, the trust activity was discussed, especially the procedural delay in getting the 12-A/80-G clearances of Income-Tax Act and proceeding for opening of FCRA account.On December 19, the trust had released the blueprint of the mosque and other structures designed by Professor SM Akhtar, a Lucknow based architect-cum-town-planner, whom the trust has hired to design the mosque that would come up in Dhannipur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ayodhya-mosque-project-kicks-off-on-r-day-with-raising-flag-planting-trees-101610937694282.html
18-01-2021||India||Delhi witnesses moderate fog, very poor air: IMD||There was moderate fog with visibility of less than 500 metres in many parts of Delhi on Monday morning. The minimum temperature at 5.30am at Safdarjung was 11 degrees Celsius.Delhi’s air quality was recorded in “very poor” category with air quality index (AQI) of 376.Air quality is likely to remain in the lower end of the “very poor” category on January 18 and 19 according to air quality warning system for Delhi under ministry of earth sciences.Also Read: Shorter parade, age cap on guests: Covid-19 casts shadow on Republic DayCurrently, easterly winds are prevalent at lower levels over plains of north India. This is likely to cause a gradual rise in minimum temperatures by 2-4 degrees Celsius over most parts of northwest India during the next 48 hours (till 19 January). Thereafter, reversal of wind direction to westerly/northwesterly is likely from January 20. This will lead to a gradual fall in minimum temperatures by 2-4 degrees Celsius during subsequent 2-3 days (January 20 to 22) over the same region. An approaching western disturbance is likely to impact the western Himalayan region on January 22 which is likely to cause widespread snowfall in the hills.“Cold day” to “severe cold day” conditions in isolated pockets are likely over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi during the next 24 hours and “cold day” conditions in isolated pockets over Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and West Bengal during the next two days.According to IMD, a cold day or a severe cold day is classified as such based on two parameters—a minimum temperature of under 10 degrees Celsius and maximum temperature of 4.5 degrees Celsius or 6.4 degrees Celsius below normal, respectively.A cold wave occurs in the plains when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and/or is 4.5 notches lower than the season’s normal for two consecutive days. A cold wave is also declared when the minimum temperature is less than 4 degrees Celsius in the plains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-witnesses-moderate-fog-very-poor-air-temp-could-rise-over-next-2-days-imd-101610938089876.html
18-01-2021||India||Dense fog continues to envelop Indo-Gangetic plains region||There is dense to very dense fog over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Uttar Pradesh and moderate to dense fog over Delhi, north west Rajasthan, north west Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Assam and Meghalaya today according to India Meteorological Department (IMD).Visibility at 5.30am today at Chandigarh, Bareilly and Gorakhpur was less than 25 m; Amritsar, Ambala, Ganganagar, Gwalior, Baharaich, Patna, Gaya, Bhagalpur, Purnea, Guwahati, Tezpur, Agartala and Silchar less than 50 m; Patiala, Hisar, Agra, Lucknow at less than 200 m and Delhi’s Safdarjung and Palam at less than 500 m.There is spell of dense fog or a low cloud layer over the entire Indo-Gangetic plains region since Saturday.“We had predicted dense fog. Whenever an intense Western Disturbance (WD) passes, there is a lot of moisture in the air and the air is also cool. (A WD caused widespread snowfall in the hills and rain in the plains on January 6 and 7). These conditions are favourable for fog formation and also for development of cold day to severe cold day conditions. Today, there was a dense fog in Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar,” said M Mohapatra, director general, IMD.Current spell of dense to very dense fog across Indo-Gangetic plains is likely to reduce during the next 2-3 days with likely occurrence of dense to very dense fog in isolated to some pockets very likely over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, north Rajasthan, Bihar, Sub-Himalayan West Bengal & Sikkim, Odisha, Assam, Meghalaya and Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura during the same period. Cold day to severe cold day conditions in isolated pockets is very likely over Punjab and Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi during the next 24 hours and cold day conditions in isolated pockets over Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and West Bengal during the next two days.Currently, easterly winds are prevailing at lower levels over plains of north India. This is likely to cause gradual rise in minimum temperatures by 2-4 degrees C over most parts of northwest India during the next 48 hours (till January 19). Thereafter, reversal of wind direction to westerly/northwesterly is likely from January 20. This is likely to cause gradual fall in minimum temperatures by 2-4 degrees C during subsequent 2-3 days (January 20 to 22) over the same region.According to IMD, a cold day or a severe cold day is classified as such based on two parameters—a minimum temperature of under 10 degrees C and maximum temperature of 4.5 degrees C or 6.4 degrees C below normal, respectively.A cold wave occurs in the plains when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and/or is 4.5 notches lower than the season’s normal for two consecutive days. A cold wave is also declared when the minimum temperature is less than 4 degrees C in the plains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dense-fog-continues-to-envelope-indo-gangetic-plains-region-101610937730046.html
18-01-2021||India||'Landmark day': PM Modi to perform bhoomi pujan of Gujarat metro projects||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will perform the bhoomi pujan ceremony for the Ahmedabad Metro Rail Project Phase-II and the Surat Metro Rail Project via video-conferencing on Monday."Today is a landmark day for two of Gujarat’s leading urban centres. The Bhoomi Poojan of Surat Metro and Phase-2 of the Ahmedabad Metro would take place at 10:30 AM," PM Modi said in a tweet on Monday.Today is a landmark day for two of Gujarat’s leading urban centres. The Bhoomi Poojan of Surat Metro and Phase-2 of the Ahmedabad Metro would take place at 10:30 AM. https://t.co/4hs4EGm84p pic.twitter.com/tNEbgdCvmSThe metro projects will provide an environment-friendly mass rapid transit system to the two cities in Gujarat, the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said in a statement.Gujarat Governor Acharya Devvrat, Union Home Minister Amit Shah, Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani and Union housing and urban affairs minister Hardeep Singh Puri will be attending the event virtually.The Ahmedabad Metro Rail Project Phase-II is 28.25 km long with two corridors. The 22.8-km-long corridor-I is from Motera Stadium to Mahatma Mandir, while the 5.4-km-long corridor-II is from GNLU to GIFT City. The total completion cost of the Phase-II project is ₹5,384 crore, a statement issued by the PMO said.The Surat Metro Rail Project is 40.35 km long and comprises two corridors. The 21.61-km-long corridor-I is from Sarthana to Dream City, while the 18.74-km-long corridor-II is from Bhesan to Saroli. The total completion cost of the project is ₹12,020 crore, the PMO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/landmark-day-pm-modi-to-perform-bhoomi-pujan-of-gujarat-metro-projects-101610934554636.html
18-01-2021||India||FIR registered in Lucknow against makers of web series 'Tandav'||A First Information Report (FIR) has been registered against Amazon Prime's India head of original content Aparna Purohit at Hazratganj Kotwali in Lucknow in connection with the controversy around the web series 'Tandav', news agency ANI reported.The director of the series Ali Abbas Zafar, producer Himanshu Krishna Mehra, writer Gaurav Solanki and others have also been named in the FIR, ANI further said. They have been accused of hurting religious sentiments.The information and broadcasting ministry has sought an explanation from Amazon Prime after a controversy broke out over the recently released web series, officials familiar with the matter said on Sunday.Also read | ‘Hurts Hindus, anti-Dalit’: BJP leaders want Saif Ali Khan's Tandav banned“The ministry has called executives of the video streaming service and decided to seek an explanation from them over the matter,” an official tld Hindustan Times.Two Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders have already raise issues against 'Tandav'. On of them, Manoj Kotak, wrote to I&B minister Prakash Javadekar on Sunday seeking a ban on the series for allegedly ridiculing Hindu deities. Another party leader Ram Kadam on Sunday said that he has filed a complaint at Mumbai's Ghatkopar Police station.Kadam also demanded that Over-the-Top (OTT) platforms must be brought under censorship.Also read: I&B ministry summons Amazon Prime India officials after controversy over TandavMeNWHILE, Officials from Amazon Prime Video told news agency PTI that the platform “won’t be responding” to media queries on the matter. Tandav, starring actors Saif Ali Khan, Dimple Kapadia, Sunil Grover, Tigmanshu Dhulia, Dino Morea, Kumud Mishra, Mohd Zeeshan Ayyub, Gauhar Khan and Kritika Kamra, premiered on the streaming platform on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fir-registered-in-lucknow-against-makers-of-web-series-tandav-101610936308251.html
18-01-2021||NA||LIVE: Govt defers 10th round of talks with farmers’ unions to Jan 20||The ongoing farmers agitation against the three contentious agricultural laws entered day 54 on Monday. Also on the day, the Supreme Court heard a petition filed by the Centre seeking an injunction against the tractor rally announced by the protesting farmers for January 26, on the occasion of Republic Day, to build pressure on the government to repeal the laws, and adjourned further hearing to Wednesday. Addressing a press conference on Sunday, farmer unions leading the stir announced they would go ahead with the rally, which, they said, would be "peaceful" and carried out on the Outer Ring Road, without disrupting the official celebrations in Delhi.Also Read | Decoding fine print of Supreme Court order on farm lawsA three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde heard Centre's plea against the rally. Last week , a CJI-headed bench ordered an interim stay on the implementation of the laws and set up a four-member committee to handle the negotiations between the Centre and farmers. A total of nine meetings have failed to resolve the deadlock between the two sides. While the ninth meeting took place on January 15, the tenth one will take place on January 19.Also Read | Farm union asks Supreme Court to change panel membersFollow all the updates here:Such arm-twisting tactics won't weaken farmers' resolve: Amarinder on NIA notices to union leadersPunjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Monday hit out at the central government over the National Investigation Agency (NIA) issuing notices to some farmer union leaders and those supporting the ongoing agitation against three new farm laws. "Do these farmers look like secessionists and terrorists? Such arm-twisting tactics will not weaken the resolve of the farmers to fight for their rights and their future," the chief minister said, referring to the NIA summons reportedly issued in connection with a case related to the banned Sikhs For Justice outfit.Govt postpones 10th round of talks with farmersGovt postpones 10th round of talks with protesting farmers' leaders to Jan 20: Agriculture Ministry. Read moreFarmers' stir: Joint forum distances itself from its leader Chaduni's meeting with Oppn partiesThe Samyukt Kisan Morcha, a joint forum of farmer organisations spearheading the ongoing protest against farm laws, on Monday disassociated itself from a meeting its constituent Gurnam Singh Chaduni had attended with some opposition leaders, and reiterated that the movement "will not have any direct engagement with any political party". A controversy erupted after Bhartiya Kisan Union-Haryana president Chaduni attended the meeting along with the opposition leaders in Delhi on Sunday and supported a call for convening a 'Jan Sansad' (People's Parliament) on the farmers' issue on January 22-23. In a statement, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) said its coordination committee "inquired into the controversial matter of Chaduni's meeting with several political parties".Puducherry assembly passes resolution against farm laws; CM Narayanasamy tears up copies of actsThe Puducherry Assembly on Monday adopted a resolution demanding repeal of the central farm laws after it witnessed high drama with Chief Minister V Narayanasamy tearing copies of the contentious acts against which farmers are protesting near Delhi. A special one-day session of the union territory assembly also passed another resolution reiterating its demand for full statehood, the tenth time it resorted to the measure since 1987. All three members of DMK, the ruling Congress' ally, were conspicuous by their absence while the entire opposition -- All India NR Congress, AIADMK and BJP boycotted the proceedings as the two resolutions were adopted by a voice vote.Farmers not against any party but Centre's policy: Rakesh TikaitThe farmers' fight is not with any political party but with the policy of the government, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) chief Rakesh Tikait said here on Monday, warning the ongoing protest over the farm laws could prolong further.Tikait, who has participated in the multiple rounds of dialogues between farmers unions and the government representatives in Delhi over the past 54 days, was in Noida where he addressed protestors belonging to the BKU's faction Lok Shakti. "Our fight is not with any party but the government. Here (in the protest) also we have people who support the BJP and will vote for them in the next election. But any party or ideology is not our concern. We are against the policy of the government," he said, addressing hundreds, including women and youth, at the Dalit Prerna Sthal.Not leaving anytime soon: Rakesh Tikait, Spokesperson, Bhartiya Kisan UnionWe've come here with full preparations, we're not leaving anytime soon. We know that it (resolution of farmer protest) would not happen tomorrow. It (talks) might drag further for a month or two: Rakesh Tikait, Spokesperson, Bhartiya Kisan Union on tomorrow's meeting with govtJust a few people disagreeing: Union minister on farm protestsUnion minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Monday said the protests against the Centre's farm laws were just a few people in disagreement, and added that the changes allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere like traders. Speaking to reporters in Betul, the Union minister for petroleum and gas also took a swipe at protesters claiming it was difficult to make those understand who wanted to remain asleep. "The disagreement of a few people cannot be called a farmers agitation. Is it there in Betul? MP agriculture minister Kamal Patel has shared his experiences with me. We are talking in a straight manner and are able to put forth our views in villages," he said.Punjab CM targets Centre over NIA notices to farmers“Do these farmers look like secessionists and terrorists?,” Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh asks BJP-led Centre over NIA notices to farmers and those who have supported the protests.Farmers hold tractor march at Chandigarh-Punjab borderChandigarh: Thousands of farmers hold a tractor march at Chandigarh-Punjab border against the three farm laws introduced by the Centre. pic.twitter.com/iCqWM5MrHdThousands of farmers hold a tractor march at Chandigarh-Punjab border against the three farm laws.Security tightened outside NIA office in DelhiDelhi: Security tightened outside NIA office. Traffic stopped and barricades installed along with heavy deployment outside the office. The Agency had summoned around 40 people, including farmer leaders, for questioning. pic.twitter.com/aV5yrTZh5dSecurity tightened outside NIA office in Delhi. It had summoned around 40 people, including farmer leaders, for questioning.Several political parties visit our tent: ChaduniSeveral political people visit our tent but it doesn't mean we are misusing them or vice versa. We never took anyone to the stage. People who are against us also come here. If they will come here to support us, we won't push them out but welcome them: Gurnam Singh ChaduniGovt trying to break our protest, won't succeed: BKU chief ChaduniWe will issue a notice to the newspaper that published the article, as well as Kakka. He should have provided some evidence. These are tricks of the government trying to break the protest and they won't be successful: Bharatiya Kisan Union Chief Gurnam Singh Chaduni https://t.co/5pvjl72OKgWe will issue a notice to the newspaper that published the article, as well as Shiv Kumar Kakka. He should have provided some evidence. These are tricks of the government trying to break the protest and they won't be successful: BKU chief Gurnam Singh ChanduniBJP's Harjit Singh Grewal faces protestFollowing a call of SKM to observe January 18 as ‘Mahila Kisan Diwas’, thousands of women held a protest against BJP leader Harjit Singh Grewal at his native town Dhanaula in Barnala district.Farmers won't be scared, says Chhattisgarh CMWhenever there's a protest, BJP tries to malign it. As for protesting farmers, sometimes the BJP called them Pakistani or Khalistani. They even alleged that farmers are middleman's broker. Regardless of their attempts to suppress, farmers won't be scared: Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh BaghelWon't take Covid-19 vaccine till farm laws repealed: FarmersSeveral farmers protesting at Delhi’s borders have said they would not return to their home states to get vaccinated against Covid-19 before the three contentious farm laws were repealed.Not associated with BKU chief's "all-party meeting": Sanyukt Kisan MorchaSanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) is not associated with "all-party meeting" taken up by Gurnam Singh Chaduni (Bhartiya Kisan Union chief) with political parties. After discussion on his activities with political parties, SKM has formed a Committee that will give report in 3 days: SKM pic.twitter.com/GMR2keQ0NLWe're not associated with "all-party meeting" taken up by Gurnam Singh Chaduni (Bhartiya Kisan Union chief) with political parties: Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM)Farmers observe 'Women Farmers Day'Protesting farmers observe January 18 as 'Women Farmers Day' to respect the incomparable role of women in agriculture.Talks between govt-farmers stuck on MSP, call for repealTalks between govt and farm leaders are stuck on two major demands by farmers: legal assurance for Minimum Support Price (MSP) and total repeal of laws. Of the four issues raised by farmers, the two sides have arrived at a consensus on two.SC adjourns hearing on plea against tractor rally to WednesdaySupreme Court adjourns farmers' tractor rally issue till Wednesday.Tractor rally by farmers "illegal": Attorney General VenugopalAttorney General KK Venugopal, appearing for Centre, says the rally will be "illegal" and there will likely be an entry of 5000 people in Delhi.Hearing begins in SC on Centre's plea against tractor marchSC begins hearing Centre's plea against proposed January 26 tractor march. CJI-headed bench says entry in Delhi law and order thing to be decided by police.Key Delhi borders remain closedDelhi’s borders with its neighbouring states, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, remained closed at several points on Monday due to the ongoing farmers' agitation.SC to also hear plea seeking removal of three other panel membersThe Supreme Court on Monday will also hear a plea filed by the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Lokshakti) seeking removal of three other members of the four-member committee set up by top court to oversee negotiations.Next round of talks to take place on January 19Total nine rounds of talks have taken place between the government and farmer leaders. The ninth round took place on January 15 with the tenth scheduled for January 19.Farmers have rejected panel constituted by top courtThe farmers unions have rejected the four-member panel constituted by the Supreme Court to oversee the mediation process. The members of the panel, farmers say, have already expressed pro-farm law views. One member of the panel has already stood down.Farmers say will hold rally "peacefully"Protesting farmers on Sunday announced they would hold the rally peacefully, on Delhi's Outer Ring Road, without disrupting the official Republic Day celebrations.SC to hear Centre's plea against tractor tally todayThe Supreme Court will on Monday hear a plea filed by the Centre against the tractor rally which farmers aim to hold on Republic Day to build pressure on the government to repeal the three laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-live-updates-january-18-2021-101610933737202.html
18-01-2021||India||Schools in Delhi to reopen for senior students today: All you need to know||The schools in Delhi will reopen from Monday amid strict adherence to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) protocol mandated by the Centre. With staggered and shorter class hours, frequent sanitisation, the classes will only resume for 10th and 12th students, in view of the board exams.The Centre had, in Unlock 5 guidelines, allowed schools to reopen from October 15. However, the decision was left to states/union territories to decide as to when they would resume physical classes.Schools and colleges have remained shut since March 2020 in the light of the Covid-19 pandemic which has claimed more than 1.5 lakh lives so far.Here is all you need to know about the schools reopening:1) Schools that are out of the containment zone areas will only be allowed to open.2) The students will attend schools only with the written consent of parents.3) The schools have installed sanitisers, fogging machines, thermal scanners, and disinfectants which will be sprayed in-between batches.4) Class hours have been reduced from six hours to two hours. A decision has been taken by schools to initially call only 50 students from both classes.5) In laboratories, only 10 students will be allowed at a time with at least three staff members to ensure supervision.6) Volunteers will be deployed to check temperatures and to ensure social distancing is being strictly followed.7) Medical facilities will remain on standby in schools for any eventuality.8) Schools will also hold orientation programmes and put up posters and notices detailing the Covid-19 guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/schools-in-delhi-to-reopen-for-senior-students-today-all-you-need-to-know-101610934431258.html
18-01-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccination: Key meeting likely today on future course of efforts||India could see more efforts to vaccinate its population against the coronavirus disease as the government plans on holding a meeting with representatives of pharmaceutical industries and other stakeholders on Monday, news agency ANI reported.The government officials are likely to hold a meeting with representatives of pharmaceutical industries along with other stakeholders to discuss the subsequent course of vaccination drive in the country, the report added.More than 2.24 lakh people have been vaccinated against the disease till now, which has infected more than 10.5 million people in the country and claimed at least 150,000 lives.The government has kept a tab on the ongoing inoculation drive with all states and union territories to review progress, identify bottlenecks and planned corrective actions, the ministry said.Plans drawn up by India’s health ministry outline steps to vaccinate 300 million people in the first stage.In the initial round, 30 million health care and frontline workers - such as the police and defense forces - will be administered the injections. The second phase is targeted at about 270 million people above the age of 50 and those at particular risk to Covid. The process will draw on existing networks used to vaccinate tens of millions of babies each year against diseases such as polio.The Union health ministry official said that the Centre has advised states to keep vaccination sessions four days in a week to avoid disruption of routine health services.While all states participated in the Covid-19 vaccination drive on Saturday, only six states did so on Sunday. In all, 17,072 more health care workers were vaccinated on Sunday at 553 sites.The six that conducted vaccinations on Sunday are Andhra Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Manipur and Tamil Nadu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccination-key-meeting-likely-today-on-future-course-of-efforts-101610929332154.html
18-01-2021||NA||LIVE: Covid-19 pandemic response team says WHO, China could have acted faster||The global death toll due to the coronavirus disease surpassed two million as more people succumbed to the viral disease, Bloomberg reported. The number of infection has surpassed 94.9 million, it also reported. Massive Covid-19 vaccination drive in underway in countries. As per the same report, 42.9 million have received the Covid-19 shot worldwide so far, the Bloomberg report also said.Click here for complete coronavirus coverageThe United States continued to report more deaths as toll neared 400,000. It is still the worst country to be affected by the pandemic followed by India and Brazil. President-elect Joe Biden on Sunday promised to deliver 100 million vaccine doses in 100 days while Dr Anthony Fauci said it is "absolutely a doable thing" amid doubts.Meanwhile, Brazil granted approval for the emergency use of AstraZeneca Plc and Sinovac Biotech Ltd. vaccines. In the United Kingdom, foreign secretary Dominic Raab said he’s considering all possible measures after the nation recorded 1,200 deaths for the fifth day in a row.Meanwhile, the US stepped up its claims that the virus could have emerged from a Chinese laboratory.Follow all the live updates here:Follow all the updates here:Jharkhand reports 100 new cases, four deathsJharkhand reported 100 new COVID-19 cases, 131 recoveries and four deaths reported today, as per State Health DepartmentTotal cases: 1,17,786Total recoveries: 1,15,542Active cases: 1,190Death toll: 1,054 pic.twitter.com/YxScAWxsv3Jharkhand reported 100 new coronavirus infections, taking the state's tally to 1,17,786. The death toll after four new fatalities stands at 1,054. Students test positive for during random testing on campus of school-cum-hostel in GujaratAt least 11 girl students of classes 10 and 12 tested positive for Covid-19 during random testing on campus of school-cum-hostel in Keshod town in Gujarat's Junagadh district on first day of resumption of classes.Karnataka reports 435 new coronavirus cases, nine deathsKarnataka reported 435 new #COVID19 cases, 973 discharges, and 9 deaths today.Total cases: 9,32,432Total discharges: 9,12,205Death toll: 12,175Active cases: 8,033 pic.twitter.com/PGob9ihFVtKarnataka reported 435 new coronavirus infections, taking the state's tally to 9,32,432. The death toll after nine new fatalities stands at 12,175.Punjab records 140 new cases, seven deathsPunjab recorded 140 new coronavirus infections, taking the state's tally to 1,70,729 including 2,458 active cases. The death toll after seven new fatalities stands at 5,509.Kerala reports 3,346 new coronavirus casesKerala reported 3,346 new Covid-19 cases, taking the number of active cases in the state to 68,399. The total number of recoveries rose to 7,79,097 after 3,921 new ones.Czech foreign minister tests positive for coronavirusCzech Foreign Minister Tomas Petricek said on Monday he had tested positive for the coronavirus. He is the fourth government minister to contract the virus, said he felt tired but had no severe symptoms.Odisha to receive 3,34,500 Covishield vaccine doses tomorrowThe Odisha state health department said that they would receive 3,34,500 Covishield vaccine doses tomorrow.Haryana reports 119 new cases, four deathsHaryana reported 119 new coronavirus infections, taking the state's tally to 2,66,428. The death toll after four new fatalities stands at 2,989.Gujarat reports 495 new cases, two deathsGujarat reported 495 new coronavirus infections, taking the state's tally to 2,56,367. The death toll after two new fatalities stands at 4,367.Norway asks highly frail recipients to be cautious wile taking Pfizer vaccineNorway has changed its policy on the use of Pfizer and BioNTech’s Covid-19 vaccine to consider excluding the terminally ill, following reports of deaths in highly frail recipients after the inoculation was given, BioNTech said on Monday.Covid-19 pandemic response team says WHO, China could have acted fasterThe Covid-19 pandemic response team said that the World Health Organisation and China could have acted faster during the pandemic, as per news agency AFP.Punjab govt to re-open universities from January 21The Punjab government has decided to re-open all private and public universities from January 21.Bhutan to get AstraZeneca vaccine from IndiaBhutanese Prime Minister Lotay Tshering said that it was likely that the country would get the Oxford-AstraZeneca coronavirus vaccine from India.Nagaland reports three new coronavirus casesNagaland reported three new coronavirus infections, taking the state's tally to 12,061 including 115 active cases.Maharashtra reports 1,924 new cases, 35 deathsMaharashtra reported 1,924 new coronavirus infections, taking the state's tally to 19,92,683. The death toll after 35 new fatalities stands at 50,473.580 adverse effects from vaccines reported so far: MinistryThe Union Health Ministry said that 580 580 Adverse Events Following Immunisation (AEFIs) have been reported so far from the vaccine. Seven of them have been hospitalized.Number of those vaccinated across the country at 1,48,266 by 5pm: Health MinistryThe health ministry said that the total number of beneficiaries vaccinated across the country was at 1,48,266 by 5pm today.Two dead after taking Covid-19 vaccineTwo people have passed away after taking the Covid-19 vaccination in Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka, the Union Health Ministry said. The death of the UP resident was not related to vaccination and post mortem was planned today for the second person as per the Ministry.Covid-19 vaccination drive in Gujarat success: CMGujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani said that the coronavirus vaccination drive in the state was a success as no serious adverse reaction case emerged from anywhere in the state.Tamil Nadu reports 551 new cases, eight deathsTamil Nadu reported 551 new #COVID19 cases, 758 discharges, and 8 deaths in the last 24 hours: State Health Department, Govt of Tamil NaduTotal cases: 8,31,323Total discharges: 8,13,326Death toll: 12,272Active cases: 5,725 pic.twitter.com/ItxynF9G80Tamil Nadu reported 551 new coronavirus infections, taking the state's tally to 8,31,323. The death toll after eight new fatalities stands at 12,272.Japan finds virus variant in 3 people with no record of UK travelJapanese doctors have detected a fast-spreading variant of the new coronavirus first discovered in Britain in three people who had not traveled there, the Health Ministry said on Monday.Delhi reports 161 new cases, eight deathsDelhi reported 161 new COVID-19 cases, 362 discharges and 8 deaths in the last 24 hours, says Delhi Health DepartmentTotal cases: 6,32,590Active cases: 2,335Total discharges: 6,19,501Death toll: 10,754 pic.twitter.com/3bj0fNqr4dThe national capital reported 161 new coronavirus infections, taking its overall tally to 6,32,590. The death toll after eight new fatalities stands at 10,754.No change in the total number of persons with UK Covid strainThe Ministry of Health and family welfare said on Monday that the there was no change in the total number of people infected with the UK coronavirus strain.WHO chief says vaccine nationalism can lead to 'catastrophic moral failure'The world is on the brink of “catastrophic moral failure” in sharing Covid-19 vaccines, the head of the World Health Organization said on Monday, urging countries and manufacturers to spread doses more fairly around the world.Uttar Pradesh reports 379 fresh infections, four deathsaUttar Pradesh reported 379 fresh coronavirus infections taking the state's tally to 5,96,904 including 8,631 active cases. The death toll after four new fatalities stands at 8,580.Rajasthan govt withdraws night curfew as cases declineThe Rajasthan government has decided to withdraw night curfew and relax some of the restrictions in a phased manner in view of declining coronavirus infections.Scientists in the international mission to trace coronavirus origins will arrive in China on Thursday: TedrosWHO director-general Tedros said that scientists looking into the origins of the coronavirus would arrive in China on Thursday. He reiterated that this was a scientific exercise with the objective taking steps to prevent the emergence of other zoonotic pathogens in the future.WHO was working to strengthen preparedness before pandemic: TedrosWHO director-general Tedros said that the organisation was working to strengthen preparedness and response even before the onset of the pandemic.Tedros announces new repository for virus specimens called BioHubThe WHO director-general announced that the virus repository at Switzerland was to be called BioHub. It would serve to facilitate the voluntary sharing of viruses and the rapid development of medical countermeasures.Will ensure vaccines in all countries by April 7: TedrosWHO director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said that it was his challenge to ensure the administering of the coronavirus vaccine in every singlr country by World Health Day (April 7).Covid-19 surprised the world's richest and most powerful nations: TedrosWHO director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said that even the world's most powerful nations were caught unprepared for the coronavirus pandemic and revealed a collective failure to invest in emergency preparedness.UK vaccinating 140 people a minute: MinisterUK vaccine deployment minister Nadhim Zahawi said that the country was vaccinating 140 people per minute against coronavirus.Suga vows to take all possible measures to assist Japan's medical systemJapanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga said on Monday his government will take all possible measures to protect the country’s medical system, as hospitals creak under the strain of the Covid-19 pandemic.Nepal reports three new UK variant coronavirus casesNepal reported three new UK variant coronavirus cases on Monday.Malaysia to roll out additional $3.7 billion pandemic stimulus measuresMalaysia will introduce 15 billion ringgit ($3.71 billion) worth of additional stimulus measures to support its pandemic-hit economy and fight Covid-19, Prime Minister Muhyiddin Yassin said in a televised address on Monday.4 Kerala MLAs test positive for Covid-19Four MLAs in Kerala have tested positive for Covid-19 after participating in the ongoing session of the Assembly. The members representing Neyyattinkara, Kollam, Koyilandy and Peermedu--K Ansalan (CPI-M), K Dasan (CPI-M), Mukesh (CPI-M) and E S Bijimol (CPI)- respectively are the lawmakers who have tested positive, Assembly sources said.Israel trades Pfizer doses for medical data in vaccine blitzAfter sprinting ahead in the race to inoculate its population against the coronavirus, Israel has struck a deal with Pfizer, promising to share vast troves of medical data with the international drug giant in exchange for the continued flow of its hard-to-get vaccine.England to launch next phase of vaccination driveEngland will launch the next phase of its vaccination programme on Monday, offering doses to people aged 70 and above, as well as those seen as extremely vulnerable clinically.Statewise status of Covid-19 in IndiaThane Covid-19 tally rises to 2,49,507The Covid-19 tally in Thane district of Maharashtra has gone up to 2,49,507 with the detection of 325 new cases of the infection, an official said on Monday.India's Covid-19 tally rise after 13,788 fresh casesIndia'' Covid-19 tally increased after 13,788 fresh cases were recorded in the last 24 hours. The total caseload now stands at 10.571.773. Read moreDelhi schools to reopen todayThe schools in Delhi will reopen from Monday amid strict adherence to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) protocol mandated by the Centre. With staggered and shorter class hours, frequent sanitisation, the classes will only resume for 10th and 12th students, in view of the board exams. Read moreJoe Biden's ambitious plan against coronavirusJoe Biden has promised quick action to address the coronavirus pandemic and boost the ailing US economy once he takes office on Wednesday. His ambitious plan includes 100 million doses to be injected in his first 100 days in office. It calls for neighborhood vaccination centers, improved federal-state cooperation and the mobilization of 100,000 healthcare workers.China reports more than 100 cases for sixth consecutive dayChina continued to report more than 100 cases of infection for the sixth consecutive day. As per the National Health Commission, 109 peple contracted the virus in the last 24 hours. Out of this, 93 were local infections. Hebei recorded the highest number of cases with 54. Northeastern Jilin province reported a record 30 new cases, underscoring the risk of new clusters emerging.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-india-world-latest-news-covid-19-death-toll-january-18-101610931619249.html
18-01-2021||India||I&B ministry summons Amazon Prime India over controversy around 'Tandav'||The Information and Broadcasting Ministry has summoned Amazon Prime Video officials in India in connection with the controversy around the web series 'Tandav', sources said on Sunday.This comes after two Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders alleged that the Saif Ali Khan-starrer web series 'Tandav' hurts Hindu religious sentiments. BJP leader Ram Kadam on Sunday said that he has filed a complaint at Mumbai's Ghatkopar Police Station against 'Tandav'. He alleged that the series has hurt the sentiments of Hindus and he would not tolerate this.Kadam said, "I have decided to write a letter to Union Minister Prakash Javadekar regarding this issue and will also mention that all the Over-the-Top (OTT) platforms must be brought under censorship."When asked which part of the series he objects to, Kadam said, "One of the actors has used Lord Shiva's Trishul and Damru in an objectionable manner which has hurt the sentiments of Hindus.""Strict against should be taken against the actor, director and producer of the web series," he said.Expressing similar concerns, Manoj Kotak, a BJP leader has written a letter to Union Minister Prakash Javadekar.In the letter, Manoj Kotak wrote, "It seems that the makers of Tandav have mocked Hindu gods and disrespected Hindu religious sentiments. I urge the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting to ban Tandav for the meantime."On January 4, Amazon Prime Video released the trailer of 'Tandav'.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ib-ministry-summons-amazon-prime-india-over-controversy-around-tandav-101610927976490.html
18-01-2021||India||Farm stir, leadership crisis in Punjab unit pose twin challenges for BJP||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Punjab is facing the twin challenges of having to counter the opposition’s allegations that the new agricultural laws are anti-farmer and seek to benefit corporate entities and to ensure that the strife-ridden state unit works cohesively.A section of farmers in Punjab and Haryana are protesting the farm laws. They are seeking a repeal of the three farm laws which they allege will hurt their incomes, erode their bargaining power and leave them at the mercy of agribusinesses.According to functionaries aware of the details, the friction within the Punjab unit of the BJP has increased with many members seeking an overhaul that would include a new leadership. In January last year, Ashwani Sharma, a former legislator from Pathankot, was appointed president of state unit.One senior state functionary who was in Delhi recently to meet party chief JP Nadda said the state unit has been “leaderless and faceless”. “For long the party has played second fiddle to the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD). The alliance did not allow the BJP to expand its footprint in the rural areas. Even when the party cadre wanted to break the alliance with the SAD, the central leadership did not respond. Now there is a leadership crisis and this has been conveyed to the top,” said the functionary, requesting anonymity.SAD walked out of the NDA over the passage of the farm laws in September.The person quoted above blamed the friction and groups within the state unit for allowing the farm agitation to drag on. “Initially two senior leaders, Surjit Kumar Jyani and Harjit Singh Grewal, were deputed to have meetings with the farmers to end the deadlock. A meeting scheduled almost two months ago between the agitating farm leaders and the union agriculture minister was cancelled at the last minute because of differences in state unit. This when Jyani was made chair of a five-member committee to talk to farmers,” the first functionary said. While Jyani could not be reached for a comment, Grewal declined to speak, but said the meetings aimed at apprising the central leaders of the situation on the ground.A second functionary said the party’s expansion and consolidation in the state appears difficult in the absence of a “Sikh face” and leaders who have clout within the state’s scheduled caste population. “There is a need to have leaders in the forefront who have ties with the SC community. Other opposition parties have been wooing the SCs,” the second person said.A third Delhi-based functionary said, “The field is now open to the extreme left and its impact will be seen particularly in Taran Taran, Amritsar in the Sangrur-Barnala belt...”Professor Pramod Kumar, director of Chandigarh-based Institute for Development and Communication, said, “The party needs to clarify what is its vision, ideology, its economic and political agenda for the state. Bringing a face alone cannot absolve the party of its lack of agenda or vision,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-stir-leadership-crisis-in-punjab-unit-pose-twin-challenges-for-bjp-101610925847388.html
18-01-2021||India||Has Goa become moral compass for the world?||The Government of Goa has done the sensible thing by withdrawing plans to set up an IIT Goa in the cashew growing Melauli village, at the Western Ghats.And the local people have done well by protesting and bringing attention to their life-style choices. Both deserve congratulations, although one waits to see what happens to the IIT project.These events are not just local governance-they are the Indian parables for our climate-change stricken era, the moral compass of our tired times.The year 2020 was not only marked by Covid-19. It was also the hottest year recorded, according to NASA. It is climate change that is at play-swifter and harsher than we collectively realized.In this context, Goa’s collective decision not to build the Indian Institute of Technology bears a profound lesson for the world.If you’ve been following the discussions, one of the constant refrains is of the villagers wanting to tend their land, their cashew plantations.They don’t want potentially well-paying jobs working at IIT, they don’t want to leave agriculture. They want to nurture the land. They want to continue belonging to the land, the water, the forests. They are asking to live a low carbon footprint.Globally, we have much to learn from the people of Melauli-morally and economically, if we want to fight climate change with any success.Profession apart, by protecting the world’s biodiversity hotspot, the Western Ghats, they could prevent extinctions, potential floods and the full impact of freak weather events. We are all beneficiaries. Let’s give them a high five.(The writer is Founder and Director, Chintan Environmental Research and Action Group)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/has-goa-become-moral-compass-for-the-world-101610925349197.html
18-01-2021||India||Centre planning scheme to push for production, export of drones||The ministry of electronics and information technology (MeitY), in a first-of-its-kind policy, plans to offer a major boost to the manufacturing and export of drones and robots, putting on the table production-linked incentives (PLIs), people familiar with the matter said.India ranks low globally when it comes to production of drones and robots, and the country’s drone regulatory policy is still a work in progress. The policy for unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) falls under the purview of the ministry of civil aviation, and will spell out who can fly a drone, in which places and with what kind of payload. The scheme to push production of robotics and drones will be rolled out with PLIs on the lines of those offered to mobile handset makers, the people cited in the first instance said.The government in October cleared 16 proposals by domestic and international companies entailing investment of Rs.11,000 crore under the PLI scheme to manufacture mobile phones worth Rs.10.5 lakh crore over the next five years. “The mobile phone PLI aims to create approximately $8 billion production per players, with overall $150 million incentives given out over five years,” said one of the people familiar with the matter. “Similarly, for drones and robotics, the tally will be at least $2 billion production per player.” The person mentioned above added that the market for drones and robotics was still an emerging one and the scheme will help India capture a foothold in the global market.The PLIs for drones and robots will be the fourth set of incentives offered by MeitY, which rolled out similar schemes for manufacturers of laptops and tablets, and other electronic components such as wearables and headphones.A second person familiar with the matter said demand for robotics and drones is potentially huge, with companies such as Amazon Inc. investing heavily in UAVs. “All delivery services will have to reorient themselves to accommodate the new technology,” the second person said. According to experts, while India has capabilities in Artificial Intelligence (AI ) and robotics, it hasn’t been able to leverage the manufacturing sector to scale up productions.On a global scale, India is low in the robotics and AI sector, which has both civilian and military applications, said Umakanth Soni, chief executive officer of AI and Robotics Technologies Park. “It is great that MeitY is looking at doing this.” India has vast potential as a producer of drones, said Chirag Sharma of HubbleFly, a local drone manufacturer. “The industry has not seen scale in terms of a consumption point of view, incentives would be needed,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-planning-scheme-to-push-for-production-export-of-drones-101610924660481.html
18-01-2021||India||Amaravati land scam ex-Andhra HC judge files personal affidavit in Supreme Court||A former Andhra Pradesh high court judge has filed a personal affidavit in the Supreme Court to admit that he was “trying to collect more evidence” on the alleged involvement of the daughters of a sitting top court judge in the Amaravati land scam.The sitting SC judge, the leaked conversation and an FIR registered in connection with the Amaravati land cases, make it clear, is Justice NV Ramana.Justice V Eswaraiah has filed his personal affidavit as part of his appeal against the Andhra Pradesh high court order to investigate an alleged phone conversation between him and a suspended judicial officer, which the HC had dubbed as a “serious conspiracy” to destablise the judiciary.In his affidavit that will be examined by the Supreme Court on Monday, justice Eswaraiah, who retired as acting chief justice of the Andhra Pradesh HC in 2013, has submitted on oath to affirm that he indeed had a conversation with the suspended district munsif magistrate about the senior SC judge and then chief justice of the high court. “That the relatives of a senior sitting SC judge were involved in these transactions (Amaravati land deals) was the information I had received, and was trying to collect more evidence with regard to it,” stated the affidavit by the retired judge, who is presently the chairman of state’s higher education regulatory and monitoring commission.“I sought information and material from Mr Ramakrishna (judicial officer) in that phone conversation with regard to benami transactions, involving the Capital Region Development Authority (CRDA) in Andhra Pradesh, and involvement of the relatives of the said Supreme Court judge,” read the affidavit, adding any inquiry into his personal chats will be violating his right to privacy.Justice Eswaraiah said after this contentious conversation with the munsif magistrate on July 20 last year, an FIR was registered naming the two daughters of the sitting SC judge, Justice Ramana.Justice Eswaraiah has filed his affidavit after an SC bench, headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan, directed him on January 11 to affirm it on oath that the voice in recorded conversation was his and he filed a correct transcript of the recording.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amaravati-land-scam-ex-andhra-hc-judge-files-personal-affidavit-in-supreme-court-101610924244289.html
18-01-2021||India||Govt asks SC to accept panel’s majority view on wider road for Char Dham highway project||The ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH) has urged the Supreme Court to accept the majority view of the high-powered committee (HPC), which has favoured a 10-metre road width for the Rs.12,000-crore Char Dham highway project.In its affidavit, the ministry has pointed out that 21 out of 26 members of the court-appointed HPC have been in favour of the wider road to ease movement of military forces along the Indo-China border areas, and to ensure better amenities for local communities.The MoRTH, expressing its acceptance of the majority view, has also agreed that HPC should monitor the Char Dham road project, aimed at improving connectivity to the Hindu pilgrimage sites of Yamunotri, Gangotri, Kedarnath and Badrinath.The affidavit has been filed before a bench, headed by justice Rohinton F Nariman, which will take up the MoRTH’s plea on Monday. The top court had in September 2020 ordered that the road width on the entire Char Dham route cannot be more than 5.5 m in view of MoRTH’s own circular in 2018.Subsequently, MoRTH as well as the ministry of defence (MoD) sought a modification of this order, citing security concerns amid tensions along the Indo-China border.While these circulars restricted the widening of roads in hilly and mountainous terrains based on the number of vehicles plying every day, the MoD emphasised that aspects relating to movement of troops and artillery were overlooked.Subsequently, the bench referred this issue to the HPC for making suitable recommendations to the court. The HPC submitted its report in two parts – the majority repot and minority report, dated December 31, 2020.Meanwhile, by a fresh circular on December 15, 2020, MoRTH also amended its previous circular and increased the road width in hilly and mountainous terrains along the Indo-China border to 10 m.In its report to the SC, the high-powered committee presented a divided opinion with the majority in favour of the wider roads on the Char Dham route, considering the strategic requirement and snow removal needs. The majority report also took into account the state government’s focus on reversing the migration in border areas by providing ample livelihood opportunities and ease of transportation, and said that the latest MoRTH circular on wider roads should be accepted.The majority report added it is not “feasible” to revisit the entire project where work is already completed and reduce the road width from 10 m to 5.5 m, underlining that it was “impractical” to reclaim the already tarred road because it will not be possible to grow trees on the excavated parts.“Road width may be kept as approved for Char Dham with flexibility as per site conditions, considering the prior, during and post vulnerability of the terrain in the design, instead of restricting the road width,” stated the majority report, adding landslides may have no direct connection with road cutting and constructions.The minority group comprised high-powered committee chairman Ravi Chopra, who is a noted environmentalist, and two other members, however, expressed their dissent and maintained that the road width should be restricted to 5.5 m.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-asks-sc-to-accept-panel-s-majority-view-on-wider-road-for-char-dham-highway-project-101610923752203.html
18-01-2021||India||ED moves HC for Robert Vadra's custodial interrogation||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has moved an application in the Rajasthan high court for the custodial interrogation of Robert Vadra, the son-in-law of Congress chief Sonia Gandhi, in connection with a land case in Bikaner that will be heard on Monday.Earlier, the high court had restrained the ED from arresting the partners of Sky Light Hospitality Company. Robert Vadra and his mother Maureen Vadra are partners in the company. On January 21, 2019, the court directed both to appear before ED for questioning in the Bikaner land case. A counsel who appeared for Sky Light in the high court confirmed the ED’s application on condition of anonymity, and said that a reply was being filed. He said the ED has said that the investigation, which was in accordance with Section 2(NA) of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002, for collection of evidence was being stalled due to non-cooperation by the partners of the Sky Light Hospitality Company.The ED is conducting an initial inquiry into a money laundering case in the Bikaner land case. The ED has registered an enforcement case information report in the case and summoned Vadra for questioning but in 2018 the firm approached Rajasthan high court against it.Vadra’s lawyer KTS Tulsi said: “We are ready for arguments. We will argue when the matter is taken up by the court. We also have a recent Supreme Court judgment to support our contentions against the ED’s plea.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-moves-hc-for-robert-vadra-s-custodial-interrogation-101610923458125.html
18-01-2021||India||Dense fog engulfs parts of north India, mercury dips||States in the Himalayan foothills stretching from Punjab to Meghalaya recorded dense fog on Sunday, with reduced visibility over the entire region till midday.This also led to several places in northwest India and the Indo-Gangetic Plains recording very low day temperatures as fog cover blocked the warmth from the sun.Delhi recorded a ‘cold day’, with the Safdarjung station recording 15.3 degrees C, 5 degrees C below normal; Palam recorded 14.3 degrees C, 5.5 degrees C below normal and Lodhi road 14.4 degrees C, 5.4 degrees C below normal.“This is the peak fog episode this year as per satellite images. On Saturday, Amritsar, Chandigarh, Delhi, Varanasi, Gaya all airports had recorded zero visibility for some time. Today (Sunday), it was slightly better but still dense. This vast layer of low cloud formation is very specific to the Indo-Gangetic region but this year its occurrence is delayed. The worst fog episodes have been recorded in El Nino years. La Nina years are associated with clear skies and cold nights but this year too we are seeing such a major fog episode,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist, national weather forecasting centre.Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, said: “This January has been cold. We recorded 1.1 degrees C on January 1. Normally minimum temperatures dip to around 3-4 degrees C. There is a layer of uplifted fog stretching across the Himalayan foothills. This is mainly because of high relative humidity, slow winds and cold air.”M Mohapatra, director general, IMD, said: “We predicted dense fog. Whenever an intense western disturbance passes, there is a lot of moisture in the air and the air is also cool. (A WD caused widespread snowfall in the hills and rain in the plains on January 6 and 7). These conditions are favourable for fog formation and also for development of ‘cold day’ to ‘severe cold day’ conditions. Today, there was dense fog in Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar.”Another western disturbance is likely to bring widespread snowfall to the western Himalayan region on January 22 following which minimum and maximum temperatures will drop once again over northwest India, according to forecasts.Dense to very dense fog was recorded on Sunday over Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and parts of Uttarakhand, Delhi and north Rajasthan. ‘Cold day’ to ‘severe cold day’ conditions occurred at most places over Punjab and Haryana and at isolated places over UP. The lowest minimum temperature over the plains of northwest India was 1.4 degrees C recorded at Pilani in Rajasthan.The current spell of dense to very dense fog across the Indo-Gangetic plains is likely to reduce during the next 2-3 days, with likely occurrence of dense to very dense fog in some pockets over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, north Rajasthan, Bihar, Sub-Himalayan West Bengal, Sikkim, Odisha, Assam, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura during the same period.‘Cold day’ to ‘severe cold day’ conditions are likely in isolated pockets over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi during the next 24 hours and ‘cold day’ conditions in isolated pockets over Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and West Bengal during the next two days, IMD said in its Sunday bulletin.Currently, easterly winds are prevailing at lower levels over the plains of north India. This is likely to cause gradual rise in minimum temperatures by 2-4 degrees C over most parts of northwest India during the next 48 hours. Thereafter a reversal of wind direction is likely to westerly/northwesterly from January 20. This is likely to cause gradual fall in minimum temperatures by 2-4 degrees C during subsequent 2-3 days (January 20 to 22) over the same region, the bulletin added.According to IMD, a cold day or a severe cold day is classified as such based on two parameters — a minimum temperature of under 10 degrees C and maximum temperature of 4.5 degrees C or 6.4 degrees C below normal, respectively. A cold wave occurs in the plains when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and/or is 4.5 notches lower than the season’s normal for two consecutive days. A cold wave is also declared when the minimum temperature is less than 4 degrees C in the plains.IMD in its seasonal outlook for winter had said nights and early mornings are likely to be chilly, recording below normal minimum temperatures over most parts of north, northwest, central and some parts of east India while day temperatures are likely to be above normal over the same regions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dense-fog-engulfs-parts-of-north-india-mercury-dips-101610923108547.html
18-01-2021||India||In jail for 14 yrs, ex-army man acquitted of murder charge||An ex-army man, who was arrested in 2006 in connection with a murder in Madhya Pradesh’s Morena district, has been acquitted by the Gwalior bench of the MP high court just 11 days before his release from prison, la lawyer said .Balveer Singh Yadav, 45, a resident of Bharrad village in Morena and his friend Radheshyam Yadav had been arrested for the murder of Surendra Rajput, a resident of Banmore in the same district.He was convicted by a district and sessions court while his friend was acquitted. Yadav was awarded life imprisonment.“Yadav completed the jail term of 14 years and the state government was going to give him benefit of remission on January 26, 2021 (Republic Day) but before his release, the MP high court’s, Gwalior bench declared him innocent on January 15,” said Atul Gupta, the lawyer of Balveer Singh Yadav.A bench of the court comprising judges Anand Pathak and Vishal Mishra, in its judgment delivered on Friday,ruled: “Regretfully appellant’s 14 years which otherwise he could have served the nation as army personnel cannot be returned back, but certainly he can be given solace by removing stigma of an accused from him; therefore this court proceeded to conclude its findings on merits.”“It is concluded that prosecution wasn’t able to prove the case beyond reasonable doubt and there are material contradictions, omissions and discrepancies {that} crept into the case of {the} prosecution. It is the duty of prosecution to prove the case beyond reasonable doubt and here eyewitness account, dying declaration, evidence nowhere [were] sufficient to conclude that Balveer committed offence. In the absence of motive, rely on the evidence of last seen conviction cannot be maintained. On such doubtful pretext, appellant couldn’t have been convicted. Appellant is directed to be released,” read the order.Balveer Singh said: “I was made accused just because I was seen with Surendra Yadav before his death. I am happy that stigma of being a murderer has been removed but I lost my job, pride and important 14 years.”“My trust on judiciary has increased but I will request the central government and judiciary to fix the time limit for a judgment of any case because it was very tough for me to take punishment for a crime which I never committed,” Singh added.(With inputs from Mahesh Shivhare from Gwalior)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-jail-for-14-yrs-ex-army-man-acquitted-of-murder-charge-101610922706219.html
18-01-2021||India||India assures Nepal on vaccines, supply schedule likely next week||The Narendra Modi government has given ironclad assurances to Nepal that it will be among the first countries to receive a pair of Covid-19 vaccines being manufactured in India, the supply schedule for which will be announced this week. The assurance was conveyed to Nepalese foreign minister Pradeep Gyawali during his visit to New Delhi for the Joint Commission Meeting with external affairs minister Subrahmanyam Jaishankar.While the political detractors of Nepal Prime Minister Khadga Prasad Sharma Oli had portrayed Gyawali’s visit as a damp squib, fact is that interlocutors of the Nepalese foreign minister in New Delhi were impressed by the professionalism and sobriety with which he approached the bilateral relationship with India.Gyawali could not meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi as the Indian PM was totally involved in the launch of the Covid-19 vaccination drive on January 16, according to top government officials. It was only due to the PM’s prior commitments that Gyawali was received by defence minister Rajnath Singh, who is number two in the Modi government.It is understood that India will be taking care of emergency requirements of its friends by supplying vaccines for restricted use to priority countries in the neighbourhood like Bhutan, Bangladesh, Myanmar and the Maldives apart from Nepal with the supply schedule being worked out now.According to government interlocutors, Gyawali briefed Jaishankar about the preparedness of Nepal to receive the vaccines being manufactured in India. Nepal’s drug regulator approved emergency use of the Covishield vaccine being manufactured by the Serum Institute of India during the foreign minister’s visit to India.The two countries are now on the way of discussing training of medical modules, who will vaccinate Nepalese front-line workers during the restricted use period. Nepal has a total of 267,056 Covid-19 cases with as many as 1,954 people losing their lives to the pandemic, which originated in China at the end of 2019.During Gyawali’s visit, the two sides agreed to gradually open the air and land route connectivity, which had been hit by the pandemic. The two countries also agreed to expedite the field location survey related to the Raxaul-Kathmandu railway line. While India and Nepal decided to deepen defence cooperation through closer military-to-military links, Rajnath Singh also offered to provide humanitarian assistance and disaster relief training and capacity building to the Oli government.“There were no acrimonious notes during Gyawali’s visit, with the visitor taking a very responsible view of the bilateral relationship,” said an officials present in the bilateral meetings, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-assures-nepal-on-vaccines-supply-schedule-likely-next-week-101610921970881.html
18-01-2021||India||Decoding fine print of Supreme Court order on farm laws||“We are not experts on agriculture or economics,” emphasised Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde in the prelude to the Supreme Court’s order to constitute a committee on the three farm laws after staying the legislation.Nor are they expected to be.For instance, judges of the court cannot be expected to be experts in matters of faith, the scriptures, history, or archaeology. Its judges are not expected to be well versed with the vedas and the Puranas or the Hadith and the Quran. Yet, the court has had no compunctions in adjudicating the Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid dispute or the triple talaq case.Which is exactly how it should be.And which is why it is baffling why the highest court in the land took the position that interpreting and deciding on three connected laws on agriculture and agricultural markets were issues beyond its expertise or experience. But that isn’t the only issue with the court’s approach to the farm laws case.Less than 10 days ago, another three-judge bench in the top court delivered an over 600-page judgment while validating the Centre’s decision on redevelopment of the iconic Central Vista in the national capital. This judgment dealt elaborately with how the review of a policy decision by the government entails a limited enquiry. “Second guessing by the court or substitution of judicial opinion on what would constitute a better policy is strictly excluded from the purview of this enquiry,” held this bench, underscoring the inherent dangers of subjective opinion by “three gentlemen or five gentlemen sitting as a Court.”Again, on January 7, another three-judge bench said: “A decision of a public authority which is entrusted with a public duty is amenable to judicial review. But it is quite another hypothesis to postulate that the decision-making authority should be taken over by the court. The latter is impermissible.”Which is, again, exactly how it should be.So, the interim order by the CJI-led bench in staying the farm laws is clearly a departure from the principles enunciated in the Central Vista verdict and another order by the coordinate benches of three judges each, both delivered within the past fortnight. Even if one were to discount the settled legal principle of “presumption of constitutionality” of a law, as laid down in a body of judicial precedents starting in the 1970s, the stay order fails to show any level of consistency in decision-making to foster judicial credibility.Notably, CJI Bobde was completely mindful of the thumb rule of “presumption of constitutionality” when his bench took up petitions regarding other controversial legislations such as the EWS Quota law and the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, or CAA. Justice Bobde headed the benches, which refused to stay implementation of these laws.On January 9, 2020, dealing with a petition relating to the CAA, Justice Bobde had remarked: “There is a presumption of constitutionality of law. Our job is to examine the validity of a law.” A year on, the action of the first bench in the SC on the farm laws case seems a departure from the established principles of separation of power and dictum of judicial precedents. While staying the farm laws, the CJI-bench cited how the court earlier stayed the Maratha reservation. But Justice Bobde had himself chosen not to stay the EWS reservation law in similar circumstances. And the stay order in Maratha reservation had adduced reasons why the state legislation was being suspended – on questions of legislative competence and breach of 50% quota ceiling as laid down by the SC in Indra Sawhney (Mandal) judgment — unlike the stay order on the farm laws, which gave no reasons at all.The court’s action has, thus, given rise to a strange situation where a stay order has been passed without examining the spectrum of legal and constitutional questions involved and specifying the reasons why the laws are prima facie unconstitutional or against the public interest. It obscures established judicial procedures and the rule of precedent. At the same time, it elucidates a reluctance to specify the normative basis on which the court’s actions are based.Instead, a never-heard-before “hurt” maxim has apparently moved the court, as it notes that staying the farm laws “may assuage the hurt feelings of the farmers and encourage them to come to the negotiating table with confidence and good faith.”Bereft of legal reasoning, this order may well have dragged the Supreme Court into the political thicket where the top court has embarked on managing the administrative exigencies stemming from the farm laws — it now has a committee to assist it in this job — instead of a genuine hearing on the substantive matter at hand.Its choice of strategy is indicative of judicial adhocism and the principle of deference, which was once a feature of the executive. On the latter, apart from the challenge to the farm laws, there are several other legislations which are awaiting a ruling by the SC. Let alone deciding the validity of some substantial laws, the government’s notification on demonetisation (in 2016) is yet to be ruled on by the court, after having been referred to a constitution bench in 2017, thereby rendering exercise an academic one. And on the former, the court’s decision is indicative of an attempt to provide ad hoc solutions, not based on any discernible principles of rule of law or rule of precedents. In this case, this has taken the form of deferring to the wisdom of a committee (whose members the court itself selected).This is antithetical to enforcement of consistent patterns of normative standards and settled judicial principles.The reluctance on the part of the Supreme Court to perform its foremost role of the final arbiter of law and deliver its decision when it really matters is writ large. Its action in this case has already provoked a barrage of criticism. Lack of consistency and equitableness, coupled with reluctance to perform its role as the ultimate arbiter of the Constitution and the law, may undermine the credibility of the Supreme Court.Only if the Supreme Court rises to the occasion; only if cases are treated alike; only if judicial ad hocism is shunned; only if the rule of law dominates, will its word remain truly supreme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/decoding-fine-print-of-sc-order-on-farm-laws-101610921193440.html
18-01-2021||India||Tamil Nadu law varsity wins 17th moot court contest||Tamil Nadu Law University on Sunday won the 17th KK Luthra Memorial Moot Competition, which took place virtually this time in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic and was hosted by Delhi University’s Campus Law Centre. SASTRA deemed university from Thanjavur in Tamil Nadu was the first runner-up.As many as 67 teams from 101 institutions from across the world, including the United Kingdom, Zambia, Australia, Singapore, Nepal, Nigeria, Pakistan and Sri Lanka, registered for the event.This year’s moot problem focused on the law of bail in the context of special bail provisions that reverse the burden of proof against an accused. The final round was adjudicated by a bench of judges from the Delhi high court. Justice Surya Kant of the Supreme Court was the chief guest at the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-law-varsity-wins-17th-moot-court-contest-101610916904241.html
18-01-2021||India||Two Rohingya men arrested for living in Delhi ‘illegally’||Spokespersons of the Delhi Police said they have arrested two Rohingya men who had allegedly been living illegally in west Delhi’s Uttam Nagar for over two months.Senior officers said the two allegedly entered India from Myanmar without any legal permits or documentation in November last year.In a similar action last week, on January 11, six persons, also suspected to be Rohingyas, were detained outside Anand Vihar railway station in east Delhi. The six, who included three children, were handed over to the immigration bureau and sent to a detention centre in Delhi.Deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka) Santosh Kumar Meena, on Friday, said that based on local information, two men, Hamid Hussain (23) and Nabi Hussain (22), were arrested from Hastsal village in Uttam Nagar. A case was registered against them under the Foreigners Act, Meena said.Nabi and Hamid allegedly told the police that both of them are permanent residents of Myanmar and they had entered India illegally on November 1 last year, through the Bangladesh border. “Both of them belong to the Myanmar’s Buthidaung region. They were both found living in Delhi without any legal passport or visa and were therefore arrested,” Meena said.In the earlier detention on January 11, a police team in east Delhi detained six Rohingyas — two boys aged 10 and 14, a 15-year-old girl, a 60-year-old man, a woman, 50 and a 31-year-old man.An investigation revealed that they had arrived in Delhi by train from Tripura. They allegedly told the police during questioning that they had crossed into India illegally, with the help of some of their contacts at the border.Deputy commissioner of police (east) Deepak Yadav said all six were detained and handed over to the Foreigners Regional Registration Officer. “They were sent to a detention centre in Lampur, Delhi as the matter is under investigation,” Yadav said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-rohingya-men-arrested-for-living-in-delhi-illegally-101610916425786.html
18-01-2021||India||Protesting farmers say won’t take vaccine till farm laws are junked||Samyukt Kisan Morcha – an umbrella body of 40 farmers’ bodies protesting at Delhi’s borders– on Sunday announced a tractor parade on Outer Ring Road on January 26, a day before the Supreme Court hearing on seeking injunction against the proposed march.“This will be a peaceful parade. No disruption will be caused to official Republic Day celebrations or provocative speeches will be made. The national flag will be placed on all tractors,” farmer leaders said during the press conference.Farmer leaders said they will urge the Haryana and Delhi Police to cooperate. “There will be no threat to any national heritage sites, or to any other site. The vehicles in the parade will consist of tableaus and floats that will reflect the agricultural reality of different states in addition to showcasing historical regional and other movements. No political party flags will be allowed,” said farmer leader Darshan Pal.Meanwhile, a day after India kicked off its vaccination drive against Covid , farmers protesting at Delhi’s borders maintained that they would not leave the capital to go to their home states to get vaccinated before the three contentious farm laws were repealed.Though the first round of vaccines have been reserved for health care personnel followed by front line workers, the elderly – considered to be at risk – will be next in line to get the vaccines administered. This is crucial as a sizable number of farmers protesting at the national capital’s borders are above 50 years of age. On Sunday, Chamkaur Singh, 63 and his friend Dabinder Singh, 61, from Moga district of Punjab, were among the several at the protest site who said they will not return to their villages to get vaccinated unless the three new contentious farm laws were repealed.“We have heard many doctors say that Covid-19 existed earlier as well and affected people with less immunity. There are thousands of poor people living on the streets here, who have no means to wash their hands or wear masks. How are they managing? We believe the lockdown was just a ploy of the government to get the [farm] laws passed without any resistance,” said Chamkaur Singh, who hails from Dhudike village in Moga district, and is a member of Kirti Kisaan Union.Dabinder added, “We will get vaccinated only if we have the disease. Not otherwise.”Several others in the crowd added that they did not trust the government’s claims on the fatality rate of Covid-19 disease. Balpreet Singh, 28, a farmer from Marur village in Firozpur, said, “We have been here since day one and it has been impossible to maintain physical distancing. Yet, we are yet to encounter any Covid-19 cases in our group of 100-200 people. The fear of the disease is more fatal than the disease itself.” “What will we do with the vaccine if we lose our lands and homes eventually due to the farm laws? This fight will continue and we are now looking forward to the tractor march on Republic Day,” he said.However, not all protesters were against taking the Covid shots. Kuldeep Kaur, 68, a farmer from Chamkaur Sahib in Rupnagar district, said, “Though we don’t have Covid-19 cases in our village, I will get vaccinated when I return to Punjab and the vaccine is made available to us. I will not get vaccinated here though.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wont-take-vaccine-till-farm-laws-are-junked-protesters-101610915953485.html
18-01-2021||India||Will hold peaceful R-Day parade in Delhi: farm unions||New Delhi Tens of thousands of farmers protesting against the three new agricultural laws will take out a Kisan Republic Day parade (farmers’ Republic Day parade) in a “disciplined and peaceful” way in the national Capital on January 26, the unions said on Sunday.The farm unions representing tens of thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, have launched a mass agitation on the borders of the national capital, demanding that the government scrap three laws approved by Parliament in September. The laws are aimed at freeing agricultural markets from government restrictions, which the farmers say will leave them at the mercy of big corporations.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, a platform of farm unions spearheading the ongoing farmers’ agitation, said farmers all over the country would also take out similar parades in state capitals and district headquarters. The unions said their tractor parade would cover a 60-km stretch and pass through New Delhi’s Outer Ring Road, covering areas such as Peeragarhi, Janakpuri and Munirka.They added that their march would commence only after the official military parade on Rajpath ends, so that official celebrations to mark the Republic Day are not disrupted.“Farmers on hundreds of tractors decorated beautifully, along with tableau, will take out an eye-catching parade,” said Darshan Pal, a senior farm leader.The Union government had earlier asked the Supreme Court to not allow the farmers’ procession, citing security concerns, but the court had said farmers had the right to protest peacefully.“This is not a preparation for any attack. Nor are we going to go to Rajpath or Red Fort. We will be disciplined and peaceful. We will maintain honour and dignity that the occasion deserves,” senior farm leader Yogendra Yadav said.Yadav also said that the farmers’ tractors during the parade would only display the national flag with appropriate respect and flags of farm unions.“The decision to hold a peaceful tractor rally with national flag on Outer Ring Road is a befitting reply to those accusing farmers of being anti-national, alleging that the rally would disrupt Republic Day parade,” said Sudhir Panwar, a farm leader and former member of Uttar Pradesh Planning Commission.The ninth round of discussions between the Union government and farm unions protesting three agricultural laws failed to make any progress on Friday, but both sides agreed to meet again on January 19 despite the stalemate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-hold-peaceful-r-day-parade-in-delhi-farm-unions-101610912245250.html
18-01-2021||India||Boris Johnson invites PM Modi to UK for June G7 summit||The UK has invited Prime Minister Narendra Modi to attend the G7 Summit, which British Prime Minister Boris Johnson will use to ask global leaders to seize the opportunity to rebuild the world after the Covid-19 pandemic to make the future fairer, greener and more prosperous.The summit will be held in Cornwall during June 11-13, and the UK will use its G7 presidency to “unite leading democracies to help the world build back better from the coronavirus and create a greener, more prosperous future”, said a statement by the British high commission.Besides India, Australia and South Korea have also been invited as guest countries to the first in-person G7 Summit in almost two years.As the “pharmacy of the world, India already supplies more than 50% of the world’s vaccines, and the UK and India have worked closely together throughout the pandemic. Our prime ministers speak regularly and Prime Minister Johnson has said he will visit India ahead of the G7”, the statement said.Prime ministers and presidents from the world’s leading democracies will come together in the UK to address shared challenges, from beating the coronavirus and tackling climate change to ensuring that people everywhere can benefit from open trade, technological change and scientific discovery.The G7 — made up of the UK, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and the US — is the only forum where the world’s most influential and open societies and advanced economies are brought together for close-knit discussions. The heads of government of the member states, as well as the representatives of the European Union, meet at the annual G7 Summit.The UK invited the leaders of India, Australia and South Korea to attend as guest countries to “deepen the expertise and experience around the table”, the statement said.The invitation to three countries is also a “testament to the UK’s commitment to ensuring multilateral institutions better reflect today’s world”, it said.The UK was the first P5 member to support a permanent UN Security Council seat for India and the first G7 member to invite India to a G7 Summit in 2005. As current president of Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa (Brics) and G20 president in 2023, “India will play a key role driving in multilateral cooperation helping to build back better around the world”, the statement said.Johnson plans to use the G7 Summit to intensify cooperation between the world’s democratic and technologically advanced nations. Between them, the 10 leaders represent more than 60% of the people living in democracies around the world.The UK will also host several meetings throughout the year between government ministers from the G7, both virtually and in different locations across Britain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/boris-johnson-invites-pm-modi-to-uk-for-june-g7-summit-101610911437157.html
18-01-2021||India||India inoculates 220k individuals over two days of Covid-19 vaccination drive||Six states carried out roughly 17,000 more coronavirus vaccinations on Sunday, the Union health ministry said, pegging the figure of total immunisations at 224,301 since the process began on Saturday morning.According to officials, among the 207,229 who got doses on the first day, three people — or .0014% — had significant side effects. Of these three, two were hospitalised overnight and discharged the following day while one remained admitted as of late Sunday.“None of the three had any serious adverse reactions post immunisation.They largely had fever, headache, nausea, etc. Only three people of all having experienced adverse reactions needed to be hospitalised, of which two have already been discharged,” said Manohar Agnani, additional secretary, health ministry, while updating on the Covid-19 vaccination drive that began in the country on Saturday.Overall, a total of 447 adverse events following immunisation (AEFI) were reported and most were mild side effects such as headache, nausea and low-grade fever.The three who had significant side effects were each vaccinated at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi, the Northern Railways Hospital in the Capital and AIIMS, Rishikesh. The recipient in the Rishikesh facility was yet to be discharged.According to separate officials at each of these facilities, who asked not to be named, AIIMS Delhi used Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin while the other two facilities used Serum Institute of India’s Covishield. Across the country, a large majority of the vaccinations done on Saturday were using the Covishield vaccine since that has one of the highest volumes of ready stock.“There is a set protocol to deal with adverse events post immunisation that will be followed across the centres conducting vaccination sessions. Protocols are also in place for systemic investigation and causality assessment of serious AEFIs, which doesn’t end at hospitalising the recipient, rather it needs to be established whether the reaction happened due to vaccination or something else,” said Agnani.According to the ministry, a majority of adverse event following immunisation (AEFI) are minor in nature: pain, mild swelling at injection site, mild fever, body ache, nausea, giddiness, and mild allergic reactions such as rashes, etc.In Delhi, the state health minister said a large number of health workers who had been registered and identified for immunisations on the first day did not turn up, and that the administration will make efforts to encourage them to get their shots.“We will hold counselling sessions to create awareness so that apprehensions of the health workers could be allayed.They will also be called on phones to seek their confirmation and also to encourage them to come forward for taking the vaccines,” a senior Delhi government official said, while asking not to be named.On Saturday, only 53% of the 8,117 registered health workers scheduled for immunisations turned up.“Some people decided not to turn up at the last moment. The vaccination programme is completely voluntary. We cannot ask anyone to compulsorily take the shot even if the person has registered for it,” said Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain earlier in the day, while adding that those that miss their appointments will be given a second chance.The Union health ministry official said that the Centre has advised states to keep vaccination sessions four days in a week to avoid disruption of routine health services.While all states participated in the Covid-19 vaccination drive on Saturday, only six states did so on Sunday. In all, 17,072 more health care workers were vaccinated on Sunday at 553 sites.The six that conducted vaccinations on Sunday are Andhra Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Manipur and Tamil Nadu.States across the country have already disclosed their weekly schedules and on days there are holidays or routine immunisation drive planned, Covid-19 vaccines will not be administered.Andhra Pradesh has opted for vaccinations six days a week because it has a robust system of a separate cadre for conducting routine immunisation, the Union health ministry official said. Some states have also gone for fewer than four days for coronavirus vaccinations.“States that have decided to conduct vaccination session twice in a week is mainly because they have a small cohort of people to be vaccinated and those involved in vaccination activity, such as Goa, Himachal Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh,” said Agnani.The country pulled off the highest number of Covid-19 vaccinations on day one in the world, the official added.“It is higher than USA, the UK and France on day one. The Centre has held meetings with the states and Union territories today to review the progress made, and identify bottlenecks to plan corrective measures,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-vaccinates-224-301-individuals-over-two-days-of-covid-19-vaccination-drive-101610909794711.html
18-01-2021||India||Congress, Left to complete seat-sharing arrangement in Bengal by January end||The Congress, Communist Party of India (Marxist) and other Left parties in West Bengal will complete their seat sharing arrangement for the coming assembly polls by the end of January.The announcement was made on Sunday afternoon by Bengal Congress president and the party’s leader in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury and Left Front chairman Biman Bose after a meeting of the alliance partners.Bengal has 294 assembly seats. The Election Commission of India is likely to announce the schedule of the elections in February and the polls may be held in phases in March and April.Though Chowdhury and Bose did not say how they propose to divide the 294 seats among the Congress and the coalition of 16 Left parties, leaders who attended the meeting said Chowdhury has requested for 110 seats since the Congress managed to retain two Lok Sabha seats in 2019 and also increased its vote share in some pockets.“Seat sharing is an evolving process. We will hold more meetings in the coming days. Our target is to defeat the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and also end the autocratic rule of the Trinamool Congress (TMC). The Congress and the Left parties will work as friends to achieve this,” Chowdhury told the media.Asked about statements by some senior TMC leaders, such as Lok Sabha member Saugata Roy, that the Congress and Left parties should support the ruling party to stop the BJP onslaught, Biman Bose said, “It is the TMC that brought the BJP to Bengal. They are saying these now to confuse people, to create a smokescreen.”“Though we know that the BJP is the nation’s biggest enemy, in view of the situation in Bengal we have to put up a well-organised electoral struggle against both the parties,” said Bose.The Congress and the Left Front partners contested as allies in the 2016 assembly polls but couldn’t stop the TMC from coming to power with 211 seats. Since the Congress benefitted more from the alliance and wrested 44 seats against the Left’s 32, the tie-up did not last.In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the Congress and the Left contested as opponents but it was the BJP that turned heads by winning 18 of the state’s 42 seats, thanks to a huge swing in Left votes in favour of the saffron camp. Seen in terms of assembly segments, the BJP is ahead of the others in 122 assembly seats in 2021 while the TMC is ahead in 163.Union home minister Amit Shah has announced that his party will win more than 200 seats in the coming polls.In terms of vote share in the 2019 polls, the TMC got 43.69 % against 40.64 % secured by the BJP. The CPI(M)’s vote share came down to 6.34 % while the Congress got 5.67%. In terms of loss in votes share, the Left suffered more than the Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-left-to-complete-seat-sharing-arrangement-in-bengal-by-january-end-101610910377448.html
18-01-2021||India||Delhi lab technician helps woman deliver baby in train near Mathura||A physically challenged lab technician from Delhi helped a pregnant woman deliver a baby boy in the Madhya Pradesh Samparik Kranti express train on Saturday night, the Railway Protection Force (RPF) said.The lab technician took instruction from a doctor on a video call and helped the woman deliver the baby, much like a scene from the Aamir Khan blockbuster movie ‘3 Idiots’. At Mathura, the RPF escorted the mother and child to the district hospital in the town.“I had boarded the train to go to Sagar in MP but as the train from Delhi crossed Faridabad, a woman began crying in pain. Co-passengers came to know that the woman who was travelling with her brother to Damoh, was pregnant with due date for delivery on January 20 but her labour pains had started in the moving train,” said Sunil Prajapati, the lab technician at Northern Railway Divisional Hospital in Delhi.“I called my superior in the hospital, Dr Suparna Sen who gave me instruction on video call. I followed the instructions carefully and the woman delivered a healthy baby boy,” Prajapati said.He said they alerted railway authorities as the train had no stoppage at Mathura.“But it stopped at the main line where RPF personnel reached with a stretcher and the woman and her baby were then admitted to the district hospital of Mathura,” he said.“A woman constable from RPF, Jyoti Yadav escorted the woman to Mathura hospital and got her admitted,” said CB Prasad, the inspector in-charge of RPF, Mathura.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-lab-technician-helps-woman-deliver-baby-in-train-near-mathura-101610909181428.html
18-01-2021||India||Opposition seeks probe into Arnab Goswami's chats with former BARC chief||Opposition politicians on Sunday demanded a probe of purported WhatsApp chats of Arnab Goswami, editor-in-chief of Republic TV, and Partho Dasgupta, former chief executive officer of the TV audience measurement agency Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC), in which the former makes remarks that his critics say show he may have had advance knowledge of the Indian Air Force strike on a terrorist camp in Pakistan’s Balakot.The latest salvo against Goswami came from Congress party MP Manish Tewari, who said a joint parliamentary committee should take up the issue as the government and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) remained silent.“If what sections of Media is reporting is correct then it points towards a direct linkage between Balakot air strikes and 2019 General elections. Was National Security milked for electoral purposes ? Needs a JPC investigation,” Tewari wrote on Twitter.The chats form part of Mumbai police’s 3,600-page supplementary charge sheet in a recent scandal over alleged manipulation of TV ratings.The over 500-page transcript of WhatsApp conversations between Goswami and Dasgupta sparked allegations of collusion and alleged access the TV news anchor had to classified information.Three days before the February 26, 2019 IAF strike on a Jaish-e-Mohammed camp in Balakot, in reprisal for the February 14, 2019, Pulwama terrorist attack that left 40 Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) troopers dead, Goswami allegedly said in one of the chats that “something big will happen”, indicating he knew about the military action before it took place.Even Trinamool Congress MP Mahua Moitra raised the issue. “Nation Needs to Know: Transcript of WhatsApp chats shows clearly Government gave prior information about both Balakot strikes & abolishing Article 370 to TV anchor,” she tweeted. “What is going on? Am I the only one who thinks ModiShah owe us answers?”There is a growing clamour among Congress leaders to take up the issue. Party leaders, on condition of anonymity, told Hindustan Times that the issue had been discussed by Congress Lok Sabha MPs. Leaders familiar with the matter said the issue was raised by Congress Lok Sabha MP Karti Chidambaram.“The party must demand answers from the BJP,” a party leader said on the condition of anonymity. “This is not the time to soft-pedal the issue.”Congress functionaries say they are studying the documents closely and will respond to the issue later.Senior party leader such as Jairam Ramesh, Jitendra Singh, Abhishek Manu Singhvi and Karti Chidambaram posted public comments on the issue on Saturday.“Does the @BJP4India have any comments on the #ArnabGate chat details, or is it too trivial to merit a response?,” Karti wrote on Twitter.“Arnab’s chats dated 23.02.2019 refer to sharing of Intel reaction along the Pak border. It means someone very senior in Govt is leaking highly confidential info which may endanger the lives of our soldiers & so that mercenary considerations can add to TRPs {television rating points},” Singhvi said.Ramesh added that BARC was aiding “weapons of mass disinformation”.“Since 1967 BARC has stood for Bhabha Atomic Research Centre. Thanks to Arnab Goswami another self-styled BARC —Broadcast Audience Research Council -- is in news now. The first BARC built a strong & scientific India. The other BARC is aiding & abetting weapons of mass disinformation,” he posted on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-seeks-probe-into-arnab-goswami-s-chats-with-former-barc-chief-101610908453079.html
18-01-2021||India||Govt rules out repeal of farm laws, says ready for tweaks||Union agriculture minister Narendra Tomar on Sunday ruled out a repeal of three contentious agricultural laws, noting that the Supreme Court had already put them in abeyance, but reiterated his offer to discuss the laws clause by clause and bring amendments to address the grievances of protesting farmers.“If the Supreme Court has stayed the implementation of laws, then I think the question of repealing ends. We expect farmers to discuss the laws clause by clause on January 19 and give us options about what amendments can be brought in the laws other than repealing,” the farm minister told news agency ANI in an interview.Tomar said the government was ready to introduce amendments in the laws and expected farmers to discuss the laws clause by clause.“The farmer unions are not budging from their stance, they are constantly asking to repeal the laws. When the government enacts the law, it is for the whole country. Most of the farmers, scholars, scientists, and people working in the agriculture sector agree with these laws,” Tomar said.On January 12, the Supreme Court had stayed the implementation of the three farm laws and set up a committee to address the farmers’ grievances.Farmers’ unions leading the protests have however refused to take part in consultations by the proposed committee. They have said their demand is a complete repeal of the laws.The SC-appointed committee has been directed to hold a dialogue with farmers and submit its report on the farm laws within two months from the date of its first sitting.The minister said the government had even sent a written proposal to the farmers “in which we agreed to address their apprehensions regarding mandis, traders’ registration and other things”.Tens of thousands of farmers have been protesting for over a month against the three farm laws that open up agricultural markets in the country.These laws are the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.Farmers say the laws would erode their bargaining power and leave them at the mercy of big corporations.On a visit to Bagalkote in Karnataka, meanwhile, Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday said doubling farmers’ incomes was the biggest priority of the Narenda Modi government and that the three central farm laws would ensure a manifold increase in their earnings.Since coming to power, the Modi government had increased the budget for the farm sector and also the minimum support price (MSP) for various crops, he said. “I want to say that if there is any big priority of the Narendra Modi government it is to double the farmers income,” he said at an event in Kerakalmatti village.In a speech after laying the foundation stone of farmer-friendly projects initiated by the MRN Group, headed by newly inducted Karnataka minister Murugesh R Nirani, Shah listed various programmes initiated by the central government for the welfare of farmers.Shah also said no one had the courage to revoke Article 370, which conferred special status on Jammu and Kashmir, and Article 35A, which empowered the J&K legislature to define “permanent residents” of the state and provide special rights and privileges to them, in 70 years.“You made Modi the Prime Minister and on August 5, 2019, he ended Article 370 and Article 35A from Kashmir and connected it with India permanently. Today, elections have also happened there peacefully without shedding even a drop of blood and Kashmir has become ours permanently,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-rules-out-repeal-farm-laws-says-ready-for-tweaks-101610906645487.html
18-01-2021||India||Eligible people likely to get option to sign up for jabs on Aarogya Setu||The Centre may allow self-registration by the elderly and those with comorbidities on the Covid Vaccine Intelligence Network (CoWIN) platform for faster and easier enrolment of people to receive a shot of the Covid-19 vaccine.An Aadhaar-based enrolment process is likely to be rolled out for the elderly and those with comorbidities on the CoWIN platform, which is set to be integrated with the widely used Aarogya Setu app.According to documents accessed by HT, the CoWIN platform will allow the public to access its limited features—only those required for enrolment and vaccination and not the complex back-end operations—on the Aarogya Setu app. The app—the single window interface for health-related updates related to Covid-19 —has been downloaded by more than 170 million users. This would now be used in the world’s largest vaccination programme.“There is no need to download any new app for vaccination purposes. This module will be activated soon, once the vaccination of frontline health workers is completed. Along with this a feedback module through Rapid Assessment System (RAS) developed by MeitY is also being integrated,” says an internal government note.MeitY is short for the ministry of electronics and information technology.The government had so far conducted door-to-door surveys for contact tracing and rigorously tracked Covid-19 patients for months last year in its battle against the pandemic. Aarogya Setu and hospital data provided ready-made information on the age or comorbidities of millions of Indians.The self-registration process, experts maintain, is to ensure foolproof identification of deserving candidates for receiving the vaccine.The other and more complicated functions of CoWIN is to digitally integrate various steps, right from the time the vaccine is out from the factory and till it is administered to a recipient. It will monitor the movement of each dose of vaccine at the appropriate temperature.For the registration of beneficiaries, a unique health ID will be generated for each individual. “Those who don’t have Aadhaar or can’t do Aadhaar authentication with OTP will be verified through mobile numbers and taking photographs,” said the note.A guideline to the states adds that the CoWIN portal (cowin.gov.in) might also be used for self-registration of the general public. The platform will also be used for creation of state and district level admins, and the database of vaccinators and supervisors, and for management of material relevant to Covid-19 vaccination and its allocation.,||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/people-may-be-allowed-to-self-register-for-a-vaccine-101610906284692.html
18-01-2021||India||India delivers 1st batch of heavy cranes to bolster operations at Chabahar port||India has delivered a consignment of heavy equipment, including cranes, for further development of Iran’s Chabahar port, signalling New Delhi’s commitment to the strategic connectivity project that can provide access to markets in Central Asia.The consignment included two mobile harbour cranes of 140 tonnes, which were acquired from the Italian firm Italgru S.r.l. under a deal for a total of six cranes, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity.“The first shipment of strategic loading and unloading equipment worth $8.5 million has arrived in Chabahar port to mark the activation of the contract between the Ports and Maritime Organization (PMO) and the Indian side,” said Behrouz Aghaei, director-general of the ports and maritime department of Iran’s Sistan-Baluchestan province.Aghaei told Tehran Times that the heavy equipment will be installed at Shahid Beheshti terminal at Chabahar port, which is operated by India.Also read: Facebook, Twitter representatives to appear before IT parliamentary panelHindustan Times had first reported last month that the cranes were set to be delivered in January, months after India cancelled a $30-million contract with Shanghai Zhenhua Heavy Industries for heavy cranes because of delays by the Chinese company in supplying the equipment ordered in 2017.In May 2016, India Ports Global and Iran’s Aria Banader Iranian Port and Marine Services Company signed a deal to equip and operate the Shahid Behesti terminal, with a capital investment of $85.21 million and annual revenue expenditure of $22.95 million, on a 10-year lease.Despite the Chabahar port being granted a waiver from US sanctions on Iran, India has faced problems in acquiring heavy equipment from foreign countries, mainly because of the reluctance of foreign banks to open letters of credit (LoCs) for a project within Iran.A special process was adopted to acquire the cranes from Italy that sidestepped the sanctions issue, the people cited above said. The cranes were shipped to India before being transported to Chabahar, they added.Aghaei said the Indian side will operate Shahid Beheshti terminal under a build-operate-transfer (BOT) contract and this was the first time such a deal is being implemented in an Iranian port with 100 per cent foreign investment.Also read: In inaugural address, Joe Biden will appeal to national unityGrain suckers, gate cranes and gantry cranes were installed at Shahid Beheshti terminal last year, but the lack of heavy cranes has hampered the loading and unloading of cargo from ships.“India is the only foreign country that is currently participating in a major development project in Iran despite the US sanctions,” Tehran Times noted. The project is the “anchor for the expansion of economic relations” between the two sides, it added.The Iranian side has requested the Indian government for railway equipment, including locomotives, signalling gear and equipment for railway stations, to bolster operations on the Chabahar-Zahedan and Khaf-Herat railway lines to give a further boost to Chabahar port. Iran has suggested this equipment can be provided by India under a $150 line of credit proposed some years ago.India, Iran and Uzbekistan held their first trilateral meeting focused on Chabahar port in December 14 and this body is expected to meet every three months to push the joint use of the trade and transit facility on the Gulf of Oman. Afghanistan will be invited to the next meeting of this body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-delivers-1st-batch-of-heavy-cranes-to-bolster-operations-at-chabahar-port-101610905094555.html
18-01-2021||India||SC to hear Delhi Police's plea to stay tractor rally by farmers on Republic Day||The Supreme Court will take up on Monday an application by the Delhi Police seeking injunction against farmers’ unions from causing any disruption to the Republic Day celebrations in the national capital.The Delhi Police had informed the Court that according to news reports, the farmers’ unions were planning to hold a Tractor Rally coinciding with the Republic Day celebrations in the capital.A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde had issued notice on the application on January 12 and sought response of the farmers’ unions appearing before the Court.The Delhi Police in its application seeking injunction against farmers taking out a tractor rally had told the Court that such a rally could cause law and order problems and create an embarrassing situation for the country in the eyes of the entire world.Also read | Farmers’ protest: Tractor rally today likely to disrupt traffic on Delhi outskirts"Right to protest is always subject to the countervailing public order and the public interest. The right to protest can never include maligning the nation globally,” the Delhi Police said in its application.On Saturday, one of the protesting farmers’ unions Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) Lokshakti had filed its response to the application and raised the demand for removing the three members of the Committee constituted by the Court. This Committee, constituted by the Court on January 12 initially had four members. This Committee was tasked with the responsibility of hearing the concerns of farmer unions over the three farm laws as well as that of the Centre and submit its recommendations to the Court in eight weeks.The members were Bhupinder Singh Mann (National President, BKU and All India Kisan Coordination Committee), Pramod Kumar Joshi (Agricultural Economist, Director for South Asia, International Food Policy Research Institute), Ashok Gulati, Agricultural Economist and Former Chairman of the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices, and Anil Ghanwat, President, Shetkari Sanghatana. The Committee was to hold its first sitting by January 22.Two days later, Mann refused to join the committee in solidarity with the protesting farmers leaving just three members. The response by BKU-Lokshakti referred to news clippings where the remaining three members had openly supported the farm laws and criticized protesting farmers of being misled by political parties.Also read: What the farm stir can learn from Gandhi“When all committee members appointed by the Supreme Court are already in favour of these three farm laws and already support the laws made and passed by the Central government without enough discussion with farmers, then how can they make fair report without any bias before the Court,” the BKU-Lokshakti said in its response filed through advocate AP Singh.The union further requested the Court to “remove all three members from the committee” and appoint persons who would prepare the report on basis of “mutual harmony” and who can “think about the interest of farmers with impartiality, trust and goodwill.” It requested the Court to appoint independent, impartial persons such as former Supreme Court judge and include within the Committee the President of BKU-Lokshakti among other farmers’ organization leaders participating in the protests.A bench of CJI SA Bobde, and Justices L Nageswara Rao and Vineet Saran is expected to consider this affidavit as well on Monday.The Centre was also expected to file an affidavit on the concern expressed by the Court on the last occasion where an allegation was leveled by a farmer union in support of the laws that the protest by farmers had presence of pro-Khalistani persons.Indian Kisan Union had moved an application in the Court claiming that an organization by name “Sikhs for Justice”, which is banned for anti-India secessionist movement is financing the agitation. The bench had asked Attorney General KK Venugopal if this was true. Venugopal supported this averment but sought permission of the Court to file an affidavit based on inputs received from Intelligence Bureau.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-to-hear-plea-of-delhi-police-to-stay-tractor-rally-by-farmers-on-republic-day-101610894821294.html
18-01-2021||India||Haridwar painted in colours of folk tradition, culture during Maha Kumbh Mela||A mix of religious and cultural features of Hinduism, Maha Kumbh Mela in Haridwar has been filled with colors of folk tradition and culture this year.With "Paint My City", a campaign being run by the Haridwar-Roorkee Development Authority has painted walls at the places of tourist interest from the Hindu mythology.Uttarakhand Urban Development Minister, Madan Kaushik said that various organizations have been involved in decorating the Kumbh Mela area with paintings, as per the government's intention."This year Kumbh will be divine and grand," he added."The state government is committed to the divine and grand Kumbh. Efforts are being made that crores of devotees coming here at Kumbh should also be familiar with the folk and cultural heritage of Uttarakhand," Uttarakhand Chief Minister, Trivendra Singh Rawat on Sunday said.The Maha Kumbh Mela in Haridwar had begun on Makar Sankranti on January 14 will continue till April. It will be held for 48 days instead of the usual three-and-half-months, the Kaushik had said earlier.The Maha Kumbh in Haridwar is being held after twelve years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haridwar-painted-in-colours-of-folk-tradition-culture-during-maha-kumbh-mela-101610891782488.html
18-01-2021||Today's||China is an economic winner, not an economic leader||China's recovery from the depth of the Covid-19 slump is impressive, and the country will almost certainly be the only major economic power to end 2020 in positive territory. Another world-beating expansion is expected this year. But for all the superlatives, Beijing is years away from becoming a global economic leader.Gross domestic product rose 6.5% in the fourth quarter from a year earlier, the government said Monday, better than anticipated and a faster pace than recorded immediately before the pandemic. The performance brought the expansion for the year to 2.3%. That’s a result few thought possible when the economy shut down in early 2020 to contain the coronavirus.Growth may approach 8% this year, reckons the International Monetary Fund, outstripping America, Europe and Japan. The Communist state will supplant the U.S. as the world's largest economy in dollar terms in 2028, five years earlier than forecast a year ago, according to the Centre for Economics and Business Research, a London consulting firm. Beneath the strong numbers are significant challenges. China's growth was slowing before the pandemic. Authorities had adopted an accommodative stance, deploying fiscal and monetary loosening while the Federal Reserve was still tightening in 2018. Renewed large outbreaks of Covid-19 aside, one of the biggest risks facing China is a premature step back from this official support, the IMF said in concluding its annual review earlier this month. “Let's avoid a macroeconomic support cliff, let's make sure that we don't prematurely withdraw fiscal policy support, and that means, you know, some continuing support and for monetary policy, it means remaining accommodative,” Helge Berger, the IMF’s mission chief for China, told reporters Jan. 8.  This issue isn’t academic. China’s central bank Friday withdrew cash from the financial system for the first time in six months, after excess liquidity had pushed an interbank borrowing rate to an all-time low. The unexpected move signaled that the monetary easing of the past two months may be ending. While that stance has helped repair sentiment in China’s credit and government bond markets, injecting too much cash risks further stoking leverage in the financial system.Beijing’s loosening in the coronavirus era has been mild compared with the Federal Reserve’s approach and the pump-priming passed by Congress. Fiscal measures deployed by President Xi Jinping amount to about 4.7% of GDP, the IMF estimates. In the U.S., it’s more than 10%, and Japan has pledged multiples of that.  There are good reasons for Beijing’s hesitancy. Huge stimulus undertaken during the global financial crisis helped propel recovery, but left Chinese businesses with a big overhang of debt. Too much exuberance now risks a borrowing binge that might end badly; a wave of high profile corporate defaults rippled through markets at the end of last year.China can be thankful that the Fed has taken the lead in supporting monetary expansion around the world, slashing interest rates to zero, resuming quantitative easing, opening up access to dollars abroad and making it clear that a tightening may be years away. This raw power is both a huge advantage to the U.S. and a burden for the Fed. Like the rest of the global economy, China gets the benefit of buoyant markets and easy financial conditions, without doing much of the heavy lifting. The extent of America’s responsibility was an undercurrent in a webinar Fed Chair Jerome Powell conducted last week with Princeton University economist Markus Brunnermeier. Powell acknowledged that the scope of the Fed’s response to the coronavirus “comes with [the dollar] being the global reserve currency and a good economic citizen of the world.”When the conversation turned to the Fed’s timeline for backing away, Powell put on the brakes. It's far too soon to talk about it, he cautioned. “We’ll let the world know.” The PBOC doesn’t come close to getting this level of scrutiny. Nobody beyond the Asia region talks about a Chinese taper tantrum.China rightly deserves praise for its performance, and the world economy would be in a far worse place without its resilience. The country may well overtake the U.S. soon, but it will be leadership in minor key. A booming GDP won’t change that.This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board or Bloomberg LP and its owners.Daniel Moss is a Bloomberg Opinion columnist covering Asian economies. Previously he was executive editor of Bloomberg News for global economics, and has led teams in Asia, Europe and North America.For more articles like this, please visit us at bloomberg.com/opinion©2021 Bloomberg L.P.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/china-is-an-economic-winner-not-an-economic-leader-101610946679465.html
