19-01-2021||City||DU to hold convocation ceremony on Feb 27 in blended mode||Delhi University (DU) Tuesday announced that it will conduct the convocation ceremony for graduates of 2019-20 on February 27 in a blended format -- in-person and virtually. The announcement was made during a press conference organised to highlight the achievements of the university over the past six months, since acting vice-chancellor PC Joshi took over from suspended vice-chancellor Yogesh K Tyagi, who was accused of misconduct and dereliction of duty. “There will be a mixed (online and offline) convocation ceremony on February 27. The postgraduate students who completed their course in 2019-20 will be awarded degrees along with MPhil and PhD scholars who completed their course the same year,” Joshi said.The acting V-C announced that the university will soon launch an academic cooperative system, “Vidya Vistar Scheme (V2 Scheme)”, between DU colleges and departments and remote Indian universities. “Through the initiative, DU has proposed to make available its faculties, library, and other academic facilities to the partnering institutions for academic cooperation and collaboration. The V2 Scheme has already started; letters have been sent to all colleges and departments. Now, we are giving them the freedom to choose,” Joshi said.“We are talking about all our online resources for now. In the coming years, we will see if we can invite researchers to our campus and share our labs and other facilities with them,” he said.The acting V-C also announced the launch of another initiative, “DU encyclopedia”, from March this year to mark DU’s 100th anniversary. “We are constituting a committee that will be involved with the 100-year history of DU and work on the DU encyclopedia. There are so many people who have been a part of DU, but we don’t know much about them since we weren’t working in that direction,” he said.Addressing the media, Joshi said the university has constituted a 42-member committee for the implementation of the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020. DU also issued digital degrees to 19,821 students and provisional certificates to 3,885 students in the past six months, the acting V-C said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/du-to-hold-convocation-ceremony-on-feb-27-in-blended-mode-101611080815805.html
19-01-2021||Other||Hesitancy causes wastage of 1,000 vaccine doses in Delhi, say health officials||New Delhi: With the Covid-19 vaccination drive completing three days in Delhi, officials involved in the immunisation programme flagged another problem on Tuesday - that of wastage of doses. Teams from a number of vaccination centres and health officials overseeing the city’s inoculation drive said at least 1,000 doses of the Covid-19 vaccines have been wasted in Delhi so far. Health officials attributed the wastage mostly to fewer people coming up to get the jab. “As per the guidelines, vials of both Covishield or Covaxin have to be used and discarded within four hours of being opened. Each Covishield vial has 10 doses, and the low turnout is only adding to the wastage. If the hesitancy was not as high as it actually is now, then people would be queueing up and we could have grouped them in slots of 10 to reduce wastage,” said a senior health official. Although Delhi government officials said it has not yet compiled data on the total number of doses discarded so far, health department officials said initial estimates indicate that on an average five doses are being wasted at the 81 vaccination centres each day. At Guru Teg Bahadur (GTB) hospital, 9 doses were wasted on Day One, 6 on Day Two and 2 on Day Three. The Delhi State Cancer Institute discarded 14 doses in three days. “Today (Tuesday), we had to open the third vial for just one beneficiary and the rest of the nine doses had to be discarded as no one else came by the end of the day. We have strict instruction from the government that no body can be turned away from the vaccination centres,” said Dr Pragya Shukla, the nodal officer at Delhi State Cancer Institute (DSCI).But, Dr Ravinder Pal Dhingra of Chacha Nehru Bal Chikitsalaya, another vaccination centre, described it as “a number game”. “Even if the turnout is as high as 91 at a centre, still 9 doses would go waste on that day. It’s mostly a game of numbers. But it is true that if more people were willing then we could have scheduled 9 more people for the day and shifted the remaining ones to the next day. At our hospital, we have vaccinated around 39, 49 and 55 people in the past three days,” said Dhingra. A senior doctor from Delhi government’s Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality hospital said the government anyway already considers that 10% of the total stock of doses would go in vain either through wastage or breakage.“However, to ensure that not too many doses go waste, after about mid-day we wait for a few people to come in before opening any new vials,” said the doctor.To ensure fewer doses are wasted each day, many centres started walk-in vaccination from Tuesday. While Ram Manohar Lohia hospital and Lady Hardinge Medical Colleges allowed this from Monday, several others such as DSCI and GTB hospital started it from Tuesday. “Today, 24 healthcare workers got the jabs at our centre as per the list generated by the Co-WIN app. But, by 4pm our district administration allowed us to vaccinate even those healthcare workers who are not in the list but are registered and verified in the Co-WIN app. So, to ensure minimum wastage of doses, I took the shot and so did two additional medical superintendents and one senior doctor of the hospital. So, only one dose was discarded today,” said Dr Sweta, the nodal officer of the vaccination programme in GTB hospital. A senior official from the Ministry of health and family welfare said the shelf life of unopened vials of both Covishield and Covaxin is six months from the date of manufacturing. “Irrespective of which vaccine is being used, every vial, once opened has to be used within four hours at a temperature between 2 and 25 degrees Celsius. Open vial policy has not been allowed in India yet,” said the ministry official on condition of anonymity. With 75 of the 81 centres giving Covishield jabs, Delhi primarily is using these doses over the Covaxin doses which is being used in only six centres. While each vial of Covishield has 5ml of the vaccine with each dose being 0.5 ml, which is equivalent to 10 doses, a Covaxin vial contains 20 doses. Dr T Jacob John, former head of the department of virology at Christian Medical College, Vellore, said the government should consider increasing the duration of usage of each opened vial of Covishield vaccine from the existing 4 hours to 6 hours. “Serum Institute of India which manufactures the Covishield vaccine says an opened vial can be used up to a maximum of 6 hours. The government should allow centres which are able to maintain the desired room temperatures to use vials up to 6 hours instead of 4,” he said John suggested that the open vial policy can still be considered for Covaxin, but stated the same can never be possible for Covishield.“Reusing the vial is called open vial policy. Covishield vaccine contains live virus because of which no preservative can be added to it. Therefore, an open vial policy cannot be allowed. But, Covaxin does not contain any live virus and it has a preservative called 2-phenoxyethanol. Therefore, the government should declare an open vial policy for Covaxin at least. This will ensure reduction in wastage,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hesitancy-causes-wastage-of-1-000-vaccine-doses-in-delhi-say-health-officials-101611080696750.html
19-01-2021||Other||Senior docs told to take Covid shots as vaccination number falls||New DelhiA little less than half the number of people scheduled to get the Covid-19 vaccine jabs on Tuesday turned up at their designated centres, prompting some hospitals to ask the head of departments to take the shot themselves and motivate those working under them to do the same. With 4,936 beneficiaries receiving the shot, Delhi saw the highest turnout in terms of absolute numbers on Tuesday. However, the number only accounted for 48.75% of the 10,125 health care workers who were scheduled to get the jabs, with the government having increased the number of beneficiaries each of the 81 sites could vaccinate, data seen by HT suggested. In comparison, 4,319 people had received the jab on Saturday – the day the nation-wide roll-out happened – accounting for 53.3% of the beneficiaries selected to receive the vaccine. On Tuesday, the turnout was much higher for the centres administering Serum Institute’s Covishield – 50.6% — when compared to the centres administering Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin – 27.4%, as per data. With more centres administering Covishield, 15 of the 16 adverse reactions noticed were in those who received the Oxford-AstraZeneca shot on Tuesday. All the adverse events were minor ones such as rashes, headaches, and fever. In the three days since launch, 12,853 health care workers have taken the shots, out of a targeted 26,397, government records showed. Delhi’s health minister Satyendar Jain on Tuesday said, “The current turnout is not low if one compares it with other states and the overall average in the country. Confidence building will take some time. The Delhi government is leaving no stones unturned in confidence building drives and increasing the turnout ratio in vaccination centres.” On Tuesday, the CoWIN app was tweaked, allowing the ‘add beneficiary’ option to incorporate walk-in immunisation for registered health care workers leading to an increase the number of people getting vaccinated across the city. Max hospital, Saket, and BL Kapur hospital both saw 100% immunisation on Tuesday. The number of people who received the vaccine at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences jumped to 55 on Tuesday from just eight a day ago. Hospitals that have consistently seen low turnout, like Guru Teg Bahadur hospital and Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality hospital , asked its senior faculty members to come forward and take the shot. “The hospital has issued a circular asking senior doctors and administrators to take the shot and motivate those working under them also to take it. Four of the senior doctors from the hospital received the shot today. This should instil confidence about the vaccine, among others,” said a senior doctor from Guru Teg Bahadur hospital, which had seen 24 people being vaccinated on Monday and 28 on Tuesday. A similar communication was sent to doctors at Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality hospital in Tahirpur as well. “The glitches in the app did create problems, but it is the hesitancy in the minds of the people that is leading to a low turnout at the hospital. So, we have asked senior doctors to lead by example and motivate those working under them to also take the vaccine,” said a senior doctor from the hospital, on condition of anonymity. There were just nine people vaccinated at the centre on Tuesday, down from 20 people vaccinated on Monday. Of the 11 revenue districts in Delhi, the highest turnout (62.18%) was in south-east Delhi, where 638 of 1026 targeted beneficiaries were vaccinated, closely followed by the north-west district (61.72%) where 899 out of 1,457 targeted beneficiaries were vaccinated. Shahdara district vaccinated 169 (27.25%) of a total registered group of 620 persons -- the lowest among the 11 districts, showed government data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/senior-docs-told-to-take-covid-shots-as-vaccination-number-falls-101611080695810.html
19-01-2021||Other||Police urge farmers to shift tractor rally to KMP e-way||New Delhi: Police officers from Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana met farmers at Singhu border on Tuesday, urging them to either cancel the proposed tractor rally on the Republic Day or organised it on the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal Expressway. The farmers, however, turned down the proposal but assured the police that it would be a peaceful protest and stay confined to only the outer Ring Road in Delhi. While special commissioner (intelligence) Deependra Pathak led the police team from Delhi, seven leaders of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, including Balbir Singh Rajewal and Darshan Pal, represented the farmers.Since no consensus could be reached on issue, another meeting has been scheduled on Wednesday morning, a senior Delhi Police officer who was present in the meeting said, requesting anonymity.“We told the farmers representatives that the tractor rally may lead to law and order issues and traffic and security chaos and asked them to cancel it. Since they refused, we suggested that the rally could be shifted to the KMP expressway. They remained adamant on taking out their rally for 50-60 kilometres on Delhi’s outer ring road,” the officer said.This was the second meeting between the police and leaders of farmer unions since Monday, when the Supreme Court refused to pass any order on the Delhi Police’s plea for stopping the tractor rally. On a plea by Delhi Police, the top court had said that entry of farmers into Delhi is a law and order problem and any decision in this regard should be taken by the Delhi Police. Tuesday’s meeting was held at a farmhouse in Delhi, nearly a kilometre away from the Singhu border where thousands of farmers have been agitating against the three contentious farm laws. The farmers’ agitation entered 55th day on Tuesday.“The farmer leaders in fact asked the police officers if they would be granting permission for their Kisan Tractor Parade on Delhi’s Outer Ring Road about which the officers said that they were not the deciding authority. The officers showed their concerns regarding law and order, traffic, and security issues that our tractor rally may cause. However, they were assured that our rally will be peaceful and it will not disrupt the official Republic Day parade,” said Harpreet Singh Kahlon, convener of Krantikari Kisan Union.On Tuesday, the farmers also shared the route map of their proposed tractor rally and said that the parade will touch all the borders connecting Delhi with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. Farmers from Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh would be participating in the tractor rally, they said.“Our parade will be similar to that of the national parade where tableaux of different states are shown. The farmers of different states would be showcasing their traditional style of farming and agricultural tools they use in agriculture. All tractors will have the national flag and our rally will start after the parade on Rajpath is concluded,” said Parmeet Singh, a farmer from Amritsar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/police-urge-farmers-to-shift-tractor-rally-to-kmp-eway-101611080575841.html
19-01-2021||Other||Ghaziabad Development Authority reinvites EOI for ‘urban passenger ropeway’ project||Ghaziabad: The Ghaziabad Development Authority (GDA) on Tuesday said that it has reinvited the expression of interest (EOI) for the ‘urban passenger ropeway’ project as the initial bids had some “technical issues”. The authority in December last year had floated an EOI for preparation of techno-feasibility study and a detailed project report for the project which will provide better short-distance mode of commute and also serve as feeders for the metro system in the city.The authority, in its EOI, had specified three routes – New Bus Adda to Ghaziabad railway station, Mohan Nagar to Vaishali, and Electronic City to Vaishali – for the ropeway project. GDA officials said they are focussing to connect the New Bus Adda metro station to the Ghaziabad railway station as it is one of the most congested stretches in the city. “Two proposals had come for the EOI, but there were some technical issues. We have now refloated the EOI. We intend to connect the New Bus Adda metro station to the Ghaziabad railway station as commuters often face traffic issues after de-boarding metro. The per kilometre cost of the ropeway is estimated about ₹70-80 crore and will be much lower than the per kilometre cost of extending the metro,” said Ashish Shivpuri, authority’s chief architect and town planner. The New Bus Adda metro station area is also proposed to be a multi-modal transport hub as one of the stations of the Regional Rapid Transit System is also proposed nearby and will be connected to the metro train system.The officials said that the proposed project will involve 30% of funds each from the Centre and the state government, while the local agencies will share the remaining 40% of its cost. Once the DPR gets prepared after selection of an agency, the authority will send it to the state government for final approval. The project is being envisaged as the UP chief minister had told the officials during a video conference in December to find out alternate modes of local commute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ghaziabad-development-authority-reinvites-eoi-for-urban-passenger-ropeway-project-101611080455802.html
19-01-2021||Noida||Noida: Realtors, buyers ask govt to reduce stamp fee||Realty estate developers and homebuyers on Tuesday demanded that the Uttar Pradesh government reduce the stamp fee levied on execution of registry of apartments.They met state government minister for state (independent charge) for stamp fee, registration and court fee Ravinder Jaiswal in Noida. They argued that the measure would help in reducing the economic burden on the housing sector badly hit by Covid-19.To illustrate the degree to which the pandemic had hit business, the Gautam Budh Nagar stamp and registration department had a target of collecting ₹3,148 crore in revenue in the financial year 2020-21. However, the department so far could only collect around ₹550 crore. This was much lower then the ₹1,700 crore revenue it earned in 2019-’20 against a target of ₹2,597 crore.“We requested him to reduce the stamp fee from 5% to 2%, not to levy the 1% registration fee and abolish the agreement fee of 1%,” said Prashant Tiwari, president of confederation of real estate developers association of India (Credai), West UP, who met the minister.“We have been demanding the reduction for a long time,” said Abhishek Kumar, president of Noida Extension flat owners’ welfare association that also met the minister.“The Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh governments had already reduced the stamp fee in view of the crisis. Reducing it will not only help the sector increase registrations, but also the government through increased revenue,” said Subodh Goyal, secretary, Credai-West UP.Jaiswal said the government will consider the demands.In Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway among other parts of the Gautam Budh Nagar district the stamp and registration department levy 5% of total property cost be it flat, plot, house or other property in stamp fee at the time of execution of a lease deed or registry required to transfer the property title. The UP government had in February, 2019 started charging 1% of total property cost as registration fee removing old rule under which only ₹20,000 registration fee was in place. It also made it mandatory that a buyer and developer will execute agreement after paying 1% stamp fee for execution for this legal process required to start a property sale. It means the state charges 7% of total property cost in stamp fee in GB Nagar district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-realtors-buyers-ask-govt-to-reduce-stamp-fee-101611080335829.html
19-01-2021||Other||Ghaziabad municipal corporation readies DPR for treated water supply to industries project||Ghaziabad: The Ghaziabad municipal corporation has got prepared a detailed project report for the supply of treated water to industrial units. The corporation will generate funds for the ₹239-crore project by floating bonds, officials said. The corporation officials said that the process for floating of bonds is likely to get complete by March this year. Under the treated water supply project, the civic body has planned to make use of about 40 millions liters per day (MLD) of treated water from its sewage treatment plant (STP) at Indirapuram and supply it through pipelines to the industrial units in Sahibabad Site IV Industrial Area, the officials said. “The DPR for the project is complete and tenders will be floated once the bond is listed on the Bombay Stock Exchange,” said MS Tanwar, municipal commissioner. At present, the treated water from STP at Indirapuram drains out through a water channel and is taken to river Hindon. The officials said that once the water supply project gets complete, the industrial units will make use of the treated water and thereby a lot of fresh groundwater will be saved. “From the STP, we will lay pipeline through which many units will get treated water for their,” Tanwar added. It was in July, 2019, when the Uttar Pradesh cabinet had approved the proposal of floating bonds by the municipal corporations of Lucknow and Ghaziabad to fund their infrastructure projects. During the approval, bonds totalling ₹350 crore, including ₹200 crore for Lucknow and ₹150 crore for Ghaziabad, were proposed to be floated after a process. On December 2 last year, the UP chief minister had participated in an event when the bond of Lucknow municipal corporation got listed on the BSE. The CM then announced that the next would be turn of the Ghaziabad municipal corporation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ghaziabad-municipal-corporation-readies-dpr-for-treated-water-supply-to-industries-project-101611080215788.html
19-01-2021||City||Ghaziabad: Sample positivity rate falls below 1% in January||Ghaziabad’ sample positivity rate for Covid-19 fell below 1% this month, which is the lowest it had been since the peak of nearly 20% in June.Sample positivity rate refers to the number of samples testing positive per 100 samples tested. Sometimes patients would giver more than one test for confirmation and so, total positive samples could be higher than total positive cases. However, officials say there may be another reason for fewer cases: People were not coming forward.The Ghaziabad health department had deployed 20 teams across the district to search and find positive cases.“Each team can take up anything between 100-150 samples per day. But they are not getting a positive response from residents. This could be a reason for the drastic reduction in positivity rate, but also the transmission of infection too has come down since December,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer. In December, the sample positivity rate was 2.99% with 3034 positive reports out of a total of 101,496 that month. During November, the rate was 4.14% with 4822 positive reports out of a total of 116,399 tests that month. Till January 18, the rate stood at 0.96% and it would take a sudden spurt in cases, like the UK variant of the virus (not yet reported in Ghaziabad) that is said to be 70% more transmissible, for it to surpass December, said officials.In December, there were 372 positive reports out of total of 38836 tests. No fatalities since Dec 29The official state figures for the district say that the last death due to the virus was reported on December 29 and since then the total fatalities had not gotten over 102. According to the official figures of the district health department, the district conducted an average of 2572 tests per day in first 18 days of January which yielded a daily average of about 20 cases. During December, the average number of daily tests was about 3323, and 31 positive cases per day on average. “The arrival of vaccine has sent a positive signal among the population, while the severity of infection has also reduced substantially (through better reporting and care). However, it will take more time for everyone to get vaccinated. Even after vaccination, it takes about one and half months for immunity to develop. So, till the time people get vaccinated, they must continue with Covid-19-appropriate behaviour,” said Dr Ashish Agarwal, president of the Indian Medical Association – Ghaziabad. “Although the cases have come down, we still advise people to get themselves tested of they have Covid-like symptoms. The infection has come down but not finished.” With the start of vaccination drive on January 16, only 379 people were given the shots while another lot of 11846 have been identified to get the shots on January 22, 28 and 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-sample-positivity-rate-falls-below-1-in-january-101611080155752.html
19-01-2021||Other||Man, family get jail for trying to kill his wife||GREATER NOIDA: The district court has awarded seven years rigorous imprisonment to a woman’s husband and her in-laws over an attempt to murder case. Tauhid, a resident of Kherlibhav, had lodged FIR at Rabupura police station stating that his sister Husno had married Ghaziabad resident Mehtab on May 29, 2004. Tauhid claimed his family had given the couple a motorcycle, other goods and ₹1 lakh cash. Her in-laws were, however, insisting that they pay them more dowry, including a car and more cash, he alleged. They were mentally and physically torturing his sister, he alleged. On July 10, 2013 Huson’s in-laws poured kerosene over her and tried to set her on fire. However, her neighbours came to her rescue. At the district court court on August 4, 2015, charges under under IPC section 498A, 307,506 and dowry prohibition act were framed against Mehtab, Riyajul Hasan (Husnpo’s father-in-law), Quresha (mother-in-law), Zubair (brother-in-law) and Shabana (sister-in-law).The accused tried to defend themselves saying they were the victims of false cases“Additional District Judge Pawan Pratap Singh has held the five accused persons as guilty and awarded 7 years rigorous imprisonment and a fine of ₹5000 under IPC section 307,” Brahamjit Singh Bhati, District Government Counsel(DGC), said on Monday.“Under IPC section 498A three years imprisonment and fine of ₹2000 has been awarded. Under IPC section 506 four years rigorous imprisonment and under Dowry prohibition act 2 years imprisonment has been awarded. All sentences will run concurrently,” said Bhati.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-family-get-jail-for-trying-to-kill-his-wife-101611080095749.html
19-01-2021||Other||Baghpat youth found dead in Noida hotel||Noida: A 19-year-old man from Baghpat was found dead in a Noida hotel on Monday afternoon with a bullet injury to his chest. According to police, the man checked into the Gijhore hotel on Sunday evening and informed staff there that his family would be joining him later. The staff allegedly went to check on him on Monday when he did not emerge from his room and found his body.Police said they are investigating how the man got hold of the gun and why no one heard the shot being fired. No one came forward as witnesses, said police.“His body was sent for an autopsy and his family was informed. They came to Noida to collect his body,” said assistant commissioner of police, zone 1, Rajneesh Verma..The family had not filed a complaint in the matter but the police was investigating the case of unnatural death. The autopsy ruled it to be a suicide.Gautam Budh Nagar does not have a dedicated helpline to deal with such situations. A few major suicide prevention helpline numbers in India are +914066202000 from ‘Roshni’ (Hyderabad-based) and +914424640050 from Sneha India Foundation (Delhi-based).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/baghpat-youth-found-dead-in-noida-hotel-101611079795727.html
19-01-2021||City||Seventeen agencies apply to prepare DPR of two major projects being developed by Yamuna Expressway authority||The Yamuna Expressway industrial development authority (Yeida) has received proposals from 17 agencies to prepare the detailed project report (DPR) for two mega projects -- Logistics Park and Heritage City --to be developed along the 165-km Yamuna Expressway areas.The Logistics Park is set to be developed at Tappal-Bajna to boost growth and the ‘Heritage City’ at Raya in Mathura. Each project will have an agency preparing a DPR, the hiring process for which was started last month.For the logistics hub, 11 agencies have shown interest and the rest were for the heritage city.“We will finalise the agencies for these two projects in the next 15 days. We are happy that multiple agencies have shown interest in these two projects, which will boost growth along the Yamuna Expressway,” said Arun Vir Singh chief executive officer of the Yeida.For the logistics hub, Yeida has got proposals from CBRE South Asia Private Limited, Colliers International, Cushman and Wakefield India Private Limited, KPMG among others, said officials. For the heritage city PwC, CBRE South Asia private limited and WAPCOS Limited. among others, have applied.The YEIDA wants to develop a heritage city at Raya in Mathura with an aim to booth tourism.The YEIDA has proposed to develop a ‘Heritage City’ at a small town Raya near Mathura with an aim to promote tourism and create opportunities in this region. The one-of-its -kind city will be spread across 9000 hectares of area along Yamuna E-way. The Yamuna River will be beautified on the lines of Sabarmati and Gomti river front projects for people and remaining land will be developed as industrial, residential, commercial and mixed land use in this town. The YEIDA has earmarked 700 hectares for tourism projects to be built on the theme of heritage in order to promote the ancient city Mathura and places associated with Mahabharat epic. The 175 hectares area is earmarked for river front development along Yamuna, at least 1000 hectares for industrial and remaining will be divided into residential and other usages, said officials. However the exact nature of land in this city will be earmarked once the DPR will be finalised of this project, said officials.In Logistics hub project the YEIDA wants to develop a dedicated urban centre for industrial development to create jobs and economic activity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/seventeen-agencies-apply-to-prepare-dpr-of-two-major-projects-being-developed-by-yamuna-expressway-authority-101611079735747.html
19-01-2021||Other||Man booked for molestation of class 6 student in Greater Noida||Noida: A 30-year-old man was booked on Monday for allegedly molesting a 13-year-old girl in her house in Greater Noida. The incident took place on Sunday, the police said, adding that the victim is a student of class 6 in a government school.The victim’s mother, a domestic help, filed a complaint at Dadri police station. According to the police, the suspect, Sovindra, lived in Bhojpur village and worked at a wine shop. The complainant said that her daughter was alone at home on Sunday. “The suspect barged into our house and started drinking liquor. He then tried to molest my daughter and also tried to tear off her clothes. But my daughter put up resistance and managed to escape,” she said. The police said that the victim raised an alarm and local people gathered at the spot, after which the suspect fled the spot. The mother also said in her complaint that she or her daughter does not have any enmity/friendship with the suspect. Rajvir Singh Chauhan, station hous officer (SHO), Dadri police station, said that a case was registered against the suspect under Section 354-B (assault or use of criminal force to woman with intent to disrobe) of IPC. “A police team has launched a search for the suspect who is absconding,” he said. In a separate case, a 25-year-old man was arrested on Tuesday for allegedly eloping with a 13-year-old girl from a village in Kasna. The police said that the suspect lived in a rented accommodation in the village and worked at a private company. Vivek Trivedi, SHO of Site V police station, said that the suspect had fled with the minor girl last week. “We registered a case against him under Section 363 (abduction) of IPC. On Tuesday, the police conducted a search and arrested him from his hideout. The police have also recovered the girl,” he said. The police said that the suspect had sexually abused the girl and hence Section 376 (rape) and sections 3 and 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act have been added to the FIR. The suspect was produced in a court and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-booked-for-molestation-of-class-6-student-in-greater-noida-101611079676240.html
19-01-2021||Other||Fresh case filed in Greater Noida against makers of web series ‘Tandav’||Greater Noida: A fresh FIR has been filed against the makers and actors of the newly released web series ‘Tandav’ for inappropriate depiction of Uttar Pradesh Police personnel and hurting religious sentiments and social beliefs, the police said. The case was registered at Rabupura police station in Greater Noida on Monday even as the makers issued an unconditional apology on Monday, saying they did not intend to offend sentiments of any caste, community, or religion. The complainant, Balbeer Azad, is a Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) member and social activist. Azad, 60, said the depiction of men in Uttar Pradesh police uniform using abusive language and drinking in their van prompted him to lodge the case. “They have made derogatory comments against lower caste people which is not good for our society. The web series has also depicted Hindu deities in a bad light with an ill intention,” he said. He also said the depiction of the Prime Minister in the web series amounts to an “attack on the democratic system”.‘Tandav’ is a nine-episode Hindi political web series streaming on Amazon Prime Video from January 15.In his complaint, Azad, who said a part of the web series was shot in his native Rabupura area of Greater Noida, has named series director Ali Abbas Zafar; Aparna Purohit, head of India Originals at Amazon Prime Video; producer Himanshu Krishna Mehra; writer Gaurav Solanki; and actors Saif Ali Khan, Dimple Kapadia and Sunil Grover .The police registered the case against the seven people named in Azad’s complaint under Indian Penal Code sections 153-A(1)(b) (promoting enmity), 295-A (deliberate and malicious acts intended to outrage religious feelings), 505 (1)(b) (intent to cause, or which is likely to cause fear or alarm), and under the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and the Information Technology Act.“The complainant has alleged that the web series invokes Dalit insult, caste differences, hurts religious sentiments, and also shows people holding constitutional posts in bad lights. The police are conducting investigation into the matter,” said Rajesh Kumar Singh, deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida.On Sunday, the police in Lucknow had registered an FIR against Purohit, Abbas, and Mehra, among others, on charges of promoting enmity between different groups and insulting religion. ‘Tandav’ director Zafar on Monday tweeted an apology. “The cast and crew of Tandav take cognizance of the concern expressed by the people and unconditionally apologise if it has unintentionally hurt anybody’s sentiments,” he said.There was no immediate response from the officials of Amazon Prime Video to the fresh case. They did not respond to an email for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fresh-case-filed-in-greater-noida-against-makers-of-web-series-tandav-101611079675777.html
19-01-2021||Noida||Noida, Ghaziabad most polluted, AQI plunges into severe||Two days after a slight improvement in air quality, Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad slipped to “severe” levels once again on Tuesday. The three cities also emerged as the most polluted cities in the country, with Ghaziabad topping the air quality index (AQI) chart, followed by Greater Noida and Noida, respectively. This is the fifth time this year that the cities were breathing the worst air -- previously it was on January 1, 2, 15 and 17.According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), Noida’s AQI, on a scale of 0 to 500, on Tuesday was 432 against 363 a day earlier. The AQI of Greater Noida was 434 against 360 or very-poor a day earlier. The AQI of Ghaziabad was 436 against 381 a day earlier. An AQI between 101 and 200 is considered ‘moderate’, between 201 and 300 is ‘poor’, between 301 and 400 is considered ‘very-poor’ and above 400 is considered ‘severe’. According to the weather department, the wind direction changed form easterly to westerly and north-westerly due to which the speed dropped leading to poor ventilation conditions. “The wind speeds dropped almost to calms as the wind directions changed from comparatively warmer easterly to north-easterly and westerly. Whenever, the wind directions changes, the wind speed drops due to which the particle pollutants also increase and lead to spike in pollution levels,” said an official at India Meteorological Department (IMD). According to the pollution monitoring agencies however, the air quality is likely to improve as the wind speed is likely to increase thereby improving the ventilation. The major pollutant or PM2.5 in the region also spiked from three times the safety standards on Monday to five to six times higher than the standards. The average PM2.5 for Noida on Tuesday was 334.71 microgrammes per cubic metres (µg/m3) against 220.43 µg/m3 on Monday. The average PM2.5 for Greater Noida was 314.38 µg/m3 against 232.86 µg/m3 a day earlier. The PM2.5 level for Ghaziabad was 346.63 µg/m3 against 220.11 µg/m3 a day earlier. The safe limit for PM2.5 is 60µg/m3. According to the System of air quality and weather forecasting and research (SAFAR), the air quality is likely to improve slightly over next two days. “Surface winds are north-easterly and low, Surface winds are forecasted to shift in direction from easterly to north-westerly and gain in speed. The ventilation coefficients are likely to improve significantly from tomorrow and AQI is likely to improve to the middle to lower end of Very Poor on 20th January. AQI is forecast to further improve to the lower end of the Very Poor to Poor category on 21st January. Marginal deterioration of AQI to Very Poor category is forecasted on 22nd January,” said SAFAR on Tuesday. The weather department has forecasted that the temperature would drop by two to three degrees over the next two days due to the wind direction. Dense fog conditions may, however, improve and increase visibility from around 50 metres in the morning to about 200 to 300 metres, especially around open areas and expressways. According to the weather analysts, the wind speed is likely to increase over next two days and reach around 20 kmph by Thursday. This will lead to drop in the mercury and improve the visibility. “The cold waves will not return. The minimum and maximum temperatures may however drop below two degrees of the season’s average,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice president, meteorology and climate change, Skymet. He added that the mercury may further drop and NCR may see slight drizzling around January 22 and 23 due to a western disturbance. On Tuesday, the minimum temperature in Noida were recorded at 8.9 degrees Celsius against 9.7 degrees Celsius a day earlier. The maximum temperature for Noida was 20.5 degrees Celsius, against 20.1 degrees Celsius. The average minimum and maximum for NCR, based on Safdarjung observatory was recorded at 6.9 degrees Celsius and 20.4 degrees Celsius, both one degrees below the season’s average.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-ghaziabad-most-polluted-aqi-plunges-into-severe-101611079615735.html
19-01-2021||City||Odisha health workers who refused Covid-19 shots wouldn't get it for free later||Health workers in Odisha who had refused to take the Covid-19 vaccination may not get Covid-19 vaccine free of cost later, health department clarified on Tuesday.Nodal officer for Covid-19 vaccination Dr Bijay Panigrahi said many health workers have informed the government in writing that they will not take the vaccine as a mark of protest. "We appeal them to come forward and get themselves vaccinated so that they would be safe as well as their family members. Those who remain absent during the vaccination will be considered subsequently but those who refuse to take the vaccine may not get the same free of cost later,” said Panigrahi.Also read: 9 states, UTs among better performing areas during Covid-19 vaccination driveLast week, more than 15,000 multi-purpose health workers had announced that they would not take the Covid-19 vaccine jab as their demand for promotion had not been met. The multi-purpose health workers have been demanding to be designated as Upakendra Janaswasthya Adhikari.Panigrahi said on the third day of the vaccination drive, as many as 14,291 health workers were immunized in 182 sessions against the government target of 16,261. No vaccination took place in the districts of Bargarh, Boudh and Gajapati.Meanwhile, the second consignment of Covishield vaccine consisting 3,34,500 arrived in Bhubaneswar by a SpiceJet flight. The vaccines will be despatched to various district headquarters in the next three days. This would cover all 3,38,777 registered healthcare workers in the first phase.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/odisha-health-workers-who-refused-covid-19-shots-wouldn-t-get-it-for-free-later-101611079322063.html
19-01-2021||Mumbai||Beware, Mumbai recorded more cybercrimes in 2020: Data||There were more incidents of cyber crimes in the city in 2020, with spikes in new kinds of online crimes like fraudulent job listings. Statistics released by Mumbai Police show 2,435 registered cases of cyber crime in Mumbai in 2020, which is higher than the 2,225 cases registered in 2019. Of these, 207 or 8.5% were detected in 2020. In 2020, cases of obscene messages and morphed images sent through email, messaging apps and social media increased. Compared to 239 reported cases in 2019, there were 247 cases in 2020, of which 91 were detected. In 2019, 104 of the 239 cases were detected. A marginal increase was also recorded in cases of man-in-middle (MIM) attacks, email spoofing, phishing and hacking. A sharp decline was seen in reported cases of fake online profiles — 30 in 2020 compared to 61 in 2019. Spikes were noted in cases of sexortion (sexual exploitation by coercion), e-shopping fraud as well as fraudulent classifieds and job listings. Clubbed as “other” in police data, there were 1,545 such cases in 2020 and 78 were detected. In 2019, 1,087 cases were reported and 112 were detected.According to Mumbai Police, 558 cases of fraud involving debit and credit cards as well as one-time passwords were registered in 2020, of which 21 cases were detected, while in 2019, 775 cases were recorded, but more cases (40) were detected.Mumbai Police attributed the dip in detection rate to restrictions on movement during the lockdown. Regular police work could resume only in the last quarter of 2020. “We have improved the detection rate at cyber police stations in the last three months and it’s almost 100%. Our aim is to save people’s money, hence we put every possible effort when cyber crime victims approach us. We urge people to report cyber crime within two hours of occurrence so that their money can be saved. Last year we managed to save nearly ₹15 crore for cyber crime victims,” said Rashmi Karandikar, deputy commissioner of police (cyber). She further added that Mumbai Police had recently busted gangs that were operating across states and carrying out online frauds.Requesting anonymity, one police officer from the cyber crime wing of Mumbai Police said acquiring case-related information from telecom companies and internet service providers is challenging. They also said that creating fake profiles is easy since email service providers do not ask for details that would be used to verify someone’s identity. Another reason for the low detection rate is that most email servers are located outside India, said an officer. Detection rates may also be low because many cyber criminals hide their locations using virtual private network (VPN) providers.Cyber security advocate Vicky Shah said, “If the RBI want to curb cyber crime, the present settlement cycle must be delayed at least by 24 hours. Also, the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India should make the process of issuance of mobile SIM cards more rigorous as mobile numbers are linked to bank accounts.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/beware-mumbai-recorded-more-cybercrimes-in-2020-data-101611079256447.html
19-01-2021||City||Shubman was confident of win at Gabba, says father||The Gill family spent Monday night praying as all eyes were on the Indian opening pair of Rohit Sharma and their 21-year-old lad Shubman Gill during the deciding match of Brisbane Test cricket series. Even so, the nail-biting and prayers paid off when India took the Aussies by storm and pulled off an incredible win and bagged the series.Shubman, who scored a crucial 91 for the team in the second innings, had sounded optimistic on the phone with his father before the match on Monday night. “Shubi was very confident that India is going to win the match as the wicket was playing well. He promised me that he will give his best and help India triumph,” said Shubman’s father Lakhwinder Singh Gill, who celebrated the win with his wife Keart Gill at their Mohali house.Shubman, who scored his second fifty in the Test series on Tuesday, missed hitting his first Test century by nine runs when he was removed by spinner Nathan Lyon. His crucial knock came off 146 deliveries. “It would have been an icing on the cake if Shubi had scored a century in Brisbane. He was looking good throughout the innings. Nevertheless, India won the game and hearts of millions. Rishabh Pant did a fine job in the end,” added Lakhwinder Singh Gill, who has played an important role in shaping Shubman’s cricketing career.The opener made his Test debut at the Melbourne Cricket Ground in the second match. With his solid performance and gumption in the Test series, India shattered Australia’s 32-year winning streak at the Gabba and sealed a 2-1 series win with three wickets in hand.Vikram Rajvir Singh, former Indian Test bowler and the last player from Punjab to play Test cricket, also lauded Shubman’s efforts and said, “What a brilliant start to his Test career. He looked so determined, skilful and confident in the middle. India’s opening slot is now booked for some years. Shubman is young dynamite and has a bright future. He is going to win big for India in the coming years. It is not easy to take on fast bowlers on Australian bouncy wickets and dominate, but Shubman has shown the grit. He is here to stay for a long time.”Shubman emerged as the highest scorer for India in the Brisbane Test match and now has an average of 51.8 in three matches.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shubman-was-confident-of-win-at-gabba-says-father-101611079196327.html
19-01-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana poultry farmers move HC seeking relief||Haryana Poultry Farmers’ Association on Tuesday approached the Punjab and Haryana high court seeking compensation for dead/culled birds due to the bird flu outbreak.The association in its plea said that compensation should be paid on the spot immediately after the culling is over or at the time of collecting birds from the owners, but no such relief was being provided to them.On January 8, avian influenza was confirmed at two poultry farms in Panchkula’s Barwala belt and the district administration on Sunday completed culling of 81,000 birds at three farms falling in the infected zone.Considered Asia’s second largest poultry belt with over 15,000 workers, Barwala and Raipur Rani have around 110 poultry farms, housing over 77 lakh poultry birds and producing one crore eggs daily. Nearly five lakh poultry birds have died so far.The association has also challenged January 11 order of Panchkula deputy commissioner which declared Narinder Poultry Farm in Kheri village a part of alert zone and animal husbandry department was given powers to carry out activities such as culling to control and contain avian influenza. A response on the plea has been sought by February 2, while ordering that till the next date of hearing no action be taken pursuant to January 11 order in this farm’s case.The plea also seeks quashing of Action Plan for Prevention, Control and Containment of Avian Influenza (Revised-2021), which provides for stamping out of all the live poultry birds within the infected zone of 1km from the site of confirmed flu cases. It also seeks directions not to destroy the poultry feed kept at the farms and evolve a mechanism for early and “just compensation” to farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-poultry-farmers-move-hc-seeking-relief-101611079143233.html
19-01-2021||Mumbai||Lockdown effect: Deaths on Mumbai’s railway tracks down by 65℅ in 2020||megha.sood@htlive.com The deaths on Mumbai’s railway tracks declined by 65% in 2020, as compared to year before that, owing to the restrictions imposed on traveling on the suburban railway network amid the lockdown. While 1,116 people died and 878 others suffered injuries on the suburban railway lines last year, 2,691 people lost their lives in 2019. The year had also witnessed 3,194 injuries. Data from Government Railway Police (GRP) reveals that of the 1,116 people who died in 2020, 983 were men, while 133 were women. According to the railways, around 6.5 million people travelled on locals in 2011 everyday. In 2018 the number rose to 8 million travelled on the city’s lifeline. After the nation-wide lockdown was imposed, the train services were suspended in March. It resumed in June for those working in the essential services, and later, women and lawyers were also allowed to travel, albeit during non-peak hours. In 2020, around 1.2 million commuters travelled by the locals. According to GRP, an average of seven people lost their lives on railway tracks everyday before the lockdown was imposed. However, during the lockdown, the average deaths per day came to around three. GRP figures showed that maximum deaths were recorded on the Central Railway. The number of commuters who lost their lives between Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) and Kalyan in 2020 was 523, as compared to 1,763 deaths in 2019. On the Western line, 369 deaths were reported between Churchgate and Virar, as compared to 928 in 2019 on the same route. Officers said out of the total number of deaths, 730 died while trespassing, while 133 fatalities were of commuters who fell off the trains. One person died by falling off the platform, while two deaths were reported after commuters were hit by a pole while leaning out of a running train. Experts and activists said that though the railways are taking efforts to reduce the deaths, their efforts must continue till the number of fatalities reach zero. “Many illegal entry points have been closed. However, the railways should put up fences between the tracks which connect two platforms, as well to bring down the number of track crossings. It should also conduct more experiments with automated closed doors of local trains to minimise the problem of overcrowding and people falling off trains. Last year was an exception owing to the lockdown, but the numbers have always been alarming,” said Shakil Ahmed, a railways activist. Track record of city’s lifeline 138 Railway stations 3,200 Train services 2,160 (90 seaters and 90 standing in each coach) Capacity of a 12-rake train 5,500 Approximate commuters on each local during peak hours Fatalities by year 1,116 2020 2,691 2019 2,981 2018 Deaths during line crossing 730 2020 1,455 2019 1,619 2018 Deaths by falling off running trains 113 2020 611 2019 711 2018 Deaths after being hit by railway pole 2 2020 9 2019 19 2018 Stations that reported maximum deaths in 2020 183 Kalyan 141 Thane 127 Kurla 95 Vasai 75 Borivli 51 Vashi 48 Mumbai Central 26 Andheri||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/lockdown-effect-deaths-on-mumbai-s-railway-tracks-down-by-65-in-2020-101611079137368.html
19-01-2021||City||Avian influenza: Migratory bird sample from Siswan reserve in Ropar tests positive||The sample of a bar-headed goose, a migratory bird, has tested positive for avian influenza in Siswan reserve in Ropar district on Tuesday.The bird was found dead on January 12. Its test report was confirmed by National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal.Ropar’s wildlife and forest officer Monica Yadav said the samples of dead bird were earlier sent to Northern Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory (NRDDL), Jalandhar, following which the repeat samples were taken by Bhopal lab.“Though the bird sample has tested positive, there is nothing to worry as there are no symptoms of the flu in any other birds at the reserve. Moreover, we are thoroughly supervising birds’ activities in around 1-km area where the migratory bird was found dead,” she said.The officer added that the goose might have flown from Pong dam and collapsed while flying over the Siswan reserve.“Two teams of the wildlife department and another one from the animal husbandry department are continuously monitoring the area and conducting random sampling of birds at the reserve,” Yadav said.As many as 15 trap cameras have been installed in last six months over the wildlife area to keep a track of the migratory birds and animals.In the neighbouring Mohali district, the NRDDL had confirmed bird flu in samples from two poultry farms at Dera Bassi’s Behra village last Thursday, but the final confirmation from the Bhopal lab is awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/avian-influenza-migratory-bird-sample-from-siswan-reserve-in-ropar-tests-positive-101611079076260.html
19-01-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MP Kirron prefers close aides over experts in road safety panel||Member of parliament Kirron Kher has preferred her close aides over technical experts in the newly constituted road safety committee for Chandigarh.The committee has been formed under a mandate of the Union road transport and highways ministry issued through a gazette notification in September 2017. For Chandigarh, transport secretary Mandip Singh Brar issued the order of panel formation on January 14. It is entrusted with the task of monitoring road accidents data, identification and study of causes of road accidents, rectification of black spots and creating awareness about road safety.On Kher’s recommendations, Prabhloch Singh of the Human Rights Protection Group and MFP Federation, Mayank Mishra of Dr GC Mishra Memorial Educational and Charitable Trust and Sanjeev Vashisht of Sewa Bharti have been made members of the committee.All three have been associated with the MP and were part of her core team during the previous general elections.In addition to the three NGO members, the committee also comprises UT officials, including deputy commissioner, mayor, transport director, and senior superintendent of police.However, questioning the intent behind Kher’s recommendations, senior Congress leader and former Chandigarh MP Pawan Kumar Bansal said, “Kher should have nominated road safety experts like city-based Harman Sidhu of the ArrriveSafe NGO to the committee who can contribute actively and positively to Chandigarh’s road safety measures. Then it would not have mattered if the person was a close aide of the MP or not.”Kher couldn’t be contacted.The terms of reference of the committee include monitoring road safety activities in Chandigarh, road accidents data, identification and study of causes of mishaps, providing suggestions to the national/state road safety council, reviewing and monitoring work related to identification and rectification of black spots as per protocol and all road engineering measures, besides ensuring implementation of road safety standards and action plan with specific targets for accident/fatality reduction.The panel would also review speed limits and traffic calming measures to promote road safety campaign in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mp-kirron-prefers-close-aides-over-experts-in-road-safety-panel-101611079020287.html
19-01-2021||Mumbai||51,068 crime cases registered in 2020 in Mumbai: Data||The lockdown owing to the Covid-19 pandemic has not impacted the overall registration of crimes in Mumbai much, reveals the data by Mumbai Police. According to statistics, 51,068 cases were registered in 2020 across 94 police stations in Mumbai, compared to 41,931 cases registered in 2019.Data further reveals that although thefts and other petty crimes were fewer in 2020 compared to 2019, the nationwide lockdown failed to contain murders and attempts to murder, as not much difference is seen in the crimes registered in 2019 and 2020.Police officers said the numbers can be attributed primarily to strict action taken against lockdown violators.The data showed that from January 1 to December 31, 2020, 148 murder cases were registered, whereas the number in 2019 was 165. Even attempt to murder cases showed an increase in 2020 compared to 2019. In 2020, 348 cases of attempt to murder were registered compared to 343 cases in 2019. There were 138 cases of chain snatching filed in 2020, while 156 such cases were reported in 2019.“As people were not moving out of their houses during the lockdown, crimes like robbery and house break-ins declined,” an officer added on conditions of anonymity.According to the police, 766 cases of rape were recorded in 2020, while 1,015 were recorded in 2019. Cases of molestation, too, saw a dip, with 1,943 cases in 2020 compared to 2,678 cases in 2019.S Chaitanya, deputy commissioner of police and Mumbai Police spokesperson said, “Overall the crime figures have declined owing to the preventive measures that we have taken,” Chaitanya added.A significant rise, however, was seen in the cases of motor vehicle thefts. The lockdown year saw around 2,801 vehicles stolen whereas, in 2019, 2,693 motor vehicle thefts were registered.“There were elections in Bihar, which was a prime reason behind the surge in motor vehicle thefts in the city, as many vehicles are stolen from metro cities and transported to Bihar for election rallies and other purposes,” said a police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/51068-crime-cases-registered-in-2020-in-mumbai-data-101611078956230.html
19-01-2021||Mumbai||Public bike-sharing cheapest mode for last-mile in Mumbai: Report||As cycling gains popularity across the world, a recent analysis shows that it could also prove to be the cheapest mode for last-mile connectivity in Mumbai.The recent analysis by the World Resources Institute (WRI), India shows that while public-bike sharing (introduced at Mumbai metro stations) costs ₹2 for a five km ride, the same distance costs ₹5 in a BEST bus and local train (second class), ₹50 in first-class and ₹20 in a metro.It gets more expensive if one opts for an auto ( ₹60.67), a black and yellow taxi ( ₹74) or an app-based cab ( ₹115). The analysis has assessed the cycling speed to be around 6km per hour. The newly-introduced public-bike sharing scheme at the Versova and Jagruti Nagar metro station costs ₹2 per hour. For trains, the report looks at the pricing between the Churchgate and Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) stations. First and last-mile connectivity — the beginning and end of a commute made using public transportation — has been a huge issue in the city.Prateek Diwan, senior project associate, urban innovative and integrated transport, WRI India said, “Public transportation becomes effective when commuters have a range of last-mile connectivity options, which is usually at a distance of about 2-5kms. Apart from being a low-cost mode of travel, cycling also allows commuters flexibility to change routes and is the most sustainable transport option.” Almost 35% of vehicular trips in India are short-trips (less than 5kms). The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) development plan (DP) 2032 also states that 60% of the start and end of public transport trips are by walking and more than 80% of it is for less than 15 minutes, which effectively means that these trips, in conducive weather, can also translate to cycling trips.Pranav Naik, a Mumbai-based urban designer and a cyclist said, “Public bike-sharing will be more effective if there is a network and cycles are easily available at the different Metro and railway stations.” The Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA), which is implementing a 337km metro network in Mumbai and its adjoining areas, is also giving a lot of importance to cycling as an attractive last-mile option. Apart from introducing cycling in two metro stations, MMRDA has introduced e-scooters in Bandra-Kurla Complex. MMRDA has also planned cycle bays across all upcoming 200+ metro stations as part of its larger multimodal integration plan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/public-bike-sharing-cheapest-mode-for-last-mile-in-mumbai-report-101611078836460.html
19-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai Metro 2A, 7 may start operations by May, says Maharashtra urban development minister||Maharashtra urban development minister Eknath Shinde, on Tuesday, said that the government is looking at operationalising two metro lines - Metro 2A (Dahisar-DN Nagar) and Metro 7 (Dahisar E-Andheri E) by the end of May 2021. Shinde, on Tuesday, visited the Bharat Earth Movers Limited (BEML) manufacturing unit in Bengaluru. The first coach for Metro-2A or the Yellow line will leave Bengaluru on January 23 and reach Mumbai’s Charkop depot on January 27, Shinde said.“The first six trains will reach Mumbai in the next six months. Post which, we will receive three trains every month. We have spent ₹8 crore for each coach, which is the first ‘Made-in-India’ metro train. If we had brought in an international company, we would have spent ₹10 crore per coach,” said a statement released by Shinde’s office.The Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) had placed an order with BEML worth ₹3,015 crore for 63 trains. Each coach can carry 380 commuters. Shinde said that the trains are also enabled with driverless technology. “Though the trains are enabled with driverless technology, we don’t want commuters to feel unsafe. So initially, we will have drivers and introduce technology later on.”Mumbai got its first metro connecting the suburbs of Versova, Ghatkopar and Andheri in 2014. “In the next five years, Mumbai will have a 337km metro network. While the work slowed down after March 2020 owing to the pandemic, it has picked speed again and the government will work towards completing projects on time,” Shinde added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-metro-2a-7-may-start-operations-by-may-says-maharashtra-urban-development-minister-101611078596397.html
19-01-2021||Mumbai||Bhima Koregaon case: Jail hospital ill-equipped to monitor Varavara Rao’s health, counsel tells Bombay HC||The counsel for P Hemlatha, wife of 82-year-old Telugu poet P Varavara Rao, on Tuesday, argued before the Bombay high court (HC) that though Nanavati Hospital had said that Rao was fit to be discharged, Taloja jail hospital does not have the wherewithal to continue close monitoring of Rao’s health. Hence, she said it would be better to allow the Telugu poet to go back home to Hyderabad where his condition could be closely monitored by Rao’s daughter and granddaughter, both of whom are doctors, as per the recommendations by the Nanavati Hospital.Senior advocate Anand Grover also informed the division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice Manish Pitale that the state government has submitted medical reports of all hospitals where Rao had been admitted since he tested positive for Covid-19, but the Sir JJ Hospital report of May 28 was not provided.Grover submitted that all the hospital reports provided to them had confirmed that Rao had an underlying condition which included urinary tract infection, hypertension, blood pressure, heart problems and low sodium levels, which had been arranged after Rao tested positive for Covid.Grover confirmed that Rao’s health had improved and also agreed to the recommendation of Nanavati Hospital that Rao was fit to be discharged. He, however, submitted that the question was whether Taloja jail hospital was competent and had the required expertise to closely monitor Rao’s condition. He added that the jail authorities were aware that they will not be able to monitor Rao’s condition, hence Rao’s wife’s petition seeking bail on medical grounds should be allowed.Grover further reiterated that Rao was willing to stand trial, and as he suffered from neurological issues, he should be allowed to go home temporarily to be with his family till the trial started.“Rao is 82 years old and if he is sent back to Taloja jail hospital, there is a likelihood that he will die,” said Grover. “He has to take 15 medicines every day for various medical conditions and ailments, hence even though he may be discharged from Nanavati Hospital, sending him back to Taloja jail hospital would not serve any purpose, as there will be lack of close monitoring and absence of facilities. There would be a recurrence of the underlying conditions and Rao will have to be admitted into a hospital again,” said Grover.After hearing the submissions, the court sought to know from the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and the state government whether Rao suffered from dementia. The court also sought to know from Grover whether the court was competent to replace the view of the doctors at Nanavati Hospital. Grover replied in the negative and said that though the court could not go against the view of the hospital, the conditions post-discharge were such that it required interference by the court.Submissions on behalf of Rao will continue on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bhima-koregaon-case-jail-hospital-ill-equipped-to-monitor-varavara-rao-s-health-counsel-tells-bombay-hc-101611078416260.html
19-01-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram health workers who had missed vaccine jabs on first two days can take them on January 21||More than 2,100 front-line healthcare workers, who could not be inoculated on the first two days of the Covid-19 vaccination drive, will be allowed to take the vaccine jabs on January 21, officials of the health department said on Tuesday. Most of the workers did not receive proper communication through the Co-WIN platform, officials said, while some of them had refrained from the drive due to concerns over the vaccine safety.Due to the poor functioning of the Co-WIN platform, according to officials, many vaccine beneficiaries were not aware of the location to take the Covid-19 vaccine shot. The department has planned to set up nine additional vaccination session sites along with the 36 sites for the upcoming vaccination drive on January 21.“The teams are listing out healthcare workers who were left out in the last two drives. We are ensuring text messages get delivered timely to these health workers, by Tuesday night or Wednesday morning, through Co-WIN without any hassle,” said Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer.On January 16, during the launch of Covid-19 vaccines, only 408 of the 600 healthcare workers listed for vaccination had turned up, due to which the beneficiary list was extended to those who were not listed for vaccination on the day. On the second day of the drive, held on Monday, only 2,881 of the 4,836 healthcare workers listed for vaccination had turned up.Until now, at least 2,147 people have been missed out. Since it is a voluntary exercise, many healthcare workers have also been reluctant to come forward. The drive has started in private hospitals too, where the vaccination coverage has been almost 60%, while in the case of public healthcare workers, it stood at 30% on Monday.Officials said that including workers who had missed out will not only increase the coverage but also reduce pendency. For this reason, the department has decided to set up additional session sites.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, said, “In total, there will be at least 45 session sites now for January 21. Decisions are yet to be taken on streamlining the vaccination process so that the majority of healthcare workers are covered in public and private set-ups.”Due to technical glitches on Co-WIN, the health department has been manually compiling the data entry at the vaccination sites. The state health department has permitted districts to keep manual records of individuals taking the vaccine jab at sites and updating it later on the platform. Yadav said that multiple changes are likely to happen in the Co-WIN platform to make it functional during the vaccination hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-health-workers-who-had-missed-vaccine-jabs-on-first-two-days-can-take-them-on-january-21-101611077757520.html
19-01-2021||Gurugram||SUV catches fire under Rajiv Chowk flyover; none injured||An SUV caught fire on Tuesday morning below the Rajiv Chowk flyover on the carriageway leading towards Manesar. The driver of the vehicle, who was its sole occupant, managed to escape unhurt. No injuries were reported in the incident.As per the fire department, their officials received a call about the incident around 9.39am. Following this, two fire tenders, one each from Sector 29 and Bhim Nagar fire departments, were rushed to the spot.“The driver noticed smoke coming out of the front of the vehicle and parked his car on the side of the road. Within minutes, the entire front portion of the vehicle was engulfed in flames,” said Rajbir Singh, fire safety officer, Gurugram fire department. According to Singh, short-circuit was the cause of the fire.“Our fire tenders were able to douse the flames just in time. The entire front portion of the vehicle was gutted. Flames had started reaching the back of the car. However, the firemen at the spot started the dousing operations and ensured that the flames did not reach the fuel tank at the back. They prevented the vehicle from exploding,” said Singh, adding that the dousing operations continued till 10.25am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/suv-catches-fire-under-rajiv-chowk-flyover-none-injured-101611077757037.html
19-01-2021||City||Farmers with tractors arrive at Haryana border for Republic Day rally||Farmers with tractors from areas such as Nuh, Rewari, Gurugram, Jhajjar, Rohtak and parts of Rajasthan started gathering at the protest sites on the Haryana-Rjasthan border on Tuesday morning, ahead of Republic Day, when the protesters plan to hold a tractor rally in Delhi. Protestors said they have conducted reconnaissance of the neighbouring villages from where they can move towards Delhi through fields without running into police barricades. Satnarayan Nehra, the president of Nehra Khap of Haryana, said, “We have identified 20 such stretches from where we can cross the borders without running into the police. These routes, however, are more time-consuming. Since the police will not allow us to enter Delhi via the Delhi-Jaipur Expressway, we have identified routes that will enable us to cross the border,” he said. Nehra added that the heads of the neighbouring villages are supporting the protestors, sometimes even financially. Many farmers who cannot afford to leave their fields have sent their wives and children to take part in the protest and join the tractor rally on Republic Day. Rashid Ahmed, a protestor from Nuh, said that they have been part of the protest since December 12 and will try to bring at least 1,000 tractors for the rally in Delhi. At least 20 tractors have already reached the Masani village near Dharuhera on Delhi-Jaipur highway. “We are approaching all the farmers of our area to join the tractor rally to show our strength. The government is unwilling to take our issue seriously and waiting for us to call off the protest. However, we will carry on the protest even if it takes another six months,” he said. Protestors are expecting a total of 3,000 tractors to take part in the rally and have formed teams of at least 15 people who are visiting nearby villages every day. The police said they are well prepared to control the law and order situation. Rajesh Kumar, deputy superintendent of Bawal, said that farmers at Sangwari Chowk broke the police barricades once and tried to move towards Delhi. However, they did not succeed. “We will take all the necessary steps to stop them. If required, we will use water cannons and tear gas to control the protesters. Extra forces have been deployed at all the stretches connecting the district and the state,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-with-tractors-arrive-at-haryana-border-for-republic-day-rally-101611077756573.html
19-01-2021||Gurugram||HSVP to resolve road issues in sectors 81 to 95 on priority||The Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) has decided to resolve all land-related issues in sectors 81 to 95 in order to make roads operational soon. Officials will visit the multiple points where roads are blocked or lying incomplete on Wednesday. They said that pending payments would be made and legal issues discussed with landowners to make out-of-court settlements.Senior HSVP officials held a meeting with the stakeholders, land acquisition officials, and the Town and Country Planning officials on Tuesday to discuss the matter in detail. As per the details shared by HSVP officials, issues need to be resolved for at least eight roads — obstructions on the stretch connecting Rampura Road on NH-48 with the Gurugram-Pataudi Road, a stretch in front of Park View Ananda, a land dispute at Sati Chowk, dividing roads of sectors 81/86, sectors 94/95, sectors 82/82A, sectors 90/93, sectors 81A/82A and sectors 86/90. HSVP officials said that due to obstacles on these roads, the residents in these sectors are facing problems in commuting as they have to traverse longer distances or risk using incomplete roads. “We have been getting a lot of complaints due to incomplete roads in these sectors. As such, all efforts are being made to ensure the infrastructure is completed. A detailed discussion was held today and we are going to reach out to the owners to resolve legal issues,” said Jitender Yadav, HSVP administrator, Gurugram. He said that incomplete roads in developing sectors would be completed on a priority so that residents of these areas don’t face further problems. A site visit will be conducted on Wednesday morning to check the status and discuss the matter with owners, said Yadav. HSVP officials said that they have also identified all obstacles at these points and the authority will carry out demolitions in the coming weeks. “There are some small structures that can be removed but, on some roads, the buildings are larger as there is a school, a temple and other such structures. Resolving these will take time, but these will also be shifted eventually,” said Sandeep Lot, junior engineer, HSVP, adding that the problem faced by residents of Vipul Lavanya in Sector 81 would also be resolved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/hsvp-to-resolve-road-issues-in-sectors-81-to-95-on-priority-101611077755921.html
19-01-2021||Gurugram||Population of migratory birds up at Najafgarh jheel, finds census||Eighty one species of waterfowl, including 13 species red-listed by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), were recorded in a census at the Najafgarh jheel. The number is up from 54 species, including six red-listed ones, recorded in a similar exercise last year. In addition to species diversity, the census also recorded an increase in the total avian population at the wetland — from 9,453 birds in 2020 to 27,673 birds this year.Conducted on January 19, as part of the 2021 International Waterbird Census (IWC), by Netherlands-based non-profit Wetlands International, the census also recorded healthy populations of winter migratory birds, with 51 of the 81 species recorded on Monday being non-resident birds. The census also recorded three unusual sightings, of an osprey, greater-white fronted goose and common crane, species which are rarely seen in Delhi-NCR. The Najafgarh jheel is located in a natural depression in South-West Delhi, about 10 kilometres from the Gururgam-Rajokri border on National Highway-48. It is fed by the Najafgarh drain’s sizable catchment area in Gurugram, which includes villages such as Chandu, Dharampur and Daulatabad, all of which were surveyed for the census on Monday. TK Roy, an ecologist and the Delhi state coordinator for the IWC, said, “We have been conducting censuses at important wetlands across north India and have noticed that in most places, the population of birds is declining year on year, due to climate change, deficient monsoons, shorter winters, late snowfall and other reasons. Najafgarh is one of the few places where both population and biodiversity are growing in large numbers. One can say that birds in Delhi-NCR are preferring this wetland than others in the region.” However, the substantial increase in population count isn’t just due to the quality of the wetland, Roy added. “We tend to typically survey exposed areas of the wetland, but this year, we have done the census in three teams, which also covered previously unexplored parts of Najafgarh. In these patches, where there is little human disturbance, we found a very healthy population of water birds,” he said. A report shared with HT on Tuesday noted a large increase in the population of migratory bar-headed geese, of which 2,774 specimens were recorded this year, up from 1,337 last year. Also found in larger numbers were Eurasian coots, whose population has grown from about 3,738 specimens last year to 6,428 this time around. Similar increases in the flocks of common teal and northern shovelers were also reported. Among red-listed migrant species, the census reported the presence of black-tailed godwits, common pochards, greater spotted eagles, northern lapwings, Eurasian curlews and ferruginous ducks, in addition to other species, including common and red-listed ones, which are Delhi-NCR residents. This includes the black-headed ibis, painted stork, Oriental darter, woolly-necked stork, black-necked stork and Sarus crane. Roy drew attention to the fact that Najafgarh still lacks the official wetland status, an issue which has been pending for the past five years after a National Green Tribunal order called for the water body’s protection. “After all these years, the matter is still pending in the court, and there has been little progress in notifying this water body as a wetland. This must be done in order to conserve Najafgarh’s rich biodiversity and to promote scientific research,” said Roy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/population-of-migratory-birds-up-at-najafgarh-jheel-finds-census-101611077755497.html
19-01-2021||Gurugram||Low visibility, rash driving led to 116 accidents in the last two weeks||Low visibility and rash driving have led to a spate of accidents on Gurugram roads over the last two weeks, with at least 116 incidents being reported from 15 spots, according to the police data.As many as 38 incidents have taken place at four spots on the Dwarka Expressway, of which three were fatal ones. Nine persons have been severely injured and three persons died in these accidents, the police said.According to the police data, 375 deaths were reported on Gurugram roads last year, from as many as 675 accidents. In January 2020, 85 accidents and 45 on-road deaths were reported, which were majorly caused due to poor visibility, said officials. In February 2020, 88 accidents and 37 deaths were reported.The police said that deploying personnel and PCR vans at accident-prone spots has failed to help decrease the accidents, as commuters fail to notice stationed vehicles, steep turns or potholes due to zero visibility during the early hours.On Sunday night, a 38-year-old pilot of Indigo Airlines was killed in an accident in Sector 114, when the car he was driving was rammed by a speeding truck that was being driven on the wrong side. The police said that the truck driver was driving rashly despite low visibility due to fog.In another incident on Sunday evening, a pedestrian died after he was hit by a speeding motorist near Gwal Pahari on the Gurgaon-Faridabad Road.KK Rao, the commissioner of police, said that the data includes minor accidents as well, wherein pedestrians and cyclists were hit while crossing the road and while moving on the wrong side of the road. “We have deployed police personnel from all police stations concerned across 33 kilometres of the Delhi-Jaipur highway, starting from the Sirhaul toll plaza to Bilaspur toll plaza, to ensure no truck is stationed on roads at night,” he said.Rao said the have asked those running eateries to ensure that vehicles are not parked on the expressway and to allot parking spaces for truckers, failing which they would face action.However, the police also admitted that rash driving remains a major concern.The Road Safety Authority (RTA) is also analysing the data to pinpoint reasons for the accidents and suggest solutions.Dhaarna Yadav, secretary, RTA, said that potholes on stretches go unnoticed during fog and the impact of two-wheelers hitting a deep pothole is similar to that of a head-on collision. “We have started distributing reflective jackets to cyclists, bikers and pedestrians to increase visibility in fog and dark, which will reduce road accidents. We have planned to reduce accidents this year and are working towards different strategies to make roads safer for the commuters. We have studied the stretches prone to accidents and have recommended changes to departments concerned,” she said.Yadav said they are coordinating with other civic agencies and the police to crack down on road violations and improve security measures, such as increasing road signage, to reduce confusion among commuters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/low-visibility-rash-driving-led-to-116-accidents-in-the-last-two-weeks-101611077696017.html
19-01-2021||Other||Hawaldar booked for attempted suicide at police station in Pune||PUNE: A hawaldar of Pimpri-Chinchwad police was booked for attempted suicide over a fight he had with his sub-inspector (PSI) partner. The accused is posted at Dighi police station of Pimpri-Chinchwad police and had been in a relationship with a PSI-level officer for the past year and a half. However, over differences between them, the two had been fighting for the past few weeks. On January 1, the man threatened to kill the PSI, and jumped off the first-floor terrace of the police station building. He survived the fall and was admitted to a hospital for his injuries. The events were witnessed by police sub-inspector Bhagwat Tarange of Dighi police station who later lodged a complaint. A case under Sections 309 (attempted suicide) and 506(2) (criminal intimidation) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Dighi police station. Assistant police inspector A Khatal of Dighi police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hawaldar-booked-for-attempted-suicide-at-police-station-in-pune-101611077276732.html
19-01-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh to have low-key Republic Day function||In the wake of the pandemic, the Republic Day celebrations in the city, just like the Independence Day celebrations last year, will be a low-key affair.There will be no At Home function at the UT administrator’s house either.The administration has finalised the programme to be held at the parade ground at Sector 17. School children will not be called for participating in various events this year.The list of prominent invitees for the function has also been restricted to a few and the number of general attendees has been halved.Also, like last year’s Independence Day, fewer people will be honoured at the parade ground, and the department heads will be entrusted with the task of distribution of awards and honours to the recipients. The march past will be organised by the police.As per instructions of the administration, many Covid-19 related precautions are being taken for organising the programme. In tune with the social distancing norms, the chairs of attendees will be placed at a distance of two yards from each other. It will be mandatory for everyone to wear a mask.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-to-have-low-key-republic-day-function-101611077276228.html
19-01-2021||Chandigarh||Farm laws: SAD chief Sukhbir Badal says SC-appointed panel can't resolve crisis||Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Tuesday claimed the Supreme Court-appointed committee could not play any constructive role in resolving the deadlock between the farmers and the Centre following the latter's refusal to accept peasants' demand of repealing the farm laws.He also said that 'kisan shakti' had the power to "wipe out" the BJP.Badal was speaking to the media after holding ward-level meetings in Nawanshahr, Banga and Phagwara.The committee formed by the apex court could not play any constructive role in resolving the crisis following the central government's refusal to repeal the three agricultural laws, he said.Notably, the Supreme Court had set up the four-member panel on January 11 to look into the contentious three farm laws, against which thousands are protesting at Delhi borders for almost two months now. But one of the members, Bhupinder Singh Mann, later backed out of the panel.The SAD would utilise the forthcoming parliamentary session to hold meetings with like-minded parties to work towards “restoration of the federal structure” in the country, Badal said.He also asked the BJP government not to use the National Investigation Agency (NIA) against farmer leaders, saying the NIA was used to counter terrorism and should not be “misused”.Badal said the Congress legislators and officers who were “discriminating” against the opposition and even getting “false” cases registered against them would have to face the music once the SAD comes to power in 2022.“We will form a judicial commission once we assume power and ask it to submit a report on all false cases registered by officers within three months. Prompt action will be taken against such officers”, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farm-laws-sad-chief-sukhbir-badal-says-sc-appointed-panel-can-t-resolve-crisis-101611075578514.html
19-01-2021||Chandigarh||Soon, tele-registration for patients at Panjab University’s dental institute||Panjab University’s Dr Harvansh Singh Institute of Dental Sciences and Hospital will soon begin tele-registration for patients.The development comes after the institute had started reopening in a phased manner. The time for registration will be from 9am to 12noon and the patients can register themselves on the telephone numbers 0172-2534082 (reception) and 0172-2534070 (enquiry).Upon calling the tele-registration counter, patients will be given a token number; no walk-ins will be entertained. Also, the institute has capped the number of patients to 50 per day in the wake of the pandemic.The Union ministry of health and family welfare had asked state governments and UT administrations across the country to take steps to reopen dental colleges by January 4 after the Dental Council of India (DCI) had made the suggestion. The dental institute of PU had then asked all faculty members to report to the college from January 5. During the lockdown, only emergency cases were attended to at the college.In clinical procedures where an RT-PCR is required, the concerned doctor may request so from the patient. No attendants will be allowed except with patients with disabilities and children. Patients visiting the institute have been asked to wear masks and maintain social distance.The college has already directed the departments to ask postgraduate students to report to the institute. It is likely that final-year undergraduate students and interns will be asked to report too from February.Meanwhile, the dental college has asked its staff members to mark their attendance in the register in the morning and evening till the time biometric is not operational.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/soon-tele-registration-for-patients-at-panjab-university-s-dental-institute-101611076256607.html
19-01-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University Teachers’ Association calls off protest over promotions after 61 days||As promotion interviews of another batch of teachers have been lined up, the Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) on Tuesday called off their protest after 61 days.The decision to call off the protest, which started in November, was taken by the PUTA executive in a meeting. The screening/selection of another batch of teachers, for promotion under the career advancement scheme (CAS), is scheduled for January 23 and 24.Members of the teachers’ body had started the protest to press vice-chancellor Raj Kumar to immediately conduct the pending interviews. PUTA in its statement said that since their demand had been met by the varsity, PUTA executive had decided to suspend the protest for the time being. “However, in case of any diversion from the schedule of CAS interviews/screenings or in case any pending promotion is not processed, PUTA will resume protest,” the body said.PUTA president Mritunjay Kumar said, “We are satisfied that finally we succeeded in getting our teachers their due after a long wait.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-teachers-association-calls-off-protest-over-promotions-after-61-days-101611076136390.html
19-01-2021||Chandigarh||CBI files graft challan against former woman SHO in Chandigarh||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has filed a chargesheet against former Manimajra station house officer Jaswinder Kaur and four others in a bribery case that dates back to June 2020.The chargesheet was filed under Sections 7 (offence relating to public servant being bribed) and 7A (taking undue advantage to influence public servant by corrupt or illegal means or by exercise of personal influence) of the Prevention of Corruption Act and Sections 120B (criminal conspiracy), 467 (forgery of valuable security) and 471 (using as genuine a forged document) of the Indian Penal Code.The other accused are constable Sarabjit Singh and middleman Bhagwan Singh besides Randhir Singh and Nirpinder Singh. Gurdeep Singh was the complainant in the case.The chargesheet states that Randhir and Nirpinder had filed a complaint against Gurdeep at the Manimajra police station, accusing him of duping them of ₹27 lakhon the pretext of getting Randhir’s wife a government job.Jaswinder Kaur, who was posted as the SHO, allegedly sought ₹5 lakh bribe from Gurdeep to let him off. “On Kaur’s directions, constable Sarabjit Singh got Gurdeep’s signatures on a blank paper, on which ‘razinama’ was written as per the dictation of Randhir and Nirpinder,” states the challan.On June 29, 2020, middleman Bhagwan was caught red-handed while taking ₹1 lakh bribe, and a case was registered. Gurdeep had told the CBI that he had already paid ₹2 lakh to Jaswinder for not lodging a cheating case.The case is now listed for January 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cbi-files-graft-challan-against-former-woman-sho-in-chandigarh-101611075955527.html
19-01-2021||Chandigarh||Fuel prices at all-time high across Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula||Just 11 days after touching an all-time high of ₹81 per litre, petrol price went past ₹82 in Chandigarh on Tuesday. Even diesel price has touched the ₹75 mark for the first time in the city. Records have also been broken in the satellite cities of Panchkula and Mohali (see box). Fuel prices have been going up by a few paisa every couple of days, and according to local dealers, the trend is likely to continue in the coming days.“The hike is out of the dealers’ control. Policies of the central government are causing it,” said Arjan Singh, president, Chandigarh Petroleum Dealers Association.Association’s former president Col HS Kapoor (retd), who owns a filling station in Sector 21, said: “The hike also affects the dealers adversely, as our commission is not fixed. We have to keep a higher working capital for purchasing the same amount of fuel. Chandigarh has a majority of government employees, who have a fixed fuel allowance. With higher rates, we sell a lower volume of fuel and end up earning less.”Sales down by 30% in MohaliSales have been hit in Mohali too. “Our sales have gone down by 30% this month due to the hike. With the price of crude oil likely to rise further, fuel prices will go higher and our sales will be hit further,” said Ashwinder Mongia, president, Mohali Petroleum Dealers Association.“The fuel price hike will inflate prices of commodities brought by road from other cities,” said BL Sharma, general secretary, Chandigarh Transport Association, while citing the example of onions, which come from Maharashtra and have become dearer in the past few days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fuel-prices-at-all-time-high-across-chandigarh-mohali-and-panchkula-101611075835986.html
19-01-2021||City||42% beneficiaries have skipped Covid vaccine shot in Chandigarh tricity area||Only 58% of the beneficiaries identified to be vaccinated against Covid-19 in the tricity since the launch of the nationwide drive on Saturday have got their first dose till Tuesday. Mohali district lags behind at 43%, while Panchkula and Chandigarh have recorded 63% and 61% target achievement, respectively. Experts cite hesitancy among people as the reason, but are confident that the numbers will go up as confidence in the vaccine grows. As the drive resumed in Chandigarh on Tuesday, the percentage of beneficiaries who received the shot dropped to 43.5% against 75% recorded on the first day.Only 174 health workers were inoculated at the four sites against the target of 400. Additionally, 30 defence personal from the air force station were also vaccinated. Meanwhile, one minor adverse reaction was reported at the civil hospital in Sector 45.Only 548 of the targeted 900 people have got their first jab so far. When asked about the poor response, Dr Deepak Chawla, nodal officer of Covid-19 immunisation at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, said there are apprehensions among people about the side effects. “There are no reports of any major adverse impact across the country. All senior doctors have taken the jab and more people will come forward soon,” he said.Dr Pankaj Malhotra, who is monitoring Covishield trial volunteers at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, said: “Whenever there is a new immunisation programme, there is hesitancy among people. However, people should not be concerned about mild symptoms after getting the jab, as these point to the fact that the vaccine is doing its work.”Meanwhile, the UT administration on Tuesday received its second batch of Covishield, which contained 11,500 doses. Earlier, 12,000 doses were received for 5,400 health workers. Numbers slide in PanchkulaIn Panchkula, too, the target achievement went down from 95% on Saturday to 61.5% on Tuesday. Of 1,131 health and frontline workers, 713 have got the jab. The target is to cover 6,219 in the first phase, said Dr Meenu, immunisation officer, Panchkula. On Tuesday, 430 of 699 beneficiaries were inoculated at five sites across the district. The authorities had organised a camp at the civil dispensary in Sector 4 on Monday as well, where only 16 of the targeted 150 health workers turned up.Dr Meenu said the drive is voluntary and it takes time to convince people. “Doctors are coming forward and senior health officials have got vaccinated. It will boost the morale of others as well, especially Class-4 employees who are a bit reluctant,” she said, adding that the response in Pinjore was good, where 96 of 118 people were vaccinated.Meanwhile, 65 adverse events have been reported following immunisation to date. “All cases were minor, wherein people reported mild body aches. No admission was required,” said Dr Meenu, adding: “Almost every vaccine causes mild reactions. There is nothing to worry.”Mohali picking up paceMohali district, which has the poorest recovery rate across the tricity, is also lagging behind in the vaccination drive, with only 224 of the targeted 520 health workers covered so far.However, on Tuesday, the achievement rate touched 167% as 167 people were vaccinated against the target of 100 at three sites, including two private hospitals. It had stood at 11% and 19% on Saturday and Monday, respectively. Dr Adarshpal Kaur, civil surgeon, Mohali, said: “People are coming forward gradually. Some of them were hesitant, but we motivating them and now they have been vaccinated.” In the first phase, 11,284 beneficiaries are to be vaccinated in the district. Dr Amit Kumar Mandal of Fortis Hospital, who was the first to be vaccinated at the hospital on Tuesday, said: “A lot has been discussed and debated about the vaccine. It’s about time we take the jab and stay protected. There are two ways of getting the immunity — one is getting the infection and recovering from it and the other is getting the vaccine shot and developing the immunity, which is a wiser option.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/42-beneficiaries-have-skipped-covid-vaccine-shot-in-chandigarh-tricity-area-101611075716169.html
19-01-2021||Other||Second day of vaccination sees a 10% drop in turnout; PMC brings down session site from 8 to 5||Pune: Pune district witnessed a drastic fall in the number of beneficiaries turning up at the vaccination sites on the second day of Covid-19 vaccination on Tuesday. While the first day, Saturday (January 16), recorded 58% of the target beneficiaries being vaccinated, the second day (January 19) saw only 48% of the beneficiaries turn up for vaccination. Currently the phase one of the nationwide Covid vaccination is underway exclusively for healthcare workers. The vaccination sites in the district were also brought down from 31 hospitals to 28 hospitals. With a huge number of adverse effects being reported following vaccination and technical glitches in sending messages to beneficiaries, the second day of vaccination saw only 48% or 1,404 out of the 2,900 beneficiaries being vaccinated on Tuesday. On the first day on Saturday, 1,802 beneficiaries of 3,100 targeted were vaccinated which took the percentage to 58%. The vaccination was shut down for two days, Sunday and Monday, due to the technical problems in the central government’s application “Co-WIN” which was exclusively developed to register and keep a tab on beneficiaries. Archana Patil, state director of health services, had said on Saturday evening, “The vaccination drive would begin next week because we need to check the reported technical glitches. We will prepare a report and present it to the Centre. The central health ministry insists on using the Co-WIN app.” On Tuesday, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) shut down three of the four private hospitals for vaccination as the “Co-WIN” site did not function. Additional municipal commissioner Rubal Agrawal said, “The three private hospitals were not used for day two of vaccination because there are some technical problems at these centres.” The three hospitals which were removed from the list were Deenanath Mangeshkar, Noble hospital and Bharti hospital. Six vaccination sites were used on Tuesday with two sites being created at the PMC’s Kamala Nehru hospital. The rural administration (15) and PCMC (8) did not change the number of vaccination sites operated on day two. Ruby Hall Clinic was the only private hospital which carried Covid vaccination in the city on Tuesday. In terms of adverse effects following immunisation (AEFI), on the first day 303 AEFI incidents were reported, including two hospitalisation, as they were “serious” AEFI as per the central ministry protocol. The second day saw only four such incidents. Dr Bhagwan Pawar, district health officer, said, “Only four such incidents have been reported till now and they are minor in terms of symptoms. Pune city and PCMC both have not reported any AEFI incident as of Tuesday late evening but rural has reported four such incidents. We have to wait for at least 24 hours before we get to know the real numbers of immediate reactions.” Of those who were not vaccinated on Tuesday, 1,302 did not report to the site and 120 refused to take the vaccine, according to the district health officer. Day two vaccination numbers Session/sites/beneficiaries/targeted beneficiaries/vaccinated % PMC/6/600/213/36% PCMC/8/800/278/35% Pune rural/15/1,500/913/61% Total/ 29/2,900/1,404/48%||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/second-day-of-vaccination-sees-a-10-drop-in-turnout-pmc-brings-down-session-site-from-8-to-5-101611074935117.html
19-01-2021||City||Kerala records another spike in Covid-19 cases; state govt to increase tests||Kerala has recorded another spurt in Covid-19 cases on Tuesday even as the state decided to increase the number of tests after the Union health ministry's rap. An expert team that visited the state in the first week of January had recommended the state to beef up its test rate considerably to contain the spread.With 6,186 new virus cases, the number of active Covid-19 cases went up to 70,259 in the state. At least of 66,259 tests were conducted on Tuesday even as the state clocked a test positivity rate (TPR) of 9.34 per cent, at least triple than the national average. It has also reported 26 deaths taking the Covid-19 toll to 3,506. Among the infected, 69 are health workers, said the state health ministry.Experts have warned people not to lower their guard thinking vaccines have arrived. They say many people are taking pandemic restrictions lightly and slackening of vigil may spell doom. They say health officials are facing a gargantuan task as many resist to line up for tests saying vaccine has arrived.Also read: 9 states, UTs among better performing states during Covid-19 vaccination drive“We have noticed some people behave as if a remedy is around and refuse to take tests. It is not good. Our efforts delayed peak and saved many lives. Time is not ripe to lower our guard,” said state health minister KK Shailaja.Worried, the health department has decided to conduct a Covid-19 density study to gauge the possibility of a fresh virus wave and formulate area-wise preventive strategies.The plan is to conduct a study on a large cluster of population above 18 years of age and samples of high-risk group will also be collected for a comparative study. The nature of the spread, the intensity of infection, recovery rate and post-Covid complications will come under this study, said the health department. Kerala has the highest number of active cases in the country followed by Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kerala-records-another-spike-in-covid-19-cases-state-govt-to-increase-tests-101611074737804.html
19-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra renames Gorewada international zoo after Bal Thackeray||The Maharashtra government has renamed Gorewada International Zoo in Nagpur as 'Balasaheb Thackeray Gorewada International Zoological Park', minister Sanjay Rathod said on Tuesday.Rathod said in a statement that a government resolution (GR) in this regard has been issued.The zoological park will come up on nearly 2,000 hectares forest land.It also said that Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray will inaugurate the Indian safari at the zoo on January 26.Three special 40-seat capacity vehicles and an online ticket booking facility will be made available to the people as soon after the Indian safari is inaugurated, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-renames-gorewada-international-zoo-after-bal-thackeray-101611059243172.html
19-01-2021||Bangalore||Congress in Karnataka to lay siege to Raj Bhavan on Wednesday||The Karnataka unit of Congress will lay siege to Raj Bhavan on Wednesday against the three contentious farm laws, Congress state chief D K Shivakumar said on Tuesday."Tomorrow (Wednesday) we are laying siege to the Raj Bhavan against the three laws and the failure to release grants for the control of coronavirus in the state," Shivakumar told reporters.Appealing to the farmers and people to participate in large numbers, Shivakumar said there will be pick-up vehicles at the Sangolli Rayanna Bengaluru city railway station for the protesters coming from outside to take them to the Freedom Park, venue from where the 'Raj Bhavan Chalo' march will take place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/congress-in-karnataka-to-lay-siege-to-raj-bhavan-on-wednesday-101611067550387.html
19-01-2021||Jaipur||Woman arrested for marrying widow in guise of a man to grab cash, jewellery||By Aabshar H QuaziKota city police arrested a woman who in the guise of a man married a widow and robber her of ₹1.50 lakh cash and jewellery worth ₹3 lakh. The accused married the widow 7 months ago and was caught when the widow lodged a complaint at Kunhadi police station, the police said on Tuesday."The victim, a 30-year-old widow, approached Kunhadi police station of Kota city a fortnight ago with the complaint that her second husband, ‘Vikas’ (32), has taken away her ₹1.50 lakh cash and jewellery worth ₹3 lakh," said deputy inspector Bhagwat Singh Hingad.The police investigated the case and got hold of ‘Vikas’ who was found to be a woman during the medical examination, Hingad said. The police found that the original name of the accused is Vijeta.“Since the physical relationship between the two would have exposed Vikas aka Vijeta, the accused befooled the widow and told her that as per a tantric anyone who would see her naked would die. Both did not have any physical relationship during 7 months of their marital relationship,” Hingad said.Also read: Maldives, Bangladesh to be among first to get Covid-19 vaccines from IndiaHe said, “Earlier in January 2020, Vikas aka Vijeta was sent to the women’s shelter home, Naarishala, in Nanta area of Kota city by the Vigyan Nagar police after locals complained that Vikas, in veil of a male constable, was living with a child claimed to be ‘his’ daughter. The locals complained that the child seemed to have been abducted."The widow was working as a security guard at the Naarishala a year ago after she left her in-laws’ home with her two kids following the death of her husband 4 years ago, said Hingad.The accused told the widow that “he is a man and the police had falsely sent him to Naarishala.” “The widow got into the trap as the latter kept short hair and has a heavy manly voice,” he said Hingad.“The widow and Vikas developed friendly relations and when Vikas came out of Narishala 7 months ago, both got married in a temple,” he said."Vijeta claims to be a resident of Bihar but she does not have any identification documents to prove her identity," Hingad said.Vijeta has been sent to judicial custody after being arrested for the financial fraud, he said.The widow said it was a huge breach of trust for her.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/woman-arrested-for-marrying-widow-in-guise-of-a-man-to-grab-cash-jewellery-101611067152969.html
19-01-2021||Other||MSBSHSE: Class 10, 12 board exam in April, May this year||Pune: The Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) announced that it is prepared to conduct the board examination for Classes 10 and 12 this year. The announcement came only days after Maharashtra education minister Varsha Gaikwad hinted that the exams will be held in April and May this year. Dinkar Patil, chairman, MSBSHSE said that details of exam dates will be out soon. “The dates are likely to be out by the end of this week to allow time for schools and students to prepare accordingly. Schools will also be able to finish the syllabus before the examination,” Patil said. “Already, 25 per cent syllabus has been reduced. With exam that is usually conducted in February being postponed to April and May, ample time is given for schools to finish the syllabus and for students to revise more,” said Patil. He said that further decisions about exam preparations will be taken by March-end. “While Covid safety measures will be in place during exams, details of the measures taken will be clearer by March-end,” he said. Meanwhile, Patil said that schools can prepare students with hands-on experience of practical exams. “As the syllabus is reduced, the number of practical exams has also been reduced. Now, it will be easier for schools to take extra offline classes, if necessary, to take the experiments,” said Patil. “As practical exams are conducted in small batches due to limited apparatus, social distancing will be followed,” he said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/msbshse-class-10-12-board-exam-in-april-may-this-year-101611066812514.html
19-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi riots: Court tells police to preserve call detail records of 10 accused||A Delhi court Tuesday directed the police to preserve the call detail records (CDRs) of 10 accused from February 20-28 last year in a north-east Delhi riots case.Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Dinesh Kumar said the CDRs of the mobile phone numbers of the accused persons were required to be preserved as it would not be possible in future to call them during evidence.The court directed the investigating officer (IO) to take all the necessary steps within 10 days for CDR preservation and file a compliance report on February 1.It was hearing a plea moved by accused Shadab Alam for directions to the police for preservation of CDRs of all the accused in the case as it was available only for a year with the mobile service providers.“After going through the material on record and after hearing the submissions, I am of the considered opinion that CDRs of mobile phone numbers of the accused persons...moved by accused Shahdab are required to be preserved as it would not be possible in future to call them during evidence, if the court comes to a conclusion during trial that production of the CDRs is necessary for the just decision of the case. “Hence, the concerned service providers shall preserve the CDRs of mobile phone numbers mentioned in the application for the period with effect from February 20, 2020, to February 28, 2020, till further directions of this court,” the judge said his order.The plea, filed through advocate Tara Narula, sought preservation of the CDRs so that they may not be destroyed after completion of one year and the accused can summon them for evidence during defence evidence.Narula had told the court that she was not pressing for summoning of the CDRs at this point of time and was only seeking its preservation.All the accused were arrested in the case related to the riots in Dayalpur area.Communal violence had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 last year after clashes between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiraled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-riots-court-tells-police-to-preserve-call-detail-records-of-10-accused-101611064372911.html
19-01-2021||Other||Transport and cab operators in Pune likely to hike charges following fuel price rise||Pune: Transporters and cab operators of Pune have warned of an imminent increase in charges and fares following steep rise in fuel prices across the country. Meanwhile, delivery executives working with food delivery platforms Zomato and Swiggy also expressed their fears of spending more money on fuel.Petrol price in Pune touched ₹91.47 a litre while diesel sold at ₹80.58 on Monday. The last peak in petrol price rise was witnessed in 2013 when the fuel was sold at ₹93 per litre. Avdoot Shinde, working with Swiggy, said, “Our commission per delivery is between ₹10 and ₹15 and it is based on drop location. With the price rise, we will have to spend more from our pockets.” he said.Zomato executive Shakeel Saudagar said, “I earn between ₹200 and ₹250 in a day and the hike in fuel price has forced me to spend around ₹80 on travel. So, even a difference of twenty rupees is going to make my life difficult.” Yashwant Jadhav, who works as a delivery agent for Hotel India in Kondhwa said, “I earn around ₹500 in a day and do double duty — food delivery in the mornings, late evenings and sometimes at night. The commission that I get per delivery is around ₹10- ₹15. The hike in fuel price has left me spend ₹50 more on travel and it is eating into my savings.” The food delivery executives have requested a rise in commission by ₹10 to meet the travel expenses following fuel price hike.Meanwhile, according to a Swiggy spokesperson, statements suggesting that delivery partners in Pune make ₹15 per order is inaccurate. “Most active delivery partners in Pune make close to ₹50 per order, with the highest performing partners making up to ₹100 per order. No active Swiggy delivery partner in the city makes only ₹15 per order on an average. The service fee per order is based on multiple factors to adequately compensate our partners, including distance travelled, waiting time, customer experience, shift completion and incentives. We understand the efforts put in by our delivery partners in making Swiggy accessible to consumers and maintain an honest approach in enabling a sustainable service fee,” the spokesperson said. Ali Daruwala, national spokesperson, All India Petrol Dealers Association, said, “This is the highest rise in fuel price since 2013 when petrol was priced at ₹93 per litre. As far as the hike is concerned, a group of central ministers are looking into the issue.” Baba Shinde, president, Maharashtra state goods and passengers transport association, claimed that he had written to Union minister of surface transport Nitin Gadkari seeking immediate rollback of fuel prices. “The transport industry has suffered a major setback during the Covid lockdown. Transporters are caught between fuel price hike and excise duty. We are being forced to increase freight rates and commoners will have to bear the burden of this unjust rise in fuel prices,” he said.Shinde, who is also the director of All India Motor Transport Congress that handles cab services department, said, “Cab operators are also planning to increase fares by 30 per cent to make up for the rising fuel cost expenditure.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/transport-and-cab-operators-in-pune-likely-to-hike-charges-following-fuel-price-rise-101611064712111.html
19-01-2021||West||Get a letterhead ready with ‘former CM’ written on it: Adhikari tells Mamata||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Suvendu Adhikari on Tuesday asked Mamata Banerjee to prepare a letterhead describing her as the ‘former chief minster’, a day after the Bengal CM's announcement that she will contest the upcoming assembly elections from Nandigram. “Mamata Banerjee will contest elections from Nandigram. She should ready a letter pad with the words 'former CM' written on it,” Adhikari, who crossed over to the BJP recently, said while addressing a rally in Purba Medinipur district's Khejuri.Banerjee had said on Monday she will contest the assembly elections from both Nandigram and Bhawanipore constituencies. Banerjee said that Nandigram is close to her heart and continues to remain special. “Bhawanipore is my elder sister and Nandigram is my younger sister. I will try to contest from both assembly constituencies. The people of Bhawanipore may feel bad. But I don’t want to hurt them. If I can manage (to contest from both constituencies) it is okay. But I will contest from Nandigram,” Banerjee had said at a rally in Nandigram on Monday.The war of words between Adhikari and Banerjee began soon after the chief minister’s announcement. Adhikari challenged Mamata on Monday saying that he will resign from politics if he cannot defeat the Bengal chief minister by more than 50,000 votes. “Write this down and mention the date and time. I will leave politics if I cannot defeat her by half lakh (50,000) votes,” Adhikari said while addressing a rally in south Kolkata on the same day.The Bengal chief minister’s announcement has brought back Nandigram once more into the spotlight. Nandigram remains important for both the chief minister and Suvendu Adhikari as the movement to protect farmers’ lands from acquisition 13 years ago catapulted both of them into the nation’s political stage.Adhikari was responsible for building the Trinamool Congress’ voter base in Jangalmahal, Nandigram and Purba Medinipur as the party’s youth leader. Adhikari since joining the BJP in December has vowed to remove the Banerjee's government from power.Bengal will hold elections this year but incidents of political violence have cast a shadow over the polling process. Buoyed by its performance in the state in the Lok Sabha elections in 2019, the state’s BJP unit remains confident that it will oust Banerjee from power in West Bengal assembly elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/elections/west-bengal-assembly-election/get-a-letterhead-ready-with-former-cm-written-on-it-adhikari-tells-mamata-101611058069173.html
19-01-2021||Other||₹2.15 lakh stolen from office of former Ludhiana Youth Congress chief||Police are on the trail of a masked man, who broke into the office of former district Youth Congress president Dimple Rana in Shivpuri on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday.In his complaint to the police, Rana claimed ₹2.15 lakh in cash, two mobile phones and his wallet containing important documents were stolen from the office.Rana’s office is located on the first floor of his shop where he sells mobile phones. He said he came to know about the burglary on Tuesday morning after reaching the office. The thief broke in through a window after possibly climbing up a tree behind the building.Assistant sub-inspector Om Parkash, who is investigating the case, said a masked intruder was captured in the CCTV camera and they were working to identify and trace him. A case under Sections 457 (house-trespass) and 380 (theft in dwelling house, etc) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/215-lakh-stolen-from-office-of-former-ludhiana-youth-congress-chief-101611059191418.html
19-01-2021||Other||38-year-old mason held for raping home-alone Ludhiana teen||A mason was arrested for raping a 17-year-old girl while she was alone at home in Laxmi Puri, Salem Tabri, on Monday.The accused was caught as the minor girl’s father returned home in the nick of time and handed him over to the police.The accused, Dharminder Kumar, 38, is a native of Mansurpur village, Jalandhar.“He is married and has a 13-year-old daughter. He was hired for a masonry job at the complainant’s house a month ago. Since then, he had been threatening his daughter of killing her parents if she refused to consent to a physical relationship with him,” said inspector Gopal Krishan, station house officer, Salem Tabri police station.The girl’s father told the police that on Monday, he and his wife were at a relative’s place, while their daughter, a student of Class 11, was home alone.When he returned home in the evening, he saw Dharminder trying to flee by scaling the wall of their house. But, he nabbed him and learnt from his daughter that he had raped and threatened her. She later revealed that the accused had taken her to a hotel near Jalandhar Bypass a few days ago and raped her then as well.Acting on the complaint, police have booked the accused under Section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 4 (penetrative sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/38yearold-mason-held-for-raping-home-alone-ludhiana-teen-101611058831440.html
19-01-2021||Other||Five steps to file an RTI||Step 1For submitting an RTI application, click on submit request option on the RTI online website. On clicking the submit request option ‘Guidelines for use of RTI online portal’ screen will be displayed. This screen contains various guidelines for using the RTI online portal.Step 2The online RTI request form screen will be displayed next for the user. The ministry or department for which the applicant wants to file an RTI, can be selected from the Select Ministry/ Department/Apex body.Step 3If a citizen belongs to the BPL category, s/he has to select the option ‘Yes’ in ‘Is the applicant below poverty line?’ field and has to upload a BPL card. (If a citizen belongs to non-BPL category, s/he has to select the option ‘No’ and has to make payment of ₹10 as prescribed in RTI Rules, 2012).Step 4‘Text for RTI request application’ should be up to 3,000 characters. If the text is more than 3000 characters, then the application can be uploaded in the supporting document field. After filling all the details in the form, click on the ‘make payment’ option, where an online request payment form will be displayed.Step 5On submission of the application, a unique registration number would be issued, which may be referred by the applicant for any references in future. The applicant will receive SMS alerts in case he/she provides a mobile number. The applicant will get an email and SMS alert. For more details visit https://rtionline.gov.in“RTI Act empowers citizens as information can help them make good decisions. People should use the RTI Act as a tool to get their problems resolved without the middleman’s interference,” says Vijay Kumbhar, RTI activist||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/five-steps-to-file-an-rti-101611055352291.html
19-01-2021||Other||Civic Sanskriti: Time to put road safety plans back in top gear||It’s reassuring to see initiatives like the Zero Fatality Corridor on the Mumbai Pune Expressway. Right here in our city, the Save Pune Traffic Movement is working with PMC and the Traffic Police, to repair and install pedestrian signals which provide sufficient time for people to cross safely. The Pune Mayor’s Road Safety Initiative launched last year took a back seat with Covid-19. Now is the time to revive it and give the city a booster dose of Road Safety. Fatal road crashes occur in Pune almost daily. These deaths are preventable. The Mayor’s Initiative can, and must, set clear plans and targets for the relevant government bodies to improve road safety in Pune and save lives. Every day we see people placing themselves at risk, jumping over high dividers while motorists speed by, cursing. This often happens because the next crossing is quite far, or pedestrians are expected to climb two storeys of steps of a foot overbridge. Proudly proclaiming signal-free corridors and not providing safe mid-block pedestrian crossings as mandated by Indian Road Congress guidelines glorifies speed over basic safety. Prioritising motorists’ convenience above safety and comfort of the majority of road users who do not drive – children, elderly people, women, and people with disabilities – is that the vision for our city? Both the number and severity of road accidents can be greatly reduced if municipal corporations, RTOs, Traffic Police, and emergency services work together. They have specific, differentiated roles in improving road safety. Building and maintaining safe roads, enforcing traffic rules that keep us safe, quick medical response in case of a crash are part of a coordinated ‘Safe Systems Approach’. Currently, our city is at the Learner level, as basic road safety provisions are not in place. For safe roads, providing usable footpaths, adequate street lighting, and clearly visible zebra crossings at convenient distances is essential. This, the municipal corporation has to ensure, since it is largely their responsibility to design, construct and maintain city roads. People often say there must be Education about road safety – after all, besides safe roads and safe vehicles, there must be safe road users. Certainly, there should be. RTOs must have much more stringent driving tests, focused on not just mechanical control of a vehicle, but also on whether the driver shares the road responsibly with other users. But, adults who have been driving for years are hardly likely to start attending road safety classes. Getting fined, losing time and money probably serves as a more effective lesson! Better enforcement helps make safer road users. In fact, the most important lesson – which Traffic Police can help with by fining offenders – is that helmets are compulsory for front and pillion riders. Since 85% of deaths in road crashes are of two-wheeler riders and pedestrians, Traffic Police should prioritise enforcement of rules that make these road users safer. Let’s support them when they enforce helmets, speed limits, and stop lines at crossings. Fines in Maharashtra are set to increase as the state implements the related amendment in the Motor Vehicle Act. In case any bike riders are planning to protest, just remember that it’s very easy to avoid the fine – just follow the rules, including wearing a helmet. People can help create a culture of road safety. As pedestrians, walk such that you face the vehicles as much as possible, and never walk along a divider. Be visible, pause before starting to cross, and raise your hand while crossing a road. Gift a good, light weight, BIS marked helmet to bike riders, including pillions, among your friends and family. Residents associations can conduct neighbourhood road safety checks. Ask corporators and ward offices for brightly lit, clearly painted crossings at junctions and mid-blocks, and pedestrian signals with correct time setting. Ask for traffic police personnel to enforce driving safety rules at critical locations. Road Safety is a cause worthy of our lives and time.Sanskriti Menon is senior programme director, Centre for Environment Education. She writes on urban sustainability and participatory governance. Views are personal. She can be reached at civic.sanskriti@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/civic-sanskriti-time-to-put-road-safety-plans-back-in-top-gear-101611054212359.html
19-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt reduces ICU beds reservation to 25% for Covid-29 patients in pvt hospitals, HC told||Delhi government has reduced the reservation of Covid-19 ICU beds in private hospitals here to 25 per cent, from 40 per cent earlier.Justice Navin Chawla listed the matter for further hearing on February 2, after the counsel for petitioner Association of Healthcare Providers said he is waiting for instructions from member hospitals on this development and sought some time.The organisation has sought quashing of the government's September 12, 2020 order to reserve 80 per cent ICU beds for Covid-19 patients in 33 private hospitals which are its members.The reservation percentage has been gradually reduced by the government after reviewing the pandemic situation. With the Covid-19 infection number reaching at its peak of over 8,000 in a day in November, 2020 in Delhi, the numbers are now declining and 161 fresh cases were recorded on January 18, 2021.Advocate Sanyam Khetarpal, representing the petitioner, informed the court that the government has issued an order on January 15 reducing the reservation to 25 percent in hospitals which have over 100 beds.He said he requires some time to get instructions from the member hospitals on this.As per the government’s order, a review meeting was held by the competent authority on January 15, in which the data with respect to pattern of Covid-19 beds and Covid-19 ICU beds occupancy on that date in 115 private hospitals providing coronavirus treatment was analysed.Keeping in view the low occupancy of Covid-19 beds/ ICU beds in the private hospitals, it was decided in the review meeting to further lower reservation of the total bed capacity from 30 per cent to 15 per cent, and of ICU beds from 40 per cent to 25 per cent of the total bed capacity in 45 hospitals having more than 100 beds and providing coronavirus related treatment, the government order said.It was also decided in the meeting that other 70 hospitals which have up to 100 beds shall have the option of reserving Covid-19 beds/ ICU beds there.Earlier, the Delhi government counsel had said not a single non-Covid-19 patient has come to the court that he was denied treatment in the hospital due to 80 per cent of ICU beds reserved for Covid-19 patients.He had stated that not even a single private hospital has approached the high court claiming that they suffered financial loss due to this reservation order.The petitioner organisation’s counsel had contended that ICU beds were kept vacant and even no payment was made by the government to the hospitals which were facing financial losses.He had further argued that there was no validity or permissibility to continue with the September 12, 2020 order.The Delhi government had told the high court that it has decided to de-escalate to 60 per cent the number of ICU beds reserved for Covid-19 patients in 33 private hospitals here as was recommended by a De-escalation Committee.The September 12, 2020 order of the Delhi government was earlier stayed by the high court on September 22 last year. However, a division of the high court on November 12, 2020 vacated the stay order taking into account the change in circumstances since the time the stay order was passed.The petitioner association had told the high court that the 33 private hospitals are its members and the Delhi government’s order shall be quashed as it was passed in an irrational manner and is ex-facie perverse.The government, however, had contended that the situation of Covid-19 infection in Delhi has become critical recently and the Covid-19 cases are spiralling and it was critical that 80 per cent of ICU/ HDU beds be reserved for Covid-19 patients in the 33 private hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-reduces-icu-beds-reservation-to-25-for-covid-29-patients-101611046190582.html
19-01-2021||Delhi||Amit Shah praises Delhi Police for its role during pandemic, tackling riots||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Tuesday praised the role of the Delhi Police during the coronavirus pandemic and said the police force has been providing exemplary services to people of the national capital.He also said that the police force tackled the northeast Delhi riots last year and brought back peace to the city.“Be it tackling the northeast Delhi violence, or the lockdown announced after the outbreak of coronavirus, or the unlocking process, or the movement of migrant workers, the Delhi Police has provided exemplary services to the people,” Shah said at an event held at the Delhi Police headquarters here.The minister said the Delhi Police has a very large area of responsibility as various key installations come under its jurisdiction that include Rashtrapati Bhavan, Prime Minister's residence, embassies of a large number of countries, headquarters of many key organisations, science centres, among others.He also appreciated the city police's initiative to reunite missing children with their parents and said such moves were service to humanity.Shah announced that 15,000 CCTV cameras will be installed in Delhi for close monitoring of crime and criminals and also for the maintenance of law and order.These police CCTV networks will also be connected with the CCTVs installed in railway stations, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/amit-shah-praises-delhi-police-for-its-role-during-pandemic-tackling-riots-101611046998346.html
19-01-2021||Other||Instead of farmers, Modi govt should serve NIA notice to Arnab Goswami: Jakhar||Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar on Tuesday criticised the BJP-led central government for serving notices through the National Investigation Agency (NIA) to the protesting farmers while letting off Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami. “If anyone deserves to be investigated by the NIA right now, it is Goswami who not only breached the Official Secrets Act but also compromised national security by sharing classified details with others,” Jakhar said in a statement in Chandigarh. The purported WhatsApp conversation between Goswami and then Broadcast Audience Research Council chief executive Partho Dasgupta shows that the journalist was apparently privy to the Narendra Modi government’s plan to launch an air strike on Pakistan’s Balakot in retaliation against the Pulwama terror attack, three days before the Indian Air Force bombed the terrorist camp on February 26, 2019. Jakhar urged farmers to raise the matter during their meeting with the Union ministers on Wednesday as it is their children who work in the defence forces. Jakhar claimed that the Government of India has been targeting peaceful farmers in frustration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/instead-of-farmers-modi-govt-should-serve-nia-notice-to-arnab-goswami-jakhar-101611045630814.html
19-01-2021||Other||Covid curve stays flattened for eighth week in Haryana||For the eighth week in a row, the coronavirus infection curve in Haryana continued with its flattening trajectory even as the first phase of the vaccination drive covering healthcare workers went underway.As per the health department’s statistics, Haryana reported 1,354 cases last week (January 11 to 17). This was in comparison to 1,887 cases reported the week before.As on Monday, only five districts in Haryana have a critical positivity rate of over 6%. Ambala is the latest to make an exit from the critical category while Jhajjar with a positivity rate of 2.1% is on the brink of entering the desirable positivity rate category of less that 2%.The sample positivity rate of Haryana also declined further to 5.4 %. The case fatality rate was 1.1% and recovery rate was at 98.1%, according to the health department statistics.Faridabad’s positivity rate further came down to 9.6% last week while Gurugram’s dropped to 8%. Rewari’s positivity rate dropped to 7.6% and so was the case of Panchkula where the positivity rate was at 6.8% against 7% of last week. Panipat’s positivity rate came down to 6.1%.Fifteen districts — Ambala, Hisar, Karnal, Mahendergarh, Sonepat, Rohtak, Kurukshetra, Fatehabad, Sirsa, Bhiwani, Yamunanagar, Palwal, Jind, Kaithal and Jhajjar — have a positivity rate of less than 6% but higher than the desirable positivity rate of less than 2%.Charkhi Dadri (1.3%) and Nuh (1%) continued to maintain their desirable positivity rate of less than 2% for the last eight weeks.11,457 HEALTHCARE WORKERS GET SHOTS ON DAY 2Additional chief secretary (health) Rajeev Arora said that 11,457 healthcare workers were vaccinated on the second day of the vaccination drive on Monday. As per the vaccination coverage data, 10,849 healthcare workers were administered Covishield while 608 were administered Covaxin.As per the vaccination coverage data, 52 adverse events following vaccination were reported on Monday from across state.Officials said that 51 adverse events following vaccination were reported due to the administration of Covishield vaccine. A maximum 21 adverse events following vaccination were reported from Gurugram followed by 14 from Hisar, seven from Faridabad, four from Kurukshetra, two each from Karnal and Sirsa, and one each from Fatehabad and Yamunanagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-curve-stays-flattened-for-eighth-week-in-haryana-101611043410528.html
19-01-2021||Mumbai||3 injured as fire breaks out in a shop Mumbai’s Saki Naka area||At least three people were injured in a fire that broke out in a shop in Mumbai’s Saki Naka area on Tuesday. Fire tenders have been rushed to the spot.The fire at the shop in New India Market at Khairani Road, near Rehmani Hotel, in Kurla West’s Saki Naka was reported at 10.37 am. It was declared a level 2 fire at 11.03 am, officials said.The injured have been identified as Tilak Ramdas (17), Rafiq Ahmed (40), and Amit Kumar (38). All three have been admitted to the city's Rajawadi Hospital.More details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/3-injured-as-fire-breaks-out-in-a-shop-mumbai-s-saki-naka-area-101611039070456.html
19-01-2021||Delhi||Rickshaw puller killed for ₹60 and his rickshaw; two arrested||A 55-year-old rickshaw puller was murdered allegedly by two men who then made off with ₹60 and his cycle rickshaw from east Delhi’s Vasundhara Enclave, the police said on Monday. Police said the two suspects have been arrested and the stolen rickshaw has been recovered, as well as the knife that they had allegedly used to slit the rickshaw puller’s throat on January 14.The rickshaw puller’s body, with the throat slit and head badly smashed with a stone, was found in the bushes of a vacant plot near a private school in Vasundhara Enclave on January 15, said deputy commissioner of police (east) Deepak Yadav.The man’s body was shifted to a nearby government hospital mortuary and a murder case was registered at the New Ashok Nagar police station. Since the man’s identity was unknown, the investigating team showed his photographs to people in the areas near the spot from where the body was recovered. On January 16, the man’s identity was established as Jiban Mazumdar, a rickshaw puller, said DCP Yadav.“Further probe revealed that Mazumdar’s rickshaw and his wallet were missing. The CCTV cameras installed near the spot helped us locate Mazumdar’s rickshaw -- it was some distance away from the place where his body was found,” he said.Investigators said the footage from more cameras was examined and in one, two suspects were seen abandoning the rickshaw. Though local inquiry, one of them was identified as Chhotan Singh, a 24-year-old fish seller. Singh was taken into custody and during the interrogation, he admitted to killing the man. His revelations led to the arrest of his friend Dilip Haldar,20, the second suspect, said an investigator, requesting anonymity.“The duo revealed that on the night of January 14, they lured Mazumdar to the vacant plot on the pretext of having a party. The two overpowered him, slit his throat and crushed his head with a stone to hide his identity. They stole his wallet containing Rs.60 and the rickshaw, which was their prime motive for the murder,” Yadav said.Police said Haldar is a drug addict and has been previously involved in five theft cases, all registered at the New Ashok Nagar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/rickshaw-puller-killed-for-60-and-his-rickshaw-two-arrested-101611012584282.html
19-01-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: The living landmark returns||Here she is.“I came back one or one-and-a-half months ago.”For years, Ramrati’s morning routine stayed the same: reading aloud passages from the sacred Ramcharitmanas, her upper-half rocking back and forth with the rhythm and emotions of the epic’s Awadhi verses. On the side-lane that connects Barakhamba Road to Kasturba Gandhi Marg, in Delhi’s Connaught Place, she was a living landmark. Clothed in either a sari or a gown, she would be seen sitting cross-legged on the elevated footpath from 9 to 11am, with the hardbound on her lap or on a wooden book stand. Office-goers would walk past her. A few might glance at her, some slowing momentarily, moved by her sing-song recital. A very few might respectfully put a Rs.10 note in front of her, or present her with a glass of fresh fruit juice from a nearby stall (she would ask them to confirm that it wasn’t jootha). This elderly woman had the vibes of an archetypal neighbourhood dadi-maa who knits the socks, makes the mango pickles, keeps religious fasts and tells stories from the sacred epics. But she was without a house. She lived alone. This pavement was her home.And then coronavirus arrived. The consequent lockdowns shut down the city and all the street life.Ramrati too disappeared.“I was in Prayagraj,” says the woman, referring to the city in UP also known as Allahabad. Taking a break from her reading, her hands clasped beside the book, her arms under a blanket,Ramrati recalls the initial days of the lockdown, when there were no trains to be found. “I boarded a bus.” And there in the city where three holy rivers meet, Ramrati lived beside the Ganga, she says. “Every morning I was reading from (Ramcharit) manas.”Ramrati is from Rae Bareli, in UP, and some of her family still lives there. Why didn’t she stay on in Prayagraj, beside her “Ganga Mayya”, or go back to her native district for good? The lady looks puzzled. Shrugging her shoulder, she says, “But I live in Delhi.”On whether she feels scared of the pandemic, she says, “Bhagwan Ram looks after me.”Meanwhile, the lane is filling up with morning commuters. Almost all are masked. Ramrati’s mask is slung under chin. “I can’t read easily wearing it,” she says, before restarting her recital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-living-landmark-returns-101611012064875.html
19-01-2021||Delhi||Minimum temperature may drop; better air in store: IMD||The minimum temperature over Delhi is likely to drop by between 1 and 2 degrees Celsius from Tuesday, as wind directions change again, this time from easterly to north-westerly, said the Met office, adding that mornings may see shallow to moderate fog.“With the change in wind direction, winds are likely to blow from the direction of western Himalayas, so they will be colder. The minimum temperature in Delhi may be around 8°C, while the maximum may be around 21°C. Winds are also likely to pick up, so air quality may improve,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre of the India Meteorological Department (IMD).Delhi’s minimum temperature rose to 9°C on Monday.The air quality index (AQI) in Delhi on Monday was 372, categorised as ‘very poor’, a minor increase from 347 the previous day. According to air quality early warning system under the Union ministry of earth sciences, there will be northwesterly winds of around 10 kmph blowing on Tuesday and of 15 to 20 kmph on Wednesday, which will help disperse pollutants and improve the city’s air.Currently, easterly winds are prevailing at lower levels over the northern plains. Wind direction is likely to change from easterly to westerly/northwesterly over northwest India from Monday night. Due to the change in wind direction, minimum temperatures are likely to fall by 2 to 4°C during the next three days, leading to ‘cold wave’ conditions in isolated pockets over eastern Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi during January 18 to 20 and over western Uttar Pradesh and northern Rajasthan during January 19 to 21, according to IMD’s Monday bulletin.Dense to very dense fog is likely over parts of Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh & Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, north Rajasthan, Bihar and Odisha during next 24. ‘Cold day’ conditions are also likely isolated pockets over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar during next 2 days.According to IMD, a cold day or a severe cold day is classified as such based on two parameters—a minimum temperature of under 10°C and maximum temperature of 4.5°C or 6.4°C below normal, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/minimum-temperature-may-drop-better-air-in-store-imd-101611011130919.html
19-01-2021||Delhi||Cook found semi-conscious on road dies, kin allege robbery bid||A 40-year-old man, who worked as a cook at a hotel in Vaishali near Ghaziabad, died in Safdarjung hospital on Sunday, nearly seven hours after he was found lying on the road in east Delhi’s Ghazipur in a semi-conscious state, seeking help from passersby, police said.His family members have alleged that he was assaulted during a robbery bid by three to four unidentified men near the Ghazipur underpass late Saturday when he was walking towards his home in Trilokpuri after work. They said Rs.4, 000 cash that he was bringing home from the hotel was missing, an allegation that the police have also confirmed. Lal’s ATM card and Aadhaar card were found in his pocket, the police said, while adding that they have not ruled out robbery.Since no visible injury marks were found on the body of the man, identified as Roshan Lal, the police are waiting for his autopsy report to ascertain the exact cause of death. The police suspect that Lal may have died because of an internal injury. To establish the exact sequence of events, the police are also scanning CCTV cameras on the route that he took to reach home from the hotel in Vaishali, said a police officer, who did not want to be named.On Sunday around 5.30am, the officer said a head constable of the Rajasthan Armed Constabulary (RAC) was passing by when he spotted Lal lying on the road and waving his hand for help. The policeman stopped to help and Lal told him that he was feeling sick after three-four men made him eat something. Lal gave the policeman his sister’s mobile number and requested him to call her.“The policeman left the spot after he informed the police about the matter and Lal spoke to his sister over the policeman’s phone. Lal was admitted to Lal Bahadur Shastri hospital, from where he was referred to Safdarjung hospital where he died during treatment in the afternoon,” the officer said.Lal’s brother, Vijay (single name), said while speaking to their sister, Lal had told her that he was assaulted by three to four robbers when he resisted their robbery attempt. “My brother gave the same statement to the police at the LBS hospital in front of my sister and nephew,” said Vijay.Senior police officers said they are looking into Lal’s death from all possible angles. “The legal proceedings have been initiated in the matter. We are waiting for Lal’s autopsy report. Further action would be taken accordingly,” said deputy commissioner of police (east) Deepak Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cook-found-semi-conscious-on-road-dies-kin-allege-robbery-bid-101611010724005.html
19-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi Lieutenant-Governor chairs meet to oversee NDLS redevelopment||Delhi Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal on Monday chaired the second meeting of the apex committee to “oversee and facilitate” the redevelopment of New Delhi railway station and said the project will be developed in accordance with transit-oriented development (TOD) policy.According to officials, a transit-oriented development is a type of urban development that maximizes the amount of residential, business and leisure space within walking distance of public transport.He also encouraged the use of recycled water for non-potable purposes and advised the formation of coordination committees for better implementation.The New Delhi railway station is the largest and second busiest station in the country and handles approximately 450,000 passengers daily or about 160 -170 million passengers annually. It is being redeveloped by Rail Land Development Authority(RLDA) which has invited bids from private players.According to officials privy to the development, the project will be carried out on public-private partnership (PPP) mode by RLDA in accordance with the TOD policy. Officials said under the plan, the railway station will get a makeover in a way that it would enhance the passenger experience and improve infrastructure and modern amenities.Under the plan, the railway station will get dome-shaped terminal buildings that will have two arrival and two departure areas at the concourse. The redevelopment plan also has provisions for two multimodal transport hubs (MMTH) on each side of the station along with a pedestrian boulevard with high street shopping, spaces for offices and other commercial activities.The project also aims to develop railway quarters as well as the necessary infrastructure for ancillary railway works.“The L-G also emphasised on considering the interconnectivity of the station with surrounding areas or influence area, apart from creating adequate parking for public and private transport. He also suggested that officials revisit the detailed walkability and cycling lane plan,” a government official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-lieutenant-governor-chairs-meet-to-oversee-ndls-redevelopment-101611010330600.html
19-01-2021||Delhi||Enhanced share in central taxes on Delhi’s Budget wish list||Ahead of the Union budget, Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Monday urged the Centre to treat Delhi on a par with the Union Territory (UT) of Jammu and Kashmir in the matter of its share from central taxes, the central assistance to UTs, and the disaster response fund.Sisodia, who is also hold finance portfolio, made these demands at a pre-budget meeting convened by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman. “Being the capital of the country, and one of the fastest growing metropolises, the Delhi government needs to maintain an infrastructure that meets world standards. The Delhi government needs funds to invest in crucial departments such as education, health, social, food securities, transports, roads and hospitals, among others,” Sisodia said.He appealed to the minister to increase the city-state’s allocation to at least Rs.8,150 crore in the revised estimate of 2020-21, and Rs.8,555 crore in the budget estimate for 2021-22.“Delhi has five urban local bodies, of which three are major municipal corporations with a population between 39 lakh to 62 lakh (3.9 million and 6.2 million). As the powers and functions of the municipalities in Delhi are the same as that of the local bodies in other states, omitting Delhi’s MCDs from receiving its basic performance grants on technical grounds does not help the constitutional mandate of strengthening the city’s local bodies,” he said.Sisodia said Delhi, with a population of nearly 20 million, should at least be provided Rs.1,150 crore, along with an appropriate annual enhancement grant for its local bodies.Considering the dire financial situation of the municipal bodies, Sisodia also requested a one-time grant of Rs.12,000 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/enhanced-share-in-central-taxes-on-delhi-s-budget-wish-list-101611007757034.html
19-01-2021||Delhi||‘Back at last’: After months online, cheer, relief in classroom reunion||In March last year, Class 10 student Bhawna, a resident of east Delhi’s Trilokpuri, was delighted to learn that schools in the national capital would remain closed for an indefinite period in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Ten months later, on Monday, she was elated to return to school.“When the lockdown was announced in March, we were happy that schools would be closed for a long time. But eventually, we got bored and didn’t even feel like watching cartoons…now that schools have reopened after lockdown, I woke up excited this morning and came to school,” Bhawna wrote in her essay on lockdown experiences.The teenager, who studies at Janki Devi Sarvodaya Kanya Vidyalaya, in Mayur Vihar Phase 1, was asked to share her experiences as a part of the two-day “orientation and connectivity programme” at her school to ease students into the “new normal”.Adorned with welcome posters, balloons and flowers, schools wore a festive look as students trickled in to classrooms after a gap of 10 months. The day’s activities included practical classes, discussions and strategies on the upcoming board examination, as well as an orientation session to acquaint students with Covid appropriate behaviour.Class 12 student Rajendra, who studies at a government school in Shalimar Bagh, said, “During lunch break or physical education classes, we used to engage in physical activities or play with our classmates. It is sad that we won’t be able to do all that in the final year of our school life. But we are happy to be back. The classes will help us prepare for board examinations and reduce our stress.”While students were excited to return to school, despite having to wear masks and keep a distance from each other, the “no contact policy” left many dispirited. Riya Chauhan, a class 12 science student from Modern Public School in Shalimar Bagh, said it was unsettling for her to encounter “emptier classrooms and corridors” as there were fewer students in school.“Coming back to school has been a different experience; earlier we could walk from one table to another in labs when we needed to discuss something, but that is no longer allowed. Since we were not allowed to gather in groups, I had the quietest lunch break in my entire life,” said the teenager, who resides in Azadpur.She said it was challenging to follow the lectures due to masks. “It was uncomfortable to wear a mask and communicate. We had to ask teachers to repeat what they were saying to be able to follow the lectures. We will adapt to the new normal in a few days though,” Chauhan said.While schools strictly enforced physical distancing norms, the scenes outside the premises were a cause for concern. Across the capital, students could be seen mingling freely with one another, either before reaching the school or after leaving it.Surya Kant Prasad, deputy director of education of Zone 2 (east), said he noted the same during his visit to several schools on Monday. “Most of our children are aware of the importance of maintaining social distancing and they are taking all precautions. For the rest, we will ask teachers to counsel students in the coming days so that they take needed steps for their own safety and the well-being of others,” he said.Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia visited Sarvodaya Kanya Vidyalaya in Chirag Enclave and Delhi Public School in Mathura Road to assess schools’ readiness. “Since CBSE has announced the dates for board exams, to be held in May, it would’ve been unfair to students to let them directly take the examinations, sans any counselling or pre-board classes,” he said.Principals across several Delhi government schools said teachers and staff were happy to see the children back and devised multiple protocols to facilitate their safety.Seema Singh Rathi, head of school at east Delhi’s Janki Devi SKV, said, “Our focus today was on discussing what students did at home during the lockdown so that we re-establish the student connect with teachers.”Sarita Batra, principal of Rajkiya Pratibha Vikas Vidyalaya in Shalimar Bagh, said she visited each class to discuss the guidelines as a large gathering is not permitted. “We had conducted meetings with parents to assure them of the safety protocols. We started with lessons today as teachers need time to conduct practicals,” she said.Parents still concernedWhile most government schools in the capital reopened Monday, private schools will be reopening gradually. Parents have raised concerns citing lack of school buses, multiple entrance examinations in February, and the spread of Covid-19, even though a vaccine is at hand.Anita Madan, a resident of Janakpuri and parent of a class 12 student of St Thomas’ School in Dwarka, said, “My son, like other science students, has entrance exams in February. School has said that offline pre-boards will be held this month itself. What if our child gets infected and loses the opportunity to appear for the entrance exams?”Pankaj Gupta, parent of a class 10 student of Maharaja Agrasen School, said, “I won’t send my daughter to school because the Covid-19 threat still exists. Children have a tendency to mingle or not wear masks properly. Parents cannot be completely sure that schools will monitor such things the way we do. Reopening schools for students cannot be done on an experimental basis.”Requesting anonymity, a parent of a class 10 student of Amity International School in Pushp Vihar said, “The school has announced that students have to appear for offline pre-boards this week itself. This has caused immense stress to several children as they need time to adapt to going to school again.Reacting to these concerns, a school spokesperson told Hindustan Times on Monday, “Once children get back to school, only then can a call be taken on the pre-board examinations. Any call on offline examination will be taken after assessing the parents’ concern about sending their children to school.”Aprajita Gautam, president of Delhi Parents’ Association, said, “As per our analysis, attendance at most schools on Monday was less than 50%. That shows that parents are still concerned about Covid. The non-availability of school buses has added to their woes. While private schools are still working on safety protocols, we feel that government schools need to do more in implementing these guidelines as children of these schools need more in-person assistance.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/back-at-last-after-months-online-cheer-relief-in-classroom-reunion-101611007030606.html
19-01-2021||Delhi||No plan to cancel nursery admissions so far, says Manish Sisodia||Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia on Monday said that the government has, so far, no plans to cancel nursery admissions for the academic session 2021-22.Delhi government’s education department officials had last month told HT that they were considering skipping admissions to entry-level classes -- nursery, KG, and first -- in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.“So far there is no plan to cancel admission this year... We are still discussing the timeline of the admission process. Everything has been delayed by two-three months this year due to the prevailing situation. The government does not want to rush the process of nursery admission. But there is no plan to cancel it,” Sisodia said.Every year, the process for admissions to entry-level classes begins between November and December, for over 2 lakh seats in around 1,700 private schools in Delhi. The government also carries out a separate admission process for students from economically disadvantaged families for the 25% reserved seats under the Right to Education (RTE) Act, 2009.Both principals of several private schools and parents said they were relieved after Sisodia’s statement. Alka Kapur, principal of Modern Public School in Shalimar Bagh, said, “We had expressed our concerns over it. A committee of principals and managements of several schools had met Mr Sisodia earlier this month to discuss the issue. We are really glad that the government has reconsidered its decision. It’s in the interest of students.”Jyoti Arora, principal of Mount Abu Public School in Rohini, said, “The nursery admissions have already been delayed by more than a month. The government should immediately issue the admission notification so that schools can plan their academic session. We are receiving calls from parents every day.”Anubhuti, the mother of a four-year-old, said she has already enrolled her daughter in a school in neighbouring Noida. “We have been waiting for the government to release the notification so that we can withdraw her admission from there and enrol her in a Delhi school. I am glad that the government has said that it’s not planning to cancel the admission process,” she said.Delhi Parents Association also welcomed Sisodia’s statement. Aparjita Gautam, president of the association, said, “Parents have been waiting for the admission process to begin. There are many parents whose children could not get admission last year. The government should also issue a circular on the issue in order to bust the prevailing rumours.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-plan-to-cancel-nursery-admissions-so-far-says-manish-sisodia-101611005614798.html
19-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi reports least cases since April 30, eight deaths on Monday||On the second day of the vaccination drive against coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the city reported 161 new cases of the infection. This is the lowest number of cases reported in a single day in 263 days since April 30, when the city saw 76 cases, as per the data shared by the Delhi government.The cases came on the back of fewer tests on Sunday. Just over 50,500 samples were tested in Delhi – as reported a day later on Monday – compared to 68,673 tests that were conducted on average each day during the last seven days.Even then, Delhi’s positivity rate – proportion of samples that return positive among the total tested – dropped to 0.32%, the lowest the city has seen so far. Positivity rate in Delhi has stayed lower than 1% for 22 days now, as per the government data.Experts say the spread of the infection is under control if a positivity of 5% or less can be sustained over two weeks.“A second wave of infection is unlikely to happen in India – or Delhi – because if you look at the graph there has been a fairly smooth curve in the number of cases going up March or April onwards. And, a smooth decline September onwards. The rise and fall has happened over ten months; the countries that saw a second wave this had happened over three months leaving many people still susceptible to the infection who fuelled the second wave,” said Dr T Jacob John, former professor of virology at Christian Medical College, Vellore.On Monday, the city also reported eight deaths due to the viral infection, taking the toll to 10,754 since March 13 when the city reported its first death due to the pandemic infection.Delhi’s case fatality rate (CFR) – proportion of deaths among those who test positive – at 1.70%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-reports-least-cases-since-april-30-eight-deaths-on-monday-101611005033288.html
19-01-2021||Delhi||Co-WIN bugs impacting Covid-19 vaccination drive: Officials||The low turnout of the beneficiaries at Covid-19 vaccination centres is not only because of vaccine hesitancy but also due to the glitches in Covid Vaccine Intelligence Network (Co-WIN) app, which failed to send out text messages to a majority of selected health workers even on the second day of the drive, senior officials in the Delhi government said on Monday.Officials at a majority of Delhi’s 81 vaccination centres said a large number of health care workers did not receive texts informing them about their turn, due to which hospital staff had to call each one of them.“The Co-WIN app randomly selects 100 beneficiaries for each centre and the list is sent to the respective hospitals/session sites. The problem we are facing since day one is that the auto-generated SMS is not being sent to most of the selected beneficiaries. The second issue is that the list is sent out late. For example, we got the list of 100 beneficiaries for Monday only at 8pm,” said Dr Yogesh Kushwaha, nodal officer at Lal Bahadur Shastri hospital in the east district.He said as soon as they got the list, the hospital staff started calling up beneficiaries. “But, by that time it gets so late that many numbers are either unreachable or switched off. Then we follow-up in the morning,” he said.BL Sherwal, director of the Chacha Nehru Bal Chikitsalaya, one of the vaccination sites, has asked his assistant to call beneficiaries. Similarly, hospitals such as Guru Tegh Bahadur (GTB), Delhi State Cancer Institute and Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality (RGSS) have deployed their staff on full-time duty to track beneficiaries and contact them.Dr Sweta, the nodal officer at GTB hospital, said only 24 beneficiaries got the vaccine jab on the second day at their hospital. “The app did not send out the messages to the beneficiaries till Sunday evening. It’s not possible to call 100 people in a go. While many did not respond immediately, some were not reachable. We have conveyed this to the district administration,” she said.At RGSS hospital, just 20 frontline workers were vaccinated on the second day of the drive. Ajeet Jain, the nodal officer at the hospital, also confirmed that many beneficiaries did not receive the messages from the designated Co-Win app.Dr Pragya Shukla, the nodal officer at Delhi State Cancer Institute, said, “None of the beneficiaries has received any message informing them about their appointment from the app designated for the purpose. Our staff had to call everyone in person”.Responding to complaints, a Union health ministry official said, “Nearly 90% of glitches have been addressed. Speed has increased... A lot of the glitches are also there because of varying degrees of the IT acumen of vaccinator officers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cowin-bugs-impacting-covid-19-vaccination-drive-officials-101611004555385.html
19-01-2021||Delhi||Vaccine turnout drops to 44% on Day 2, just 8 given shots at AIIMS||Only 3,598 health-care workers – about 44.2% of those selected to be inoculated on Monday-- turned up for the Covid-19 vaccination drive, registering a drop of nine percentage points from the Day One (Saturday) of the immunisation campaign in the city, while only eight people were administered the jabs at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences on the day.The data shared by the government showed that on the second day of the drive, conducted between 9am and 5pm Monday, a total 8,136 health-care workers were to be inoculated, but only 3,598 actually got the jabs. The remaining days for Covid-19 vaccination this week are Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday.Adverse events following immunisation (AEFI) were reported in 26 beneficiaries (0.72%). Two of them were categorised as “severe” with one beneficiary in east Delhi’s Lal Bahadur Shastri hospital requiring hospitalisation.On Saturday, the first day of the drive, a total of 4,319 (53.3%) of the 8,117 selected health-care workers received the Covid-19 vaccine in Delhi. There were 52 AEFI cases on Day One, with one hospitalisation at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS).If looked at vaccine-wise, the AEFI cases on Monday were from Covishield doses, which are being used as the primary vaccine in Delhi and are being administered in 75 of 81 centres across the city. The turnout for the Covishield vaccine was 44.5% on Monday, whereas that for Covaxin was 40%, according to the data provided by the government.Apart from the general vaccine hesitancy, senior government officials attributed the low turnout to glitches in the Covid Vaccine Intelligence Network (Co-Win) app, which they said failed to send out text messages (SMSes) to a majority of the beneficiaries selected at random by the app.A Delhi government spokesperson did not comment on the reasons for the low turnout on Day Two.Of 11 districts in Delhi, the highest turnout (55%) was in east Delhi, where 273 of 500 selected beneficiaries were vaccinated. This is quite lower than the highest turnout of 71.44% reported in the south district on Saturday.The second-highest turnout on Day Two (Monday) was in the south-east district where 420 (53%) of the 800 health-care workers were given the first dose. The Shahdara district vaccinated 163 (27%) of a total registered group of 600 persons -- the lowest among the 11 districts.Senior health officials said the low turnout was also because of glitches in the Co-Win app because of which at least two vaccination centres – Ram Manohar Lohia (RML) hospital and Lady Hardinge Medical College – were forced to allow beneficiaries on a “walk-in” basis.“There were login issues with the Co-Win app. Other than that, the app is still not sending SMSes to all beneficiaries it randomly selects each day for the vaccination. Hence, fewer health-care workers were turning up. After we communicated the problem to the district administration, they allowed us to accept health-care workers on a walk-in basis. As a result, the number of vaccinations improved at our hospital on Monday compared to Saturday,” said a senior official at Lady Hardinge Medical College. The number who got the jab increased from 26 on Saturday to 76 on Monday at the hospital.Similarly, RML vaccinated 69 health-care workers on Monday, compared to 31 on Day One.Dr Ravinder Pal Dhingra, the nodal officer of Chacha Nehru Bal Chikitsalaya in east Delhi said their staff are personally calling all selected beneficiaries to inform them about their turn.“The auto-generated text message system is still not in place properly. Our staff members have to divide the 100 numbers among themselves and call each one on each immunisation day,” he said.Dhingra said there is also a hesitancy among senior health -care workers to get the shot.“Those who are close to 50 years and have co-morbidities are showing reluctance to get the jabs. Some with co-morbidities have expressed fears that the vaccine could worsen their condition. So, we have now appointed a dedicated counsellor who is talking to such people and clearing their doubts and dispelling myths and rumours,” he said.Low turnout at AIIMSMeanwhile, an official at AIIMS said the low turnout at the central government-run hospital, could be related to multiple factors, including apprehensions of adverse events and late notifications through the Co-WIN app.A security guard of the hospital who received the shot on Saturday suffered anaphylaxis and was admitted to the facility. He was discharged on Sunday.“Also, those who had refused on Saturday were again included in the list and they did not turn up again on Monday. Around 20 people had turned up at AIIMS, of which some had fever while others had history of allergies, only eight beneficiaries received the shots,” the source said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/vaccine-turnout-drops-to-44-on-day-2-just-8-given-shots-at-aiims-101611004093608.html
19-01-2021||Delhi||At 2 centres, walk-in jabs lead to more vaccinations||On a day when glitches in the central government’s Co-WIN portal led to low turnouts at Covid-19 vaccination points in the national capital, centres that allowed walk-in shots to registered healthcare workers, circumventing the list drawn up by the portal, saw an uptake in the numbers.At the central government-run Ram Manohar Lohia hospital, 69 people were given the first dose of the coronavirus vaccine on Monday, a significant increase over the 31 immunised on Saturday, when the inoculation drive kicked off across the country.Hospital officials said this bump in turnout was primarily due to the facility allowing people whose names were not drawn by the Co-WIN app to get the jabs on Monday.“There was some issue with the Co-WIN portal, so we sought permission from the district officials to conduct the session offline. We allowed even those whose names were not drawn for today’s drive because almost 70 of the 100 people included in the list were those who had missed their shot on Saturday,” said Dr AK Singh Rana, medical superintendent of RML hospital.To be sure, all the beneficiaries were already registered on the Co-WIN portal.Nearly 30 million health workers, and frontline workers are to be vaccinated in the first phase of Covid-19 vaccinations.Till Monday afternoon, the vaccination site at RML hospital saw only 11 of scheduled beneficiaries turn up for the shot.“I called at least 50 of the beneficiaries personally and most of them did not even respond. These are the same people who skipped getting vaccinated on Saturday. If they do not want to take the vaccine at all, why would they come?” said a hospital staffer on duty at the centre.Most who were vaccinated at RML on Monday were senior faculty members from the hospital itself, according to personnel at the hospital who asked not to be named.Two interns from the hospital said they were aware they could walk-in and get the shot on Monday, but expressed concerns over lack of long-term data on the vaccines.A security in-charge at the hospital, Pramod Kumar got the shot in the afternoon and said he felt fine after that.“I have 81 guards who work under me, and I got the shot to motivate them. I feel absolutely fine; after the 30-minute observation, I continued with my daily routine. There is a fear in the minds of people because the vaccine is new, and I want to set an example that it is safe,” he said.The turnout was also higher at the Lady Hardinge Medical College, where 76 people were immunised on Monday, as compared to just 26 people on Saturday.“Many people who were already in the hospital just walked into the centre to get the shot,” said one of the personnel on duty at the vaccination site in the new building at Kalawati Saran Children’s hospital.The 81 hospitals where the vaccination drive was rolled-out were due to start increasing the number of sites at their premises to finish administering the shots to their staff quickly. However, with low turnouts, the number of sites on Monday remained 81.Both the hospitals had a higher turnout than the city’s average of just over 44% of the beneficiaries selected for the vaccination drive turn up to the various centres in the national capital.Of the 8,136 beneficiaries targeted on Monday, 3,598 were vaccinated. Some of them had to be turned away due symptoms like fever and history of allergies.On Monday, only eight people were administered the vaccine at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, where walk-in shots were not permitted, against 95 who got the jab on Saturday.Similary at Lok Nayak hospital, where walk-ins were not allowed, only 12 people were immunised on Monday, down from 32 on Saturday.“The list for Saturday’s drive was prepared after asking people on WhatsApp groups. However, Monday’s list consisted mostly of people who were on Saturday’s list. Most of these people were on leave or under quarantine and couldn’t come. There were a few people who just showed up but we couldn’t allow that,” said a staffer from the vaccination centre at the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/at-2-centres-walk-in-jabs-lead-to-more-vaccinations-101611003742801.html
19-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra gram panchayat polls: BJP, Congress, Shiv Sena, NCP claim victory||Amid claims of victory by all four key parties in Maharashtra, partners in the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi – Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress – won 58% of the 12,711 gram panchayats that went to polls on January 15. However, among all parties individually, the Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) won the highest number of gram panchayats, with the Sena a close second. Results of all gram panchayats were not announced till late on Monday and a clear picture is expected by Tuesday morning. Of the 27,782 gram panchayats (village councils) in the state, 14,432 were due for the elections last year. The elections were postposed owing to the Covid-19 outbreak. The BJP won a little more 2,600 gram panchayats, followed by the Sena, which won 2,570 panchayats of the 11,800 panchayats whose results were declared late on Monday evening. The NCP and Congress bagged 2,400 and 1,825 panchayats respectively, while local panels and independents won over 2,335 panchayats. A total of 214,880 candidates were in the fray for 125,709 seats, for which 3,56,221 nominations were filed. At least 26,718 members in 1,665 panchayats were elected unopposed. Another 162 panchayats in Gadchiroli will go to polls on January 20. Though the village panchayat elections are not fought on party symbols, the parties claim the victory on the basis of the local panels formed by the candidates affiliated to them. Some of the panels at the local level claim their affiliations to more than one party. Three ruling parties, however, had announced to fight the elections separately. Deputy chief minister and NCP leader Ajit Pawar said, “The voters voted in favour of the MVA. Ruling parties fought in cooperation and it resulted in the combined victory. The Sena, NCP and Congress and their key leaders retained the village panchayats in their stronghold. We have been working on a Common Minimum Program under the leadership of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray.” Environment minister and Sena leader Aaditya Thackeray said the voters of Maharashtra have reaffirmed their trust in the MVA government. “The MVA government has been unitedly working in the interest of the people under the leadership of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, deputy CM Ajit Pawar and revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat. The government took cautious decisions during the Covid-19 pandemic and successfully handled it. The state has been marching ahead on many fronts including industrial, environment. The gram panchayat results are the reflection of our performance,” he said. Maharashtra Congress chief Balasaheb Thorat said: “The MVA has won more than 80% panchayats and it reaffirms the trust of the people on the ruling alliance. The voters have stood by us. The BJP’s claims are false as it did not enjoy the support from even the native villages of incumbent state unit chief Chandrakant Patil and former state unit chief and union minister Raosaheb Danve.” On the other hand, Chandrakant Patil said his party would win more than 6000 village panchayats. “We have won 1,907 of the 7,000 panchayats whose results were declared till 6pm. Our party had won 564 panchayats of 1,665 which were declared elected unopposed. Voters in the state have defeated the ruling parties as they were angry with the government over its failure on handling Covid-19, poor relief to the farmers in distress and at the same time, they had shown faith in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s leadership and development works,” he said. Patil said that the party won panchayats in the assembly constituencies represented or under influence of its key leaders like Narayan Rane, Raosaheb Danve, Radhakrishna Vikhe Patil, Girish Mahajan, Sudhir Mungantiwar among others. Significantly, key leaders Chandrakant Patil, Danve, former state minister Ram Shinde, Radhakrishna Vikhe Patil could not win the village panchayats in their native villages. In Patil’s native village Khanapur in Kolhapur district, the Shiv Sena won 6 of 9 panchayats, while Ram Shinde’s Chavandi panchayat was won by NCP under the leadership of party MLA and party chief Sharad Pawar’s grandnephew Rohit Pawar. BJP candidates faced defeat in Bhokardan, while Vikhe Patil’s Loni village panchayat went to an independent panel. Key leaders from the ruling alliance retained their citadel by winning most of the panchayats in their constituencies. Congress’s Ashok Chavan, Balasaheb Thorat, NCP’s Dhananjay Munde, Anil Deshmukh, Shiv Sena Shambhuraj Desai, Gulabrao Patil won a majority of the village bodies. Former chief minister and senior Congress leader Prithviraj Chavan’s constituency Karad recorded defeat of the Congress candidates. In Nagpur, the Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) once again stamped its authority in Nagpur district, bagging 73 out of 129-gram panchayat seats. The elections to 12,711 gram panchayats in 34 districts of the state, including Nagpur were held on January 15. The BJP emerged a single largest party, while the Congress and NCP finished second and third, respectively. In Nagpur, the BJP got 73 seats out of 129, while the MVA candidates bagged 56 seats. However, in Katol assembly constituency, represented by home minister Anil Deshmukh, NCP won 19 out of 20 gram panchayats. The Congress grabbed 16 out of 17 seats in Patansaongi gram panchayat, the native village of Maharashtra dairy development minister Sunil Kedar. BJP claimed 12 seats while Congress 5 in Koradi gram panchayat, the home of state BJP general secretary and former Maharashtra minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule. In Chandrapur, the former Maharashtra minister Sudhir Munganttiwar claimed that the BJP bagged over 55 per cent seats out of 629 gram panchayats in the district. On the other hand, guardian minister of the district Vijay Wadettiwar dismissed the BJP claims and asserted that the Congress obtained around 60% of seats while the BJP got 30% of seats in the elections. Hirave Bazar panchayat in Ahmednagar district is known for its water conservation efforts taken under its Sarpanch Popatrao Pawar. The village panchayat saw election for the first time in last 30 years. The panchayat was retained by Pawar’s panel. Patoda panchayat in Aurangabad was known for its all round development in 25 years under its sarpanch Bhaskar Pere Patil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-gram-panchayat-polls-bjp-congress-shiv-sena-ncp-claim-victory-101611000862379.html
19-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Over 800 students with 80% and above secure FYJC seats after five admission rounds||More than 800 students who secured 80% and above in their SSC board (Class 10) exams in 2020 secured admissions to junior colleges in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) under the ongoing first-come, first0served (FCFS) rounds. As per data shared by the education department, 50 students scoring 90% and above were admitted in the first phase that concluded last week, while over 900 students scoring 80% and above confirmed seats in the second phase of FCFS that concluded on Monday. Colleges said students who were earlier trying to get colleges of their choice might have waited until the end until seats open up in the round. “While most high scorers have already taken admission, some might have taken the risk of waiting until quota seats opened up after the regular rounds. Also, some students might have cancelled their earlier admissions and tried for another college or stream in this round,” said the principal of a suburban college. Under the FCFS round, students can claim seats against vacancies shown in the portal on the designated date and time. Once students claim a seat and proceed for admission, they can confirm their seat in the given college. After the first two phases of FCFS, over 1.22 lakh seats are still lying vacant in the MMR region. The education department will conduct a total of seven phases of the FCFS rounds for students who are still awaiting a seat. The last phase will end on January 31. Most colleges in the city have already started their online classes for FYJC students from the first week of January. The state education department is yet to make an announcement on the conduct of exams and other academic planning for the year as admissions were delayed by nearly four months due to the Covid-19 outbreak and the interim stay on Maratha quota.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-over-800-students-with-80-and-above-secure-fyjc-seats-after-five-admission-rounds-101611000562786.html
19-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra govt rejects General Motors’ plea to close Talegaon plant||Two days after the General Motors Employee Union moved the Bombay high court (HC) questioning the move of General Motors India Private Limited (GMIPL) to close down its plant at Talegaon in Pune district, Maharashtra industry minister Dilip Walse-Patil on Monday rejected the company’s closure application.The union had contended that the Talegaon plant was sold by the company to Great Wall Motors (GWM), a Chinese auto giant, but a closure application was filed with the state government to get rid of the employees working at the plant.In the petition filed through advocate Rahul Kamerkar, the union has said that in January 2020, reports started emerging that General Motors was being sold to the Chinese auto giant. Thereafter, the petition said the company put up a notice informing its employees that its “legal entity” was being sold to GWM, without clarifying as to what the term “legal entity” meant.It alleged that after January 2020, employees of the company were forced and coerced to accept a voluntary retirement scheme, which the union claimed was not fair and equitable. The company had also filed an application with the Maharashtra labour department, seeking permission to close the Talegaon plant.The petitioner union had opposed the November 20, 2020 closure application on several grounds, but sought a direction to the Maharashtra government to decide it before the expiry of the 60-day period, after which deemed permission for closure will be granted in favour of the company.It has contended that on the one hand, the company says that the GMIPL entity was sold to GWM. “If this is the case, then the application for closure is infructuous as the establishment sought to be closed has already been sold,” stated the petition.“On the other hand, the company says that only the Talegaon plant has been sold. If this is the case, then the application for closure is unjust and not in the public interest as it is being made only to throw the workers on the streets after first selling the establishment where they are working,” it added.The union has further contended that there were no such financial exigencies in the recent past as would justify a closure and alleged that the company wants to sell the land, plant and machinery to GWM for a hefty profit, and since GWM was not willing to take responsibility of the workers, they are now trying to get rid of the workers.Advocate Kamerkar said the industry minister rejected the application on Monday and refused GM permission to close the plant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-govt-rejects-general-motors-plea-to-close-talegaon-plant-101611000322288.html
19-01-2021||Other||Not keen on fines for traffic violations: Maharashtra transport minister||State transport minister Anil Parab said his department is not keen on recovering fines to enforce traffic rules. He, however, said that strict action against offenders and awareness campaigns will ensure more road discipline. Parab’s statement came during the 32nd National Road Safety Week on Monday, which was inaugurated by chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray at the Sahyadri guest house at Malabar Hill. Thackeray directed the authorities to identify black spots that lead to accidents and build trauma care centres to treat victims to save lives. “We must ensure that the accidents decline. We must first identify accident-prone spots and build trauma care centres at some locations to ensure how we can save lives,” the CM said. Thackeray said motorists should follow “niyam (rules)” and maintain “sanyam (restraint)” to keep “Yam (God of death)” away. Maharashtra is among the top three states in the country to have reported the highest number of fatalities (11,452) due to road accidents last year, said Parab. Mumbai, however, witnessed a decline in the number of total accidents and fatalities last year as compared to 2019. While the city reported 1,776 accidents and 299 fatalities in 2020, 2,872 road mishaps had occurred the year before that, killing 447 people. After Mumbai’s guardian minister from Congress, Aslam Shaikh, sought heavy fines on traffic offenders, Parab said, “We do feel that the traffic norms must be stricter but we are not very keen on recovering fines and penalising people [for traffic violations]. But if we don’t do it [recover fines], then motorists will also not follow the traffic rules only if we conduct awareness campaigns. The drink-and-drive cases reduced after stern actions were taken against the traffic violators. If there is proper awareness combined with strict action against violations, then we will get the expected results through road safety campaigns.” Shaikh said there is a need to increase traffic fines and action. “The traffic fines need to be increased. While the maximum traffic violations are of motorcycles, we impose a normal fine and allow them to go. If we seize their two-wheelers or file cases, then it will create a fear. The process for acquiring driving licences also needs to be made stricter,” he said. Parab also said the state transport department is making the licencing process better with less human interference. He said training institutions are soon coming up in the state where drivers will be tested at automated centres. “Fifty driving training institutions will start in the state soon. The tests will happen at the automatic centres, where there will be less human interference that will ensure quality training to drivers,” the minister said. Parab said the state is also planning to stop issuing new permits for autorickshaws and black-and-yellow taxis in the city as well as increase their minimum fares. However, a decision will be taken only after a thorough study on the two issues. “The decision regarding the fare hikes and permits will be taken after studying the situation of the rickshaws and taxis as well as the passengers. A complete study is being done on both the issues,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/not-keen-on-fines-for-traffic-violations-maharashtra-transport-minister-101611000084163.html
19-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai Metro-4 coaches: Bombardier lowest bidder, Chinese manufacturer ‘non-responsive’||Canadian company Bombardier has emerged as the lowest bidder for manufacturing 234 coaches for the Metro-4 (Wadala-Thane-Kasarvadavli) and its extension line 4A (Kasarvadavli-Gaimukh). A Chinese firm had also shown interest in manufacturing the rakes in July 2020. However, according to Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) officials, the Chinese firm – CRRC Corporation Ltd – did not qualify for the bids.In a text message, MMRDA commissioner RA Rajeev confirmed that the Bombardier is L1 or the lowest bidder and that the bid process is still on for the tender worth ₹1,865 crore. The bid is likely to be awarded to the lowest bidder post the financial evaluation. He also said that CRRC’s bid was found to be ‘non-responsive’ or in other words not conforming to the bid’s requirements. A spokesperson for Bombardier said, “Metro cars will be produced at our Savli and Maneja sites near Vadodara.” The trains will also be designed at the engineering centre in Hyderabad.In June 2020, CRRC and another Chinese company – BYD Co Ltd – had shown interest in manufacturing 10 additional rakes for the Mumbai Monorail. However, MMRDA had terminated the bids, stating that it would look for Indian manufacturers following Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call of “Aatmanirbhar Bharat” or self-reliant India.Bharat Earth Movers Ltd (BEML), which is manufacturing coaches for Metro-2A (Dahisar-DN Nagar) and Metro-7 (Dahisar East-Andheri East), had also expressed interest in manufacturing rakes for Metro-4 and 4A.The 32.3-km corridor will connect the city to neighbouring Thane, and is being built for ₹14,549 crore. The extension to this corridor is a 2.7-km stretch till Gaimukh along Ghodbunder Road. In November 2020, a German funding agency, KfW, had approved a loan worth ₹4,000 crore for procuring rolling stock, implementing the integrated ticketing system and multimodal integration for the two lines. The line is expected to be operational by October 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-metro-4-coaches-bombardier-lowest-bidder-chinese-manufacturer-nonresponsive-101611000082386.html
19-01-2021||Mumbai||Application seeking action for contempt against Kangana Ranaut filed in Bombay HC||An interim application has been filed in the Bombay high court (HC), seeking initiation of contempt proceedings against actor Kangana Ranaut for lowering the dignity of the court by tweeting and posting a video of her visit to Bandra police station on January 8. The petition, filed Bandra resident Munnawarali Sayyed, claims that the actor has violated the undertaking given by her on November 24, during the hearing of a petition filed by her seeking quashing of a first information report (FIR). The FIR was filed against Ranaut and her sister, Rangoli. The actor had assured the court that she would not use the social media platform to speak about the petition, and would attend the police station on January 8, 2021. However, on the said day, she not only tweeted about her visit to the police station but also maligned the authority of the court by saying that as a woman she was not being allowed to speak. Hence, the application seeks contempt proceedings against her. The petition, filed through Sayyed’s advocates Kamran Shaikh and Mohsin Shaikh, pointed to a tweet and video message posted by Ranaut on January 8. In the tweet, the actor alleged of being mentally, emotionally and physically tortured and sought the support of her Twitter followers. In the video message, she questioned the judiciary for asking her to keep quiet. In light of the above, the interim application has alleged, “Respondent in blatant disregard to the statement made before this honourable court, and without having any respect to the authority and majesty of law, committed a wilful breach of the order of this honourable court and interfered with the administration of justice and the judicial process by publishing a contemptuous tweet cum video on her Twitter account.” The actor had filed a petition seeking quashing of a sedition case filed against her and her sister by Bandra Police on an order by the magistrate. During the hearing of her petition on November 24, the actor had submitted to the court that she would attend the police station on January 8, 2021, and would not post any tweets about the case, pending the hearing. The interim application is expected to come up for hearing in due course along with the petition filed by Ranaut.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/application-seeking-action-for-contempt-against-kangana-ranaut-filed-in-bombay-hc-101610999902114.html
19-01-2021||Mumbai||Senate member files petition against new University of Mumbai registrar||Days after the new registrar took charge at the University of Mumbai (MU) amidst protests from several university officials including the vice-chancellor, a senate member on Monday moved the Bombay high court (HC) against the government appointment.In a writ petition submitted before the HC, petitioner Dhanesh Sawant stated that the appointment of the new registrar Ramdas Atram is arbitrary, unreasonable and in utter disregard of the provisions of the Maharashtra State Universities Act, 2016.“The post of registrar was filled on a temporary basis by the university vice-chancellor a few months ago, exercising sections of the Act. What the state government has done is exercise the same power in less than six months for another temporary appointment, which is not needed,” said Anjali Helekar, advocate representing Sawant.“Appointment of a registrar has to be done as per law by the vice-chancellor, on the recommendation of a select committee constituted for the purpose. Even the temporary post has to be handed to someone appropriate for the post by the vice-chancellor only,” states the petition.Despite repeated attempts, Atram was unavailable for comment.On January 15, the university’s Fort campus witnessed high-power drama as Atram was not allowed to take his post by vice-chancellor Suhas Pednekar who waited for clarity from the state government. The drama ended only at 5pm after the state government clarified and reaffirmed the appointment, following which Atram officially took over the post.The state government on January 8 had released a notification confirming Atram’s appointment as the registrar for the university. This post had been lying vacant since July 2020 after the death of former registrar Ajay Deshmukh. The state government notification states that Atram’s post as the registrar has been approved for only one year.Following this, Pednekar had on January 13 written to the state government to rethink their decision, stating that the current in-charge registrar Gaikwad “has been doing well at the post”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/senate-member-files-petition-against-new-university-of-mumbai-registrar-101610999722409.html
19-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body to restart vaccination drive from Tuesday||After a two-day halt following the launch on Saturday, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will on Tuesday restart its Covid-19 vaccination drive for 130,000 healthcare workers, under the first part of the programme.A total of 1,926 healthcare workers were vaccinated across the city on Saturday. However, the drive was suspended owing to technical glitches in CoWIN, the mobile application used for registration of vaccine beneficiaries across the country. While the civic body claimed the application is now functional and they are undertaking tests by sending text messages to vaccine beneficiaries, it plans to conduct the vaccination drive only four days a week — Tuesday, Wednesday, Friday and Saturday. The drive will be gradually increased to five days a week, said civic officials.Dr Sheela Jagtap, immunisation officer of the BMC, said, “The aim is to vaccinate 4,000 health workers daily, and gradually increase the capacity. We conducted tests throughout Monday, by sending text messages to the vaccine beneficiaries. In case, the text messages do not get delivered, we will call them individually. For now, the vaccination will happen on four days a week —Tuesday, Wednesday, Friday and Saturday.”According to BMC officials, until Saturday, they were calling individuals and asking them to come to the respective centres for vaccination, but later they were asked to stop the process, and conduct it only via CoWIN application. However, now they have got the go-ahead to restart the process by calling beneficiaries, in case the application does not function.While the BMC has sent text messages to vaccine beneficiaries via the CoWIN app, in addition to this all the 24 Covid war rooms will be provided with the list of beneficiaries to inform them individually about the place and time of inoculation by calling them.A total of 1,926 health workers were vaccinated on Saturday, according to BMC, and 200 staffers, including 80 vaccinators, were involved in the process.Meanwhile, the BMC has maintained that no adverse effect or major side effect has been reported among healthcare workers who got vaccinated on Saturday. However, a few workers complained of fever, chills, body ache on Sunday — a day after getting the vaccine shot. By Monday, all these workers said they were feeling better.A senior doctor, who took the vaccine and did not wish to be named, said, “On Sunday, for the entire day, I felt a little weak with some body ache. Hence, I took a normal pain killer after which I felt better on Monday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-to-restart-vaccination-drive-from-tuesday-101610999661683.html
19-01-2021||Mumbai||BMC demolishes chimneys of Kalbadevi gold processing units after complaints of pollution||Around 40 chimneys at gold processing units in Kalbadevi have been demolished by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) in the past month following complaints of pollution from residents in the area.The demolition drive is part of ongoing efforts to curb emissions from such chimneys, said BMC. Chakrapani Alley, assistant commissioner, C ward, of which Kalbadevi is a part, said, “We are in the practice of regularly demolishing these chimneys whenever they are brought to our notice. If there are complaints, we demolished the chimneys and recover the demolition cost from the gold processing units.”Kalbadevi is lined with gold processing units operating in small establishments. These establishments release acidic fumes in the air, alleged residents of the area, who have been complaining to the BMC for the past decade.Last year, the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) acknowledged the pollution caused by gold processing units and made it mandatory for all BIS-certified assaying and hall-marking units to seek clearance under the Air and Water Pollution Act. CPCB said that gold processing units release lead oxides and nitrous fumes.“There are more than 2,500 units with chimneys. These units operate in small establishments that have been rented or sub-let, without any clearance. They process and clean gold with acids. This releases poisonous smoke and acidic fumes which are released in the air through chimneys made of PVC pipe,” said Harikishan Goradia, a Kalbadevi resident.He said BMC’s efforts to demolish the chimneys were too little, too late. “These chimneys return even after demolition. Unless the root cause is not addressed, which is the unit itself, there is no respite for us. We have been complaining about the fumes to various authorities, but there has been very little response. The emissions are visible to the naked eye and the pollution levels in the area are adversely affecting residents,” Goradia added.Alley, however, said that BMC would take action against those chimneys that reappear after demolition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-demolishes-chimneys-of-kalbadevi-gold-processing-units-after-complaints-of-pollution-101610999482191.html
19-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai EOW registers FIR against Telugu channel for causing loss to actor-producer||The economic offences wing (EOW) of the Mumbai Police has registered a first information report (FIR) against a Telugu broadcaster following a complaint lodged by actor-producer Deepti Bhatnagar alleging violation of her copyrights by illegally broadcasting her show Yatra. The actor alleged that she faced losses of ₹1.5 crore due to violation of her copyrights.Bhatnagar’s Deepti Bhatnagar Production in Andheri (West), had produced the actor’s show, Yatra, which was telecasted on Star TV in Hindi in 2001.In March 2003 Star India Pvt Ltd released multiple rights of the show in the actor’ favour. It included video rights, terrestrial rights for India and Hindi language only, all dubbing rights in all languages (except Tamil), internet and publishing rights, worldwide.An EOW officer said that in 2014, the complainant got to know that the show was being telecasted on Bhakti channel in Telugu, which is owned by Rachana Television Pvt Ltd. After Star India Pvt Ltd accepted that it was an inadvertent error on their part, the matter was settled.Following this, Bhatnagar entered into a license agreement with Rachana TV in March 2015, permitting the channel dubbing rights to episodes 81 to 145 of the show for two years.“The license agreement expired in 2017 and was not extended. However, Rachana TV has been allegedly illegally retaining possession of the master copies of the licensed episodes, even after expiry of the license period,” said the EOW officer.The actor stated in her complaint that Rachana TV is not only illegally retaining possession of master copies but is also telecasting them on their television channels and online platforms without her permission and without paying any license fees, thus, infringing her copyright of the show.“I trusted them and handed over my work to them, and they took undue advantage of the trust bestowed upon them and duped me by continuing to telecast the show without informing me. Rachana TV dishonestly misappropriated the master copy/copies and used the same for their monetary benefit without there being any valid agreement for the same,” Bhatnagar stated in the FIR.“Rachana TV was supposed to protect me and my show’s interest all the time, in lieu of the earlier arrangement, but they had malafide intentions to earn monetary benefit out of the said acts,” she added.Despite the actor asking them to return the master copies of her show, Rachana TV has till date failed to return them and are enjoying monetary benefits by telecasting the show on their channels and online platforms, police said.The directors, promoters, representatives and employees of Rachana TV have allowed the over-the-top (OTT) content provider YuppTV to telecast the show on their platform without having any legal or contractual right, and handed over copies of the show without Bhatnagar’s consent and/or permission. “Rachana TV in connivance with others have caused wrongful loss to the tune of ₹1.5 crore to us and corresponding gain to themselves,” the actor has alleged.“We have carried out a preliminary inquiry in the matter for weeks and after cognisable material was found, an FIR has been registered under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and Copyright Act,” said another EOW officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-eow-registers-fir-against-telugu-channel-for-causing-loss-to-actorproducer-101610999361500.html
19-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra vaccine drive to resume today at 258 centres||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday said the Covid-19 vaccination drive will resume at 285 centres in the state on Tuesday.The announcement was made after the CM reviewed the preparations for the drive at a meeting held with state chief secretary Sanjay Kumar, CM’s principal adviser Ajoy Mehta, principal secretary to public health minister Dr Pradeep Vyas and other officials on Monday.“The vaccination will take place four days a week starting Tuesday (January 19). Vaccination will be conducted on Wednesday, Friday, and Saturday at 285 centres in Maharashtra,” the CM said.The state has set a target of inoculating around 28,500 health workers in a day (four days a week) at 258 centres across the state, officials said.“We have planned to inoculate 28,500 health workers daily at 285 centres. It is like a floating number provided by the Centre, for instance, if we completed an area then we will be shifting to another location to complete the drive.Going by plan of covering 100 beneficiaries in a day at one centre, it can also be achieved,” said Dr Ramaswami N, commissioner, family welfare and director, National Health Mission.State health minister Rajesh Tope said on Monday evening that the state government will “review the situation” before restarting the vaccination drive from Tuesday in view of several complaints of minor adverse reactions as well as glitches in using the Co-WIN application.“At several places where vaccination was held on January 16, we have received complaints from health workers. Though none of the complaints is of a serious nature, we have decided to review the situation first and then resume the vaccination (drive),” he told reporters.The Maharashtra government on Saturday evening announced suspension of the Covid-19 vaccination drive till Monday owing to problems in the software application.The Co-WIN platform assists programme managers in states to conducting vaccination sessions. Data of the beneficiaries is populated onto Co-WIN and the session allocation, details of vaccination to the beneficiary, information about the next dose will be captured and communicated digitally. It also sends messages to the beneficiaries to visit the designated centre.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-all-set-to-restart-covid-19-vaccination-drive-from-tuesday-101610999302148.html
19-01-2021||Mumbai||Two mild cases of AEFI reported in Mumbai after Covid-19 vaccination||Two mild adverse events following immunisation (AEFI) have been reported in Mumbai after taking Covishield vaccine on Saturday, first day of the nationwide mass inoculation programme. Both the healthcare workers have been kept under observation in hospitals. As per doctors, they are stable and will soon be discharged. On Sunday, a 42-year-old doctor from VN Desai Hospital in Santacruz, was immediately admitted at the intensive care unit (ICU) after he experienced loose motions along with dizziness, weakness, dehydration and fever. However, he is stable and is scheduled to be discharged on Monday night. The doctor, requesting anonymity, said, “I am much better now and do not have any severe reaction. This is common for any type of immunisation programme. Public should not be scared of it and come forward for vaccination.” Another case was reported at King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital, Parel. A female healthcare worker developed fever following the vaccination. She has been admitted in the general ward. Dr Hemant Deshmukh, dean of the hospital, said she would be discharged by Tuesday morning. “Developing fever after a vaccination is a positive sign which means that the body’s mechanism is reacting to it... It has to react to the antigen to prepare the antibodies; so, everybody develops some kind of reactions. Some need admission while others do not. This depends on whether the beneficiary had lunch, their regular tables or any history of illness,” said Dr Deshmukh. On January 16, the first day of the vaccination, 1,926 beneficiaries were administered with Covishield vaccine in Mumbai at nine civic body-run centres. On the same day, 40 healthcare workers were inoculated with Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin at government-run Sir JJ Hospital. Hospital authorities said no one has reported any kind of adverse reaction to the indigenous vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/two-mild-cases-of-aefi-reported-in-mumbai-after-covid-19-vaccination-101610999123804.html
19-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra government-appointed panel appointed to suggest alternate Metro car shed visits Aarey and Kanjurmarg||The nine-member committee appointed by the Maharashtra government to take a call on the Metro-3 (Colaba-Bandra-Seepz) and Metro-6 (Swami Samarth Nagar-Vikhroli) car shed, on Monday visited the Aarey and Kanjurmarg plots to look at the proposed sites. Two officials privy to the development said that the committee has held three meetings till date and Monday’s visit was the first site visit for the committee. “The members visited both the plots to understand the pros and cons. The committee will have another meeting in the coming days to take a final decision,” said an official, who did not wish to be named. Manisha Mhaiskar, principal secretary, environment, who is part of the committee, said, “We had a site visit today, and we will most likely submit the report within this month.” The Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government on January 6 formed a nine-member committee under state chief secretary Sanjay Kumar to look at alternate plots for building the car shed for Metro-3 and Metro-6. The committee has to specifically look at the plots in Aarey and Kanjurmarg and submit its report in a month. While the earlier committee, appointed under additional chief secretary Manoj Saunik in 2019, had also met citizens to consider their views, sources said that the current committee appointed under the chief secretary has not met with any citizen representatives yet. The two committees appointed earlier had studied nine plots before presenting their recommendations. In 2015, the Devendra Fadnavis-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government had appointed a committee under the then metropolitan commissioner UPS Madan that recommended building an integrated car shed for Metro-3 and 6 at Kanjurmarg. In 2019, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, after staying the works at Aarey, appointed a committee under Saunik. The committee, which submitted its report in January 2020, stated that Aarey would be the most viable option.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-appointed-panel-appointed-to-suggest-alternate-metro-car-shed-visits-aarey-and-kanjurmarg-101610999122680.html
19-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Oshiwara police arrests two rape accused||Oshiwara police on Sunday arrested two accused in two separate cases of rape which were registered in November and September last year. The two accused, who were absconding, were arrested from their respective villages in Haryana and Rajasthan.According to the police, in the first case registered in September 2020, a 12-year-old girl was raped by her brother’s 27-year-old friend. The accused, Akram Ali Khan, was absconding since then. He fled from Mumbai after the incident and switched off his mobile phone. In the second case registered in November last year, a 21-year-old woman was raped by a 20-year-old man after the accused promised to marry her. Sub-inspector Javed Karadkar of Oshiwara police station said they had been tracking both the rape accused since last year, but could not find them. On Friday, the police officers investigating the cases found that both the accused had switched on their phones briefly after which they were tracked down. “We traced their locations and tracked the accused by their mobile tower locations, Khan was traced in Haryana and Gulam was traced in his village in Rajasthan,” said Karadkar.On Sunday, two police teams left for Haryana and Rajasthan and arrested the two on charges of rape. “Both the accused are being brought to Mumbai and will be presented before the court,” added Karadkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbaioshiwara-police-arrests-two-rape-accused-101610998883659.html
19-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body plans 5-km cycle track between Mahim fort and Bandra fort||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is planning to construct a cycle track along the beach between Mahim and Bandra forts, spanning 5km. The idea was floated by Maharashtra minister for tourism Aaditya Thackeray, in a meeting and site visit on Monday with senior civic officials with jurisdiction over the area. Thackeray later took to social media and tweeted, “This morning I visited Mahim Retibunder to check on the progress of our beach restoration drive. I also discussed with DMC Ballamwar ji and AC @DighavkarKiran ji about our plan to have a cycle track from Mahim Fort to Bandra Fort. A watchtower for tourists is near complete.”Thackeray directed Kiran Dighavkar, assistant commissioner of the G-North ward, to check the feasibility of the project. “During the site visit, Aaditya Thackeray proposed the cycle track and has asked the civic administration to check the feasibility of this project. As discussed, it will run along the sea between Mahim fort and Bandra fort, along the existing road on the other side. Cyclists will be able to enjoy the view of the sea on one side,” said Dighavkar.“Only a small portion of this 5-km patch has a beach, at Mahim. In this portion, the track can run along the beach,” he added.Following up on its earlier plans to restore Mahim fort and Mahim beach, BMC began beach restoration at Mahim Retibunder before the Covid-19 lockdown. The plan includes restoration of the beach, construction of a promenade, a walkway, and a watchtower, and artwork to beautify the area, along with a seaside retaining wall. In October 2020, BMC transported sand to the Mahim Retibunder and began planting trees which are suitable to grow on the beach.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-plans-5-km-cycle-track-between-mahim-fort-and-bandra-fort-101610998882560.html
19-01-2021||Other||With mass inoculation on, travel industry hopes for better year||With the mass inoculation drive against coronavirus starting in India and several other parts of the world, travel portals are hoping for a better year ahead for the industry, which had been hit last year owing to the Covid-19 pandemic.Unlike last year, with over six weekends in the year, travel portals expect tourists to explore new places, as they have already seen a surge in enquiries for short rejuvenation trips for 2021. The long weekends around Republic Day, Good Friday, Holi, Janmashtami, Dussehra and Christmas are expected to see significant traveller interest.Travel portals said that over the years, multiple short breaks to relax, reconnect and rejuvenate have become the order of the day for leisure travellers. Vacationers look to pause and unwind at quaint, tranquil properties in the hills of Himachal or Uttarakhand, or at the beaches of Goa and Pondicherry – spending more time with their loved ones and make the most of the hotel and in room amenities.Vipul Prakash, chief operating officer (COO), MakeMyTrip, said, “Bookings on MakeMyTrip indicates that couples, small groups of friends and families with children have already started to plan and book staycations for long weekends for the year, starting with the Republic Day-long weekend. As travel sentiment revives, we hope to see more takers for the long weekend travel in the coming months.”Cleartrip said it saw a revival in the last quarter of 2020, catalysed by seasonal demand and ease in restrictions.“In 2021, we expect the large pent up demand to further convert into bookings. The vaccination plans will significantly aid the recovery in travel volumes, and as countries continue their vaccination drives, we may also see international travel restrictions easing. Travel will also be spurred by the number of long weekends this year, evenly spread out across all quarters,” said a spokesperson from Cleartrip.According to Yatra.com, the travel and hospitality industry is gearing up with customised services, among others, to attract more tourists, and quick getaways as a trend has increased exponentially in the past few years with a number of travellers across India packing their bags and setting out on journeys.Sabina Chopra, co-Founder and COO, corporate travel; and head, industry relations, Yatra.com, said, “ In 2021, we can expect this trend to grow further in demand, as tourists plan their travel before or after the weekends. The vaccine announcement is also expected to push this growth furthermore as we foresee people planning their trips judiciously while taking all precautionary measures in terms of health and safety.”“For January, at Yatra.com we have witnessed an increase in demand for two upcoming long weekends of Republic Day and Makar Sankranti where travellers enquired about holiday packages as well as alternate accommodation options largely in 4/5-star properties, homestays and villas among others, in offbeat locations, as people continue to set out for shorter escapes,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/with-mass-inoculation-on-travel-industry-hopes-for-better-year-101610998881530.html
19-01-2021||Other||Golden jackal rescued from a medical store in Thane near Mumbai||An adult jackal entered a medical store in the busy market area of Kharkar Ali in Thane and kept the shopkeepers in the area on their toes for more than two hours. At first, people mistook it to be a dog and tried to shoo it away only to realise later that it was a jackal. The jackal entered the shop around 11.30am was rescued around 2pm by animal lovers and forest department. Forest officials believe the jackal might have strayed from the mangroves as the area was near the creek. Forest officials sent the jackal for medical examination at the Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP). Rahul Pandey, the owner of the shop, said, “The jackal directly entered the shop and sat in a corner. We first thought it to be a stray and tried to scare him with a broom. But it snatched the broom and refused to move. When we realised it was a jackal, we closed the shop and informed forest officials.” Sanjay Pawar, range forest officer, Thane, confirmed that the jackal was rescued with the help of Wildlife Welfare Association members. “The jackal was found at 11.30am and was rescued after around two-and-a-half hours. We suspected the jackal came from the creek, which is merely 500 metres from the spot. A stray dog from the area had attacked him; hence he tried to hide in the shop. He had dog bites on his left leg. We rescued him by placing a nylon cage and have sent him for check up to medical officers at Borivli,” said Pawar. Dr Shailesh Pethe, senior veterinarian at SGNP, said, “The animal is around 2.5-years old and is a male golden Jackal. It has some minor wounds on his left hind leg. Necessary treatment has been provided and it looks healthy. We have kept it under observation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/golden-jackal-rescued-from-a-medical-store-in-thane-near-mumbai-101610998762214.html
19-01-2021||Mumbai||Petrol rises to ₹91.56/L, diesel to ₹81.87 as fuel prices continue to soar in Mumbai||Fuel prices in Mumbai reached an all-time high on Monday. Price of a litre of petrol was ₹91.56 and diesel was ₹81.87.The increase in fuel price was witnessed after it remained constant for two days. On January 15, a litre of petrol was available at ₹91.32 and diesel was priced at ₹81.60.Earlier, the highest price of petrol recorded in the city was in October 2018 when it reached ₹91.34. The highest price of diesel recorded in the city was last week on Thursday when one litre cost ₹81.60. Earlier, one litre of diesel crossed the ₹-80 mark in 2018.Fuel prices have also increased in other metro cities. The increase in fuel prices is due to an increase in the cost of crude oil throughout last week. Transporters have stated that the government is not serious about the rising fuel prices that could lead to unemployment in the country. “The situation is grave and will have a cascading effect. Fuel prices are at an all-time high which will impact small transport operators a lot and even force some to quit their jobs, leading to unemployment. As it is a complete chain of logistics in the supply of different products, the price of essential goods will also increase. We will soon be calling for an all-India transporters meeting, and strong action will be taken,” said Bal Malkit Singh, chairman, All India Motor Transport Congress.Citizens are also irked with the constant rise in fuel prices and have urged the government to reduce taxes on the fuel. “We are already suffering the financial impact of the coronavirus. Personal vehicles have become the only way for most people to commute in the city. The government should act quickly and reduce the value-added tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel and immediately reduce the price,” said Dr Charu Jain, a Byculla resident.Meanwhile, the city’s Petrol Dealers’ Association has stated that they are helpless due to the constant increase in fuel prices. “We are helpless and have asked the government to intervene. The international crude oil prices have increased. We have also invested money and get rolling credit and do not earn directly.” said M Venkatrao, president, Petrol Dealers’ Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/petrol-rises-to-91-56-l-diesel-to-81-87-as-fuel-prices-continue-to-soar-in-mumbai-101610998702008.html
19-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: ANC arrests woman, seizes MD, charas, cash worth ₹73.65 lakh||The anti-narcotics cell (ANC) of the Mumbai Police arrested a 35-year-old woman at Bandra and allegedly seized mephedrone or MD, charas and cash collectively worth ₹73.65 lakh from her possession.The arrested accused, Nazma Ahmed Shaikh, is a resident of Mahim and is suspected to be involved in supplying drugs for past seven to eight years. An ANC officer claimed Shaikh has allegedly bought three to four houses in the city using the profits of illegal drug dealings. The official further said that Shaikh also had a rented house in Kurla from where the police seized 2,700 grams of charas on Sunday. She was paying ₹30,000 per month as rent for the house to hide the contraband, said deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Datta Nalawade of ANC. Shaikh’s husband is currently in jail, facing charges of murder, added Nalawade. Following a tip-off, the Ghatkopar unit of ANC laid a trap near Patwardhan Garden on Linking Road in Bandra and nabbed Shaikh on Sunday. During search, MD worth ₹10 lakh and ₹20,000 in cash was recovered from her. She was then brought to the unit office where police conducted further inquiry and learnt about her rented house in Kurla. A team then searched the house and recovered 2 kg and 700 grams of charas and ₹9.45 lakh, said Nalawade. Shaikh was arrested under relevant sections of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act and was produced before the court. The court has remanded her in police custody till Wednesday. Shaikh is an active drug supplier and is allegedly involved in smuggling and distributing drugs in the city from Worli to Andheri. She mostly travels in her own car at night and distributes contrabands to drug peddlers, said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-anc-arrests-woman-seizes-md-charas-cash-worth-73-65-lakh-101610998641937.html
19-01-2021||Mumbai||Take vaccine on assigned date, or wait till end of drive: Mumbai civic body||Registered healthcare workers (HCWs) who do not show up on their first assigned date of vaccination will be given a second chance to be vaccinated, but they will have to wait till the end of the inoculation drive, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said on Monday. The civic body estimates it will take more than a month to complete the inoculation process for HCWs in the city. On January 16, which was the first day of the vaccination drive, BMC had set a target of immunising 4,000 HCWs, of which only 1,926 HCWs were vaccinated. Part of the reason for the shortfall was that the Covid vaccine intelligence network (CoWIN) app, which notified HCWs with details of where they can receive the shot, had malfunctioned. CoWIN has been developed by the Centre to monitor vaccine delivery. “The Central government is working to sort out the issue. Once we are able to send messages on time, the rate of turnout for HCWs will increase further,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC. Civic officials said those who fail to show up on the designated date for vaccination would be given a second date since it may be impractical to expect 100% turnout on every day of the inoculation drive. “We cannot include the names of HCWs in the corresponding list of beneficiaries since it may lead to confusion. So they will again be given the next date of immunisation after the completion of the programme’s first phase. We therefore suggest that HCWs take the vaccine shot in the first round without missing the registered date,” said Dr Mangala Gomare, executive health officer, BMC. In Mumbai, 136,000 HCWs have registered on CoWIN for vaccination. BMC’s original plan entailed inoculating 12,000 HCWs daily, thereby completing the process in 15 days. However, following new directives from the Union health ministry, the civic body said it would need more than a month to immunise all HCWs.“We have to follow the Central government’s instruction to immunise 4,000 HCWs for four days a week. Additionally, there will be a backlog of defaulter HCWs who will be given other dates for vaccination. This has certainly extended the expected time period of the vaccination process,” said Kakani. At present, with the first batch of assigned vaccines from the Centre, BMC has set itself a target of vaccinating 50,000 to 65,000 beneficiaries. BMC received 139,500 units of Covishield in the second week of January, which can inoculate around 70,000 people. “We have to use both dosages from the same batch of vaccines. So we have to keep the remaining vaccines for the second dosage which will be given 28 days after the first dosage. At present, we have kept a target to vaccinate 50,000 HCWs,” said Dr Gomare. Kakani said the civic body would only be able to estimate how long it would take to vaccinate Mumbai’s population of approximately 20 million people after the inoculation process has been smoothened out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/take-vaccine-on-assigned-date-or-wait-till-end-of-drive-mumbai-civic-body-101610998161992.html
19-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai breathes its cleanest air so far this year on Monday||The city breathed its cleanest air this year on Monday as winds blowing from the sea cleared up pollutants in the air. An overall air quality index (AQI) — a pollutant measuring indicator — of 156 was measured, which falls in the moderate category. This beats the lowest AQI recorded in the year before this at 162 on January 16. Air quality had remained in poor to very poor category since the beginning of January owing to low temperatures. On January 8, AQI was the worst at 317 (very poor). With the onset of westerly winds, the air had cleared up by the weekend, but became poor on Sunday with an AQI of 252.“Air mass has formed in the ocean and wind blowing from the sea is cleaner than the air from land mass. Winds blowing from the north and west have cleared the air of pollutants. The air quality is expected to remain in moderate to poor category,” said a spokesperson for System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR). AQI was calculated by SAFAR as the average of indices recorded at 10 locations in the city and suburbs. Of the 10 locations measured, only Navi Mumbai recorded very poor air with AQI at 351.SAFAR categorises AQI levels for PM2.5 in the 0-50 range as good; 51-100 as satisfactory; 101-200 as moderate; 201-300 as poor; 301-400 as very poor and above 400 as severe.Meanwhile, temperatures increased in the city. Santacruz weather station, representative of Mumbai and suburbs, recorded a minimum temperature of 20.2 degrees Celsius, 3 degrees above normal. Colaba observatory, representative of south Mumbai, recorded minimum temperature at 21.8 degrees Celsius, 3 degrees above normal. Santacruz reported a maximum temperature of 31.6 degrees Celsius, which was 1 degree above normal while it was 29.4 degrees Celsius in Colaba which is 1 degree below normal. “The sky was somewhat cloudy on Monday. Parts of Maharashtra can expect a winter spell towards the middle of the week,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general of western region, India Meteorological Department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-breathes-its-cleanest-air-so-far-this-year-on-monday-101610997921953.html
19-01-2021||Mumbai||Bird flu deaths in Maharashtra soar to 6,816; state to upgrade its lab||The number of bird flu deaths in the state is rising continuously. The toll has reached 6,816 in the past 11 days. Of these, 829 birds were found dead across the state on Monday.In addition, more than 25,000 poultry birds were culled by the local administration in eight districts after bird flu cases were confirmed by the ICAR-National Institute of High-Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD), Bhopal — a nodal body for testing bird flu cases. Of these, over 10,000 birds were culled in the past three days at Parbhani, Latur, Nanded, Pune, Solapur, Beed, Ahmednagar and Raigad districts while nearly 15,000 were culled in one village each in Parbhani and Latur to contain the spread last week.On Sunday, 836 bird deaths were reported whereas on Saturday around 1,200 birds were found dead across the state, officials from the state animal husbandry department said.Meanwhile, the state government has decided to upgrade the Western Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory (WRDDL) in Pune, to do away with its dependency on ICAR-NIHSAD, Anoop Kumar, principal secretary of state animal husbandry department confirmed on Monday.“We shall complete the BSL-3 (Biological Safety Level) laboratory at our own WRDDL. After this, there will be no dependence on NIHSAD laboratory. This will help in confirmation of bird flu strain in the state without any delay,” Kumar said.WRDDL will be turned into BSL-2 and BSL-3 laboratory based on turnkey basis with an expenditure of ₹70 crore. The administrative approval for the project given on Monday, the principal secretary added.CM Thackeray had last week directed the animal husbandry department to upgrade the state laboratory to get rid of its dependency on the central laboratory.The state government has to get confirmation of bird flu or avian influenza from ICAR-NIHSAD to start the culling process of poultry birds.Laboratory facilities that handle infectious agents are categorised by BSL which corresponds to the risk level of the pathogens being handled. BSL-3 laboratories are designated for indigenous or exotic agents that may cause serious or potentially lethal disease through inhalation. BSL-3 laboratory is pervasive worldwide for applications ranging from microbiological research, scientific teaching, biomedical, diagnostic and clinical, bio-security, vaccine research, to various production facilities.The state government already empowered all district collectors for immediate implementation of a containment plan even if they suspect deaths due to bird flu. It, however, has not banned supply and sale of poultry birds in the state except in the one-km radius of the poultry farms where bird flu cases have been confirmed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bird-flu-deaths-in-maharashtra-soar-to-6-816-state-to-upgrade-its-lab-101610997801752.html
19-01-2021||Delhi||26 adverse events in Capital on Monday, two hospitalised: Govt||Two people, among over 3,500 people who received coronavirus vaccines on Monday, were reported to have suffered ‘severe’ adverse effects following immunisation (AEFI).One of them suffered a severe allergic reaction, while the other had an abnormal heart rhythm, as the vaccination programme entered its second day in the national capital. Both who suffered the adverse reactions were administered the Covishield vaccine, which is manufactured by the Serum Institute of India.No adverse events were reported in those who were administered Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin on Monday, according to data seen by HT.Other than the two severe adverse reactions, 24 minor reactions such as rashes, swelling at the site of injection, and fever were reported in the city on Monday.On Saturday, a 22-year-old security guard from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, who had been given a Covaxin jab, had suffered anaphylaxis and was admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) at the hospital. He was discharged on Sunday.Adverse events are observed with most vaccines and can range from pain, mild swelling at injection site and body ache to breathlessness and hospitlisation. Experts said AEFIs needed to be evaluated in the context of risk-and-benefits associated with immunization.In the case of coronavirus vaccines, the government has said that there can be mild AEFIs, such as pain and swelling at the site of injection, mild fever, nausea, giddiness and mild rashes. Serious AEFIs can be a severe allergic reaction, such as an anaphylactic shock, which could potentially require hospitalisation.One of the severe adverse reactions was reported in a 27-year-old doctor from Lal Bahadur Shastri hospital whose heartbeat turned irregular after getting the shot.“Her heart was skipping a beat, according to the doctors at the hospital. She was immediately admitted to the hospital. She is stable,” said a senior official from east district, where the hospital is located.The second reaction was reported in a 45 year-old doctor at south-west Delhi’s Venkateshwar hospital who had anaphylaxis, a severe allergic reaction where the membranes of the throat start swelling up, preventing a person from breathing.After receiving the vaccine, the doctor reported a choking sensation and difficulty swallowing. “She was kept under observation for a few hours, after which she was discharged,” said a senior official from the district.Both who suffered the adverse events on Monday were women.Other than that, two serious adverse event following immunisation (AEFI) from Saturday’s drive were reported later on. One was in a security guard at Max hospital Patparganj, whose blood pressure plummeted after receiving the shot. The second was at Northern Railway hospital, according to details provided by the Union health ministry.“The acceptable level of AEFI would ideally be zero, but that is not the case. I think it is around 0.2% and yet we are focussing on that and not the 99.8% benefit,” said Dr Shahid Jameel, director of Trivedi School of Biosciences at Ashoka University and former CEO of Wellcome Trust/DBT India Alliance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/26-adverse-events-in-capital-on-monday-two-hospitalised-govt-101610996438570.html
19-01-2021||City||35% seats reserved for women in Ambala Sadar civic body||The state government has issued a list of 31 wards as per the reservation criteria for the upcoming Ambala Sadar (Cantonment) municipal council elections on Monday.The state government has issued a list of 31 wards as per the reservation criteria for the upcoming Ambala Sadar (Cantonment) municipal council elections on Monday.As per information, the wards were decided by “draw of lots” in Panchkula in the presence of a committee set-up for ward delimitation consisting of BJP’s Sadar Mandal chief Rajiv Dimple and others.In all, 11 seats (35%) have been reserved for women, including nine in general and two in SC category.Apurva Chaudhary, executive officer, Sadar MC, said, “Out of 31 wards, six (wards 3, 4, 21, 23, 26 and 28) have been reserved for candidates from the Scheduled Castes (SC) category, with wards 3 and 28 for women from the same category. Similarly, wards 18 and 20 are reserved for candidates from the backward classes (BC) and wards 1, 5, 7, 8, 13, 14, 16, 19 and 24 for women candidates from the general category. The decision to reserve the post of chairman will be taken by a state committee soon.”As per details, in the last tenure that ended in 2018, there were 20 wards under Ambala MC, out of which 11 were in the city area and nine in the Sadar Zone of the Cantonment. Out of these nine, six members were Congress-backed and three were from the BJP. Earlier, the MC elections had taken place in 2005 and 31 councillors worked till 2010. Later in 2010, the corporation was formed and the Sadar zone was also added, elections for which were held in 2013 for a total of 20 wards. But in 2019, the corporation was divided into Ambala MC and Ambala Sadar municipal council. This is for the first time the civic body will go to polls post-detachment.In the recently-concluded elections of the MC, Venod Sharma’s wife Shakti Rani Sharma of Haryana Janachetana Party (HJP) had claimed the mayor seat. BJP had managed to become the single largest party in the House with eight members followed by HJP with seven, Congress with three and Haryana Democratic Front (HDF) with two. Last week, Congress’ Rajesh Mehta had joined HJP taking the party’s number equal to that of the BJP. Haryana Congress general secretary (grievance cell) and former councillor Onkar Pruthi alleged that the whole process had happened secretly in Panchkula and not in Ambala, and the party will surely make a comeback. “Like in the city, here too the workers would like to contest on the party symbol. But the final decision will be taken by Kumari Selja,” he said.The ruling BJP in the state is confident of winning majorly on the face of local MLA and urban local bodies minister Anil Vij, said Rajiv Dimple. “Our leader Anil Vij’s popularity in the region will make us win. There is no factionalism and we are working as a family,” he said.Like in the city, the contest here is set to be four-cornered with the entry of HDF and HJP. HDF’s general secretary Chitra Sarwara said that the party had started selection of candidates. “But there are speculations that the election for the chairman might be indirect, which shows BJP’s anxiousness after losing at many places in the recent local bodies elections,” she added. HJP’s Venod Sharma has already announced that his party will contest with the same enthusiasm in all wards. He remained unavailable for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/35-seats-reserved-for-women-in-ambala-sadar-civic-body-101610995940545.html
19-01-2021||City||Kerala MLA dies of Covid-19 complications, 4 state legislators test positive||Kerala MLA KV Vijayadas passed away on Monday due to Covid-19 complications. The 61-year-old CPI(M) legislator from Konghad in Palakkad died at Thrissur medical college hospital. The hospital said he was admitted two weeks ago and later tested negative. But post-Covid complications triggered a stroke and he was put on life support for the last few days. Vijayadas was also a member of CPI(M) Palakkad district committee.Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan condoled the death of party lawmaker. Vijayadas was elected to assembly twice, 2011 and 2016.Meanwhile, four legislators have tested positive in Kerala during the ongoing budget session even as the state continues to report high incidences of Covid-19 in last two weeks. On Monday the test positivity rate (TPR) went up to 10.11 per cent as Kerala reported 3,346 new cases of the viral disease.The assembly session was originally scheduled till January 28 but it was cut short to January 22 due to the prevailing pandemic situation. Many legislators have approached Speaker P Sivaramakrishnan to reduce it further but he told them that he has to complete budget discussion and other formalities.Also read: 'Masterstroke' - Mamata Banerjee brings Nandigram back in focusOnce lauded for its Covid-19 control measures, Kerala witnessed a spike in Covid-19 cases since last month. Kerala and Maharashtra now report one-third of active Covid-19 cases in the country, statistics show. Worried, two weeks back the Union Health Ministry rushed an expert team to the state.In view of the rising caseload, the state has sought more vials of vaccine. When the country’s TPR since January 1 is between 4 and 5 per cent, in Kerala, it ranges between 9 and 10 per cent. The state health department, however, put up a brave face saying the state managed to delay the peak and controlled death rate (0.4 against the national average of 1.40) considerably. Now, the state has 68,399 active cases and has reported 3,480 Covid-19 fatalities so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kerala-mla-dies-of-covid-19-complications-4-state-legislators-test-positive-101610989269500.html
19-01-2021||World||Covid-19: UK sets new record of daily deaths with 1,610 dead in last 24 hours||Britain reported a record number of deaths from Covid-19 on Tuesday with 1,610 people dying within 28 days of positive coronavirus test, exceeding the previous peak set last week.The number was steeply up from the 599 deaths reported in Monday's official figures. There is often a lag in reporting new deaths after the weekend.There were 33,355 new cases recorded, down from the 37,535 reported on Monday.England and Scotland announced new national lockdowns on Jan. 4 in a bid to stem a surge in cases after the discovery of a more transmissible UK variant of the coronavirus late last year.The lockdown has seen new cases come down from a seven-day average peak of around 60,000 new daily cases on January 7, though health officials have warned that the numbers of deaths will rise even as reported cases start to come down."Whilst there are some early signs that show our sacrifices are working, we must continue to strictly abide by the measures in place," said Yvonne Doyle, Medical Director at Public Health England."By reducing our contacts and staying at home we will see a fall in the number of infections over time."Government figures showed that 4,266,577 people had received a first dose of a Covid-19 vaccine. The UK is hoping to vaccinate 15 million high-risk people by the middle of February.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-uk-sets-new-record-of-daily-deaths-with-1-610-dead-in-last-24-hours-101611076721849.html
19-01-2021||World||Biden inauguration: 2 Guard members removed over ties to right group militias||Two US Army National Guard members are being removed from the security mission to secure Joe Biden's presidential inauguration. A US Army official and a senior US intelligence official say the two National Guard members have been found to have ties to fringe right group militias.No plot against Biden was found.The Army official and the intelligence official spoke to The Associated Press on the condition of anonymity due to Defense Department media regulations. They did not say what fringe group the Guard members belonged to or what unit they served in.Contacted by the AP on Tuesday, the National Guard Bureau referred questions to the US Secret Service and said, “Due to operational security, we do not discuss the process nor the outcome of the vetting process for military members supporting the inauguration.”The Secret Service told the AP on Monday it would not comment on if any National Guard members had been pulled from securing the inauguration for operational security reasons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-inauguration-2-guard-members-removed-over-ties-to-right-group-militias-101611076335075.html
19-01-2021||World||Iran imposes symbolic sanctions on President Trump||Iran on Tuesday imposed sanctions on President Donald Trump and a number of members of his administration over their alleged role in support of “terrorism," according to its foreign ministry website.Ministry spokesman Saeed Khatibzadeh said that besides Trump, sanctions were imposed on Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, CIA chief Gina Haspel and six other ranking US officials.The foreign ministry did not say what kind of sanctions were imposed.From time to time, Iran impose symbolic sanctions on US officials. Tuesday's announcement comes on Trump's last full day in office.Khatibzadeh said the sanctions were based on Iranian law. He said they were the result of the Trump administration's role in killing top Iranian general Qassem Soleimani in 2020 and its support for Israel in its conflict with the Palestinians.He also cited the US's alleged role in the killing of Iranian nuclear scientist Mohsen Fakhrizadeh in December and its alleged role in the “criminal war” in Yemen.In December, Iran imposed sanctions on the US ambassador in Yemen for his alleged role in support of airstrikes conducted by the Saudi-led coalition against Iran-backed Yemeni rebels known as Houthis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-imposes-symbolic-sanctions-on-president-trump-101611076380703.html
19-01-2021||World||Germany poised for tighter shutdown as new coronavirus variant fuels fears||Chancellor Angela Merkel and leaders of Germany's 16 states are expected Tuesday to extend and tighten a partial lockdown beyond January, as fears grow over virus variant strains believed to be more contagious.Draft measures seen by AFP ahead of the emergency talks include prolonging current restrictions until at least mid-February, requiring medical masks on public transport and in shops, and increasing pressure on employers to allow staff to work from home where possible.Germany shuttered restaurants, leisure and sporting facilities in November, then expanded the shutdown in mid-December to include schools and most shops to halt runaway growth in new coronavirus infections.The measures ordered until the end of January have brought about a "flattening of the infections curve", Merkel's spokesman Steffen Seibert said, noting also that the number of patients in intensive care had also fallen slightly."This trend is cautiously positive, he said, and an achievement of the restrictions of the last weeks."But it only brings us to the point where we still have a long way to go before we can say we have the infections under control."Virus variants first seen in Britain and South Africa also posed major risks, added Seibert.The crisis talks between Merkel and state premiers were brought forward by a week because of concern over the new strains."It is a risk that responsible politicians must take into account -- sooner rather than later," he added.- Work from home call -Germany survived the first wave of the coronavirus pandemic relatively well, but a second wave hit Europe's biggest economy hard.New infections have soared far above the 50 per 100,000 people threshold set by the government. And last Thursday, the country saw a new high in daily deaths with 1,244.On Tuesday, daily deaths reached 989 though health authorities said they might have been inflated after a lag in weekend reporting. More than 11,000 new cases were recorded.Seibert noted Monday that the incidence rate was still at over 130 per 100,000 people, and that Germany "must more quickly" bring that down to 50.President Frank-Walter Steinmeier last week issued a joint appeal with union and employer federation representatives, urging firms to have staff work from home "whenever possible".More could be done to keep non-essential workers out of the office and off public transport, they said.Experts have been alarmed by data showing that while a first shutdown last spring had led to a sharp drop of 40 percent in mobility, this winter, far more people appear to be on the move.Disease control agency Robert Koch Institute and Berlin's Humboldt University used data collected from mobile phone signals to find that last Wednesday, the mobility of Germans was only 15 percent below that from a year ago.Ahead of Tuesday's talks, Economy Minister Peter Altmaier promised to simplify the procedure for businesses to get aid more quickly to help them cope with the prolonged shutdown.Germany took on a record 130.5 billion euros ($160 billion) in new borrowing last year to fund its mega bailouts to companies and support schemes for families as the economy crashed due to the pandemic.RKI chief Lothar Wieler has meanwhile pleaded for rigorous implementation of curbs that have already been ordered, saying that there were too many exceptions allowed.In northern Germany, authorities were planning to take more drastic measures against people who breach quarantine rules.Schleswig-Holstein state's justice ministry is turning a youth detention centre into a forced quarantine site for those who do not isolate themselves when required to.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/germany-poised-for-tighter-shutdown-as-new-coronavirus-variant-fuels-fears-101611076425705.html
19-01-2021||World||Swiss govt urges rejection of ban on full-face coverings like niqabs, ski masks||Switzerland's executive branch on Tuesday urged voters to reject in an upcoming referendum a proposal that would ban full face-coverings like Muslim niqabs and burqas and ski masks worn by some protesters.Nearly three years after the proposal was first floated — and long before widespread mask-wearing due to the Covid-19 pandemic — the Swiss are to take up the proposal entitled “Yes to a ban on covering the face” in the vote culminating on March 7.It's one of three measures on national ballots in the latest installment of regular referendums in Switzerland that give voters a direct say in policy-making. Another proposal centers on the creation of an “e-ID” to improve security in online transactions — but some privacy advocates oppose the idea.Devised when concerns about terrorism and religious extremists were more widespread, the face covering proposal would prohibit, with a few exceptions, full covering of the face in public — taking nationwide similar bans that already exist in two regions. Other regions, known as cantons, have rejected similar proposals.The Swiss Justice Minister, Karin Keller-Sutter, on Tuesday called the proposal "useless and contrary to our federal order that is working very well," and noted the possibility it could hurt the economy at a time when the country's hospitality industry has been aching because of the coronavirus pandemic."Some cantons welcome many wealthy tourists from Arab countries,” Keller-Sutter, who is a member of Switzerland's seven-member executive branch, told reporters in Bern, the capital. “With a ban on covering the face in all of Switzerland, these tourists could decide not to spend their vacations in Switzerland.”The government said very few people in Switzerland wear full-face coverings and they are mostly seen on women visitors who only spend a brief time in the country.A coalition of conservative, free-market and populist parties — including the Swiss People's Party, which has a plurality of seats in Parliament — argues the measure is need to help curb civil unrest by protesters who cover their faces, and to battle terrorism by extremists.“Free people show their faces,” says a campaign website.A counter-proposal would require people to show their faces if requested to do so by authorities. The government says it has taken other steps to improve security against terrorism.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/swiss-govt-urges-rejection-of-ban-on-full-face-coverings-like-niqabs-ski-masks-101611075734096.html
19-01-2021||World||Trump's trial, Biden's Cabinet picks await Senate post-siege||President Donald Trump's last full day in office Tuesday is also senators’ first day back since the deadly Capitol siege, an unparalleled time of transition as the Senate presses ahead to his impeachment trial and starts confirmation hearings on President-elect Joe Biden's Cabinet.Three new Democratic senators-elect are set to be sworn into office Wednesday shortly after Biden's inauguration at the Capitol, which is under extreme security since the bloody pro-Trump riot. The new senators' arrival will give the Democrats the most slim majority, a 50-50 divided Senate chamber, with the new vice president, Kamala Harris, swearing them in and serving as an eventual tie-breaking vote.Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell and Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer are set to confer Tuesday about the arrangements ahead, according to a person familiar with the planning and granted anonymity to discuss it.The start of the new session of Congress will force senators to come to terms with the post-Trump era, a transfer of power like almost none other in the nation's history. Senators are returning to a Capitol shattered from the riot, but also a Senate ground to a halt by the lawmakers' own extreme partisanship.Republican senators, in particular, face a daunting choice of whether to convict Trump of inciting the insurrection, the first impeachment trial of a president no longer in office, in a break with the defeated president who continues to hold great sway over the party but whose future is uncertain. Senators are also being asked to start confirming Biden's Cabinet nominees and consider passage of a sweeping new $1.9 trillion Covid-19 relief bill.In opening remarks at his confirmation hearing, Biden's nominee for secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, Alejandro Mayorkas, vowed to get to the bottom of the “horrifying” attack on the Capitol.Mayorkas told the Senate Homeland Security Committee that if confirmed he would do everything possible to ensure "the desecration of the building that stands as one of the three pillars of our democracy, and the terror felt by you, your colleagues, staff, and everyone present, will not happen again."Five of Biden's nominees are set for hearings Tuesday as the Senate prepares for swift confirmation of some as soon as the president-elect takes office, as is often done on Inauguration Day, particularly for the White House's national security team.Biden wants the Senate to toggle between confirming his nominees, considering Covid relief and holding Trump accountable with the impeachment trial, a tall order for an institution that typically runs more slowly and with bitter confrontations.Trump's impeachment is forcing Republican senators to re-evaluate their relationship with the outgoing president who is charged with inciting a mob of supporters to storm the Capitol as Congress was counting the Electoral College votes to confirm Biden's election. A protester died during the riot and a police officer died later of injuries; three other people involved died of medical emergencies.The House impeached Trump last week on a sole charge, incitement of insurrection, making him the only president to be twice impeached. He had been impeached in 2019 over relations with Ukraine and was acquitted in 2020 by the Senate.Schumer, who is poised to become the majority leader, and McConnell are set to meet Tuesday to discuss the power-sharing agreement and schedule ahead — for Trump’s trial, confirming Biden’s nominees and consideration of the incoming president’s $1.9 trillion Covid relief package.Three Democratic senators, Raphael Warnock and Jon Ossoff of Georgia, and Alex Padilla of California, are to be sworn into office Wednesday, according to the person granted anonymity to discuss planning.Warnock and Ossoff defeated Republican incumbents in this month's runoff elections. Georgia's secretary of state is expected to certify the election results Tuesday. Padilla was tapped by California's governor to fill the remainder of Harris' Senate term.The Senate leaders also must negotiate a power-sharing agreement for the Senate that was last split so narrowly nearly 20 years ago, as they divvy up committee assignments and other resources.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trumps-trial-biden-s-cabinet-picks-await-senate-postsiege-101611075269167.html
19-01-2021||World||Outcompeting China a key focus area for Biden’s foreign policy team||Two of President-elect Joe Biden’s cabinet nominees will tell senators at their confirmation hearings on Tuesday that a key foreign policy and national security priority of the incoming administration will be to “outcompete” China, setting up the relationship as a rivalry between a democracy and an authoritarian state.“We can outcompete China – and remind the world that a government of the people, by the people, can deliver for its people,” secretary of state nominee Antony Blinken will say, according to a leaked copy of his opening remarks as prepared for delivery.Avril Haines, the national intelligence director nominee, will speak about the need for the intelligence community to “provide the necessary intelligence to support long-term bipartisan efforts to outcompete China — gaining and sharing insight into China’s intentions and capabilities, while also supporting more immediate efforts to counter Beijing’s unfair, illegal, aggressive and coercive actions, as well as its human rights violations, whenever we can”.Other Biden cabinet nominees who began their confirmation hearings around the same time were Lloyd James Austin III (defence secretary), Janet Yellen (treasury secretary), Alejandro Mayorkas (homeland security secretary).As Biden’s top diplomat and a close aide, Blinken’s testimony will be followed closely around the world. Biden has vowed to return the United States back to engaging the world from a position of leadership, which had been relinquished by President Donald Trump, according to his critics.“Working across government and with partners around the world, we will revitalise American diplomacy to take on the most pressing challenges of our time,” Blinken will say.“We’ll show up again, day in, day out whenever and wherever the safety and well-being of Americans is at stake. We’ll engage the world not as it was, but as it is. A world of rising nationalism, receding democracy, growing rivalry with China, Russia, and other authoritarian states, mounting threats to a stable and open international system, and a technological revolution that is reshaping every aspect of our lives, especially in cyberspace.”“American leadership still matters. The reality is that the world doesn’t organize itself. When we’re not engaged, when we don’t lead, then one of two things happen: either some other country tries to take our place, but probably not in a way that advances our interests or values.”In her remarks, Haines will seek to restore integrity and trust to the intelligence community.President Trump had made repeated attacks on the intelligence community, shaped in part because of his distrust of them on account of the investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 election, which he believed was an attempt o delegitimise his presidency.“The DNI must prioritise transparency, accountability, analytic rigor, facilitating oversight and diverse thinking — not as afterthoughts, but as strategic imperatives that bolster our work and our institutions,” Haines will say.“To be trusted, the DNI must uphold our democratic values and ensure that the work of the Intelligence Community, mostly done in secret, is ethical, is wise, is lawful, and effective.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/outcompeting-china-a-key-focus-area-for-biden-s-foreign-policy-team-101611075895923.html
19-01-2021||World||New York City to begin closing vaccine sites Thursday without resupply||New York City will have to close vaccination sites after Thursday if it doesn’t get a major resupply, Mayor Bill de Blasio said.The city wants to vaccinate 300,000 people this week but only has about 92,000 doses, de Blasio said in a Tuesday briefing. More than 450,000 total doses have been in administered in the city.“At this rate, we will run out on Thursday and hit zero on Friday,” de Blasio said. “We will not be able to give shots at a lot of our sites. We won’t get shots until next week.”De Blasio said the city is bringing on massive vaccination sites that will be operating around the clock, seven days a week at Citi Field in Queens and Yankee Stadium in the Bronx. “Capacity is growing every day but it won’t work without the vaccine,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-york-city-to-begin-closing-vaccine-sites-thursday-without-resupply-101611072510308.html
19-01-2021||World||Johnson's D-10 fuels G-7 fears of rival alliance to thwart China||Boris Johnson’s plan to host an expanded Group of Seven summit in June is worrying some other members who fear the UK may be trying to reshape the forum of wealthy nations via the back door.The British prime minister has invited South Korea, India and Australia as guests to this year’s meeting as he tries to establish a so-called D-10 coalition of democracies to counter China and other authoritarian states. Johnson wants to champion global action and democratic values, and project the UK as a force for good after leaving the European Union.While it is standard practice for a G-7 host to invite more countries to the summit, the involvement of guest nations is typically limited. According to a person familiar with Johnson’s plans, that will change this year with the three countries set to take part from the get-go, from preparatory meetings of the leaders’ diplomatic emissaries early next month through to ministerial gatherings before the summit.Though diplomats are waiting to understand the full implications, there’s some concern Johnson’s D-10 is a step toward restructuring the G-7.One diplomat said a rival grouping risks weakening the G-7, and that could eventually raise pressure on it to expand in order to regain its lost influence. Expansion is an idea Italy, Germany, France and Japan oppose, according to officials familiar with those governments’ positions.China riskTwo European diplomats also warned there’s a risk that anti-China rhetoric foments a Cold War-style standoff with Beijing, which both said the G-7 must avoid after it batted away Donald Trump’s attempts to do the same.“We reject any cliques or group politics under the pretext of multilateralism,” China Foreign Ministry Spokeswoman Hua Chunying said at a press conference in Beijing on Tuesday. “We oppose using the pretext of multilateralism to impose rules determined by a few countries onto the international community.”One diplomat said there would also be doubts within the group about whether a UK idea established for domestic reasons would have any staying power.The prime minister wants to use the G-7 summit to “intensify cooperation between the world’s democratic and technologically advanced nations,” a UK government spokesperson said in an emailed statement. Australia, India and South Korea have been invited “to deepen the expertise and experience around the table.”Post-TrumpThe issue of expanding the G-7 cuts to the heart of questions about the future of the forum and where members’ strategic interests lie, especially on China.This year’s summit is a chance to repair ties after years of splintering in the Trump era. The outgoing U.S. president refused to sign the end-of-summit communique in Canada in 2018, while last year’s meeting -- which Trump was meant to host -- never took place.Johnson intends to put issues including climate change, which was undermined by Trump, at the center of this year’s summit along with trade, health, press and religious freedoms, and human rights.According to diplomats, the club’s other six members welcome those aspirations, and also want to cooperate on the post-pandemic recovery.The UK has also assured members it has no plans to propose changes to the G-7 format and it will remain distinct from the wider group of democracies, according to three diplomats familiar with the matter. That hasn’t fully assuaged G-7 members’ concerns.ExpansionOne of the diplomats said while there is no immediate prospect of extending the group, once institutionalized the D-10 could compete with the G-7 for relevance. Another said the UK must consult closely with G-7 members about its plans for the D-10 coalition.Another official said some of those concerns are shared but that the full extent of the guests’ role is not clear, and the three countries would not participate in all the preparatory work. The same official also pointed out that expanding the G-7 would require unanimity, making it unlikely anytime soon.The debate over reformatting the G-7 isn’t new, and the expansion idea was floated by Trump last year. In addition to Australia, South Korea and India, he proposed re-inviting Russia, which was ejected after the annexation of Crimea.President-elect Joe Biden hasn’t indicated where he stands on the issue but has said he wants to convene a summit of democracies once in office.DoubtsSome experts question the effectiveness of the concept given countries such as China are simultaneously perceived as a geopolitical threat while being a key partner on issues such as climate change.Both the D-10 and Biden’s summit of democracies are distractions that are likely to get stuck on questions of definition and inclusion criteria, obstructing their intended aim to develop guidelines on how to deal with authoritarian states, according to Constanze Stelzenmuller, Fritz Stern Chair on Germany and trans-Atlantic Relations at the Brookings Institution.“For example, Hungary, Russia or China are obviously never going to be included in a D-10,” Stelzenmuller said. “But with the current Polish or Indian governments you are already entering a gray zone.”Still, prominent voices on both sides of the Atlantic continue to push for the Group of Seven to open its doors to new members.‘Rule of Law’Tobias Ellwood, chairman of the House of Commons defense committee, said this month an expanded G-7 including Australia, India and South Korea “can begin to address and reverse the demise in global stability, democratic values and rule of law.”Johnson’s agenda has potential sticking points beyond the expansion debate. South Korea’s participation is awkward for Japan given renewed tensions stemming from its 1910-1945 colonial rule over the Korean Peninsula.UK and European diplomats also point to geopolitical differences. A British diplomat said that having left the EU, it makes economic sense to improve ties with Asia-Pacific nations, including those in the 10-member Association of Southeast Asian Nations, with whom the UK is seeking a partnership status and which is also expected to be invited to the G-7 leaders’ summit.It should also be seen in the context of a more robust approach toward China compared with that of the EU, the diplomat said. Since decoupling from the bloc’s trade policy, Britain has been more outspoken on China and Hong Kong.Meanwhile the EU has faced criticism, including from the incoming Biden administration, for agreeing a trade deal with Beijing. Officials in Brussels and some European capitals argue trade should be kept separate from issues that can be dealt with using other tools, such as sanctions.Two European diplomats said the narrow focus on the Asia-Pacific region relegates areas of strategic interest to Europe, including Africa, and ignores regions like Latin America.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/johnsons-d-10-fuels-g-7-fears-of-rival-alliance-to-thwart-china-101611073467453.html
19-01-2021||World||US spy chief nominee Haines vows ‘no place for politics’ in job||President-elect Joe Biden’s nominee to serve as director of national intelligence is pledging she’ll never let politics affect decision-making in the collection and use of intelligence, as critics said happened under Donald Trump.“To be effective, the DNI must never shy away from speaking truth to power -- even, especially, when doing so may be inconvenient or difficult,” Avril Haines, who would be the nation’s first woman to oversee US intelligence agencies, said in testimony prepared for her confirmation hearing on Tuesday. “To safeguard the integrity of our Intelligence Community, the DNI must insist that, when it comes to intelligence, there is simply no place for politics — ever.”Haines also intends to tell the Senate Intelligence Committee that she wants to use intelligence to better support efforts to counter China’s “unfair, illegal, aggressive and coercive actions, as well as its human rights violations,” according to excerpts from her prepared remarks for the hearing.Republican Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, the panel’s acting chairman, told Haines in his opening statement that she should concentrate on the threats posed by China, which was spared from US challenges by a “flawed bipartisan consensus for almost two decades.”Biden said when he chose Haines for the position in November that he expected her to help restore independence to intelligence agencies that were subjected to frequent attacks by President Trump, who often portrayed them as part of a “deep state” bent on undermining his presidency.Senator Mark Warner of Virginia, the committee’s top Democrat, echoed that theme.“Our intelligence professionals have been unfairly maligned; their expertise, knowledge, and analysis has often been ignored and even sometimes ridiculed by a president who seems oftentimes uninterested in facts contradicting his political interests,” Warner said in his opening statement. “Those who bravely spoke the truth were vilified, reassigned, fired or retaliated against.”Trump chose enthusiastic Republican supporters in Congress for key intelligence posts, including Michael Pompeo, his first CIA director, and John Ratcliffe, his final director of national intelligence. Haines was introduced at Tuesday’s hearing by Dan Coats, a former Republican senator who held the director’s post under Trump but had a stormy relationship with him.“To lead our intelligence community, I didn’t pick a politician or a political figure, I picked a professional,” Biden said.Haines, 51, was the Central Intelligence Agency’s deputy director from 2013 to 2015 under President Barack Obama and was his deputy national security adviser from 2015 to 2017.Haines says in her prepared testimony that intelligence agencies should apply their capabilities to help end the global coronavirus pandemic “while also addressing the long-term challenge of future biological crises -- enabling U.S. global health leadership and positioning us to detect future outbreaks before they become pandemics.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-spy-chief-nominee-haines-vows-no-place-for-politics-in-job-101611071510083.html
19-01-2021||World||EU looking to inoculate 70% of adults by June||The European Union is aiming to inoculate 70% of its adult population against the coronavirus by June, European Commission Vice President Margaritis Schinas told a media conference on Tuesday.That aim, agreed in a meeting of all EU commissioners, comes as most member states are struggling to achieve liftoff with their vaccination programmes.The bloc started jabs three weeks ago and has so far approved two vaccines -- from BioNTech/Pfizer and from Moderna -- with others soon expected to follow.But its pace of vaccination trails behind countries such as the US, Britain, Israel and the United Arab Emirates.Health commissioner Stella Kyriakides said that the EU's joint-buying strategy meant there were already enough doses to vaccinate 80% of the EU's population of 450 million.She admitted, though, that "vaccinations need to speed up".Schinas said: "We also propose that by summer, this year, member states should have vaccinated a minimum of 70% of the adult population."He said that meant before June 1, when the European summer begins.EU chief Ursula von der Leyen said in a statement that meeting the goal of 70% within the next four months could be "a turning point in our fight against this virus".Vaccine 'bottleneck'Questioned earlier in the European Parliament about the slowness of the rollout, Kyriakides said the current bottleneck was due to "the worldwide shortage of production capacity", rather than a shortage of vaccines already ordered by the EU.She also noted that, if all the vaccines the EU has secured in advance are authorised, the bloc would have more than two billion doses on hand.The excess doses would be provided to lower-income countries outside the EU through a joint WHO facility called COVAX, she said."Very soon, we will be able to announce our donations of vaccines to the rest of the world," she said at the media conference.MEPs were scathing about confidentiality clauses demanded by vaccine-makers in their contracts with the EU that kept the prices, liability terms and contingencies for late deliveries secret, preventing parliamentary oversight.Kyriakides said she heard that concern "loud and clear" but said the Commission was bound by the clauses.She also responded to criticisms about Germany's health ministry, saying it had obtained options for extra vaccine doses bilaterally with some of the companies."It is not legally possible for them to negotiate bilateral contracts with the companies in the EU portfolio," she said. "And I have reminded member states of these rights and obligations."Vaccine 'certificates'Kyriakides also said the Commission was in "active discussion" with European governments about the possibility of "vaccination certificates" that would be recognised across the bloc.That was one of several vaccine-related issues to be discussed at a summit of EU leaders by videoconference on Thursday, she said.But she added that it was "premature" to think about such certificates being used for anything other than improving medical monitoring of the vaccine roll-out.Greece, whose economy relies on tourism, has already called for such vaccine certificates to be used to allow travellers to more easily take trips without many of the coronavirus restrictions currently in place.Brussels is urging governments to step up genome sequencing of variants of the SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus sweeping the planet, noting that "many member states are testing under one percent of samples which is far too low to identify the progression of the variants or detect new ones".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-looking-to-inoculate-70-of-adults-by-june-101611071830133.html
19-01-2021||World||Body of American mountaineer found near K2 in northern Pakistan||Pakistan's military located the body of American mountaineer Alex Goldfarb-Rumyantzev on Monday in the Karakoram mountains in northern Pakistan, the second death of a foreign climber in the area in less than a week.A helicopter team spotted Goldfarb's remains during a search and rescue operation that began on Sunday, according to the Alpine Club of Pakistan.He appeared to have fallen off the mountain, Hungarian expedition company Magyar Expedicios, which was supporting the climbers, said in a statement.Goldfarb and Hungarian Zoltan Szlanko were planning to climb the 8,047 metre (26,400 feet) high Broad Peak, which has yet to be ascended in winter, without the use of oxygen or any porters for help, according to Magyar Expedicios.To acclimate for that climb, the pair set out to climb nearby Pastore Peak, 6,209 metres )high, but were met with harsh winter conditions and Szlanko decided to turn back, while Goldfarb continued alone.Szlanko joined the search for his partner after he failed to return as planned on Saturday.Goldfarb, a medical doctor and a lecturer at Harvard University in Boston, had volunteered to treat Covid-19 patients since the outset of the pandemic, his son Levi Goldfarb told Reuters.“He thought (mountain climbing) was beautiful," Levi said."He thought it was liberating, because up in the mountains it didn’t really matter who you were at sea level -- a doctor, a lawyer, or even a thief, all of those labels were stripped away and you were playing by a different set of rules. He made great friends in the mountains, he saved lives and saved himself, and he travelled the world doing it.”Spanish climber Sergio Mingote also died in the Karakoram mountains on Saturday, after he fell down a crevasse while attempting to make his way down to Base Camp on K2, the world's second-highest mountain.Travel restrictions due to the coronavirus pandemic dampened the traditionally active summer months of mountaineering in the region last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/body-of-american-mountaineer-found-near-k2-in-northern-pakistan-101611069106757.html
19-01-2021||World||UK lawmakers debate 'genocide' clause to China trade deals||Lawmakers in Britain were set to vote Tuesday on a proposal aimed at preventing the UK from making trade deals with any country deemed by the British High Court to be committing genocide.The amendment to the government’s post-Brexit trade bill, which already passed by a majority in Parliament’s House of Lords, is largely designed to force international action in addressing China’s alleged human rights abuses against the Uighur minority.Campaigners say that if the law passes, Britain would become the first country in the world to allow genocide cases to be considered in domestic courts.Under the proposal, minorities alleging they have been the subject of genocide can for the first time apply to the High Court of England and ask for judges to determine if a country trading with the UK has perpetrated genocide. If the court makes a preliminary ruling against that country, Britain’s government would be forced to revoke bilateral trade agreements.The proposal has the backing of all opposition parties and a significant number of rebel Conservatives. Leaders from Britain’s Jewish, Muslim and Christian communities have written a joint letter to the Times newspaper to back the amendment.Prime Minister Boris Johnson has been facing increasingly vocal calls within his Conservative party for a stronger and more coherent policy on China that counters the country’s rights abuses and violations of international norms.Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab last week called the trade bill amendment “well-meaning” but ineffective and counter-productive.But in a joint letter to lawmakers urging them to back the amendment, the opposition Labour Party’s foreign affairs spokeswoman, Lisa Nandy, and international trade spokeswoman, Emily Thornberry, said voting for the proposal will send a clear message that “when the most serious violations of human rights occur we will not turn away.”“In particular, we are all gravely concerned about the situation in Xinjiang and the growing body of evidence of the systemic human rights abuses being committed by the Chinese government on an industrial scale against the Muslim Uighur people and other minorities,” they said.Those backing the measures argue that despite mounting evidence of atrocities targeting Uighurs in the western Chinese region of Xinjiang, the United Nations is highly unlikely to refer Beijing to the International Criminal Court because China, a permanent member of the Security Council, will veto the move.Beijing has repeatedly denied Western reports of rights abuses in Xinjiang, including mass detentions in internment camps, forced labor, and forced birth control for Uighur women.Johnson’s office said his government had a “proud record” standing up for human rights in China.“We recognize the strength of feeling but the government doesn’t support the amendment,” his press secretary, Allegra Stratton, said Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-lawmakers-debate-genocide-clause-to-china-trade-deals-101611070250386.html
19-01-2021||World||How ‘nuclear football’ handover to occur at inauguration in Trump’s absence||US President Donald Trump’s decision to not attend the inauguration of president-elect Joe Biden on Thursday will be one of the rarest moment in the history of the country’s transition of power. The outgoing president plans to leave on Wednesday morning for his Mar-a-Lago club in Palm Beach, Florida, where he is supposed to begin his post-presidency life.Trump’s absence means there would a slight change in plan in the handing over of the “nuclear football”, a black briefcase which contains the equipment that the commander-in-chief would use to authorise and launch a nuclear strike. The football is carried by a military aide who accompanies the president all the time.In normal circumstances, the football would have been handed over to another military aide standing near inauguration stand during the oath-taking ceremony. According to a CNN report, the nuclear football accompanying Trump is likely to travel with him to his resort in Florida.Stephen Schwartz, a nonresident senior fellow at the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, told CNN that there are at least three to four identical footballs. One briefcase follows the president, one follows the vice president and one is set aside for the “designated survivors” at significant events like inaugurations and State of the Union addresses.Trump has currently the sole legal authority to authorise the use of the nuclear arsenal, which would transfer to Biden at 12pm on January 20. The US president carries “biscuit”, a plastic card with alphanumeric codes, with them all the time which is used to identify the commander-in-chief. The codes for Trump will become invalid once he loses his presidential power. Biden is likely to receive his “biscuit” on the morning of inauguration day, which will become active at 12pm that day.In the aftermath of US Capitol riots, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi had contacted the Pentagon's top general, Mark Milley, to understand how to prevent "an unhinged president" from ordering a nuclear strike. Concerns arising from Trump’s power to launch a nuclear weapon, Pelosi had also called on vice president Mike Pence to invoke the constitution's 25th amendment to remove the president from power.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/how-nuclear-football-handover-to-occur-at-inauguration-in-trump-s-absence-101611068489117.html
19-01-2021||World||Pakistan opposition parties protest against delay in foreign funding case of Prime Minister Imran Khan's party||An alliance of Pakistan's Opposition parties seeking to oust Prime Minister Imran Khan on Tuesday held a protest outside the election commission's office here to protest against delayed proceedings in his party's foreign funding case, terming it as the "biggest fraud" in the country's history.The case launched in 2014 is based on charges that Khan's Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) party got financial support from abroad by flouting rules.The Pakistan Democratic Movement (PDM) - an alliance of 11 opposition parties - had announced several weeks ago that it would press the Election Commission of Pakistan to expedite the hearing in the case.The PDM was formed against the Pakistan Army's interference in politics and installing "puppet" Prime Minister Khan through a manipulated election in 2018.In their addresses during the rally, PDM leaders demanded that the ECP should conclude the case at the earliest as there was solid proof that the PTI got funding from Israel and India.“We know that people from Israel and India provided funds to bring Imran Khan to power,” claimed PDM’s chief Fazulr Rehman. He did not provide any evidence.Rehman, who is also chief of Jamiat Ulema-e Islam (JUI-F), also said that the Opposition leaders should not rest until Khan was removed from power.He termed the struggle against Khan as ‘jihad’.“He (Khan) has ruined the country and it is jihad to take part in the struggle to push him out,” he said.Maryam Nawaz of PML-N said the ECP was equally responsible for the problems faced by the people of Pakistan as it failed to check Khan’s rise to power through “fraud” elections in 2018.She called on the ECP to decide the case of foreign funding at the earliest as it was a clear case of the use of illegal money to run a party."Today we have gathered in front of the ECP office to remind it of its constitutional responsibilities…This is the institution that the Constitution has made responsible for respecting the people's votes and this is the institution that had to get respect for the people's votes,” she said.Terming the PTI foreign funding case the "biggest fraud in Pakistan's history", she said although the cases against her father and former premier Nawaz Sharif were expedited and decided within days, the ECP had "only held 70 hearings" of the PTI's foreign case since 2014.She also alleged that Khan’s party got funding from Israel and India.The ECP is located in the Red Zone, which houses important buildings like the Parliament House, Presidency, Prime Minister House and the Supreme Court.Interior Minister Sheikh Rashid Ahmad after an initial hesitation announced on Monday that the PDM would be allowed to hold its rally outside the ECP.Information Minister Senator Shibli Faraz on Monday tweeted that Opposition parties were making a crude attempt to mislead masses and intimidate the national institution by their protest outside the ECP.Meanwhile, inside sources told Dawn that Prime Minister Khan had informed his spokespersons on Monday that “stern action” would be taken against protesters found violating the law.Interior Minister Sheikh Rashid said that the protest was a “flop show” as the Opposition failed to bring an intimidating number of people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-opposition-protests-against-delay-in-pm-party-s-foreign-funding-case-101611067967629.html
19-01-2021||World||Citizen Trump: The many paths ahead for the ex-President||Most ex-presidents spend their time out of office playing golf, getting their libraries in order, making well-paid speeches, writing even more lucrative memoirs and biting their tongues about what the next guy is doing. Other than the golf, the road ahead for Donald Trump, a president who has never adhered to his office’s norms, will be unlike any other.We know where he will not be when his term ends at noon on Wednesday — he’s the first president since Andrew Johnson in 1869 to decline to attend his successor’s inauguration. But there is no clear answer yet on what he plans to do next. Even where he plans to live is potentially up in the air — though Trump says he’s moving to his Mar-a-Lago private club, some of his Palm Beach, Florida, neighbors are challenging his ability to live there full-time.In the near term and possibly longer, Trump’s post-presidential options will be circumscribed by the fallout over his Jan. 6 speech egging on the crowd that would go on to storm the U.S. Capitol, including a historic second impeachment. If he’s convicted at the upcoming Senate trial, he’ll almost certainly be barred from ever running for federal office again. For now, some of Corporate America’s biggest names are shunning the businessman president, “de-platforming” him on social media and cutting him off from certain professional and financial services. Tens of millions of his fellow citizens will continue to revile him, rendering the Trump brand toxic to half the country and harming prospects for his real estate, hotel and golf resort empire.But tens of millions of other Americans are likely to form a durable base of support, making Trump a political force for years to come regardless of whether he seeks the presidency again. Deprived of his @realDonaldTrump megaphone and other online platforms, the former president will have to think of new ways to mobilize — and possibly monetize — his loyal followers. Though Trump will likely be frozen out of mainstream media opportunities, he could launch his own endeavors focused on his conservative base, perhaps a Trump network to go head-to-head with Fox News or a Trump social media site to compete with Twitter.Of course, that’s assuming he’s not completely consumed by court battles once he leaves office. Even before the Capitol riot, he faced several lawsuits and potential criminal investigations. His wild election-fraud claims and possible incitement of the riot have only added to his legal risk. There’s a very real possibility that Trump could wind up in jail.It’s probably not wise to count out Trump though. Widely dismissed after his 1990s Atlantic City casino bankruptcies, he came back strongly a decade later on “The Apprentice.” Then, when his ratings began to wane, he latched on to the racist birther conspiracy about President Barack Obama and built a new, right-wing audience that ultimately carried him into the White House. Even his defeat by President-elect Joe Biden was by a much narrower margin than polls had predicted.As for that presidential library, normally a gleaming monument to a leader’s achievements? There are no public plans yet, but comedian Luke Thayer and former Trump White House communications director Anthony Scaramucci have made some suggestions in their spoof djtrumplibrary.com site, including a “Lie to America” exhibition and a “grift shop.”PoliticsBefore the Capitol riot, it looked like Trump would remain the Republican Party standard-bearer, either running for president himself again in 2024 or acting as kingmaker in the GOP field. He was also expected to exact revenge against a long line of Republicans who crossed him, most notably Georgia Governor Brian Kemp, who refused to try to overturn Biden’s election win in the state.But some believe Jan. 6 changed all that.“When the Trump presidency is discussed in the near, medium and long term by anyone, all conversations will begin and end with the day of insurrection,” said Republican strategist and former George W. Bush White House aide Scott Jennings. “And I don’t know how you ultimately go back to the American people and say, ‘Please overlook that one day because it wasn’t really our fault.’ Well, yeah it was. It was your fault.”A Jan. 15 Pew Research poll supports that view, finding only 29% job approval for Trump, with 68% of the sample saying they don’t want him to remain a major political figure in the years to come.The riot has certainly exposed a rift in the GOP. Republican House Conference Chair Liz Cheney was one of 10 members who crossed party lines and joined Democrats in impeaching Trump for inciting insurrection. Several Republican senators, including Leader Mitch McConnell, have suggested they are open to convicting Trump, which would effectively end his 2024 run before it begins. Dozens of major U.S. corporations, business groups and donors who typically back Republicans have said they will suspend or stop campaign contributions to candidates who supported Trump’s challenge to the election results.But Trump is likely to maintain a grip on the populist wing of the GOP. That was evident on Jan. 8 when the Republican National Committee re-elected Trump allies Ronna Romney McDaniel and Tommy Hicks as chair and vice chair in what was widely viewed as a proxy fight over the outgoing president’s role in the party. Despite the defections, the vast majority of House Republicans opposed impeachment, and nearly two-thirds did Trump’s bidding and objected to state-certified electoral votes for Biden even after the violence in Washington. Recent polls have shown that most Republican voters still support Trump and don’t blame him for the Capitol riot.“That doesn’t go away overnight,” said Kevin Madden, a senior adviser to Mitt Romney’s 2012 presidential campaign, said of Trump’s popularity with the Republican base. “That power that he has, that connection with the most active voices inside his movement, is very real and it still exists.”Social MediaAny political comeback will depend on Trump finding a new way to mobilize his base. The scale of his de-platforming is hard to overstate. His @realDonaldTrump account had more then 88 million followers before Twitter permanently banned him on Jan. 8 for breaking its rules against glorifying violence. He also lost access to more than 30 million Facebook friends when he was banned from that site indefinitely and at least through Biden’s inauguration.The president still has ways to reach his most fervent fans though. The Official Trump 2020 Mobile App, which was used to register rally attendees and for direct messaging during the campaign, was downloaded 2.6 million times in the last year, with users required to input phone numbers and agree to be contacted, according to Apptopia. Nu Wexler, a communications consultant formerly with Google, Facebook and Twitter, said Trump’s online footprint is still remarkable among Republican politicians.“He has millions of cell numbers from events and a fundraising email list that dwarfs the rest of his party,” said Wexler. “So he won't have any problem communicating directly with his supporters.”But carrying his message beyond that core will remain a challenge, and some options could prove problematic. Jared Kushner, Trump’s son-in-law and a White House senior adviser, stopped an effort to sign the president up on right-wing social media platforms like Gab and Parler after Twitter suspended his account last week, according to three people familiar with the matter. Parler was taken offline by Amazon Web Services for promoting violence in the wake of the Capitol riot and was also previously dropped by the Google and Apple app stores.Wexler said fringier platforms like Gab and Parler wouldn’t reach a broader audience the way his Twitter account did. And their echo chamber of like-minded users may bore him. “He won't get the thrill of fighting with Democrats,” said Wexler.Raising money online could also be a problem going forward for a president who raised $1.6 billion in his bid for a second term, including $167.6 million that came in after the election as he trumpeted false claims of widespread fraud. Payment processors PayPal, Square and Stripe have joined the social media giants in suspending accounts tied to Trump.The Trump OrganizationThe New York real estate developer made his properties the backdrop for many of the most memorable moments of his political career. He descended Trump Tower’s escalator to announce his candidacy, defended White supremacists as “very fine people” in the lobby of the same building and held a crowded fundraiser at his Bedminster, New Jersey, golf club just before he was diagnosed with Covid-19.Trump’s divisive politics have inevitably impacted his family’s real estate, hotel and golf empire, much of which is located in New York and other Democratic-leaning states. In a move that reportedly “gutted” the president, his Bedminster club was stripped of the 2022 PGA Championship in the wake of the Capitol riot, with the golf body saying that holding the prestigious event at the Trump course would be “detrimental” to its brand.The PGA stuck with him longer than most. Palm Beach charity balls and social events fled Mar-a-Lago en masse after his Charlottesville remarks, and several hotels and condo buildings have exited Trump management contracts in recent years, removing the president’s name from their exteriors and awnings in the process. Trump properties have also inevitably been hit hard by the coronavirus pandemic along with the rest of the real estate, tourism and leisure sectors. In New York, office vacancies are rising, retail is decimated and residential rents are falling.It all couldn’t come at a worse time for Trump, whose company carries $1 billion of debt, much of which he's personally liable for. Though his assets would cover that, recriminations from the Capitol riot will make refinancing a challenge. Deutsche Bank, which holds much of his debt and was the last large bank willing to do business with him, has now declared it will no longer do so, and smaller Signature Bank, on whose board Trump’s daughter Ivanka once sat, twisted the knife by declaring the president persona non grata and closing his accounts. Even selling his assets to raise cash will be harder, as brokerage giants like Cushman & Wakefield and JLL have cut ties with him.Alan Garten, general counsel for the Trump Organization, didn't respond to requests for comment about the state of the business and its prospects.One potential silver lining for Trump is that being president has made him even more famous than before overseas, and he may find more business opportunities in markets like Brazil, Turkey, the Philippines and India, where he retains some popularity and whose authoritarian leaders he courted while in office. His administration also developed close ties in the United Arab Emirates, where he’s previously done business, and Saudi Arabia, where his company considered projects prior to his ascent to the presidency.Hussain Sajwani, chairman of Dubai’s DAMAC Properties, which has partnered with Trump on two golf courses in the emirate, said he’d welcome the chance to expand his firm’s relationship with Trump. “We have a great relationship with the Trump Organization and, be assured, we have absolutely no intention to cancel our agreement,” he said.MediaWith a love for the limelight, Trump is expected to pursue media opportunities of some kind, whether a book deal, a lucrative role at a news channel or his own media venture.Rumors of Trump discussing an “Apprentice” revival with show creator Mark Burnett have cropped up periodically during his time in office. In November 2019, Trump took to Twitter to deny a Daily Beast report that such talks had taken place, though he allowed that it would be “a big show.” It would be unsurprising if Trump did seek to revive the show — according to the New York Times investigative report that revealed his tax information in September 2020, “The Apprentice” ultimately made him $427 million, a windfall that turned his business fortunes around.With Trump now anathema to a large part of his former audience, a return to network TV is high unlikely, though former campaign adviser Sam Nunberg says the idea shouldn’t be ruled out.“Donald Trump is a money-making commodity in media,” Nunberg said. “There will always be a space for him. He will always have a tremendous audience. Even people who hate him will watch him.”Conservative media seems a surer bet, though the messy aftermath of the election has scrambled that landscape as well. Fox News’ early call of Arizona and subsequently the election for Biden was seen as a stark betrayal by Trump, who began railing against Rupert Murdoch’s conservative news giant and urging his supporters to switch to upstart rivals like Newsmax and One America News Network that more freely repeated his baseless claims of election fraud. But those channels still reach far fewer viewers than Fox, and there have been calls for cable operators like AT&T and Comcast to drop them in the wake of the Capitol riots.The Wall Street Journal reported in November that Hicks Equity Partners, an investment firm associated with RNC Vice Chair Tommy Hicks, the son of Hicks, Muse, Tate & Furst founder Tom Hicks, has tried to raise money to help fund a right-leaning outlet to compete with Fox News. Many doubt the former president would be able to raise the kind of money needed to create a credible alternative to Fox. Politico media columnist Jack Shafer dismissed the idea of a Trump network last week, noting that the former president would have a hard time convincing cable companies to carry his channel, face withering competition from a once-friendly Fox and struggle to attract advertisers besides MyPillow.Even just getting a book published might be tough. The Obamas got a combined $65 million advance for their memoirs, and Trump would no doubt love to best that figure. If he does though, it might not be with a mainstream publishing house. Simon & Schuster, which is being bought by Bertelsmann SE, recently canceled plans to publish a book by Republican Senator Josh Hawley, who sought to challenge Biden’s election win and was photographed raising his fist to salute the Capitol protesters.But Nunberg said Trump is in a whole different category from Hawley. “Simon & Schuster would love to publish a Donald Trump book,” Nunberg said. “That book will sell more than Obama’s. And it wouldn’t be 700 pages.”RetailTrump has long loved to slap his name on things, buildings for sure but also adult-education courses, vodka (though he doesn’t drink) and mail-order steaks (he eats his well-done, with ketchup). This trait appears to run in the family — before her father became president, Ivanka Trump built a fashion label that sold clothes, shoes and handbags at retailers like Lord & Taylor and Bloomingdale’s.But, as far as mainstream customers go, that ship likely sailed a long time ago.“The brand is irreparably stained,” said New York public relations executive Dorothy Crenshaw. The partners and retail ecosystem Donald Trump would need to get his products on the market won’t want to have anything to do with him now, she said. “I really don’t see any viability.”Trump-branded items were dropped from Macy’s and other retailers soon after he launched his campaign with a speech promising to build a border wall to keep out “rapists” from Mexico. Ivanka’s partners started pulling her merchandise in 2017 after she took an advisory role in her father’s administration, with Nordstrom, Neiman Marcus and Hudson’s Bay all dropping her label entirely. She shut down her fashion business in 2018, and now her clothes can only be found secondhand at resellers such as thredUP or auction sites like eBay.As in other areas, any future Trump retail enterprise will likely be geared towards the president’s conservative base. But even maintaining the site selling Make America Great Again caps and mugs is proving difficult. E-commerce platform Shopify’s decision to cut ties with Trump means online customers must now email the site to place orders.Though the family hasn’t declared any intention of expanding their consumer-facing businesses, the Trumps still hold live trademarks for products ranging from infant beddings to coffee to greeting cards. And Ivanka may find new markets for her wares abroad — the Chinese government awarded her dozens of trademarks during her father’s time in office, many of which seemed suspiciously timed with Trump administration foreign policy decisions, watchdog group Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington has pointed out.Legal ExposureOf course, none of that will matter if Trump is behind bars. He was already facing a number of legal threats that pre-date the election. Special Counsel Robert Mueller's team detailed several instances in which the president may have obstructed justice, and Trump was also potentially implicated in the campaign finance case that resulted in a three-year sentence for his former personal lawyer and fixer Michael Cohen.Justice Department policy has shielded Trump from federal prosecution as a sitting president, but that goes away on Wednesday, and the incoming administration could revive those cases. The revelation by the New York Times that Trump took a number of questionable deductions over the years and only paid $750 in income taxes in 2016 could also spur a fresh probe into possible tax evasion.New York state authorities have been eyeing Trump as well. Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance is leading a probe of the president's business dealings that could ultimately result in criminal charges. New York Attorney General Letitia James is simultaneously pursuing an investigation into whether the Trump Organization inflated asset values.Trump's personal conduct is also at issue in a number of civil cases. He could soon face depositions in two New York defamation lawsuits brought by women he said were lying when they accused him of sexual assault.Since the election, Trump has only added to his potential legal woes. His shocking Jan. 2 call with Georgia Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger, in which he asked the election official to “find” him just enough votes to overturn Biden's victory in the state, may have violated both federal and state laws against election fraud. Such a case could be bolstered by additional actions taken by Trump — telling a state investigator he would be a “national hero” if he uncovered fraud in the Georgia vote, as the Washington Post has reported, and forcing the resignation of the top federal prosecutor in Atlanta for failing to aggressively pursue baseless election-fraud claims, according to the Wall Street Journal.And then there's the Capitol riot. Trump gave an inflammatory speech to the crowd that then laid siege to the halls of Congress. While some legal experts say the president's exhortations may have been too vague for him to be charged with inciting the violence, any evidence that emerges of coordination between the White House and radical groups that participated in storming the Capitol could change the picture.Perhaps more importantly, widespread outrage over the riot has scrambled the political calculations behind bringing any case against Trump. Where the Biden administration may have once preferred to move on, it may now face growing calls to hold a former President Trump accountable in one way or another.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/citizen-trump-the-many-paths-ahead-for-the-expresident-101611066156331.html
19-01-2021||World||Hong Kong unemployment rises to highest level since 2004||Hong Kong’s unemployment rate rose in December to the highest level in 16 years as the city struggled under stiff social distancing measures to control a persistent rise in Covid-19 cases.The jobless rate jumped to 6.6% in the October-to-December period, up from 6.3% previously, returning to levels not seen since December 2004, according to a government report Tuesday.The reading is worse than the 6.4% median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of economists. The underemployment rate remained at 3.4%.Local businesses are struggling under strict social distancing measures and a lack of tourism. Restrictions on group gatherings, early restaurant closures and shuttered bars have curbed consumer spending in the city state.The economy will likely continue to struggle through the first half of the year before a recovery emerges in the second half, depending on the global rollout of vaccines, Financial Secretary Paul Chan said at the Asian Financial Forum earlier Tuesday.“The Lunar New Year is usually a time when businesses such as retail and restaurants are the most prosperous and highest earning, but currently they are being severely affected by the epidemic,” Chan wrote on his blog Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hong-kong-unemployment-rises-to-highest-level-since-2004-101611049473701.html
19-01-2021||World||Biden picks transgender woman as assistant health secretary||President-elect Joe Biden has tapped Pennsylvania Health Secretary Rachel Levine to be his assistant secretary of health, leaving her poised to become the first openly transgender federal official to be confirmed by the US Senate.A pediatrician and former Pennsylvania physician general, Levine was appointed to her current post by Democratic Gov. Tom Wolf in 2017, making her one of the few transgender people serving in elected or appointed positions nationwide. She won past confirmation by the Republican-majority Pennsylvania Senate and has emerged as the public face of the state's response to the coronavirus pandemic.“Dr. Rachel Levine will bring the steady leadership and essential expertise we need to get people through this pandemic — no matter their zip code, race, religion, sexual orientation, gender identity, or disability — and meet the public health needs of our country in this critical moment and beyond," Biden said in a statement. "She is a historic and deeply qualified choice to help lead our administration’s health efforts.”A graduate of Harvard and of Tulane Medical School, Levine is president of the Association of State and Territorial Health Officials. She's written in the past on the opioid crisis, medical marijuana, adolescent medicine, eating disorders and LGBTQ medicine.Biden and his transition team have already begun negotiating with members of Congress, promoting speedy passage of the president-elect's $1.9 trillion plan to bring the coronavirus, which has killed nearly 400,000 people in the United States, under control. It seeks to enlist federal emergency personnel to run mass vaccination centers and provide 100 immunization shots in his administration’s first 100 days while using government spending to stimulate the pandemic-hammered economy,Biden also says that, in one of his first acts as president, he'll ask Americans to wear masks for 100 days to slow the virus' spread.Levine joins Biden's Health and Human Services secretary nominee Xavier Becerra, a Latino politician who rose from humble beginnings to serve in Congress and as California’s attorney general.Businessman Jeff Zients is Biden's coronavirus response coordinator, while Biden picked infectious-disease specialist Rochelle Walensky to run the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Vivek Murthy as surgeon general and Yale epidemiologist Marcella Nunez-Smith to head a working group to ensure fair and equitable distribution of vaccines and treatments.The government's top infectious disease expert, Dr. Anthony Fauci, will also work closely with the Biden administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-picks-transgender-woman-as-assistant-health-secretary-101611063577025.html
19-01-2021||World||Spain declares disaster-zone status for Madrid, other storm-hit regions||Spain's government on Tuesday classified Madrid and other regions struck by Storm Filomena last week as disaster zones, a move which will trigger emergency subsidies and other support measures.The storm brought the heaviest snowfall in decades and caused at least 1.4 billion euros ($1.70 billion) in damage to the Spanish capital, according to a preliminary estimate from the mayor's office, though opposition parties have disputed that number.Fallen trees and snowdrifts, which hardened into ice blocks during the ensuing cold snap, blocked roads and train lines, cutting off supplies to Madrid and leaving supermarket shelves empty.A mammoth cleanup effort involving thousands of police, firemen and military personnel has restored some degree of normality to the city and most public transport has been restored.But many roads have yet to be cleared and the regional government warned rains predicted for Wednesday are likely to bring floods and further chaos.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/spain-declares-disaster-zone-status-for-madrid-other-storm-hit-regions-101611062267681.html
19-01-2021||World||Joe Biden admin will engage the world 'as it is', not 'as it was' says : Secretary of State-designate Antony Blinken||Underlining America's "growing rivalry" with China and Russia, US Secretary of State-designate Antony Blinken on Tuesday said the Biden administration will engage the world "as it is" and not "as it was", indicating that the diplomacy of the next president would be driven by ground realities.Blinken in his prepared testimony to the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations ahead of his confirmation hearing also did not rule out a military intervention overseas if the lives of Americans were at stake."Working across government and with partners around the world, we will revitalise American diplomacy to take on the most pressing challenges of our time. We’ll show up again, day-in, day-out whenever and wherever the safety and well-being of Americans is at stake,” he said.“We’ll engage the world not as it was, but as it is. A world of rising nationalism, receding democracy, growing rivalry with China, Russia, and other authoritarian states, mounting threats to a stable and open international system, and a technological revolution that is reshaping every aspect of our lives, especially in cyberspace," said Blinken, who if confirmed by the Senate, will succeed Mike Pompeo as the next Secretary of State.Blinken, 58, is expected to be confirmed by the Senate soon after Biden is sworn in as the president on January 20.On Tuesday, a day before the inauguration, Senate committees are also holding confirmation hearings of Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen, Defence Secretary Lloyd J Austin, Homeland Security Secretary Alenjandro N Mayorkas and Director of National Intelligence Avril Haines.In his prepared testimony, Blinken said, "For all that has changed, some things remain constant. American leadership still matters.""The reality is that the world doesn't organise itself. When we're not engaged, when we don't lead, then one of two things happen: either some other country tries to take our place, but probably not in a way that advances our interests or values. Or no one does, and then you get chaos. Either way, that does not serve the American people," he said.Blinken, who served as the deputy secretary of state from 2015 to 2017 under President Barack Obama, said humility and confidence should be the flip sides of America's leadership coin."Humility because most of the world's problems are not about us, even as they affect us. Not one of the big challenges we face can be met by one country acting alone -- even one as powerful as the US."But we'll also act with confidence that America at its best still has a greater ability than any country on earth to mobilize others for the greater good. Guided by those principles, we can overcome the COVID crisis -- the greatest shared challenge since World War II," he told members of the Senate Foreign Affairs Committee.Blinken said the US has a great deal of work "to do at home" to enhance the country's standing abroad."We can outcompete China -- and remind the world that a government of the people, by the people, can deliver for its people. We can take on the existential threat posed by climate change. We can revitalise our core alliances -- force multipliers of our influence around the world."Together, we are far better positioned to counter threats posed by Russia, Iran and North Korea and to stand up for democracy and human rights. And in everything we do around the world, we can and we must ensure that our foreign policy delivers for American working families here at home," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-admin-will-engage-the-world-as-it-is-not-as-it-was-antony-blinken-101611061758874.html
19-01-2021||World||Snowstorm causes 134-car pile-up on Japanese highway, 1 dead||At least 134 cars were involved in a series of crashes in Japan on Tuesday when a snowstorm struck a stretch of highway and one person was killed and a dozen hurt in the chaos.The crashes occurred on the Tohoku Expressway in the northern prefecture of Miyagi at around noon, on a stretch of road about 1 km (half a mile) long, the government said.Authorities had imposed a speed limit of 50 kph (31 mph) when heavy snow cut visibility but that was not enough to prevent disaster.Some 200 people were caught up in the crashes with 12 of them were sent to hospital, the disaster management agency said.Rescue operations were under way, Chief Cabinet Secretary Katsunobu Kato told reporters.Parts of Japan have seen unusually heavy snow in recent weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/snowstorm-causes-134-car-pile-up-on-japanese-highway-1-dead-101611061679165.html
19-01-2021||World||European countries struggle to make most of Pfizer Covid-19 vaccine doses||Some European countries are drawing fewer than the approved six doses from Pfizer and BioNTech's Covid-19 vaccine vials, meaning shots are likely going to waste even as nations plead for more.Officials and healthcare professionals in France, Germany and Switzerland all pointed to yields short of six doses, adding to frustrations in countries already lagging vaccination campaigns in nations such as Britain and the United States.The losses add up: For 200,000 vials of the two-shot vaccine, 600,000 people can be inoculated at six doses per vial, compared with 500,000 at just five.The difficulties could also hinder Pfizer and BioNTech's new production target of 2 billion Covid-19 shots in 2021, up from 1.3 billion previously.The higher production forecast assumes health teams can draw that sixth dose from vials where this is permitted, thus stretching supplies.In France, authorities acknowledge vials contain more than five doses, but early on advised health workers to aim for five. Some French experts said dose-maximising syringes were lacking.In Switzerland, some officials said five doses had emerged as standard, given the challenges of yielding more of a vaccine they describe as thick and hard to handle."Five doses from a vial has proven itself a reliable method," said Rolf Wirz, spokesman for the cantonal crisis management team in Basel-Land, in northwestern Switzerland.Confusion over Pfizer/BioNTech vial volumes emerged in December, when US hospital pharmacists realised that preparing the vaccine, by mixing it with saline solution, yielded enough liquid for at least six 0.30 ml doses.They initially threw the extra dose away, since vials were labeled for five.The US Food and Drug Administration quickly updated its doses per vial guidance, with the European Medicine Agency following suit on Jan. 8.Asked for comment, BioNTech said its 2 billion dose target was based on six doses per vial in those regions and countries where the practice is allowed by the regulator.France's health ministry originally aimed for five doses, but recently boosted its target to six per vial.Even so, one French expert raised fears of shortages of small 1 ml syringes - designed to maximise vaccine extraction - as an obstacle."This is essential if we want to reach immunity targets quickly and before the new variants hit Europe even more," said Eric Billy, an immuno-oncology researcher. "We may have syringes, but we do not have the right ones."The health ministry said, in response to those concerns, that it aimed "to ensure that medical equipment is delivered that can allow for such extraction".Germany offers a mixed picture: In the western state of North Rhine-Westphalia, officials ordered 20.5 million 1 ml syringes and said they had enough to extract six doses.In eastern Thuringia, however, Health Minister Heike Werner said doctors were finding that obtaining the sixth dose was only possible with about half the Pfizer/BioNTech vials delivered.Other nations are having greater success.In Britain, officials forecast wastage of 10%, but said less was actually being discarded, helped by early recognition that extra doses were possible."We discovered we're able to get more out of the vials," said Mary Ramsay, Public Health England's immunisation head.Danish authorities are even drawing a seventh dose, boosting optimism they'll exceed a two-month, 250,000-person inoculation goal.In the Netherlands, pharmacists initially predicted first-round vaccinations would cover 33,000 doctors and nurses."It turned out to be 39,000 because they could get a sixth dose," said Kirstin Schimmel, a hospital pharmacist in Leiden, adding some hospitals using special syringes got seven doses.Swiss regulator Swissmedic also advises a sixth Pfizer/BioNTech dose is possible with "appropriate syringes and careful handling".Still, several Swiss cantons told Reuters they averaged less than six doses per vial. "When possible, we draw six," said a cantonal health department spokeswoman in Zurich. "Five remains the standard. The vaccine is thick and very challenging to handle."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/european-countries-struggle-to-make-most-of-pfizer-covid-19-vaccine-doses-101611060901832.html
19-01-2021||World||'One village, one policy': China keeps it local to battle Covid wave||China is using localised tactics to battle a wave of Covid-19 outbreaks, an approach that avoids the sort of widespread shutdowns that devastated the economy last year but is also sowing uncertainty ahead of the Lunar New Year travel season.In the province of Hebei, which surrounds Beijing and has seen hundreds of infections in the last two weeks, officials were told in a Monday meeting to adhere to the principle of "one village, one policy" and draw up individual plans for each community.After keeping confirmed new Covid-19 infections to just a handful a day for months, China has seen a spike in cases since the beginning of the year, with more than 100 a day recently, raising fears of a large-scale outbreak.Addressing new clusters in Hebei and elsewhere, the National Health Commission (NHC) said last week that local officials needed to be on their guard and avoid "one size fits all" solutions.Beijing, for example, has left it to provincial authorities and employers to urge or incentivise people not to travel during the upcoming holiday, which begins on Feb. 12 and is usually the busiest travel time of the year.More than 20 provincial-level regions have asked people to stay put during the holiday but stopped short of bans, to the frustration of would-be travellers."I originally wanted to book my ticket on Jan. 25 but I was informed by my hometown community that they didn't know what will happen several days later and they couldn't 100% guarantee that I could go back without the need of quarantine," said a user of the Weibo social media platform who goes by the name Yijin Jiajin.Rules and guidelines vary and frequently shift, even within cities, creating uncertainty.Though they have been urged not to act excessively, local governments in the worst-hit regions have introduced often draconian measures to shut COVID-19 transmission routes."The specifics of restrictions are left to the local officials to flesh out, which means that if anything goes wrong, they will bear the brunt of the people's and the central government's wrath," said Yifei Li, a professor at New York University Shanghai who studies China's environmental and public health policies.DON'T CALL IT A LOCKDOWNOn Tuesday, Qiqihar in northeastern Heilongjiang province became the latest city to order some residents to stay indoors.In Beijing, some residential compounds were also sealed off.About 30 million people in the north and northeast are now under various types of curfew, though cities appear to be avoiding the word "lockdown", or "fengcheng" in Chinese, which was widely used to describe measures to respond to the outbreak last year in Wuhan and its surroundings, where the virus emerged in late 2019.In the absence of central directives, cities and local government bureaus have published dozens of rules in recent days on controlling the outbreak over the holiday.Though there have been no new recent local cases in Shanghai, many residential buildings have tightened entry restrictions for couriers and rebuilt the control stations that were in place outside every compound early last year.Hebei has introduced the toughest measures, including bans on weddings and funerals, but it also ordered grassroots officials to refrain from the sorts of crude village blockades seen last year. Any attempt to seal off national roads, erect barricades or dig trenches would be punished, the provincial government said on Tuesday."I am not sure we can fault local officials for being overly cautious. The real problem seems to be that they're being unpredictable," said Li.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/one-village-one-policy-china-keeps-it-local-to-battle-covid-wave-101611051760817.html
19-01-2021||World||China gives no return date for Indian students stranded home||China on Tuesday declined to give a deadline for the return of Indian students studying in the country who are stranded in India, saying its decision not to allow foreign students to return was based on the global Covid-19 pandemic situation.Every country is formulating pandemic-control measures according to the situation on ground, and China’s first priority is to prevent the spread of the disease, the Chinese foreign ministry said.The ministry said Chinese students are facing the same problem despite spending money to study abroad. More than 23,000 Indian students study in China, most of them enrolled in medical universities.All but a handful had returned to India in a staggered manner in 2020 following the Covid-19 outbreak in China but are now stranded in their home country because Beijing has banned foreign students from returning to universities.“I totally understand this situation including the difficulties faced by the Indian students. Indeed, such problems widely exist globally. Many Chinese students spend much money on overseas studies but due to Covid-19 they still can’t resume their studies overseas and they have to take online courses. This is the last thing we hope to see,” Hua Chunying, foreign ministry spokesperson said at a regular ministry briefing on Tuesday.“Surely, we hope to see the solidarity and joint fight by the international community, we can defeat the virus and our students can return to campus. But the reality is that we are seeing the reality of the rising second wave of Covid-19 (infections) across the world. And countries are formulating their anti-epidemic prevention measures according to the situation on ground,” she said.“And our purpose is to protect the safety and health of overseas students. Chinese universities are required to handle their legitimate concerns. We will handle that matter in a coordinated and overall manner. So, we have to take into (account) many factors, priority is for us to join hands to fight against Covid (pandemic) and prevail over the virus. This is something we all are hoping to see,” Hua said.Hua added that the Covid-19 pandemic is raging across the world and countries have formulated their epidemic prevention measures based on their national conditions. “In principle, China attaches high importance to the protection of their rights of the overseas students. We request the universities and the colleges to stay in communication with them and ensure the courses online and any other format. We also hope to stay in communication with all parties in this regard,” Hua added.According to China’s education ministry, until the end of 2018, 4,92,185 international students from 196 countries and regions were studying in China.With 23,198 students, India was fourth on the list of a country-wise breakup of students studying in China.South Korea with more than 50,000 students topped it followed by Thailand and Pakistan with over 28,000 students each studying in China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-gives-no-return-date-for-indian-students-stranded-home-101611061412638.html
19-01-2021||World||Biden inauguration day: 3 Democrats to take Senate oath on January 20||Three new Democratic senators will all be sworn in on Wednesday, after Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris take office, giving Democrats control of the chamber, two people familiar with the plans said.Jon Ossoff and Raphael Warnock were elected in January 5 run-off elections in Georgia, defeating the two Republican incumbents.California Secretary of State Alex Padilla has been named to replace Harris in the Senate.The three new Democrats leave the Senate split 50-50 between Republicans and the Democratic caucus. Harris would cast any tie-breaking votes, meaning Democrats control the chamber agenda.Current Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and Minority Leader Chuck Schumer will meet later Tuesday to lay out plans for the evenly split Senate as well as the process for an impeachment trial of President Donald Trump.Five Biden Cabinet Picks Have Confirmation HearingsThe day before his inauguration, five of Biden’s cabinet nominees have their confirmation hearings before Senate committees.Janet Yellen, the former Fed chair who was picked to lead the Treasury Department, will face questioning from the Finance Committee at 10 a.m. EST. At the same time, Biden’s pick to be the director of national intelligence, Avril Haines, will appear before the Intelligence Committee, and Alejandro Mayorkas, tapped for the Department of Homeland Security, will testify to the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs panel.Afternoon hearings on Tuesday include retired General Lloyd Austin, Biden’s choice to lead the Defense Department, and Antony Blinken, his nominee for secretary of state.Despite hearings beginning before Wednesday’s inauguration, Biden is expected to take office with a cabinet made up largely, if not entirely, of acting secretaries. The confirmation hearings have to be followed by committee votes before the nominations go to the floor of the Senate.Working to Biden’s advantage: the Senate will shift to Democratic control after Biden becomes president and new senators from Georgia and California are sworn in. At that point, tie breakers in the Senate, which will be divided equally between Republicans and Democrats, will be cast by Harris.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-inauguration-day-3-democrats-to-take-senate-oath-on-january-20-101611060745086.html
19-01-2021||World||Taliban attacks, violence kills dozens: Afghan officials||A wave of Taliban attacks and violence has killed dozens across Afghanistan, even as talks are underway between the government and the insurgents in Qatar, officials said on Tuesday.A statement from the defence ministry said four army soldiers were killed late Monday night in Taliban attacks on checkpoints in Kunduz province.According to the ministry, 15 Taliban fighters were also killed and 12 were wounded. The details were impossible to independently verify as Kunduz is off limits to journalists and the Taliban hold sway across most of the province's rural areas.However, Ghulam Rabani Rabani, a provincial council member in Kunduz, gave a significantly higher casualty toll. At least 25 members of the security forces were killed by the Taliban in separate attacks in the Dasht-e-Archi district, including 13 soldiers and four policemen, he said.At least eight other soldiers were killed near Kunduz city, the provincial capital, he said.Taliban spokesman, Zabihullah Mujahid, said the insurgents were behind all the attacks. The Taliban were able to seize weapons and ammunition from the checkpoints, he said.Meanwhile, in southern Helmand province, Abdul Zahir Haqyar, administration chief in Washer's district, was shot and killed by unknown gunmen on Monday night, said Abdul Nabi Elham, the provincial governor of Helmand.Two of Haqyar's bodyguards were wounded in the shooting. No one immediately claimed responsibility for that attack.Separately, in southern Urozgan province, at least 10 people, including women and children, were wounded, when a sticky bomb placed on a motorcycle exploded, according to the provincial governor, Mohammad Omar Sherzad.A private car belonging to police officers was the target of the explosion, he said.The Islamic State group has claimed responsibility for multiple attacks in the capital of Kabul in recent months, including on educational institutions that killed 50 people, most of them students. IS has claimed responsibility for rocket attacks in December targeting the major US base in Afghanistan. There were no casualties.Taliban representatives and the Afghan government earlier this month resumed peace talks in Qatar, the Gulf Arab state where the insurgents maintain an office. The stop-and-go talks are aimed at ending decades of conflict. Frustration and fear have grown over the recent spike in violence, and both sides blame one another.There has also been growing doubt lately over a US-Taliban deal brokered by the outgoing Trump administration. That accord was signed last February. Under the deal, an accelerated withdrawal of US troops ordered by Trump means that just 2,500 American soldiers will still be in Afghanistan when President-elect Joe Biden takes office on January 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-attacks-violence-kills-dozens-afghan-officials-101611059139339.html
19-01-2021||World||EU slams Bosnia for failing to properly care for migrants||The European Union’s top migration official on Tuesday criticized Bosnian authorities for failing to properly care for hundreds of migrants living in sub-zero temperatures on its territory, warning the Balkans country of its obligations if it hopes to join the EU.Bosnia has faced sharp criticism for leaving around 1,000 people without shelter after a fire gutted the makeshift Lipa refugee camp near the northwest border with EU-member Croatia just before Christmas. The authorities at first said they would move the migrants to another location, but finally set up military tents at the site instead after locals elsewhere protested.“Bosnia-Herzegovina must show it’s capable of managing migration. It must take responsibility, address the humanitarian situation,” Home Affairs Commissioner Ylva Johansson told EU lawmakers.“As a country with a perspective of EU accession, we expect Bosnia-Herzegovina to work on sustainable, long-term solutions, to set up facilities evenly distributed across the full territory of the country,” Johansson said. She said she would visit the area in February.The problem is not new. Bosnia has been widely criticized in recent years for mishandling the arrival of thousands of people, many fleeing war and poverty. The politically unstable and impoverished Balkan country is still recovering from its own war in the 1990s.Divided into two feuding entities, Bosnia lacks a unified policy on migrants. The Serb-run part of the country has refused to accept any, and the overburdened northwestern region has complained it has been abandoned despite help from international organizations.Migrants come to Bosnia with the aim of reaching Croatia before moving on into Western Europe. Many have complained about being pushed back, which is illegal under international refugee law, and violence at the hands of Croatia’s police.Johansson said thanks to EU help, around 900 people at the site in Bosnia now have shelter in weather-proof tents, with access to heating and food supplies.“Thanks to our action, the situation has improved, but only from grave to serious. Stopping immediate risk to life is the beginning, not the end, of ensuring acceptable, dignified living conditions,” she said.The Lipa camp was only ever set up as a temporary measure to cope with the impact of the coronavirus over the summer. Bosnian central authorities wanted to move some migrants to a nearby facility at Bira, but local authorities blocked the move as protests erupted.“Winter has a long way to run and I must admit that it is frustrating to have to set up tents and temporary shelters when we have an empty, fully equipped and winterized facility just 30 kilometers (19 miles) down the road,” Johansson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-slams-bosnia-for-failing-to-properly-care-for-migrants-101611059636988.html
19-01-2021||World||From Neera Tanden to Vivek Murthy: Indian Americans in Biden's administration||US president-elect Joe Biden has nominated or named several Indian Americans, including quite a few women, for key posts in his administration. Biden had indicated during the campaign that he would rope in a large number of Indian Americans. “As President, I'll also continue to rely on Indian-American diaspora that keeps our two nations together, as I have throughout my career,” Biden had said in his address to the Indian-American community during a virtual celebration of India’s Independence Day.Biden will be sworn in as the 46th president of the United States and Kamala Harris, who is the first-ever woman, the first-ever woman of colour and the first-ever South Asian, as the vice president at the inauguration ceremony on January 20.Here’s a look at the Indian Americans set to be part of the Biden administration:Neera Tanden: Tanden, a former Clinton and Obama advisor has been nominated to the office of management and budget. The 50-year-old would be the first woman of colour to manage the administration’s budget.Dr Vivek Murthy: Murthy will co-chair Biden’s Covid task force, after advising the President-elect for months on the pandemic and acting as surgeon general under former President Barack Obama. Dr Atul Gawande and Dr Celine Gounder will also be part of the task force.Vinay Reddy has been named as director of speech-writing.Gautam Raghavan has been named as deputy director of the office of presidential personnel.Bharat Ramamurti has been chosen as deputy director of the national economic council.Kiran Ahuja has been nominated for the team lead for the office of personnel management.Mala Adiga will be policy director to First Lady Jill Biden.Punnet Talwar will be on the agency review team for the US department of state.Aisha Shah has been named as partnership manager at the White House office of digital strategy.Community and economic development expert Fazili has been chosen as deputy director at the US national economic council (NEC).Bharat Ramamurti, former economic advisor to Senator Elizabeth Warren’s 2020 presidential campaign will also be taking up the role of deputy director of the NEC.Veteran diplomat Uzra Zeya is billed as the undersecretary of state for civilian security, democracy, and human rights.The National Security Council (NSC) also has three Indian-American hires. Tarun Chhabra as senior director for technology and national security, Sumona Guha as senior director for South Asia, and Shanthi Kalathil as coordinator for democracy and human rights.Vedant Patel is set to occupy a seat as assistant press secretary to the president and is the third-ever Indian American to be part of the White House press corps.Civil rights attorney Vanita Gupta was nominated as associate attorney general at the department of justice.Sonia Aggarwal has been named as senior advisor for climate policy and innovation in the office of the domestic climate policy at the White House and Vidur Sharma has been appointed as a policy advisor for testing for the White House Covid-19 response team.Two Indian Americans women have been appointed to the office of the White House counsel: Neha Gupta as associate counsel and Reema Shah as deputy associate counsel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/from-neera-tanden-to-vivek-murthy-indian-americans-in-joe-biden-s-administration-101611059412314.html
19-01-2021||World||Keystone XL pipeline: Why has Biden planned to cancel disputed Canada project||US president-elect Joe Biden is reportedly planning to reverse a number of decisions of the outgoing Trump administration through executive orders, including the Keystone XL pipeline, on his first day in office. The project is a part of a larger pipeline network, also called Keystone, which connects oil sands of Alberta, Canada, to refineries in the US states of Illinois and Texas. Keystone XL pipeline was aimed to cut short the distance between Alberta’s oil sands and the Gulf of Mexico, where most of North America’s refineries are situated.The privately financed pipeline project has been opposed by environmentalists and Native Americans for years. In 2015, the then US president Barack Obama vetoed a bill approving the construction of the controversial pipeline but his successor, Donald Trump, overturned the decision through an executive order in his first week in the office.What were the arguments made in favour of the pipeline?While Canada already sends 550,000 barrels of oil per day to the United States, the planned project would have carried 830,000 barrels of heavy crude every day from Alberta to Nebraska. The increased supply from Canada would have meant a decrease in dependency on the Middle East. Trump had claimed that the project would create 28,000 construction jobs. “It's going to put a lot of workers, a lot of steelworkers back to work," Trump had said while issuing the permit.What do critics say?Environmentalists argue that the pipeline would mean a commitment to developing the oil sands of Alberta, causing a setback to the push to move away from fossil fuels. When Obama decided against the approval of the project following the advice from the Environment Protection Agency (EPA), he said that the pipeline would neither lead to a decline in petrol prices nor it would create long-term jobs.Vermont senator Bernie Sanders, a prominent voice of progressive caucus, expressed his delight over Biden’s plan to cancel the project, saying the Keystone pipeline “always has been a disaster”. Taking to Twitter, Sanders said that the country should never lose sight of the “most existential threat” facing the planet. Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg also welcomed the decision and said that it would be a “great start” for the incoming Biden administration and a crucial first step.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/keystone-xl-pipeline-why-has-biden-planned-to-cancel-disputed-canada-project-101611057790058.html
19-01-2021||World||California sheriff's deputy, driver dead following shootout||A California sheriff’s deputy has died and another deputy was injured following a chase and shootout that also left a suspect dead, authorities said.A sheriff’s K-9 dog also died in the gunfire late Monday near Cal Expo, a Sacramento event venue, Sacramento County Sheriff Scott Jones told reporters. The injured deputy was in stable condition, he said.The officer who died was a six-year veteran of the department, Jones said.The suspect was identified as a man in his 40s, Jones said. Names of those involved weren't immediately released.The shooting followed an attempted traffic stop, Jones said, and the driver ended up crashing on the Cal Expo grounds. The K-9 was deployed and the driver started shooting, prompting deputies to return fire, Jones said.It wasn't immediately known what prompted the traffic stop. The Sacramento Police Department plans to handle the investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/california-sheriff-s-deputy-driver-dead-following-shootout-101611053914068.html
19-01-2021||World||Concerns grow over future of pandemic hit Eurostar rail service linking UK, EU||The head of France’s state rail company has sounded the alarm over the future of the Eurostar train service, which connects the UK with continental Europe and has been hurt badly by the halt to travel during the pandemic as well as Brexit.Jean-Pierre Farandou, the CEO of SNCF, which owns 55% of Eurostar, told France Inter radio on Tuesday that “the situation is very critical for Eurostar.”Passenger numbers on the cross-Channel train service - which reaches UK, France, Belgium and Holland - have been down 95% since March and are currently believed to be less than 1% of pre-pandemic levels.It comes days after UK business leaders called for a British government rescue of the Channel Tunnel rail operator as border closures enforced to stop a highly contagious virus variant threatened to push the service toward the brink of collapse.Farandou noted that “today, there is one round trip that runs between London and Paris, and one other that runs between London and Brussels-Amsterdam. And these trains are 10% full.”Farandou is counting on government aid, as was provided for airlines, but is all too aware of how difficult it will be as there are multiple governments involved.“We have to see how we manage to help this company in the way that airlines have been helped. It would not be unusual for Eurostar to receive aid to get through this bad patch.”He said that SNCF has “already put money back into Eurostar’s capital to help,” and the company is in discussions with the French and British governments.Eurostar has asked for access to the same secured loans as airlines, and a temporary reduction on track access charges it pays to use the UK’s only stretch of high-speed rail line.It said in a statement that its situation was “very serious. Without additional funding from government there is a real risk to the survival of Eurostar, the green gateway to Europe.”Eurostar CEO Jacques Damas has also said the company hopes the four countries it serves will coordinate regarding virus-linked restrictions on travel.In November, Damas wrote to British Chancellor Rishi Sunak asking for assistance after the UK Treasury announced it would help struggling airports.Businesses in Britain have appealed to the UK government to prop up Eurostar.London First, which represents scores of large property, retail and tourism businesses in the capital, wrote to the government over the weekend urging the UK government not to let Eurostar “fall between the cracks of support” offered to airlines and domestic railways.“Maintaining this international high-speed rail connection into the heart of London has never been more important,” the letter said. “Having left the European Union, we need to actively set out our stall as an attractive destination for people to live, work and play.“Safeguarding the future of this connection to the continent should be a symbol of both our desire to build back better and our new cooperative relationship with our European neighbours.”Britain’s Department for Transport said it recognized “the significant financial challenges” Eurostar faced because of the pandemic.“We will continue to work closely with them as we support the safe restart and recovery of international travel,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/concerns-grow-over-future-of-pandemic-hit-eurostar-rail-service-linking-uk-eu-101611052883747.html
19-01-2021||World||Kremlin says unfazed by calls for sanctions over Navalny's detention||The Kremlin said on Tuesday it would not take into account calls by some Western countries to impose additional sanctions on Russia over the detention of opposition politician Alexei Navalny, saying his case was purely a domestic matter.Navalny, who has urged Russians to take to the streets in protest, was detained on Sunday after he flew back to Russia for the first time since he was poisoned with a nerve agent last summer and taken into pre-trial detention for 30 days.Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia have said they want European Union foreign ministers to discuss sanctions against Russia over its handling of the case.Speaking to reporters on a conference call, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Navalny's calls for Russians to take to the streets over his detention were alarming, but said the Kremlin did not fear mass protests.Peskov also said that Navalny had genuine questions to answer about violating his parole conditions for a suspended prison sentence and dismissed as nonsense the notion that President Vladimir Putin fears him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kremlin-says-unfazed-by-calls-for-sanctions-over-navalny-s-detention-101611052583141.html
19-01-2021||World||Italian PM Conte appeals to Senate for government’s survival||Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte waged a charm offensive Tuesday in the Italian Senate ahead of a vote that will decide whether his coalition can survive.Fresh from winning a majority in the lower house Monday night, Conte needs the support of the Senate after junior ally and ex-premier Matteo Renzi abandoned his coalition in a clash over European Union recovery funds. The result of the Senate confidence vote is due at about 8:30 p.m. local time.In his speech Conte, who’s heading his second government, sought to win over pro-European centrists, unaffiliated lawmakers and senators from Renzi’s Italy Alive party.Even if the premier is only able to convince a minority of Senate lawmakers, he plans to soldier on and keep trying to win recruits for a new government program, officials said. While a stinging defeat would force him to offer his resignation to President Sergio Mattarella, snap elections appear unlikely no matter what the outcome on Tuesday.“We ask all political and parliamentary forces which have at heart the destiny of Italy to help us start again as quickly as possible,” Conte said. “Help us to heal the wound which the crisis has created in the pact of trust with citizens.”Italy, the original European epicenter of the coronavirus outbreak, risks being governed by a fragile executive just as it’s battling a worsening pandemic and a recession. The country has also taken over the presidency of the Group of 20. Political maneuvering will likely dominate the next few weeks as Conte, who once led a euroskeptic cabinet, seeks to recruit backers for what he pledged is a reformist, pro-European agenda.Italian bonds edged higher Tuesday, narrowing the 10-year yield premium over Germany to 114 basis points. Citigroup Inc. said it could shrink to 110 basis points following the Senate vote, noting that a snap election is unlikely.In the lower house, Conte won support from 321 of the 629 lawmakers. Italy Alive’s senators have pledged to abstain in the Tuesday confidence measure rather than cast votes against the government. That would lower the threshold for Conte to get the simple majority he needs to avoid being forced to resign.Conte believes he can win Tuesday’s vote with at least 155 senators in the 321-seat Senate and he’s touting incentives including two ministerial jobs and one post as undersecretary left vacant by Renzi’s party, newspaper la Repubblica reported Tuesday. Coalition forces would consider any score above 155 as a victory, according to daily Corriere della Sera.While there had been speculation in Rome that he might submit his resignation if he doesn’t secure 161 votes on Tuesday, Conte intends to dig in his heels and push ahead with his legislative agenda for some two weeks or more while he tries to secure further support, the people familiar said, asking not to be named discussing private conversations.(Updates with Conte speech from fourth paragraph.)For more articles like this, please visit us at bloomberg.com©2021 Bloomberg L.P.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/italian-pm-conte-appeals-to-senate-for-government-s-survival-101611052240085.html
19-01-2021||World||Pakistan crosses grim milestone of 11,000 Covid-19 deaths||The number of coronavirus deaths in Pakistan reached 11,055 on Tuesday according to the National Command and Operations Centre (NCOC) tally.The rising death toll comes even as a new coronavirus variant threatens the country.Citing NCOC, Geo News reported that since the start of January 2021, the country has witnessed 48.8 deaths on average daily with hospital intensive care units nearing capacity as active Covid-19 cases surge to 35,485.Over 2,000 people died of Covid-19 in December last year while the death toll for November 2020 was 1,268. October recorded 339 fatalities.Pakistan is currently in the grip of the second wave of Covid-19 infections with a new, more contagious variant of the coronavirus, first identified in the United Kingdom, detected in Sindh.On December 29, Pakistan reported its first confirmed cases of the new coronavirus strain in 3 UK returnees, Dawn reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-crosses-grim-milestone-of-11-000-covid-19-deaths-101611050326813.html
19-01-2021||World||Biden must end Trump's 'shameful' Central America asylum deals: Report||US President-elect Joe Biden should immediately revoke deals the Trump administration struck with Central American countries on the handling of asylum seekers, a report published Monday by Democratic senators said.In 2019, the US signed Asylum Cooperation Agreements (ACAs) with the members of the so-called Northern Triangle of Central America -- El Salvador, Honduras and Guatemala -- as part of its policy to stem the flow of undocumented immigrants across its southern border.The ACAs allow foreign migrants who request asylum at the US border -- the majority fleeing violence and poverty -- to be sent to await the outcome of their application in those Central American nations."The Trump administration views the ACAs as a model to be replicated with other countries around the world," said the document written by the Democratic staff of the Foreign Relations Committee and commissioned by incoming Committee Chairman Bob Menendez."This is precisely the opposite of what needs to happen."Biden, who will be inaugurated on Wednesday, has promised "a fair and humane immigration system" and has pledged aid to tackle the root causes of poverty and violence that drive Central Americans to the US.The report said that since the implementation of the first ACA more than a year ago, none of the 945 asylum seekers transferred from the US to Guatemala have managed to receive asylum.It cited "degrading" treatment of asylum seekers transferred from the US to Guatemala under the agreement, and said they were "effectively coerced to return to their home countries of Honduras or El Salvador, where many feared persecution and harm."The report urged the rapid suspension of the pacts, to "restore our leadership in upholding the right to seek asylum and in protecting refugees.""Congress and the Administration must renew our commitment to the protection of refugees and asylum seekers in the post-Trump era," said Menendez, who called the ACAs "disastrous" and "shameful".The report also accused the White House and Trump's Department of Homeland Security (DHS) of using "coercive tactics" to force the governments of Guatemala, Honduras and El Salvador to sign the agreements.The Trump administration resumed suspended financial assistance for the Northern Triangle countries after sealing the pacts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-must-end-trump-s-shameful-central-america-asylum-deals-report-101611050968007.html
19-01-2021||World||EU eyes scheme to share surplus Covid-19 vaccines with poorer nations||The European Union wants to set up a mechanism that would allow the sharing of surplus Covid-19 vaccines with poorer neighbouring states and Africa, the EU health chief said on Tuesday, in a move that may undercut a WHO-led global scheme."We are working with member states to propose a European mechanism to share vaccines beyond our borders," EU health commissioner Stella Kyriakides told EU lawmakers on Tuesday, confirming a Reuters report from December.She stressed the mechanism would get vaccines to poorer countries "before COVAX is fully operational", referring to the global scheme co-led by the World Health Organisation set up last summer to ensure a fair distribution of Covid-19 shots across the world.COVAX is already operational but has so far struggled to secure vaccines. It announced in December deals for nearly 2 billion doses, but the largest part of these shots has been pledged by vaccine makers under non-binding accords because COVAX is currently short of money to book them in advance."Firms will not give you doses if you don't pay in advance," a senior EU vaccine negotiator said on condition of anonymity, noting that the EU initiative was the result of COVAX having fallen short of expectations.Internal documents seen by Reuters showed in December that COVAX co-leaders saw high risks of failure for the mechanism because of insufficient funds and complex contractual arrangements.The WHO has warned of risks to fair distribution caused by rich nations' hoarding of available shots, but publicly remains upbeat about COVAX and the possibility of delivering the first vaccines this quarter.Kyriakides said the EU vaccine-sharing scheme should prioritise health workers and most vulnerable people in the Western Balkans, North Africa and poorer Sub-Saharan African countries.The EU official said the EU could give some vaccines to COVAX which would then distribute them to poor countries.It is however unclear whether the EU will donate or sell its excess doses. Sweden has set up a mechanism to sell its surplus vaccines. Decisions on sharing vaccines are taken by EU governments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-eyes-scheme-to-share-surplus-covid-19-vaccines-with-poorer-nations-101611050373552.html
19-01-2021||World||North Korea's trade with China plunges 80% as Covid-19 lockdown bites||North Korea's trade with China plunged more than 80% last year, Chinese customs data has shown, as the isolated country's strict coronavirus lockdown encumbers an economy already burdened by international sanctions.China is North Korea's top ally and accounts for some 90% of its trade volumes. Two-way trade plummeted nearly 80.7% to $539 million last year from 2019, Chinese customs data released on Monday showed.North Korea's exports to China totalled $48 million, down about 77.7%, while its imports fell 80.9% to $491 million.No reason for the lower trade was given but the new data underscored the extent that North Korea has become isolated since it sealed its border last January to ward off the novel coronavirus that had been detected in neighbouring China just a few weeks earlier.North Korea has not confirmed any cases of Covid-19 but all points of entry have been closed, public transport and inter-state movement rigidly restricted and gatherings of more than five people banned, the World Health Organization (WHO) said recently."Continuous surveillance is ongoing, samples are being tested for Covid-19 in 15 laboratories including 13 subnational laboratories," the WHO said in a report.North Korea's state-controlled economy has long been weighed down by sanctions, imposed to press it to give up its nuclear ambitions. The coronavirus lockdown is compounding the squeeze.North Korean economic data is sparse but its economy may have shrunk by 8.5% last year, Fitch Solutions said, while the Seoul-based Hana Institute of Finance estimated a contraction of up to 10%.North Korea replaced most of its cabinet policymakers in a recent reshuffle, including its public health minister, blaming them for "failing to respond actively" to the pandemic and "incurring considerable disruption in implementing state budgets."North Korean leader Kim Jong Un has said his five-year economic plan unveiled in 2016 had failed "tremendously" in almost every sector, though he praised workers for maintaining "stable situations" despite the coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/north-korea-s-trade-with-china-plunges-80-as-covid-19-lockdown-bites-101611049438510.html
19-01-2021||World||Covid-19 pandemic could be source of global crises for years: WEF||The coronavirus has exposed the “catastrophic effects” of ignoring long-term risks such as pandemics, and the economic and political consequences could cause more crises for years to come, according to the World Economic Forum.The WEF’s annual survey of global risks lists infectious disease and livelihood crises as the top “clear and present dangers” over the next two years. Knock-on effects such as asset bubbles and price instability lead concerns over 3-5 years.The WEF said most countries struggled with crisis management during the pandemic, despite some remarkable examples of determination and cooperation. That highlights how leaders need to prepare better for whatever the next major shock turns out to be.“The immediate human and economic cost of Covid-19 is severe,” the WEF said in the report. “The ramifications -- in the form of social unrest, political fragmentation and geopolitical tensions -- will shape the effectiveness of our responses to the other key threats of the next decade.”While the impact of the pandemic is dominant at the moment, other events will likely come to the fore, according to the survey. As in previous years, extreme weather is seen as the most-likely risk, just ahead of a failure on climate action. Infectious diseases make the top five for the first time in at least a decade. Digital inequality and the concentration of digital power are also seen as major concerns.The WEF’s recommendations for boosting resilience include combating misinformation, especially as coronavirus vaccines are rolled out. It cited one example of false information -- that ingesting highly concentrated alcohol kills Covid-19 -- which caused more than 700 deaths and nearly 6,000 hospitalizations in Iran.More broadly, it said post-truth politics are “amplifying hate speech, heightening the risk of conflict, violence and human rights violations, and threatening long-term prospects for advancing democracy.”The forum also recommended “holistic” risk analysis, investing in “risk champions” to encourage international cooperation, and exploring new forms of risk management such as public-private partnerships.“If lessons from this crisis only inform decision-makers how to better prepare for the next pandemic -- rather than enhancing risk processes capabilities and culture -- the world will be again planning for the last crisis rather than anticipating the next,” the WEF said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-pandemic-could-be-source-of-global-crises-for-years-wef-101611049837738.html
19-01-2021||World||World shares mostly higher as Biden inauguration approaches||World markets were mostly higher Tuesday as the coming changing of the guard in the US raised hopes for more support for the economy and more aggressive measures to fight the pandemic.Benchmarks were higher in Paris, London, Tokyo and Hong Kong but slipped in Shanghai. World markets were subdued on Monday, with US exchanges closed for a holiday.Analysts say attention is focused on Wednesday’s inauguration of Joe Biden as president.Signaling determination to move swiftly, Biden’s nominee for treasury secretary, former Federal Reserve chair Janet Yellen, is urging Congress to do more to fight the recession to avoid an even worse downturn.In testimony prepared for her confirmation hearing Tuesday before the Senate Finance Committee, Yellen said more aid is needed to get coronavirus vaccines distributed — key to ending outbreaks — to reopen schools and to help families struggling with job losses stay fed and housed.“The positive shift in investor optimism ahead of inauguration day is a clear signal the market is leaning towards an early stamp of approval on the Biden administration policy agenda," Stephen Innes of Axi said in a commentary.Germany's DAX gained 0.4% to 13,902.79 and the CAC 40 in Paris rose 0.3% to 5,634.29. Britain's FTSE edged 0.2% higher, to 6,734.19. U.S. futures also augured gains, with the contract for the S&P 500 up 0.7% and that for the Dow industrials trading 0.5% higher.Worries over possible unrest or other security threats following the attack on the Congress earlier this month seem to have abated somewhat as investors study the implications for markets of further stimulus.“The concerns over the Presidential inauguration tomorrow, which weighed on sentiments yesterday, have receded with fiscal stimulus business as usual regaining ascendancy," Jeffrey Halley of Oanda said in a report.Last week, Biden proposed a $1.9 trillion relief plan to provide more aid to American families, businesses and local communities and more support for vaccine production and distribution.While Democrats have endorsed the effort, many Republican lawmakers have expressed concerns about the price tag given soaring federal budget deficits.Yellen said that she and Biden were aware of the country’s rising debt burden, but that ultra-low interest rates make spending more now a smart choice.The Senate Finance Committee hearing with Yellen on Tuesday is one of several that the Senate will be holding as the incoming Biden administration tries to get its top Cabinet officials in office quickly.Adding to the sense of urgency, coronavirus outbreaks have been gaining even as states work to get Covid-19 vaccines into the arms of as many people as possible.Coronavirus deaths are rising in nearly two-thirds of American states as a winter surge pushes the overall toll toward 400,000 amid warnings that a new, highly contagious variant is taking hold.During Asian trading, Hong Kong’s Hang Seng gained surged 2.7% to 29,642.28 and the Nikkei 225 in Tokyo gained 1.4% to 28,633.46. South Korea’s Kospi jumped 2.6% to 3,092.66. In Australia, the S&P/ASX 500 rose 1.2% to 6,742.60. The Shanghai Composite index slipped 0.8% to 3,566.38. India’s Sensex jumped 1.6% and shares rose in most other markets aside from Malaysia and Indonesia.On Monday, trading got off to a slow start for the week with US markets closed and the reaction to news that the Chinese economy grew 2.3% in 2020 after a sharp contraction early in the year was subdued.Treasury yields have been climbing on expectations the US government will borrow much more to pay for the additional stimulus proposed by President-elect Joe Biden, in addition to improved economic growth and higher inflation. The yield on the 10-year Treasury zoomed above 1% last week for the first time since last spring earlier this month and briefly topped 1.18% last week. The yield on the 10-year Treasury was 1.11% on Tuesday.In other trading, benchmark US crude oil reversed losses, gaining 21 cents to $52.63 per barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. It gave up $1.20 to $52.42 per barrel on Monday.Brent crude, the international standard, picked up 54 cents to $55.29 per barrel.The dollar rose to 103.99 Japanese yen from 103.69 yen late Monday. The euro strengthened to $1.2115 from $1.2078.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/world-shares-mostly-higher-as-biden-inauguration-approaches-101611048739837.html
19-01-2021||World||Trump leaves town an outcast, trailed by Covid-19 pandemic, joblessness||Donald Trump departs Washington on Wednesday with Americans more politically divided and more likely to be out of work than when he arrived, while awaiting trial for his second impeachment -- an ignominious end to one of the most turbulent presidencies in American history.Trump intends to leave in the morning for his Mar-a-Lago club in Palm Beach, Florida, arriving before President-elect Joe Biden is inaugurated. There, the ex-president will begin his post-presidency life attended at least temporarily by a handful of former White House staffers.The last president who chose not to attend his successor’s inauguration was Andrew Johnson in 1869, another impeached leader. While Trump’s absence will break more than a century of precedent that has reinforced the peaceful transfer of power in the US, Biden has said it’s a “good thing” Trump won’t observe his swearing-in.Biden will arrive in Washington on Tuesday, where Trump isn’t expected to give him a meeting, according to people familiar with the matter, even though the president-elect will stay at Blair House across the street. All of the nation’s other living ex-presidents except Jimmy Carter, who is 94, will join Biden at Arlington National Cemetery after the inauguration to lay a wreath at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier.The outgoing president has been transformed into a political pariah in Washington among all but his most loyal supporters in the wake of the deadly Jan. 6 insurrection at the US Capitol, which was inspired by Trump’s refusal to accept defeat and recognize Biden’s victory in the November election.Unemployment is more than a third higher than when he entered office. About 400,000 Americans are expected to be dead of Covid-19 by the time Trump leaves the White House on Wednesday.Yet Trump has left the door open for a second act in national politics, buoyed by the 74 million people who voted for his re-election despite his failure to contain the US coronavirus outbreak.His popularity has fallen considerably since the election and the Capitol riot, however. Several polls have shown that as he leaves office, record low numbers of Americans -- less than 40%, according to an average by RealClearPolitics -- approve of his performance as president.The final Gallup poll of Trump’s presidency, released Monday, found him with 34% support on Monday -- tied with Carter and George W. Bush, who left office with the country mired in the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression and Americans disillusioned with the Iraq War.Trump’s attempts during his final weeks in office to tout his achievements, including his border wall and the withdrawal of US troops from the Middle East, were drowned out by the fallout from the riot. The violent storming of the Capitol left five people dead and showed the danger of Trump’s weeks-long campaign to whip his supporters into a frenzy over the election outcome.Three quarters of Americans, including more than half of Republicans, say Trump bears some responsibility for the attack, according to a Pew Research Center survey.Military PresenceThe Washington that Trump leaves behind now looks more like a military base than the seat of the world’s longest-standing democracy. Thousands of National Guard troops patrol the streets, while the Capitol, White House and large areas around them are fenced off to protect against another attack by Trump’s supporters.And Trump can’t altogether escape the place himself. Rather than being fully unburdened from the pressures of the presidency upon leaving office, he’ll have to eventually defend himself in his historic second impeachment trial in the Senate over his incitement of the Capitol riot.Barack Obama, by comparison, spent part of his first few weeks as a former president kite surfing in the Caribbean with British business mogul Richard Branson.The tumult is a fitting coda for a presidency that constantly pushed the boundaries of normal and exacerbated the nation’s political and racial divisions. Trump’s ability to instigate an attack on the Capitol by his loyalists with baseless claims about the election illustrated how, wittingly or not, he unleashed dark forces that previously inhabited the fringes of American life.9/11 Every DayThe coronavirus pandemic, which Trump all but ignored as he sought to overturn his election defeat, has meanwhile grown much worse in the final weeks of his presidency.Daily US deaths from Covid-19 have topped 4,000 multiple times since the start of the new year -- more dead Americans, each day, than the number killed in the Sept. 11, 2001, terror attacks. Hospitals across the country are bursting with patients suffering from the disease.Trump claims the development of a coronavirus vaccine as one of his administration’s greatest achievements, but its rollout has been beset by distribution and bureaucratic failures. After top administration officials promised that more than 100 million doses of vaccine would be delivered by the end of the year, only about 14 million shots had been administered as of Monday, according to the Bloomberg vaccine tracker.Trump has deflected blame, as he did throughout the crisis, instead faulting governors for not inoculating more people, faster. “They’re calling it a medical miracle,” Trump said of his administration’s vaccine effort in a speech last week near a segment of border wall in Alamo, Texas.It will be the incoming Biden administration’s responsibility to speed up vaccinations and revive an economy still reeling from pandemic-related shutdowns. The president-elect has said 100 million people will receive a shot in the first 100 days of his term, a goal Trump administration officials call a low-ball figure since the nation is up to almost 900,000 doses a day already.Jobless Rate HigherAt its peak, the Trump economy could boast one of the best job markets in decades. The unemployment rate was at a 50-year low, and women, people of color and the disabled all shared in the gains. But as a result of the pandemic, he leaves behind a jobless rate almost double what it was a year ago -- and substantially higher than when he took office -- with more than 10 million Americans unemployed. And as the pandemic rages on, people continue to lose their jobs.In the week ended Jan. 9, nearly 1 million applications for state unemployment insurance were filed -- as well as more than a quarter-million for a federal program covering those not traditionally eligible for unemployment benefits, like gig workers.The Covid-19 crisis has also left a swath of the country struggling to pay bills and put food on the table. Almost 30 million Americans reported sometimes or often not having enough to eat, according to a Census Bureau survey in mid-December, and more than 17 million had little or no confidence in their ability to pay next month’s rent.Taken together, the data show how the pandemic that crushed Trump’s chances of re-election will also serve as Biden’s foremost challenge as president.Garden of HeroesTrump enters his post-White House life with key figures from the world of politics unwilling to associate with him following the Capitol riot. He has been cut off from major social media platforms, including Twitter, which will hurt his ability to grab the spotlight once he is out of office.Before departing, the president issued a handful of last-minute executive actions. They include an order to create a statue garden for people Trump designated as American heroes, ranging from presidents to game show host Alex Trebek, and an order to discourage government agencies from seeking criminal prosecutions of regulatory violations. Both orders could be overruled by Biden.Trump’s White House even released a new history of the country’s founding, written by a commission Trump appointed last year. The report, published on Martin Luther King Jr. Day, defended the nation’s founders’ handling of slavery and argued that modern identity politics “creates new hierarchies as unjust as the old hierarchies of the antebellum South.”He’s expected to issue a number of pardons on Tuesday, though White House Counsel Pat Cipollone has resisted preparing preemptive grants of clemency for the president himself, family members or White House aides, according to people familiar with the matter.Meanwhile, Trump has struggled to find legal representation for the upcoming impeachment trial, with some attorneys who represented him during his first impeachment no longer willing to associate with him.He won’t have much time to cobble together a team. The Senate could begin its trial soon after Biden takes the oath of office on Jan. 20.If convicted, Congress may bar him from running for federal office ever again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-leaves-town-an-outcast-trailed-by-covid-19-pandemic-joblessness-101611047742915.html
19-01-2021||World||British hospitals use blockchain to track Covid-19 vaccines||Two British hospitals are using blockchain technology to keep tabs on the storage and supply of temperature-sensitive Covid-19 vaccines, the companies behind the initiative said on Tuesday, in one of the first such initiatives in the world.Two hospitals, in central England's Stratford-upon-Avon and Warwick, are expanding their use of a distributed ledger, an offshoot of blockchain, from tracking vaccines and chemotherapy drugs to monitoring fridges storing Covid-19 vaccines.The tech will bolster record-keeping and data-sharing across supply chains, said Everyware, which monitors vaccines and other treatments for Britain's National Health Service (NHS), and Texas-based ledger Hedera, owned by firms including Alphabet's Google and IBM, in a statement.Logistical hurdles are a significant risk to the speedy distribution of Covid-19 vaccines but have resulted in booming business for companies selling technology for monitoring shipments from factory freezer to shots in the arm.Pfizer Inc and BioNTech's shot, for example, must be shipped and stored at ultra-cold temperatures or on dry ice, and can only last at standard fridge temperatures for up to five days.Other vaccines, such as Moderna Inc's, do not need such cold storage and are therefore easier to deliver."We can absolutely verify the data that we've collected from every single device," Everyware's Tom Screen said in an interview. "We make sure that data is accurate at source, and after that point we can verify that it's never been changed, it's never been tampered with."Firms from finance to commodities have invested millions of dollars to develop blockchain, a digital ledger that allows the secure and real-time recording of data, in the hope of radical cost cuts and efficiency gains.Results have been mixed, though, with few projects achieving the revolutionary impact heralded by proponents.Everyware's Screen said it while it would be possible to monitor the vaccines without blockchain, manual systems would raise the risk of mistakes.The system will "allow us to demonstrate our commitment to providing safe patient care," said Steve Clarke, electro-bio medical engineering manager at South Warwickshire NHS in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/british-hospitals-use-blockchain-to-track-covid-19-vaccines-101611048363275.html
19-01-2021||World||Inauguration day: Biden arrival in Washington framed by division, heavy security||President-elect Joe Biden is set to arrive in Washington on Tuesday, the eve of his inauguration, with the usual backdrop of celebrations and political comity replaced by a military lockdown.Biden will spend the night at Blair House, the guest residence across the street from the White House -- one of just a few traditions being honored during the most extraordinary transfer of power in most Americans’ lifetimes.Outgoing President Donald Trump doesn’t plan to invite the Bidens to the White House before the inauguration -- denying them the customary gesture of goodwill the Obama family afforded him four years ago. Trump will also become the first president since Andrew Johnson to skip his successor’s swearing in -- he’ll instead leave Washington Wednesday morning for Florida, where he plans to reside.Roughly 25,000 National Guard soldiers have been deployed across Washington after Trump supporters, incited by the president to stop Congress from certifying Biden’s election victory, stormed the US Capitol in a violent riot on Jan. 6 that left five dead. Tall fencing now surrounds the Capitol building and the White House.Even before the insurrection, the raging coronavirus pandemic -- which has killed nearly 400,000 in the US -- had already forestalled the possibility of large-scale gatherings or public festivities for Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris’s inauguration.But the scene of Wednesday’s transfer of power will be like none other in American history, a stark illustration of the deep political divisions plaguing the nation that Biden will inherit.“Sometimes ‘unprecedented’ is a fair word to use, certainly in a moment defined by crises in an extreme way,” said Julian Zelizer, a political historian at Princeton University. “It’s the pandemic and then a post 9-11 moment combined. That’s why the moment is so grim.”Biden has had a front-row seat for the past three inaugurations as Barack Obama’s vice president. He attended Trump’s 2017 ceremony as part of a peaceful transfer of power despite their stark differences.Biden campaigned on healing the nation’s rifts. He’s said that he was spurred to run a third time for president after a 2017 white supremacist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia, erupted in violence, leaving one person dead. Trump said there were “very fine people” on both sides of the conflict.But healing the nation will be a tall order.Threats to Biden’s security prompted him to scrap his plan to travel to Washington on an Amtrak train -- the same way he commuted between his Delaware home and the Capitol throughout his nearly four-decade career in the Senate.Meanwhile, a pending Senate trial for Trump’s unprecedented second impeachment -- for his role in inciting the Jan. 6 violence -- hangs over Washington and threatens to complicate Biden’s aspirations to move swiftly past the antagonism and rancor that characterized Trump’s presidency.But Andrew Feldman, a Democratic strategist, said the lack of festivities at Biden’s inauguration means the focus will immediately shift to his agenda, even as the Senate proceeds with the impeachment trial.“We have to stay focused on the Biden agenda and what the American people are demanding get done,” Feldman said. “If we don’t, not only will the country continue to struggle to recover, it will also be hard from a political perspective for Democrats to survive and gain in the midterms.”Democrats will have to defend narrow majorities in both the House and Senate in 2022. Incumbent presidents typically lose seats in Congress in their first midterm elections, as Trump did in 2018.Feldman said that makes it incumbent on Biden to immediately enact legislation the majority of Americans support, including measures to rein in the pandemic, resurrect the economy and address systemic economic and racial inequalities.Within his first week in office, Biden is expected to ask Congress to pass a $1.9 trillion stimulus and issue scores of executive orders to both reverse Trump policies and advance his own, including one that would require Americans to wear masks on federal property and in the course of interstate commerce.Obama’s longtime pollster Joel Benenson said Wednesday’s scenes of Biden reciting the oath of office before an empty National Mall, in a city fortified against a repeat of the Jan 6. violence, will help the new president advance his agenda.“It will be a combination of the images and the commentary that they’re hearing,” Benenson said. “It was shocking. It was jarring. Americans will be looking to see Washington move on.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/inauguration-day-biden-arrival-in-washington-framed-by-division-heavy-security-101611047726250.html
19-01-2021||World||Hong Kong set to extend pandemic control measures amid surging infections||Hong Kong will extend social-distancing measures, expand mandatory testing and introduce new restrictions in certain neighborhoods to battle an extended wave of coronavirus cases.The moves come after the Asian financial hub reported 107 daily Covid-19 infections on Monday, the most in a month, Hong Kong Chief Executive Carrie Lam told a weekly news briefing Tuesday morning.“This shows that we still have transmission chains across the territory,” Lam said. “So what we need to do now is join hands and curb transmission as much as possible.”The city reported 56 new infections on Tuesday, of which 55 are local cases and 23 are untraceable, government officials said at a health department briefing Tuesday afternoon.Hong Kong will ban entry for people who have spent more than two hours in Brazil or Ireland in the past 21 days, citing risks of the more transmissible virus strains there, Under Secretary for Food and Health Chui Tak-yi said at the briefing.The city also said it was extending work-from-home arrangements for civil servants until at least January 27, a move that functions as a barometer for some private firms in a city that has not issued binding stay-at-home orders. Current social-distancing measures will also be extended until that date.Hong Kong has reverted to some of its strictest anti-coronavirus measures in months as the government attempts to tamp down the latest wave of Covid-19 cases. The now long-running restrictions have continued to weigh on Hong Kong’s economy, which has been battered by both the pandemic and landmark protests in 2019.The city has seen virus clusters in a number of buildings in the dense Yau Ma Tei and Jordan neighborhoods of Kowloon. Lam said new measures and restrictions would be coming for those areas.Lam said the higher number of reported cases Monday came from a renewed effort to test problematic areas, including by deploying mobile testing units, and did not represent a worsening of the pandemic in Hong Kong.“Let me reassure the public not to panic,” Lam said. “We need to step up our efforts on testing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hong-kong-set-to-extend-pandemic-control-measures-amid-surging-infections-101611047606574.html
19-01-2021||World||Jailed Kremlin critic Navalny urges West to impose sanctions on Putin allies||Jailed opposition leader Alexey Navalny urged Western governments to sanction key allies of President Vladimir Putin as Russia ignores US and European calls to free him.Navalny, 44, identified eight people as potential targets for punitive measures, including billionaire Chelsea soccer club owner Roman Abramovich and tycoon Alisher Usmanov as well as top officials, in a list released by a close associate of the activist.A Russian court on Monday ordered Navalny held in custody for 30 days. He’d been detained the previous day upon arrival from Germany where he’d been recovering from a poisoning attack. He faces as much as 3 1/2 years in prison at a hearing set for Feb. 2 on charges he breached the terms of a suspended sentence.The outspoken critic of Putin was stopped by police at passport control as he landed in Moscow from Berlin, where he’d gone for treatment after the August nerve-agent attack he and Western governments blame on the Kremlin. His detention threatens a new round of tensions with the West, and he called on supporters in Russia to take to the streets in protest.Russia rejected calls from the US and European governments to release Navalny, dismissing the appeals as efforts to distract from domestic problems in western countries. Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia called for the European Union to consider new sanctions on Russia over the case at a meeting of foreign ministers next week, but it wasn’t clear how much support there was in other capitals for the push.In addition to the billionaires, Navalny’s list of top sanctions candidates includes VTB Bank Chief Executive Andrey Kostin, Health Minister Mikhail Murashko and the prominent adult children of Putin allies.“I call for Western governments to review this list and make it known that they will sanction people from it if Alexey is not immediately released,” Navalny ally Vladimir Ashurkov wrote on Facebook.Navalny, who’s being held in Moscow’s notorious Matrosskaya Tishina prison, which is harsher than the holding cells where he was usually kept in the past, was defiant at Monday’s court hearing.“What respect do you want me to have for this court?” he told the judge according to a transcript posted on Twitter by his spokeswoman. “This isn’t a real court. You’re committing a crime and it’s 100% you will go to prison. You’re a young woman.” The hastily called hearing was held in a makeshift courtroom in a police station outside Moscow.Navalny will spend 14 days in a three-person cell alone because of Covid-19 quarantine rules after his arrival from Germany, prison ombudsman Alexey Melnikov, who visited him in the jail, wrote in Facebook. The facility is where Hermitage Capital Management tax adviser Sergei Magnitsky died in 2009 from an apparent beating, according to a Kremlin human rights council.In a video appeal recorded in the courtroom Monday, Navalny called on supporters to protest. “Don’t be scared. Come out on the streets -- not for me but for yourselves and your future,” he said. Allies said they would seek to stage protests nationally on Jan. 23. They typically defy authorities’ refusal to grant permits.Prosecutors argued Navalny violated the terms of the 2015 suspended sentence by failing to make required check-ins with authorities, including while he was recovering in Germany.He also could face separate charges of embezzlement punishable by up to 10 years in prison.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/jailed-kremlin-critic-navalny-urges-west-to-impose-sanctions-on-putin-allies-101611045545036.html
19-01-2021||World||Police arrest woman accused of laptop theft from Pelosi's office||Federal authorities arrested a woman whose former romantic partner says she took a laptop from House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s office during the riot at the US Capitol earlier this month.Riley June Williams was arrested Monday, according to a Justice Department official. It’s not yet known when her initial court appearance will be.The FBI said in an arrest warrant Sunday that Williams hasn't been charged with theft but only with illegally entering the Capitol and with disorderly conduct.FBI officials said a caller claiming to be an ex of Williams said friends of hers showed him a video of her taking a laptop computer or hard drive from Pelosi's office. The caller alleged that she intended to send the device to a friend in Russia who planned to sell it to that country's foreign intelligence service, but that plan fell through and she either has the device or destroyed it. The FBI says the matter remains under investigation.Pelosi's deputy chief of staff, Drew Hammill, confirmed Jan. 8 that a laptop was taken from a conference room but said “it was a laptop that was only used for presentations."Williams’ mother, who lives with her in Harrisburg, told ITV reporters that her daughter had taken a sudden interest in President Donald Trump’s politics and “far-right message boards.” Her father, who lives in Camp Hill, told local law enforcement that he and his daughter went to Washington on the day of the protest but didn't stay together, meeting up later to return to Harrisburg, the FBI said.Williams' mother told local law enforcement that her daughter packed a bag and left before she was arrested, saying she would be gone for a couple of weeks. She also changed her phone number and deleted a number of social media accounts, the FBI said. Court documents don't list an attorney for her.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/police-arrest-woman-accused-of-laptop-theft-from-pelosi-s-office-101611046865219.html
19-01-2021||World||Germany's Merkel, state leaders ponder tougher virus rules||Chancellor Angela Merkel is holding a virtual meeting Tuesday with the governors of Germany’s 16 states to discuss the country’s pandemic measures amid concerns that new mutations of the coronavirus could trigger a fresh surge in cases.The country's infection rate has stabilized in recent days, indicating that existing restrictions may have been effective in bringing down the numbers. On Tuesday, the country's disease control center reported 11,369 new virus infections and 891 new deaths, for an overall death toll of 47,622.The government tightened the country's lockdown in early January until the end of this month. However, surging infections in Britain and Ireland, said to be caused by a more contagious virus variant, have experts worried that the mutation could also spread quickly in Germany if measures are not extended or even toughened. Therefore, Merkel and the state governments are meeting earlier than planned to considered stricter rules.While restaurants, most stores and schools have already been closed and those shutdowns are likely to be extended, there's also talk about possible nightly curfews, an obligation to wear the more effective FFP2 or KN95 masks on public transportation, and a push to get more people to work at home to avoid office-driven infections.Medical workers have been demanding an extension or toughening of the lockdown since many hospitals are still on edge, with intensive care wards overflowing in some areas.“The current measures on limiting social contacts seem to be showing an effect,” Susanne Johna, the head of the physicians' association Marburger Bund, told the dpa news agency, adding that the measures should continue to be upheld to further reduce new infections.“We urgently need further relief,” Johna said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/germanys-merkel-state-leaders-ponder-tougher-virus-rules-101611044580055.html
19-01-2021||World||Japan's Shizuoka Prefecture to introduce alert mode over UK Covid-19 variant||The Shizuoka prefecture in Japan is to declare a high alert mode over the spread of the UK strain of the coronavirus, which was recently found in people with no record of traveling to the United Kingdom, the NHK public broadcaster reported on Tuesday.On Monday, the Japanese Health Ministry said that the three cases were recorded in Shizuoka among people aged between 20 and 70. None of the infected patients have ever been to the UK, however, they may have been in contact with those who have. The matter is being investigated.Meanwhile, the southernmost prefecture of Okinawa is preparing to introduce its third state of emergency since April due to a surge in Covid-19 cases, according to the Ryukyu Shimpo newspaper.The Japanese government has already declared a state of emergency in 11 of the 47 prefectures, which will last through February 7.The number of critically ill patients in Japan has exceeded 1,000, marking the highest figure since the beginning of the epidemic. The rise in severe cases in the country has been observed for 17 consecutive days.So far, the country has registered over 331,000 Covid-19 cases and as many as 4,305 deaths.Several new mutated Covid-19 strains have been reported across the globe over recent weeks. In mid-December, the UK government reported that a new variant of the disease, which is believed to be up to 70 per cent more transmissible, was discovered in southeast England. Other variants have been discovered in South Africa and Brazil, raising fears over vaccine efficacy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/japans-shizuoka-prefecture-to-introduce-alert-mode-over-uk-covid-19-variant-101611043222699.html
19-01-2021||World||Thailand court gives record 43-year sentence for insulting king||A court in Thailand on Tuesday sentenced a former civil servant to a record prison term of 43 years and six months for breaching the country's strict law on insulting or defaming the monarchy, lawyers said.The Bangkok Criminal Court found the woman guilty on 29 counts of violating the country’s lese majeste law for posting audio clips to Facebook and YouTube with comments deemed critical of the monarchy, the group Thai Lawyers for Human Rights said.The sentence, which comes amid an ongoing protest movement that has seen unprecedented public criticism of the monarchy, was swiftly condemned by rights groups.“Today’s court verdict is shocking and sends a spine-chilling signal that not only criticisms of the monarchy won’t be tolerated, but they will also be severely punished,” said Sunai Phasuk, a senior researcher for the group Human Rights Watch.Violating Thailand's lese majeste law — known widely as Article 112 — is punishable by three to 15 years’ imprisonment per count. The law is controversial not only because it has been used to punish things as simple as liking a post on Facebook but also because anyone — not just royals or authorities — can lodge a complaint that can tie the person accused up in legal proceedings for years.During Thailand's last 15 years of political unrest, the law has frequently been as a political weapon as well as in personal vendettas. Actual public criticism of the monarchy, however, had until recently been extremely rare.That changed during the past year, when young protesters calling for democratic reforms also issued calls for the reform of the monarchy, which has long been regarded as an almost sacred institution by many Thais. The protesters have said the institution is unaccountable and holds too much power in what is supposed to be a democratic constitutional monarchy.Authorities at first let much of the commentary and criticism go without charge, but since November has arrested about 50 people and charged them with lese majeste.Sunai said Tuesday's sentence was likely meant to send a message.“It can be seen that Thai authorities are using lese majeste prosecution as their last resort measure in response to the youth-led democracy uprising that seeks to curb the king’s powers and keep him within the bound of constitutional rule. Thailand’s political tensions will now go from bad to worse,” he said.After King Maha Vajralongkorn took the throne in 2016 following his father's death, he informed the government that he did not wish to see the lese majeste law used. But as the protests grew last year, and the criticism of the monarchy got harsher, Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha warned a line had been crossed and the law would be used.The protest movement has lost steam since the arrests and a new restrictions on public gatherings that followed a surge in coronavirus cases.Thai Lawyers for Human Rights identified the woman sentenced Tuesday only by her first name Anchan and said she was in her mid-sixties. The court initially announced her sentence as 87 years, but reduced it by half because she pleaded guilty to the offenses.Her case dates back six years, when anti-establishment sentiment was growing after a 2014 military coup led by Prayuth. She was held in jail from January 2015 to November 2018.She denied the charges when her case was first heard in military court, where lese majeste offenses were prosecuted for a period after the coup. When her case was transferred to criminal court, she pleaded guilty with the hope that the court would have sympathy for her actions, because she had only shared the audio, not posted or commented on it, she told local media Tuesday on her arrival at court.“I thought it was nothing. There were so many people who shared this content and listened to it. The guy (who made the content) had done it for so many years," Anchan said. “So I didn’t really think this through and was too confident and not being careful enough to realize at the time that it wasn’t appropriate.”She said she had worked as a civil servant for 40 years and was arrested one year before retirement, and with a conviction would lose her pension.What is believed to have previously been the longest lese majeste sentence was issued in 2017, when a military court sentenced a man to 35 years in prison for social media posts deemed defamatory to the monarchy. The man, a salesman, had initially been sentenced to 70 years, but had his sentence halved after pleading guilty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/thailand-court-gives-record-43-year-sentence-for-insulting-king-101611042089328.html
19-01-2021||World||PLA holds Tibet drill to smoothen joint ops amid border friction with India||China’s Tibet military region, which borders the disputed boundary with India, held a rare multi-dimensional armed forces’ exercise this month amid the two countries’ ongoing friction along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh.The exercise involved ground assault forces as well as the People’s Liberation Army’s (PLA) aviation unit, which deployed attack helicopters for the drill, China’s official military media reported.The Tibet military region is under the PLA’s Western Theatre Command (WTC), which covers China’s border with India.The report did not identify the specific region where the exercise was being held but said “land and air force joins hands in three-dimensional assault” at “certain place” on the Tibetan plateau.The report published in the PLA Daily said a multi-dimensional exercise was being held to improve combat capabilities.“A composite brigade of the Tibet military region joined hands with the Army Aviation Force to launch a three-dimensional assault, starting a normalised joint exercise and training.”“It is understood that in the past, except for the annual comprehensive exercises, the brigade training was mostly ‘single combat’. How to enable commanders at all levels to find the right time and rhythm during joint operations and to improve the combat effectiveness of the system is an urgent issue to be solved,” the PLA Daily report added.“The battle for the future is systemic ability. Only when joint training goes from ‘year-end reunion’ to ‘meeting-every-day’, can it realise the transition from ‘linking’ to ‘linking for heart’,” an officer was quoted as saying.The brigade leaders told the PLA Daily that they focused on summarising past problems.The joint training exposed the shortcomings and weaknesses, the report added.The elaborate exercise is being held as the two countries continue to be locked in the longest military standoff – which began last May - in decades in eastern Ladakh in the backdrop of reported large-scale deployment.The disengagement of the two militaries seemed to have stalled despite several rounds of talks, the last diplomatic one being held a month ago on December 18.The report on the military drill is one of several articles published by China’s state and military media to indicate its war preparedness along the LAC with India.Many reports have focused on the Central Military Commission (CMC) – the PLA’s command body headed by President Xi Jinping – improving the logistics of troops deployed along the disputed border with India.Last week, the state media reported that China recently revealed another type of military-use exoskeleton suit that is powered and that can be used for carrying ammunition.That followed a report on an earlier version of non-powered exoskeleton suit, which entered service with the PLA’s border defence troops in late 2020 for missions including supply delivery, patrol and sentry duty, the state media report said.Xi, in 2021’s first order issued earlier this month to the PLA, had focused on the need for “full-time combat readiness” and said the armed forces must use frontline conflicts to polish troop capabilities.Xi said the PLA must be ready to “act at any second”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pla-holds-tibet-drill-to-smoothen-joint-ops-amid-border-friction-with-india-101611041850263.html
19-01-2021||World||Taliban calls on Joe Biden administration to honor Donald Trump's deal to withdraw troops from Afghanistan by May 2021||The Taliban has called on President-elect Joe Biden to honor a US agreement to withdraw all American forces from Afghanistan by May in order to secure intra-Afghan peace talks and end the two-decade-long war.“Steps must now be taken to end the war, not to prolong it, and the agreement was made for the purpose,” Mohammad Naeem, a senior spokesman in the Taliban’s political office in Doha, said on Monday, referring to their accord with the US signed last February which paves the way for a complete withdrawal of American troops by May in exchange for Taliban security guarantees. “The lack of complete implementation of the agreement can affect the ongoing process of negotiations,” he added.The call from the insurgent group comes just days after the US reduced its troop levels from 4,500 to 2,500 at President Donald Trump’s direction, despite opposition from both Republican and Democrat lawmakers who’ve warned of the potential impact on counter-terrorism operations. Naeem cheered the reduction on Twitter, saying the move was a “good advancement.”While it’s unclear whether Biden will withdraw all US troops by the May deadline, his nominee for national security adviser, Jake Sullivan, told CNN early this month the new administration would support “diplomacy” with the Taliban, urging the insurgent group to cut ties with Al-Qaeda and other terrorist organizations, ensure a reduction in violence and participate in “good-faith negotiations” with the Afghan government.The Biden transition team declined to weigh in.Urgent DecisionAndrew Watkins, a senior analyst with International Crisis Group, said the May 1 troop withdrawal deadline is the biggest early challenge for the peace process and the most urgent decision for the incoming Biden team.“If the Biden administration ignores the deadline set down in the U.S.-Taliban agreement without discussing and clearing a delay with the insurgents, the Taliban will almost certainly respond by escalating their use of force -- either via attacks on population centers, facilities housing international troops or both,” Watkins said Monday.A reduction in US troops -- who provide air support to Afghan forces -- won’t affect the ability of Afghan forces to push back against the Taliban, according to a spokesman for the country’s National Security Council, Rahmatullah Andar.Targeted KillingsThe Afghan government and Taliban resumed negotiations in early January under the shadow of a series of targeted killings of journalists, government employees and independent human rights advocates. In the latest unclaimed gun attack in the capital Kabul, two female Supreme Court judges were killed on Sunday on their way to work, according to a statement from the country’s Presidential Palace.“The Taliban should understand that such actions for which it bears responsibility outrage the world and must cease if peace is to come to Afghanistan,” US ambassador in Kabul, Ross Wilson, said on Twitter Sunday.The new wave of violence has created an unprecedented level of fear and anxiety among Afghans and forced some prominent local journalists to flee the country. Since November, five journalists have been killed in targeted attacks and two others died in Kabul from unknown causes. Afghan President Ashraf Ghani and the US have blamed Taliban for the killings, which the group denies.Wanting to reduce the bloodshed, Ghani’s negotiating team is pushing harder for a ceasefire agreement first before negotiating other key agenda items -- including a power-sharing deal -- with the Taliban. However the group wants to declare a ceasefire in the final stages of the talks.“Much will depend upon how the Biden administration responds to the failure of the intra-Afghan dialog component of these negotiations,” said Kamran Bokhari, the director of analytical development for Center for Global Policy in Washington. “We will likely see a resumption of air strikes, increased intelligence ops and the use of Special Operations Forces to support Afghan National Security Forces who will be doing the heavy lifting on the ground. The goal will be to force the Taliban back to the table and be able to negotiate more effectively with the insurgents.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-calls-joe-biden-to-honor-deal-to-withdraw-us-troops-from-afghanistan-101611039219626.html
19-01-2021||World||Here is how Trump, the least liked US president, will spend his last day in office||US President Joe Biden and first lady Jill Biden will not be greeted at the White House Wednesday by the outgoing first couple, Donald Trump and Melania Trump, as is the tradition. They will be received instead by the chief usher of the presidential office-cum-residential complex.Jill Biden has also not been given the customary tour of the White House by Melania Trump, in another break from tradition.It usually takes place when the outgoing president hosts his successor for a customary meeting, such as the one President Barack Obama did for Donald Trump, the day after he won the 2016 election.President Trump, in fact, has not called his successor or congratulated him. He and the first lady will also not attend Biden’s inauguration, in a first such departure from tradition in more than 150 years.They will leave the White House before noon Wednesday with the lowest approval ratings for an outgoing president and first lady. Trump presidency’s average approval rating of 41% is the lowest recorded by Gallup, which has tracked American presidents daily for decades. It is four points lower than the previous worst of 45%, scored by President Harry S Truman, a Democrat who served from 1945 to 1953.Trump also leaves office as the first US president impeached twice: the first time was in December 2019, for pressuring a foreign government to investigate a political rival, Biden. And for the second time a week ago, for trying to prevent US Congress from certifying the election victory of Biden.Melania Trump departs the White House with the lowest favourability rating among recent first ladies, according to a CNN poll. At 47%, she is way below Michelle Obama’s 67% at this time in January 2017, and Laura Bush also at 67% around now in 2009, and Hillary Clinton’s 56% in 2001.“I ask every American to be an ambassador of Be Best,” Melania Trump said in a recorded farewell message Monday, referring to her initiative for children, “to focus on what unites us, to rise above what divides us, to always choose love over hatred, peace over violence, and others before yourself.”The first lady’s message of unity, love, peace and selflessness was starkly at odds with all her husband had done in the past 10 days to subvert democracy and unleash violence not seen before. Trump had incited a mob of supporters to storm the US Capitol, the heart of American democracy, on January 6.Melania Trump has been in lock-step with her husband’s petulant refusal to accept his election defeat. And she has displayed the same discourtesy to their successors, which has been widely described as a “snub” in US media. Melania Trump has been barely civil and nowhere close to the lofty ideals she advocated in her “Be Best” programme.President Trump recorded his own farewell message separately in the evening. It will be released on Wednesday.Trump and Melania Trump will leave a heavily fortified Washington DC, which is under unprecedented military presence and is now a maze of fences and concrete barricades, on Wednesday morning in their last ride on Marine One, the presidential helicopter, for a military parade outside the city.A grand farewell awaits them there, as sought by Trump. Contrary to recent reports, Trump is expected to get a red-carpet send off with military colours and guard and a 21-gun salute. Guests have been invited to bring up to five people each, in a clear sign that the outgoing president wants to end an unorthodox and tumultuous presidency with a signature spectacle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/here-is-how-donald-trump-the-least-liked-us-president-will-spend-his-last-days-in-office-101611037949963.html
19-01-2021||World||Rishi Sunak draws up plans to boost UK welfare payments||U.K. finance minister Rishi Sunak is in talks over extra help for welfare claimants, in a sign he will bow to pressure to do more for people who have lost jobs and income.The chancellor of the exchequer has already topped up weekly payments to the low-paid and unemployed in the pandemic, but the arrangement is due to come to an end after a year in April.Despite growing calls to extend the 20-pound ($27) per week increase to Universal Credit payments, no firm decision has yet been taken, according to people familiar with the matter. Ministers are weighing options including one-off bonuses of as much as 1,000 pounds, and extending the weekly raise by as much as a year, the people said.Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s Conservative administration is sensitive to allegations that it’s neglecting the poorest and most disadvantaged members of society in the pandemic. He has been repeatedly criticized for failing to ensure children from the most disadvantaged homes receive free meals during lockdown.PressureOn Monday, the U.K.’s main opposition Labour Party will turn up the heat by forcing a vote in Parliament on extending the existing higher level of Universal Credit, which is worth more than 1,000 pounds ($1,355) a year to some of the country’s poorest families.It’s a tricky balancing act for Sunak. After forking out more than 280 billion pounds to fight the pandemic and help businesses and workers weather successive economic lockdowns, he’s repeatedly stressed the need to get the public finances in order. Johnson last week suggested it’s his preference not to extend the payments.“I think most people in this country would rather see a focus on jobs and a growth in wages than focusing on welfare, but clearly we have to keep all these things under review,” Johnson told members of Parliament’s Liaison Committee.Asked again on Monday about the issue, he said in a pooled television interview that all measures are “constantly under review” and “we want to support people throughout the pandemic.”But Johnson and Sunak also face pressure from within his own Conservative Party, with some 50 Members of Parliament from the influential Northern Research Group urging him to extend the Universal Credit uplift for as long as coronavirus restrictions are in place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/rishi-sunak-draws-up-plans-to-boost-uk-welfare-payments-101611037256023.html
19-01-2021||World||UN rights office 'deeply troubled' by Russian activist Alexei Navalny’s arrest||The UN human rights office has raised alarm over the arrest of Russian opposition activist Alexei Navalny and called for his immediate release.The Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR) on Monday tweeted that it was "deeply troubled" by Navalny's arrest and called on the Russian government to respect his right to legal due process.Navalny, 44, was arrested on Sunday upon return to Moscow from Germany, where he had been recovering after allegedly being poisoned with a Novichok nerve agent.In a statement issued later in the day, two independent UN human rights experts saluted the bravery of the anti-corruption activist and called on Russia to release him, while also ensuring that his life and well-being are protected.Agnes Callamardm, the Special Rapporteur on extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions, and Special Rapporteur Irene Khan, who covers the right to freedom of opinion and expression, said it was “appalling that Navalny was arrested for breaching parole terms, for a sentence he should not have received in the first place and despite the authorities being fully aware that he had been several months in Germany recovering from an attempt on his life".OHCHR said in the press release that it was believed Navalny’s arrest was related to alleged violations of a suspended sentence for a fraud conviction following proceedings that the European Court of Human Rights said in 2018, were arbitrary and unfair.The Federal Penitentiary Service of Russia said in a statement that Navalny missed regular check-ins, required for his suspended sentence, without a valid reason.In August last year, Navalny fell seriously ill while on board a domestic flight from the town of Tomsk in Siberia to Moscow. After remaining in coma for two weeks, he was air-lifted to Berlin for treatment, after Russian authorities allowed him to be moved.Several weeks later, the German government reported that toxicology tests conducted by a special military laboratory revealed he had been poisoned with a Novichok nerve agent. Novichok is the name of a group of seven toxic chemical agents developed by the former Soviet Union in the 1970s and 1980s.Navalny has returned to Russia, despite having been the victim of an attempted killing, the experts pointed out, and knowing he could be arrested.When his plane landed, Navalny said his return to Russia was the happiest moment in his life of the past five months.“We salute his courage and will continue to follow his case closely,” the independent experts said, adding, “Journalists, activists and supporters, who were arrested at Moscow’s Vnukovo airport, simply for doing their job and peacefully exercising their rights to expression and peaceful assembly must also be immediately released.”The UN experts noted that they had previously raised their concerns with the Russian government and will continue to seek to engage in dialogue on these issues and monitor the situation.Special Rapporteurs and independent experts are appointed by the Geneva-based UN Human Rights Council to examine and report back on a specific human rights theme or a country situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/un-rights-office-deeply-troubled-by-russian-activist-alexei-navalny-s-arrest-101611035846178.html
19-01-2021||World||Biden, Harris take break from inaugural preparation for Martin Luther King Day||President-elect Joe Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris pitched in on Martin Luther King Jr. Day service projects as a militarized and jittery Washington prepared for a swearing-in that will play out under extraordinary security.Biden and his wife, Jill, joined an assembly line in the parking lot of Philabundance, an organization that distributes food to people in need, and helped fill about 150 boxes with fresh fruit and nonperishables.As Biden and Harris took breaks from their inaugural preparations to honor the civil rights hero Monday, outgoing President Donald Trump remained out of public view at the White House for the sixth straight day. In past years, Trump has marked the holiday with unannounced visits to the King memorial in Washington.Such a visit would have been complicated because Washington has become a fortress city of roadblocks and barricades before Wednesday’s inauguration, as security officials work to avoid more violence following the Jan. 6 riot by a pro-Trump mob at the U.S. Capitol.In a measure of how nervous the capital city has become, U.S. Capitol Police on Monday briefly locked down the Capitol complex and paused inaugural rehearsals after fire broke out at a nearby homeless encampment.Biden transition officials, including incoming Homeland Security adviser Liz Sherwood-Randall and the deputy attorney general nominee, Lisa Monaco, held a videoconference with acting heads and career staff from national security agencies to discuss the security situation surrounding Inauguration Day.Harris played down any personal security concerns, saying she’s “very much looking forward to being sworn in.”“I will walk there, to that moment, proudly with my head up and my shoulders back,” Harris told reporters after volunteering at a food bank.Still, Washington residents were on high alert and much of the city felt desolate, with large swaths of the area around the Capitol, White House and National Mall sealed off from all but authorized personnel.Katie Henke, 40, a southwest D.C. resident, said the city felt on edge. She’s concerned enough that she packed a “go-bag” with clothes and other personal items in case she feels she must flee her neighborhood.“This is legitimately scary,” she said. “Between the pandemic and Trump, I feel like our country is at a weak and vulnerable point. And we know there are forces inside and outside the country that see that vulnerability as an opportunity to do something.”Some 25,000 National Guard troops were being dispatched across the city to bolster security. Monuments were closed to the public until after Wednesday’s inaugural events.Harris resigned from her Senate seat Monday. She offered thanks to her California constituents in a farewell video posted on social media “for the honor of representing the place of my birth, as a proud daughter of California.”First lady Melania Trump posted a farewell video in which she thanked Americans for the “greatest honor of my life," but she made no mention of the incoming Biden administration. Her husband has already announced he will not attend the inauguration — he's the first outgoing president to skip the ceremony in 152 years — and will depart for Florida hours before Biden's swearing-in.And while Trump stayed out of view, the White House announced he had signed several executive orders, including an amended version of a previous order calling for the creation of "National Garden of American Heroes."Trump wants more figures to be honored in his proposed garden, including the late pop singer Whitney Houston, game show host Alex Trebek and Grover Cleveland, the only U.S. president to serve nonconsecutive terms, to a list that already included George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, Frederick Douglass and dozens more.Biden continued to build his administration. His transition team announced Monday he will nominate Rohit Chopra to direct the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, tapping a liberal ally of Sen. Elizabeth Warren to lead the agency whose creation she championed.Chopra, a commissioner at the Federal Trade Commission, helped launch the agency after the 2008 financial crisis and served as deputy director, where he sounded the alarm about skyrocketing student loan debt. The pick comes as Democrats are eyeing ways to provide student loan relief to millions of Americans as part of a COVID-19 aid package.Biden also announced his intent to nominate Gary Gensler, former chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, as the next chair of the Securities and Exchange Commission.Inaugural organizers on Monday finished installing some 200,000 small U.S., state and territorial flags on the National Mall, a sobering display intended to honor the nearly 400,000 Americans killed in the coronavirus pandemic.Biden and Harris plan to take part in an event Tuesday, soon after the president-elect arrives in Washington, at the reflecting pool near the Lincoln Memorial to honor American lives lost to COVID-19.Even before the Jan. 6 insurrection at the Capitol, inauguration festivities were expected to be muted due to the virus. Mayor Muriel Bowser urged residents to stay away from the city on Inauguration Day.David Hill, general manager of the Phoenix Park Hotel near the Capitol working his seventh inauguration, said in a typical inauguration week the hotel would be booked solid months ahead, with guests looking to witness history willing to pay higher rates and stay a four-night minimum.Bookings only started to pick up in the last week or so — mostly journalists, National Guard troops and other security officials dispatched to D.C. amid the growing concerns about violence. Hill said he's now "close to full" but guests aren’t paying the typical inauguration premium.The German Federation of Journalists warned foreign correspondents covering the event to take precautions and be “particularly careful and alert on Wednesday” after journalists were attacked during the riot at the Capitol.“It is appalling that such an appeal is even necessary in the USA, once the model democracy,” said Frank Ueberall, the association's head.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-harris-take-break-from-inaugural-prep-to-mark-martin-luther-king-day-101611035144890.html
19-01-2021||World||Turkey imposes advertising ban on Twitter, Periscope, Pinterest||Turkey's Information and Communication Technologies Authority has imposed advertising bans on Twitter, Periscope and Pinterest under a new social media law, according to decisions published in the country's Official Gazette on Tuesday.The law, which critics say will muzzle dissent, requires social media companies to appoint local representatives in Turkey. On Monday, Facebook Inc joined other companies in saying it would be appointing such a representative.YouTube, owned by Alphabet Inc's Google, said a month ago it had decided to appoint a representative.The decisions in the Official Gazette said the advertising bans went into effect from Tuesday. Twitter, its live-streaming app Periscope, and image sharing app Pinterest were not immediately available to comment.The law allows authorities to remove content from platforms, rather than blocking access as they did in the past. The move has caused concern as people turn more to online platforms after Ankara tightened its grip on mainstream media.In previous months Facebook, YouTube and Twitter had faced fines in Turkey for not complying with the law. Companies that do not follow the law will ultimately have their bandwidth slashed by 90%, essentially blocking access.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/turkey-imposes-advertising-ban-on-twitter-periscope-pinterest-101611034527399.html
19-01-2021||World||Independent UN experts condemn US Capitol attack by pro-Trump protesters||Describing the attack on the Capitol as a shocking and incendiary attempt to "overturn" results of a free and fair election, a group of independent UN rights experts has expressed hope that the US democracy will emerge stronger from this crisis with renewed commitment to peaceful pluralism and rule of law.Twenty-three Special Rapporteurs and members of Working Groups have recently signed a statement in which they strongly condemned the US Capitol attack and the incitement to violence and hatred online and offline, calling for accountability.They said the "violent attempt to overturn the results of a free and fair election at the US Capitol on January 6 was a shocking and incendiary event".The group affirmed and expressed their “solidarity with the American people who stand for democracy, equality and the rule of law at this critical moment”.The rights experts said they stand with the democratic outcomes of the recent elections and urge political leaders to do everything in their power to de-escalate tensions and unify the country in full respect for democracy and the rule of law.“We maintain our hope that the US democracy will emerge strengthened from this crisis without damage to its institutions and with renewed commitment to peaceful pluralism, rule of law and democratic governance,” they said.Notwithstanding the urgent need to tackle political violence of any kind, the rights experts urged the US government, the private sector, civil society and other groups to ensure that their responses are consistent with international human rights standards, including the freedom of expression and due process of the law.In an unprecedented incident, thousands of violent Trump supporters on January 6 swarmed over the Capitol, which houses the US House of Representatives and Senate, forcing lawmakers to evacuate their chambers and delaying by several hours a normally routine procedure clearing the way for Joe Biden and Kamala Harris to be sworn in as president and vice president.Five people, including a woman and a police official died and several dozens injured in the incident that is now considered as a dark letter day in the history of American democracy.In the aftermath of the attack and fears of further violence ahead of the inauguration of Biden on Wednesday, there has been a marked military build-up, with thousands of troops stationed in Washington DC, as well as many top government buildings across the 50 state capitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/independent-un-experts-condemn-us-capitol-attack-by-pro-trump-protesters-101611034775844.html
19-01-2021||World||Joe Biden swearing-in: Why January 20 serves as Inauguration Day||Joe Biden and Kamala Harris will be sworn-in as the 46th President and 49th Vice President of the United States of America on January 20, 2021, respectively. This has been the date of the swearing-in since 1937, when Franklin D Roosevelt took oath of office for his second term.Before 1937, the swearing-in used to take place on March 4, the year after the presidential election, which meant that the new administration took charge four to five months after the elections. While this time was granted for the incoming President to choose members of his administration, this also caused several problems as the incumbent President became nothing less than a “lame duck.” Therefore, in a bid to reduce this gap, the 20th Amendment of the US Constitution was proposed and adopted, and was ratified on January 23, 1933. The Amendment, which took effect in October that year, moved the Inauguration Day to January 20, while also fixing January 3 as the date for the first meeting of the new Congress.The incumbent President and Vice President continue to hold office till 11:59:59 pm on January 20, after which power shifts to the incoming administration. The Chief Justice administers oath to the President and Vice-President elect, though the Constitution doesn’t require the Chief Justice to perform this task. Also, in case January 20 falls on a Sunday, a private swearing-in takes place on the day, followed by a public ceremony on January 21. This was the case in 2013 when Barack Obama took oath for a second and final term; interestingly, Biden was Obama’s Vice President across the two terms.Heightened security measures have been put in place for the Inauguration Day 2021. This has been done due to the violence that broke out at the US Capitol on January 6 as supporters of outgoing President Donald Trump clashed with the police as the Congress assembled to certify Biden and Harris as President and Vice President-elect, respectively. Five people, including a policeman, were killed in the clashes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-swearing-in-why-january-20-serves-as-inauguration-day-101611033543623.html
19-01-2021||World||Joe Biden has set sky-high expectations. Can he meet them?||Back when the election was tightening and just a week away, Joe Biden went big.He flew to Warm Springs, the Georgia town whose thermal waters once brought Franklin Delano Roosevelt comfort from polio, and pledged a restitching of America's economic and policy fabric unseen since FDR's New Deal.Evoking some of the nation's loftiest reforms helped Biden unseat President Donald Trump but left him with towering promises to keep. And he'll be trying to deliver against the backdrop of searing national division and a pandemic that has killed nearly 400,000 Americans and upended the economy.Such change would be hard to imagine under any circumstances, much less now.He's setting out with Democrats clinging to razor-thin House and Senate control and after having won an election in which 74 million people voted for his opponent. And even if his administration accomplishes most of its top goals in legislation or executive action, those actions are subject to being struck down by a Supreme Court now controlled by a 6-3 conservative majority.Even so, the effort is soon underway. Washington is bracing for dozens of consequential executive actions starting Wednesday and stretched over the first 10 days of Biden's administration, as well as legislation that will begin working its way through Congress on pandemic relief, immigration and much more.Has Biden promised more than he can deliver? Not in his estimation. He suggests he can accomplish even more than he promised. He says he and his team will “do our best to beat all the expectations you have for the country and expectations we have for it.”Some Democrats say Biden is right to set great expectations while realizing he'll have to compromise, rather than starting with smaller goals and having to scale them back further.“You can’t say to a nation that is hungry, uncertain, in some places afraid, whose economy has stalled out ... that you had to slim down the request of their government because you have a narrow governing margin,” said former Massachusetts Gov. Deval Patrick, Biden's onetime Democratic presidential primary rival.New presidents generally enjoy a honeymoon period that helps them in Congress, and Biden's prospects for getting one were improved by Democratic victories this month in two Georgia special Senate elections. He may have been helped, too, by a public backlash against the deadly, armed insurrection at the U.S. Capitol by Trump supporters.Biden's advisers have acknowledged they'll have bitter fights ahead. One approach they have in mind is a familiar one in Washington — consolidating some big ideas into what is known as omnibus legislation, so that lawmakers who want popular measures passed have to swallow more controversial measures as well.Another approach is to pursue goals through executive orders. Doing so skirts Congress altogether but leaves the measures more easily challenged in court. Trump made hefty use of executive orders for some of his most contentious actions, on border enforcement, the environment and more, but federal courts often got in the way.Biden's top priority is congressional approval of a $1.9 trillion coronavirus plan to administer 100 million vaccines by his 100th day in office while also providing $1,400 direct payments to Americans to stimulate the virus-hammered economy. That's no slam dunk, even though everyone likes to get money from the government.Any such payment is likely to be paired with measures many in Congress oppose, perhaps his proposed mandate for a $15 national minimum wage, for example. And Biden's relief package will have to clear a Senate consumed with approving his top Cabinet choices and with conducting Trump's potential impeachment trial.Nevertheless, the deluge is coming.On Day One alone, Biden has promised to extend the pause on federal student loan payments, move to have the U.S. rejoin the World Health Organization and Paris climate accord and ask Americans to commit to 100 days of mask-wearing. He plans to use executive actions to overturn the Trump administration's ban on immigrants from several majority-Muslim countries and wipe out corporate tax cuts where possible, while doubling the levies U.S. firms pay on foreign profits.That same day, Biden has pledged to create task forces on homelessness and reuniting immigrant parents with children separated at the U.S.-Mexico border. He'll plan to send bills to Congress seeking to mandate stricter background checks for gun buyers, scrap firearm manufacturers' liability protections and provide a pathway to citizenship for 11 million immigrants who came to the U.S. illegally as children.The new president further wants to relax limits immediately on federal workers unionizing, reverse Trump’s rollback of about 100 public health and environmental rules that the Obama administration instituted and create rules to limit corporate influence on his administration and ensure the Justice Department's independence.He also pledged to have 100 vaccination centers supported by federal emergency management personnel up and running during his first month in the White House.Biden says he'll use the Defense Production Act to increase vaccine supplies and ensure the pandemic is under enough control after his first 100 days in office for most public schools to reopen nationwide. He's also pledged to have created a police oversight commission to combat institutional racism by then.Among other major initiatives to be tackled quickly: rejoining the U.S.-Iran nuclear deal, a $2 trillion climate package to get the U.S. to net-zero carbon emissions by 2050, a plan to spend $700 billion boosting manufacturing and research and development and building on the Obama administration's health care law to include a “public option.”Perhaps obscured in that parade of promises, though, is the fact that some of the 80 million-plus voters who backed Biden may have done so to oppose Trump, not because they're thrilled with an ambitious Democratic agenda. The president-elect's victory may not have been a mandate to pull a country that emerged from the last election essentially centrist so far to the left.Republican strategist Matt Mackowiak predicted early Republican support for Biden's coronavirus relief and economic stimulus spending plans, but said that may evaporate quickly if “they issue a bunch of first-day, left-wing executive orders.”“You can't be bipartisan with one hand and left-wing with the other,” Mackowiak said, “and hope that Republicans don't notice.”Biden had a front-row seat as vice president in 2009, when Barack Obama took office, with crowds jamming the National Mall, and promised to transcend partisan politics. His administration used larger congressional majorities to oversee slow economic growth after the 2008 financial crisis, and it passed the health law Biden now seeks to expand.But Obama failed to get major legislation passed on climate change, ethics or immigration. He failed, too, to close the U.S. detention camp at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, which remains open to this day.Falling short on promises then hasn't made Biden more chastened today. He acknowledges that doing even a small portion of what he wants will require running up huge deficits, but he argues the U.S. has an “economic imperative” and “moral obligation” to do so.Kelly Dietrich, founder of the National Democratic Training Committee and former party fundraiser, said the divisions fomented by Trump could give Biden a unique opportunity to push ahead immediately and ignore conservative critics who “are going to complain and cry and make stuff up" and argue that socialists are "coming to kick your puppy.”Biden and his team would do well to brush off anyone who doesn't think he can aim high, he said.“They should not be distracted by people who think it’s disappointing or it can’t happen," Dietrich said. "Overwhelm people with action. No administration, after it’s over, says, ’We accomplished too much in the first hundred days.’”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-has-set-sky-high-expectations-can-he-meet-them-101611033727246.html
19-01-2021||World||Donald Trump receives lowest job approval rating in final days as President||Outgoing US President Donald Trump's approval ratings have reached a record low among the American public, according to the latest Gallup survey.Thirty-four per cent of Americans approve of the job Trump is doing as president, a Gallup poll on published Monday stated, as cited by The Hill.The Gallup poll results were based on telephone interviews between January 4-15, starting two days before the Capitol riot. The margin of sampling error is 4 percentage points.The Gallup poll further reported that Trump's 41 per cent average approval rating throughout his four years in office is four points lower than for any of his predecessors in the White House.A 34 per cent approval rating is a single point lower than his prior lowest single rating, which came on multiple occasions in 2017, as per the report.The Hill further reported that Trump is the first president to fail to crack a 50 per cent approval rating at any point since Gallup began measuring presidential job approval in 1938.A majority of Americans said they believed that Trump should be removed from office according to a poll by ABC News/Ipsos.Trump's term ends on Wednesday at noon after President-elect Joe Biden is sworn in.The outgoing President's low job approval rating came less than two weeks after the Capitol was overrun by a mob of his supporters contesting the presidential election results.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-receives-lowest-job-approval-rating-in-final-days-as-president-101611032987064.html
19-01-2021||World||Magnitude 6.4 earthquake shakes parts of Argentina, Chile||A powerful earthquake struck in northwestern Argentina near the border with central Chile late Monday, shaking people in parts of both countries. There were no early reports of injuries as some power outages were reported in the quake area.The U.S. Geological Survey said the tremor had a preliminary magnitude of 6.4. Its epicenter was 27.6 kilometers (17 miles) southwest of the town of Porcito and struck at a depth of 14 kilometers (nearly nine miles).The quake was followed by a magnitude 5.0 aftershock about a quarter hour later and then several other strong aftershocks, the USGS said.Argentine media said there were reports of damage to some buildings in the Pocito area and at least one road being disrupted, but there were indications of injuries. Electricity also failed in spots and some goods were shaken from supermarket shelves, the reports aid..Strong movement was felt in Chile's capital, Santiago, which is about 300 kilometers (186 miles) from the area hit by the quake. Chilean officials said there were no damage reported in that nation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/magnitude-6-4-earthquake-shakes-parts-of-argentina-chile-101611031973304.html
19-01-2021||World||Asian shares mostly higher as Joe Biden inauguration approaches||Shares advanced in Asia on Tuesday as the coming changing of the guard in the US raised hopes for more support for the economy and more aggressive measures to fight the pandemic.Benchmarks were higher in Tokyo, Seoul and Hong Kong but slipped in Shanghai. World markets were subdued on Monday, with US exchanges closed for a holiday.President-elect Joe Biden's nominee for treasury secretary, former Federal Reserve chair Janet Yellen is calling on Congress to do more to fight the recession to avoid an even worse downturn.In testimony prepared for her confirmation hearing Tuesday before the Senate Finance Committee, Yellen said more aid is needed to get coronavirus vaccines distributed — key to ending outbreaks — to reopen schools and help families struggling with job losses stay fed and housed.US markets were closed Monday for a national holiday. Analysts say attention is focused on Wednesday's inauguration and the beginning of a new administration as President Donald Trump departs.“The positive shift in investor optimism ahead of inauguration day is a clear signal the market is leaning towards an early stamp of approval on the Biden administration policy agenda," Stephen Innes of Axi said in a commentary.Hong Kong's Hang Seng led the advance, gaining 3.2% to 29,784.44 and the Nikkei 225 in Tokyo gained 1.5% to 28,673.84. South Korea's Kospi jumped 2.7% to 3,095.96. In Australia, the S&P/ASX 500 rose 1.2% to 6,740.60. The Shanghai Composite index was flat at 3,596.10.Last week, Biden proposed a $1.9 trillion relief plan to provide more aid to American families, businesses and local communities and more support for vaccine production and distribution.While Democrats have endorsed the effort, many Republican lawmakers have expressed concerns about the price tag given soaring federal budget deficits.Yellen said she and Biden were aware of the country's rising debt burden, but that ultra-low interest rates make spending more now a smart choice.The Senate Finance Committee hearing with Yellen on Tuesday is one of several that the Senate will be holding as the incoming Biden administration tries to get its top Cabinet officials in office quickly.Adding to the sense of urgency, coronavirus outbreaks have been gaining even as states work to get Covid-19 vaccines into the arms of as many people as possible.Coronavirus deaths are rising in nearly two-thirds of American states as a winter surge pushes the overall toll toward 400,000 amid warnings that a new, highly contagious variant is taking hold.Stock markets got off to a slow start for the week on Monday despite news that the Chinese economy grew 2.3% in 2020 after a sharp contraction early in the year. That followed a retreat on Wall Street last week.Treasury yields have been climbing on expectations the US government will borrow much more to pay for the additional stimulus proposed by President-elect Joe Biden, in addition to improved economic growth and higher inflation.The yield on the 10-year Treasury zoomed above 1% last week for the first time since last spring and briefly topped 1.18% this week. The yield on the 10-year Treasury was 1.11% on Tuesday.In other trading, benchmark US crude oil lost 1 cent to $52.41 per barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. It gave up $1.20 to $52.42 per barrel on Monday.Brent crude, the international standard, picked up 32 cents to $55.07 per barrel.The dollar rose to 104.02 Japanese yen from 103.69 yen late Monday. The euro strengthened to $1.2095 from $1.2078.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/asian-shares-mostly-higher-as-joe-biden-inauguration-approaches-101611030753013.html
19-01-2021||World||California becomes first state to top 3 million virus cases||California on Monday became the first state to record more than 3 million known coronavirus infections.The grim milestone, as tallied by Johns Hopkins University, wasn’t entirely unexpected in a state with 40 million residents but its speed stunning. The state only reached 2 million reported cases on Dec. 24.The first coronavirus case in California was confirmed last Jan. 25. It took 292 days to get to 1 million infections on Nov. 11 and 44 days to top 2 million.California’s caseload is also far ahead of other large states. Texas had more than 2 million and Florida topped 1.5 million.The state has recorded more than 33,600 deaths related to Covid-19.A caseload surge that began last fall has strained hospitals and especially intensive care units as a percentage of the infected — typically estimated to be around 12% by public health officials — become sick enough weeks later to need medical care.On average, California has seen about 500 deaths and 40,000 new cases daily for the past two weeks.Officials warn that a recent slight downward trend in hospitalizations could reverse when the full impact of New Year's Eve gathering transmissions is felt.The state is placing its hopes on mass vaccinations to reduce the number of infections but there have been snags in the immunization drive. On Sunday, Dr. Erica S. Pan, the state epidemiologist, urged that providers stop using one lot of a Moderna vaccine because some people needed medical treatment for possible severe allergic reactions.More than 330,000 doses from lot 41L20A arrived in California between Jan. 5 and Jan. 12 and were distributed to 287 providers, she said.In Northern California, Stanislaus County health officials responded by announcing they wouldn’t be holding vaccination clinics until further notice.“Out of an extreme abundance of caution and also recognizing the extremely limited supply of vaccine, we are recommending that providers use other available vaccine inventory” pending completion of an investigation by state officials, Moderna, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and the federal Food and Drug Administration, Pan said in a statement.Fewer than 10 people, who all received the vaccine at the same community site, needed medical attention over a 24-hour period, Pan said. No other similar clusters were found.Pan did not specify the number of cases involved or where they occurred.Six San Diego health care workers had allergic reactions to vaccines they received at a mass vaccination center on Jan. 14. The site was temporarily closed and is now using other vaccines, KTGV-TV reported.Moderna in a statement said the company “is unaware of comparable adverse events from other vaccination centers which may have administered vaccines from the same lot.”The CDC has said Covid-19 vaccines can cause side effects for a few days that include fever, chills, headache, swelling or tiredness, “which are normal signs that your body is building protection."However, severe reactions are extremely rare. Pan said in a vaccine similar to Moderna's, the rate of anaphylaxis — in which an immune system reaction can block breathing and cause blood pressure to drop — was about 1 in 100,000.The announcement came as California counties continue to plead for more Covid-19 vaccine as the state tries to tamp down its rate of infection, which has resulted in record numbers of hospitalizations and deaths.California has shipped about about 3.2 million doses of the vaccine — which requires two doses for full immunization — to local health departments and health care systems, the state's Department of Public Health reported Monday.Only about 1.4 million of those doses, or around 40%, have been administered.So far, the state has vaccinated fewer than 2,500 people per 100,000 residents, a rate that falls well below the national average, according to federal data.Although Gov. Gavin Newsom announced last week that anyone age 65 and older would be eligible to start receiving the vaccine, Los Angeles County and some others have said they do not have enough doses to vaccinate that many people and are first concentrating on inoculating health care workers and the most vulnerable elderly living in care homes.The death rate from Covid-19 in Los Angeles County — the nation's most populous and an epicenter of the state pandemic — works out to about one person every six minutes.On Sunday, the South Coast Air Quality Management District suspended some pollution-control limits on the number of cremations for at least 10 days in order to deal with a backlog of bodies at hospitals and funeral homes.“The current rate of death is more than double that of pre-pandemic years," the agency said.Adding to concerns, California is experiencing new, possibly more transmissible forms of Covid-19.The state health department announced Sunday that an L452R variant of the virus is increasingly showing up in genetic sequencing of Covid-19 test samples from several counties.The variant was first identified last year in California and in other states and countries but has been identified more frequently since November and in several large outbreaks in Northern California's Santa Clara County, the department said.Overall, the variant has been found in at least a dozen counties. In some places, testing has found the variant in a quarter of the samples sequenced, said Dr. Charles Chiu, a virologist and professor of laboratory medicine at the University of California San Francisco.However, not all test samples receive genetic sequencing to identify variants so its frequency wasn't immediately clear.Health officials said it was linked to a Christmas-time outbreak at Kaiser Permanente San Jose that infected at least 89 staff members and patients, killing a receptionist. The outbreak has been blamed on an employee who visited the hospital emergency room wearing an air-powered inflatable Christmas tree costume.The variant is different from another mutation, B117, that was first reported in the United Kingdom and appears to spread much more easily, although it doesn't appear to make people sicker.That variant has already shown up in San Diego County and Los Angeles County announced over the weekend that it had detected its first case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/california-becomes-first-state-to-top-3-million-virus-cases-101611030631092.html
19-01-2021||World||Pakistan approves Chinese Sinopharm Covid-19 vaccine for emergency use||The Drug Regulatory Authority of Pakistan (DRAP) on Monday approved Chinese state-owned firm Sinopharm's Covid-19 vaccine for emergency use, the second vaccine to be given approval for use in the country, reported Dawn.Earlier, on Friday Drap had authorised the Oxford University-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine for emergency use in Pakistan."In a meeting conducted by [the] Registration Board of Drap today January 18, 2021, another vaccine manufactured by China National Pharmaceutical Group (Sinopharm) has also been given EUA (emergency use authorisation)," a spokesperson for the regulatory body said in a statement.Both the Oxford and Sinopharm vaccines were evaluated for their safety and quality and granted EUA "with certain conditions", the statement added."This authorisation will be reviewed on a quarterly basis keeping in view further data regarding safety, efficacy and quality," it said.Sinopharm is developed by the Beijing Institute of Biological Products, a state-owned subsidiary conglomerate. The company had claimed the efficacy rate to be 79.3 per cent from last-stage trials, reported Dawn.Meanwhile, China had approved the Sinopharm vaccine for general use in the last month itself. Also, it can be stored at two to eight degrees Celsius, or a normal refrigeration temperature.It is also been approved in the UAE and Bahrain and is slated for use in Morocco too, reported Dawn.It is an inactive vaccine, which means the virus was grown in a lab and then killed. The germ is then injected into the body to generate an immune response.The final proof of the two-dose vaccine's effectiveness will depend on the publication of more data, reported Dawn.Earlier, on December 30, a special cabinet committee for procurement of Covid-19 vaccine, chaired by Federal Minister for Planning and Development Asad Umar, had decided to procure 1.1 million doses of vaccine from Sinopharm. It was also announced that the vaccine would be provided to 500,000 frontline healthcare workers as two doses would be given to each worker and the margin of spoilage was 10 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-approves-chinese-sinopharm-covid-19-vaccine-for-emergency-use-101611029457294.html
19-01-2021||World||Trump clemency likely for Lil Wayne, no pardons for Giuliani or Bannon: Reports||U.S. President Donald Trump is likely to grant clemency to rapper Lil Wayne on Tuesday in a final wave of pardons and commutations that is not expected to include lawyer Rudy Giuliani or ex-aide Steve Bannon, sources said on Monday.Trump is expected to issue more than 100 pardons and commutations on his last full day in office. Two sources familiar with the discussions, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said Trump appeared to have been dissuaded from pardoning himself or members of his family.Lil Wayne pleaded guilty last month to possessing a loaded, gold-plated handgun when his chartered jet landed in Miami in December 2019. He faces a sentence of up to 10 years in prison at a Jan. 28 hearing in Miami.Lil Wayne appeared to support Trump during last year's presidential campaign when he tweeted a photo of himself with the president and said he backed Trump's criminal justice reform program and economic plan for African Americans.The sources confirmed a New York Times report that the list of pardons and commutations is expected to include former New York Assembly speaker Sheldon Silver, 76, who was convicted of corruption charges in 2015.Trump's list is not expected to include Giuliani, the Trump private lawyer who has been a vocal proponent of the president's claims of voter fraud in the Nov. 3 presidential election won by Democrat Joe Biden.The sources also said not expected to get a pardon is Steve Bannon, who helped Trump win election in 2016 and was a senior White House adviser. Bannon, 66, has pleaded not guilty to charges that he defrauded donors to "We Build the Wall," an online fundraising campaign that raised $25 million.Julian Assange, the Wikileaks founder, was also not expected to get a pardon, the sources said.The U.S. Justice Department in 2019 asked Britain to extradite Assange to the United States to face charges that he conspired to hack U.S. government computers and violated an espionage law.A British judge ruled two weeks ago Assange should not be extradited to the United States, saying his mental health problems meant he would be at risk of suicide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-clemency-likely-for-lil-wayne-no-pardons-for-giuliani-or-bannon-reports-101611027527306.html
19-01-2021||World||Vaccine drive expands as Covid-19 probe criticises global response||Countries around the world stepped up their coronavirus vaccine campaigns Monday, with Russia offering jabs to all citizens, while an independent probe found fault with the early response to the pandemic.Both the World Health Organization (WHO) and Beijing could have acted faster when Covid-19 first surfaced in China a year ago, the Independent Panel for Pandemic Preparedness and Response concluded in a report.It added that countries where the virus was likely to spread should have put containment measures in place immediately.Click here for latest updates on Covid-19With the global death toll now past two million, many governments are betting on mass vaccination to throttle the pandemic, while tightening lockdown measures at the same time.Nationwide rollouts from Brazil to Azerbaijan were getting underway Monday, while Britain and France were widening inoculations to all elderly people.In Russia, the government invited all citizens to sign up for the homegrown Sputnik V jab -- but while it was widely available in Moscow, many regions reported receiving only between 5,000 and 15,000 doses in the country of 146 million.India's campaign was also facing teething problems as it emerged that almost a third of the 300,000 people invited for a shot on the opening day didn't turn up."These are initial days and we understand people are waiting to see how the procedure pans out," said Suneela Garg, a member of the coronavirus task force for New Delhi."These numbers will go up as confidence is strengthened. And for that, we have to tackle misinformation."'Gift from God'Authorities worldwide have been mounting public information campaigns to address concerns over vaccine safety, and in the face of powerful online anti-vax movements.After 33 elderly people who had received a first dose died in Norway, authorities there stressed there was no proven link between the jabs and the deaths. They recommended, however, that doctors consider patients' frailty before immunising them.For Syrian refugee Fatima Ali, receiving her vaccination was cause for tears of joy."It's a gift from God," the 70-year-old said as she was vaccinated outside a clinic in Mafraq, Jordan.WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus has warned rich countries against hogging doses while the poorest suffer, blasting vaccine manufacturers for chasing regulatory approvals there rather than seeking global approval."I need to be blunt. The world is on the brink of a catastrophic moral failure," Tedros said. "And the price of this failure will be paid with lives and livelihoods in the world's poorest countries."Israel, praised for one of the world's fastest rollouts, has secured a significant stock of vaccines partly by pledging to quickly share data on its impact with Pfizer, according to an agreement with the drug company seen by AFP.Bleak times for travel economy Despite the mass immunisation campaigns now under way, spiralling infection rates have left governments reliant on continuing curbs on people's daily lives.In the US, where nearly 400,000 people have died, President Donald Trump and President-elect Joe Biden wrangled over travel bans as the country endures a rocky transition of power.Trump announced that the US ban on travelers arriving from much of Europe and Brazil would be lifted on January 26 -- after he has left power -- but Biden's team quickly shot back saying the ban would stay.Nearly three million people in China's northeastern Jilin province were put under lockdown Monday after a surge in cases, while Malawi introduced an overnight curfew.Globally, travel remains at a trickle of its usual pace -- and there were signs Monday of the price being paid by companies and countries reliant on tourism.Disneyland Paris -- Europe's biggest tourist attraction -- announced it was delaying its reopening until April, while train operator Eurostar made a desperate plea for British state support."Without additional funding from government there is a real risk to the survival of Eurostar," the cross-Channel service said.Soaring public debt in Greece, Spain and Italy was on the agenda at eurozone finance ministers' talks Monday -- with the highly tourist-dependent nature of these economies compounding the problem.Smaller business owners are also fed up after months of restrictions that have left them struggling for survival.In Poland there had been plans for a major campaign of civil disobedience in tourist-reliant ski resorts, but while some restaurants reopened in defiance of the rules, most businesses ultimately decided to stay shut.In Japan meanwhile, there are growing doubts on whether the postponed Tokyo 2020 Olympics can go ahead in July.UK quarantines travellersIn another example of the remaining hurdles facing travellers, Britain imposed a 10-day isolation on all arrivals, who will have to provide a negative Covid test taken at most 72 hours before departure.Despite the doom and gloom, in Milan fashionistas were dreaming of life beyond Covid, with a digital edition of Men's Fashion Week offering up colourful collections for Winter 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/vaccine-drive-expands-as-covid-19-probe-criticises-global-response-101611025010640.html
19-01-2021||World||Joe Biden to propose 8-year citizenship path for immigrants||US President-elect Joe Biden plans to unveil a sweeping immigration bill on Day One of his administration, hoping to provide an eight-year path to citizenship for an estimated 11 million people living in the country without legal status, a massive reversal from the Trump administration's harsh immigration policies.The legislation puts Biden on track to deliver on a major campaign promise important to Latino voters and other immigrant communities after four years of President Donald Trump's restrictive policies and mass deportations.It provides one of the fastest pathways to citizenship for those living without legal status of any measure in recent years, but it fails to include the traditional trade-off of enhanced border security favoured by many Republicans, making passage in a narrowly divided Congress in doubt.Expected to run hundreds of pages, the bill is set to be introduced after Biden takes the oath of office Wednesday, according to a person familiar with the legislation and granted anonymity to discuss it.As a candidate, Biden called Trump's actions on immigration an “unrelenting assault” on American values and said he would “undo the damage” while continuing to maintain border enforcement.Under the legislation, those living in the US as of Jan. 1, 2021, without legal status would have a five-year path to temporary legal status, or a green card, if they pass background checks, pay taxes and fulfil other basic requirements. From there, it's a three-year path to naturalization, if they decide to pursue citizenship.For some immigrants, the process would be quicker. So-called Dreamers, the young people who arrived in the US illegally as children, as well as agricultural workers and people under temporary protective status could qualify more immediately for green cards if they are working, are in school or meet other requirements.The bill is not as comprehensive as the last major immigration overhaul proposed when Biden was vice president during the Obama administration.For example, it does not include a robust border security element, but rather calls for coming up with strategies. Nor does it create any new guest worker or other visa programs.It does address some of the root causes of migration from Central America to the United States, and provides grants for workforce development and English language learning.Biden is expected to take swift executive actions to reverse other Trump immigration actions, including an end to the prohibition on arrivals from several predominantly Muslim countries.During the Democratic primary, Biden consistently named immigration action as one of his “day one” priorities, pointing to the range of executive powers he could invoke to reverse Trump's policies.Biden allies and even some Republicans have identified immigration as a major issue where the new administration could find common ground with Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell and enough other GOP senators to avoid the stalemate that has vexed administrations of both parties for decades.That kind of major win — even if it involves compromise — could be critical as Biden looks for legislative victories in a closely divided Congress, where Republicans are certain to oppose other Biden priorities that involve rolling back some of the GOP's 2017 tax cuts and increasing federal spending.As a candidate, Biden went so far as to say the Obama administration went too far in its aggressive deportations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-to-propose-8-year-citizenship-path-for-immigrants-101611023772672.html
19-01-2021||World||New York governor Cuomo explores buying vaccine directly from Pfizer||Frustrated by the flow of coronavirus vaccine from the federal government, Gov. Andrew Cuomo on Monday floated the idea of buying shots for New Yorkers directly from one of the vaccine makers, Pfizer.The idea seemed far from a sure bet, with the pharmaceutical giant saying it would need federal approval to sell to state governments. If that were to happen, the cost and amount have yet to be be discussed.Regardless, Cuomo said he felt compelled to broach the idea as his state, like many others, faces tough vaccine math. At the current pace of federal vaccine shipments to New York, it could take six months or more to get shots to the 7 million residents already eligible under federal guidelines, let alone the roughly 12 million other New Yorkers. Residents have been scrambling to try to get the shots, with many getting shut out and upset.“My job as governor of New York is to pursue every avenue, and that's what I'm doing,” the Democratic governor said at a virtual news conference as he released a letter he'd written to New York-based Pfizer about his idea. He told the company it “could help us save lives right here in New York.”Pfizer Inc., which developed one of the current vaccines with German partner BioNTech, said in a statement that it appreciated Cuomo's praise and was open to working with the federal Health and Human Services Department on getting the shots as quickly as possible to as many Americans as it could.“However, before we can sell directly to state governments, HHS would need to approve that proposal,” the company said.An HHS spokesperson said via email that Cuomo is “trying to circumvent a long-planned federal allocation system by attempting to cut to the front of the line at the expense of fellow jurisdictions.”The spokesperson said the top priority for HHS is "maximizing the availability of safe and effective vaccines in a manner which is responsible, fair and equitable for all Americans, not just to those in New York State.”Under the current system, HHS allocates vaccine doses to states and ships them. The federal Food and Drug Administration's emergency-based authorization for the Pfizer vaccine specifies that it will be supplied “as directed by the U.S. government.”The federal government has been paying $19.50 per dose for the Pfizer vaccine and has ordered 200 million doses so far, enough to give the two-shot regimen to 100 million people. Other nations around the world have also placed orders.Earlier in the pandemic, Cuomo complained last spring about U.S. states competing against one another, or being outbid by the federal government, for then-scarce protective gear and ventilators. At the time, he called on the federal government to nationalize medical supply acquisition of those items.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-york-governor-cuomo-explores-buying-vaccine-directly-from-pfizer-101611023011846.html
19-01-2021||World||China reports over 100 new Covid-19 cases for seventh day||China reported more than 100 new Covid-19 cases for a seventh day on Tuesday in the worst domestic outbreak since March last year, with one northeastern province seeing a record daily increase.Mainland China posted 118 new cases on Jan. 18, up from 109 a day earlier, the national health authority said in a statement.Of those, 106 were local infections, with 43 reported in Jilin, a new daily record for the northeastern province, and 35 in Hebei province, which surrounds Beijing, the National Health Commission said.The Chinese capital itself reported one new case, while Heilongjiang in the north reported 27 new infections.Millions of people have been under lockdown in recent days as some northern cities undergo mass testing for the novel coronavirus amid worries that undetected infections could spread quickly during the Lunar New Year holiday, which is just weeks away.Hundreds of millions of people travel during the holiday, due to kick off in mid-February this year, as migrant workers return home to see family.Authorities have appealed to people to avoid travel in the run-up to the holiday and stay away from mass gatherings such as weddings.The current outbreak in Jilin was caused by an infected salesman travelling to and from the neighbouring province of Heilongjiang, the site of a previous cluster of infections.The overall number of new asymptomatic cases, which China does not classify as confirmed infections, fell to 91 from 115 a day earlier.The total number of confirmed Covid-19 cases in mainland China is 89,454, while the death toll remained unchanged at 4,635.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/independent-pandemic-review-panel-critical-of-china-who-delays-101611019649128.html
19-01-2021||World||UK says 'human error' wiped 1000s of police computer records||Britain's policing minister said Monday that “human error” led to hundreds of thousands of DNA records and other data on criminal suspects being erased from the national police computer.Kit Malthouse told lawmakers in the House of Commons that the mishap occurred during a “regular housekeeping process” on the computer, which holds 13 million records. He said some 400,000 records were wiped, including 213,000 offense records and 170,000 arrest records.“Clearly this situation is very serious,” Malthouse said, adding that “we will know the full extent of the impact of this issue over the next few days.” Labour lawmaker Yvette Cooper said it was “very hard to understand how 400,000 records could be deleted from such a crucial system without there being a proper back-up system in place.”Malthouse said officials were trying to recover the data but he could not guarantee that no criminal investigations would be harmed by the error. He said the government was working “to make sure that any operational impact is obviated or mitigated.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-says-human-error-wiped-1000s-of-police-computer-records-101611018905680.html
19-01-2021||World||Joe Biden team says US will not lift travel bans, despite Donald Trump statement||President-elect Joe Biden's spokeswoman on Monday quickly dismissed Donald Trump's announcement that a Covid-19 ban on travelers arriving from much of Europe and Brazil would be lifted, underlining the US' fractious transition of power."On the advice of our medical team, the Administration does not intend to lift these restrictions on 1/26," tweeted Jen Psaki, Biden's press secretary."In fact, we plan to strengthen public health measures around international travel in order to further mitigate the spread of Covid-19."Biden will be inaugurated on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-team-says-us-will-not-lift-travel-bans-despite-donald-trump-statement-101611018158539.html
19-01-2021||World||Student, retired firefighter charged in US Capitol riots||Federal authorities arrested a retired firefighter and a fashion student, both from New York, and a man from Iowa on Monday in the storming of the US Capitol, according to the FBI and court documents.Nicolas Moncada, a 20-year-old student at the Fashion Institute of Technology, was arrested at his home in Staten Island early on Monday, the FBI said. The school shared information with the FBI about a social media post showing him at the Capitol, according to local media reports.Thomas Sweeney of Freeport, New York, was charged on Monday but was not yet in custody, an FBI spokeswoman said. Sweeney, 53, retired from the New York Fire Department in October, local media reported.Thousands of people stormed the US Capitol on Jan. 6 to try to keep Congress from certifying the Democrat Biden's victory over Republican President Donald Trump.Federal authorities have brought criminal charges against more than 100 people in their investigation into the ransacking of Capitol offices and attacks on police. Five people died in the melee, including a Capitol Police officer.Leo Kelly was arrested in Iowa on Monday after a video interview posted online described him as "one of the first men to break the Capitol building and go inside with dozens of others," according to a court document.Kelly, of Cedar Rapids, faces unlawful entry and disorderly conduct charges, according to court documents.Among the 10 people arrested over the weekend was Timothy Hale-Cusanelli, of Colts Neck, New Jersey, a member of the US Army Reserves who works as a Navy contractor with a "secret" security clearance and access to weapons, court documents said.An informant told investigators that Hale-Cusanelli was "an avowed white supremacist and Nazi sympathizer" who posts online videos espousing extreme political opinions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/student-retired-firefighter-charged-in-us-capitol-riots-101611017585989.html
19-01-2021||World||No indication of insider threat before inauguration, says acting Pentagon chief||The acting Pentagon chief said on Monday the FBI is assisting the US military in vetting more than 25,000 National Guard troops being deployed to assist in protecting the US Capitol around President-elect Joe Biden's inauguration for potential security concerns.After the Jan. 6 Capitol assault by supporters of President Donald Trump that resulted in five deaths and sent lawmakers into hiding, the U.S. government has imposed unprecedented security surrounding the Capitol, including non-scalable fences rimmed with razor wire and a large security zone that the public is barred from.Acting Secretary of Defense Christopher Miller said in a statement on Monday the vetting is "normal for military support to large security events... While we have no intelligence indicating an insider threat, we are leaving no stone unturned in securing the capital."Miller said he appreciated "the support of the FBI in assisting with this task and for each of the more than 25,000 Guardsmen."The US Army said on Tuesday it was is working with the FBI to see if any attackers were current service members and with the Secret Service to see if any of the nearly 10,000 National Guard troops securing Biden’s inauguration would need additional screening.Asked why authorities were looking into the background of every National Guard member called in to help secure the area around the swearing in ceremony, Acting Department of Homeland Security Secretary Peter Gaynor said on Monday, "The FBI and others decided this would be a prudent move."He told Fox News he has not seen any evidence of some sort of inside attack being planned, but authorities wanted to leave "no stone unturned" when it comes to potential threats to the peaceful transfer of power.The U.S. government has for days blocked access to major public parks including Washington's National Mall and closed bridges crossing the Potomac River between Virginia and the District of Columbia. More than a dozen subway stations have been closed through Wednesday's inauguration.At least one bus company has halted bus trips to Washington ahead of the inauguration, while Airbnb canceled home-sharing reservations in the Washington D.C. area for the week of Biden’s inauguration. US airlines have also imposed new security precautions for DC-area flights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/no-indication-of-insider-threat-before-inauguration-says-acting-pentagon-chief-101611016574578.html
19-01-2021||World||First Lady Melania Trump bids farewell, says 'violence will never be justified'||Days after the US Capitol riots that was called against "rigged election" by President Donald Trump, First Lady Melania Trump in her farewell speech urged the people to be "passionate in everything" but never resort to violence.Speaking for the last time as the US First Lady, Melania in a video message said, "Be passionate in everything you do but always remember that violence is never the answer and will never be justified."On January 6, a group of Trump supporters stormed the US Capitol to protest legislators confirming electoral slates from battleground US states they thought were invalid. Trump had made a speech among thousands of supporters reiterating his claim a massive voter fraud had robbed his election victory and encouraged supporters to maintain support to "stop the steal." Five people died in the riot, including one police officer as well as one Air Force veteran and Trump supporter who was shot dead by police.Showing concern for the citizens amid the Covid-19 pandemic, which has claimed thousands of lives in the US, she urged the netizens to "use caution and common sense to protect the vulnerable as millions of vaccines are now being delivered".She conveyed condolences to the kin of the Covid-19 victims and thanked "nurses, doctors, healthcare professionals, manufacturing workers, truck drivers, and so many others who are working to save lives".Melania further spoke about her campaign 'BE BEST', stating that it is evolved into a platform encouraging global leaders to discuss issues impacting the lives of children and share solutions.According to the White House, the mission of BE BEST focuses on some of the major issues being faced by children today. As the name suggests, the goal of the program is to encourage children to be best in their individual paths, while also teaching them the importance of social, emotional and physical health.Wrapping up her speech, the First Lady said, "As I say farewell to my role as First Lady, it is my sincere hope that every American will do their part to teach our children what it means to Be Best. I ask parents to educate your children about the courageous and selfless heroes who worked and sacrificed to make this country the land of the free. And to lead by example and care for others in your community."Urging all Americans to be the Ambassador of 'BE BEST', she said, "Together, as one national family, we can continue to be the light of hope for future generations and carry on America's legacy of raising our nation to greater heights through our spirit of courage, goodness and faith."On January 20, President-elect Joe Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris will be taking the oath.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/first-lady-melania-trump-bids-farewell-says-violence-will-never-be-justified-101611016301366.html
19-01-2021||World||Kremlin critic Navalny calls on supporters to protest after court jails him for 30 days||Russia's leading opposition figure and chief Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny has called on his supporters to 'take to the streets' to protest against the authorities following a court ordering him to be remanded in pre-trial detention for 30 days.Citing a video clip posted on YouTube, Al Jazeera quoted Navalny as saying, "Do not be afraid, take to the streets. Do not go out for me, go out for yourself and your future."Navalny was arrested at Moscow's Sheremetyevo airport on Sunday following his return to Russia from Germany after five years.With the court's order on Monday, Navalny will have to remain in prison till February 15 and a different court has been set to decide whether to convert his suspended three and a half year sentence into real jail time, AL Jazeera reported.He had arrived in Germany five months ago in a coma after being poisoned by Novichok, a military-grade nerve agent developed by Russia during the Soviet years. Several Western officials along with Navalny himself have openly blamed Russia for the poisoning, while the Kremlin has denied the allegations.Navalny was placed on the country's federal wanted list during his time in Germany at the request of the Federal Penitentiary Service FSIN's, which had accused him in December 2020 of violating probation terms in a fraud case that was dismissed by Navalny as "politically motivated".Now the FSIN alleges that Navalny has been in violation of the terms of his suspended sentence by failing to show up for scheduled inspections.Meanwhile, Germany, the UK, France, Italy and the European Union have called for Navalny's release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kremlin-critic-navalny-calls-on-supporters-to-protest-after-court-jails-him-for-30-days-101611015108952.html
19-01-2021||World||US lawmakers aim to curtail face recognition even as technology IDs Capitol attackers||US lawmakers are moving ahead with efforts to ban facial recognition software even as the technology helps identify supporters of President Donald Trump who ransacked their workplace and forced them to evacuate this month.Researchers and law enforcement have been running photographs from the Jan. 6 siege of the Capitol through facial recognition, which looks for similar faces in databases of mugshots, social media headshots or other images."It's a great tool," said Michael Sheldon, research associate at the nonprofit Atlantic Council's Digital Forensic Research Lab, whose mission includes protecting democratic institutions.Sheldon said he provided the FBI possible names of several people in the violent mob thanks to a facial recognition program he purchased.Senator Ed Markey said in a statement that the technology may not be worth the risks. Racial justice activists have warned that facial recognition can perpetuate discriminatory policing and constant tracking could become the norm."We've seen that in the wake of past crises innocent Americans have been subjected to increased problematic surveillance," Markey said.He called on authorities to "keep the public safe and hold criminals accountable without relying on invasive tools that are proven to have serious accuracy and bias issues."Markey last year joined three other Democrats in Congress to introduce an unsuccessful bill that would have banned federal agencies such as the FBI from using facial recognition.Chris Evans, spokesman for Pramila Jayapal, one of the other lawmakers behind that effort, said members plan to reintroduce the proposal this year.Whether the FBI has used facial recognition in the ongoing probe is unclear. It declined to comment on its tools.Most of the nearly 100 assailants criminally charged so far turned themselves in, were outed by acquaintances or posted about their allegedly illicit activities on social media, according to court records.But people have sent the FBI tips based on facial recognition. Miami police submitted 13 possible names from searches it ran using software from Clearview AI, Assistant Chief Armando Aguilar told Reuters.Sheldon said the tool he used, which he declined to publicly name, looks for online matches, such as on websites that aggregate mugshots or university alumni lists. He doublechecked likely hits using facial recognition from Microsoft Corp's Azure cloud computing service, he said.He said the software linked a man photographed carrying zip-tie handcuffs in the Capitol to a headshot on Alumnius.net under the name Larry Brock.Prosecutors charged Brock with violent entry and other counts following a New Yorker article, in which researchers identified him and he acknowledged being at Capitol. Brock's attorney did not respond to a request for comment.Facial recognition previously helped Sheldon unmask mercenaries involved in an attack in Syria as part of research into global conflicts and disinformation.For the Capitol investigation, the technology enabled him to quickly find assailants on social media and study their motivation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-lawmakers-aim-to-curtail-face-recognition-even-as-technology-ids-capitol-attackers-101611014713332.html
19-01-2021||World||Trump orders assessment of security risks of China made drones in US govt fleet||President Donald Trump on Monday signed an executive order directing US agencies to prioritize removing Chinese-made drones from American government fleets and to assess any security risks.Trump directed all US agencies to outline security risks posed by the existing government drone fleet from drones built by Chinese companies or by other countries deemed foreign adversaries.Last month, the US Commerce Department added China's SZ DJI Technology Co, the world's largest drone maker, to the American government’s economic blacklist, along with dozens of other Chinese companies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-orders-assessment-of-security-risks-of-china-made-drones-in-us-govt-fleet-101611014265159.html
19-01-2021||World||Russia ignores appeals, sends Alexei Navalny to prison||Defying US and European calls to free opposition leader Alexei Navalny, a Russian court on Monday jailed him for 30 days, a day after detaining him upon arrival from Germany where he had undergone treatment for a poisoning attack.He faces three and a half years in prison at a hearing set for January 29 on charges of violating the terms of a suspended sentence. In a makeshift courtroom in a police station outside Moscow, a judge spelt out the violations made by Navalny, 44, who will be held until February 15.Navalny was stopped by police on Sunday night at passport control as he landed in Moscow from Berlin, where he’d gone for treatment after falling ill in August that he and western governments believe resulted from poisoning carried out by the Kremlin. His detention threatens a new round of tensions with the West as well as demonstrations across Russia.In a video appeal recorded in the courtroom on Monday, he called on supporters to protest. “Don’t be scared. Come out on the streets - not for me but for yourselves and your future,” he said. Allies said they will seek to organise protests nationally on January 23. They will defy authorities’ refusal for permits.Before the ruling, European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen urged Russia to “immediately” release Navalny and ensure his safety, adding her voice to similar calls from the US, UK and Germany. “Detention of political opponents is against Russia’s international commitments,” she said in a statement on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russia-ignores-appeals-sends-alexei-navalny-to-prison-101611006093708.html
19-01-2021||World||Donald Trump to issue 100 pardons, to leave for Florida before Biden inauguration||Outgoing US President Donald Trump is expected to issue pardons or commutations of prison sentences to more than 100 people in his final days in office.Trump reviewed them with his son-in-law Jared Kushner, daughter Ivanka Trump, both senior White House aides, and other officials for most of the day on Sunday, The Washington Post reported citing sources. Announcements are expected on Monday or Tuesday.In a major break from tradition, Trump will not attend the inauguration of his successor President-elect Joe Biden on Wednesday, and leave for Mar-a-Lago, his Florida resort, earlier in the morning. Plans for a grand military-style farewell, with a 21-gun salute, have not worked out, according to reports.There has been intense speculation in recent days that Trump has been considering pardoning himself, along with his adult children and close aides. Although he and his children do not face any known federal charges - the pardon does not apply to non-federal cases - he may have attracted legal exposure for his speech on January 6 that sparked the storming of the US Capitol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-to-issue-100-pardons-to-leave-for-florida-before-biden-inauguration-101610988079962.html
19-01-2021||World||Biden inauguration day 2021: Schedule, where to watch, celebrities to perform||President-elect Joe Biden is set to be sworn in as the 46th president of the United States on January 20 amid security concerns stemming from calls of armed protests across the country. The inauguration day will be historic not only in terms of the chaotic transition of power but also from the fact that Kamala Harris will become the first female vice president of the US.The “virtual parade” due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic will also be one of the firsts during the inauguration ceremony. The event and celebrations will witness the participation of singers Lady Gaga, Jennifer Lopez and Demi Levato and actor Tom Hanks. The presidential inaugural committee (PIC) has announced “America United” as the theme of the inauguration to reflect the “beginning of a new national journey that restores the soul of America”.Schedule for Inauguration Day 202110am (local time)/8.30pm IST: The inauguration ceremony will kick off with a first-ever curated live stream for “young Americans” which will be hosted by award-winning entertainer and advocate Keke Palmer. The live steam event will feature a special message from Biden’s wife, Jill Biden. It will also feature commentary from historians Doris Kearns Goodwin and Erica Armstrong Dunbar.Oath takingThe live stream will be followed by swearing-in of Biden and Harris on the west front of the US Capitol building. After taking their oaths of office, Biden will deliver an inaugural address in which he will lay out his vision to “defeat the pandemic, build back better, and unify and heal the nation”, according to PIC.The following participants will join the swearing-in ceremony:Invocation: Father Leo J O’DonovanPledge of Allegiance: Andrea HallNational Anthem: Lady GagaPoetry Reading: Amanda GormanMusical Performance: Jennifer LopezBenediction: Reverend Dr Silvester BeamanPass in ReviewThe incoming president, vice president, the first lady and second gentleman will participate in a Pass in Review, a long-standing military tradition that reflects the peaceful transfer of power to a new commander-in-chief, on the east front with members of the military. Biden will review the readiness of military troops at the event where every branch of the military will be represented.Presidential EscortBiden will then receive a Presidential Escort to the White House without attracting large crowds and gatherings. The Presidential Escort will be followed by a virtual “parade across America” that will feature diverse performances in communities across the country.Bonus celebration called “Celebrating America” has been scheduled for after the conclusion of the official ceremony which will be aired live at 8.30pm (local time)/7am IST. The 90-minute program will be hosted by Tom Hanks and will include remarks from Biden and Harris. It will also feature performances of Ant Clemons, Jon Bon Jovi, Demi Lovato, and Justin Timberlake.How to watchThe inauguration ceremony will be aired on all the major US media networks, including ABC, CBS, CNN, NBC, MSNBC, and PBS. It will also be live-streamed on BidenInaugural.org/watch, PIC social media channels on YouTube, Facebook, Twitter and Twitch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-inauguration-day-2021-schedule-how-to-watch-participants-101610973229395.html
19-01-2021||India||Govt tweaks app to allow walk-ins, experts want wider access to shots||The Union health ministry on Tuesday modified the Co-WIN platform to allow health workers to walk in for shots even if they have not been selected for a particular day, an attempt to overcome vaccine hesitancy and reach more people, although experts believe the government should consider opening the process up to make the vaccine accessible to people other than health care workers -- perhaps even the general public -- if current targets are not met.India has carried out over 630,000 vaccinations since the drive was launched on Saturday, a start the government said was with the highest numbers for any country. But overall, the number is roughly half of what was being targeted, with officials and vaccinators blaming reluctance among selected recipients. There have also been reports of vaccine vials being wasted because enough people were not showing up to get their shots.“Vaccine slots were getting wasted because initially, the Co-WIN system did not allow centres to add beneficiaries to utilise unused time slots. Now the system allows us to add new beneficiaries and expedite the process. Districts are adding beneficiaries who were allotted slots on future dates,” said a district nodal official in Delhi, who asked not to be identified.Experts said that health care workers developing cold feet is a manifestation of hesitancy, and should it persist, India should allow for more people to sign up for jabs.“The gradation for Covid-19 vaccination that government has done is good; and while I agree that priority group should get the vaccine first as they are at higher risk, but if the supplies are good then it can be opened up for regular people also,” said Dr Naresh Trehan, chairman and managing director, Medanta Hospital, Gurugram.“There is anyway a lot of anxiety among general people, who wants to get the shot and may be willing to go here there and anywhere to get. So sooner we put it out in public space better it will be, and those who can pay should be [asked to pay]; after all why should government shoulder all the burden?” Trehan added, reiterating that this move will depend on the supplies and must be done in a measured manner.An expert who has tracked vaccine roll-outs in other countries, such as the US and the UK, too, said that countries must focus on getting doses out to as many people as quickly as possible. “At first, our recommendation was to do a directed delivery in high priority groups but now forget about all these scenarios - if we have inventory, let’s deliver that inventory to everyone who is older than 65 and anyone who wants to get a vaccine instead of necessarily come up with onerous algorithms,” said Maria Elena Bottazzi, the associate dean, of National School of Tropical Medicine at Baylor College of Medicine, in an interview to HT last week.A Union health ministry official confirmed the tweak in the app on Tuesday to allow health care workers not scheduled for jabs on a particular day to get the shots. “The average vaccination sessions allowed per site are 100, and we were told in some centres fewer people were turning up. We have made a provision in the app to also accommodate beneficiaries scheduled to take the jab on other dates. Earlier, the software wasn’t designed to accept beneficiaries outside the day’s list but now they can,” said Dr RS Sharma, chairman, empowered group on Covid-19 vaccination.But a rough estimate based on total number of inoculations and sessions suggested that on average, only 54 people were turning up for vaccinations from among the 100 who are identified every day. These people are part of a matrix of recipients created by the government, which prioritises health care workers for vaccinations in the first stages, followed by essential workers and vulnerable people in the general population.A third expert contended it might be too early to open vaccinations for general public at this stage because of technical glitches. “It is a little early to open for general public as it seems the Co-WIN app is still being tested, and may not be able to take the load on real-time basis. The vaccination process will eventually open up for general public but right now priority should be people who are at maximum risk as vaccines are also in short supply,” said Dr MC Misra, former director, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi.For now, hospitals will be testing to see if calling in any willing health workers for vaccination will help drive up the numbers.“In addition to the list of beneficiaries sent to us by the Co-WIN platform, we were allowed to vaccinate people who are already registered but were not on the list. On the first two days, we had faced issues like people not being on duty or being out of station when their names came up but today we were able to vaccinate those in the hospital,” said Dr DS Rana, chairman (board of management) at Sir Ganga Ram hospital that vaccinated 100 people on Tuesday. The hospital had 117 lined up to receive the shot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-tweaks-app-to-allow-walk-ins-experts-want-wider-access-to-shots-101611078712995.html
19-01-2021||India||Retired police officer arrested for vandalising RSS office in Indore||A retired police officer was arrested in Indore on Tuesday for vandalising an office set up for holding fund collection drive for construction of Ayodhya’s Ram Temple, and hurting religious sentiments, police said.Shrikant Sharma, a retired deputy commandant of Special Armed Force of the Madhya Pradesh police, was arrested under sections 294 (Obscene acts and songs), 295A (Deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings), 506 (Punishment for criminal intimidation) and 452 (House-trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint) of the Indian Penal Code, said Rajendra Soni, town inspector, Banganga police station, Indore.Soni said, “Sharma was raising objection over the setting up of an office of the RSS for fund collection drive in his neighborhood. He barged into the office late Monday night and threatened people to close the office immediately. He vandalised the office, tore a picture of Bharat mata and pamphlets having pictures of lord Ram. He also threatened to shoot the office bearers.”The complaint was lodged by RSS worker Sunil Kumar Hedu and three others at Banganga police station late night on Monday.“Sharma tore the pictures of Bharat Mata and pamphlets having pictures of Lord Ram. This act hurt our religious sentiments,” Hedu said in his complaint.After his arrest, Sharma was produced before a court which sent him to judicial remand, Soni said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/retired-police-officer-arrested-for-vandalizing-rss-office-in-indore-101611078921131.html
19-01-2021||India||No kidnapping, no conversion, went on my own to Karnataka, says Gorakhpur woman||Police in Gorakhpur is set to drop the charges of conversion against a 22-year-old Muslim youth from Karnataka and include rape charges after a 19-year-old woman reportedly told a magistrate on Tuesday that the accused raped her on the pretext of marriage.Based on this statement police has included the section of rape (IPC 376) and sent the accused to jail.Earlier in the day, the woman from Gorakhpur told Uttar Pradesh police that she had gone to Karnataka on her own for a job, a police officer said. Her father had earlier lodged a First Information Report (FIR) against the youth for allegedly kidnapping his daughter and forcing her to change religion.The man and the woman were brought to Gorakhpur from Bijapur in Karnataka on Monday and were later kept separately with NGOs."The woman told us that she went to Karnataka to meet the man on her own looking for a job. She denied allegations of kidnapping or forceful conversion by the man," said additional superintendent of police of Gorakhpur Manoj Kumar Awasthi.He further said the woman was produced before a magistrate to register her statement on Tuesday and that her medical examination report was awaited.Meanwhile, deputy inspector general of police, Gorakhpur, Jogendra Kumar said, "The woman's father lodged a missing report on January 5 at Chiluatal police station. Fresh charges under Uttar Pradesh’s new anti-conversion ordinance were added after the woman’s call records showed she was in touch with the Karnataka man for over a year. The woman’s father alleged that the man concealed his religious identity to kidnap his daughter.”“I left my daughter to Sardar Patel Institute of Technology in Gorakhpur (where she studies) on January 4 but she did not return home that night. On January 5, I lodged a missing complaint. Later, I found that my daughter was in touch with the Muslim youth on Facebook since November 2019,” the woman’s father said in his complaint.Based on the complaint, the Muslim youth from Karnataka was booked under the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Religious Conversion Ordinance, 2020, along with charges of kidnapping a woman to compel her for marriage on January 11, said the police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-kidnapping-no-conversion-went-on-my-own-to-karnataka-says-gorakhpur-woman-101611077662707.html
19-01-2021||India||HC vacates stay as Jharkhand Speaker ends Babulal Marandi’s anti-defection trial||The Jharkhand high court on Tuesday vacated its earlier order staying the Speaker's notice against leader of opposition Babulal Marandi of the BJP after the former stated that he would not continue with anti-defection proceedings that were initiated suo motu against Marandi.Speaker Rabindra Nath Mahato had initiated proceedings suo motu under the 10th schedule of the constitution (anti-defection laws) to decide if the merger of Jharkhand Vikas Morcha-Prajatantrik (JVM-P) led by its chief Marandi into the BJP in February, 2020, was valid.Following this, he had issued notices to all parties concerned including Marandi in November last year.Marandi had moved the Jharkhand high court challenging the Speaker's notice that was stayed by a judicial order last month."Filing an affidavit with the court, the Speaker on Tuesday stated that he would not continue with this proceedings against Marandi," said Marandi’s lawyer RN Sahay.He said that following the Speaker's submission, the court vacated its earlier order staying his notice to Marandi.Sahay, however, argued that the provision of Speaker's power to take suo motu cognizance in anti-defection matters as enumerated in Jharkhand Legislative Assembly Members (Disqualification on the ground of defection) Rules, 2006, is wholly illegal as it is contradictory to the provisions of 10th schedule of the constitution.He urged the court to decide the issue on merit.A division bench of chief justice Dr Ravi Ranjan and justice Sujit Narayan Prasad then fixed March 2 to decide the issue.The bench also fixed March 2 to hear the petition filed by the state BJP unit through its chief whip Biranchi Narayan seeking judicial order to the Speaker to officially designate Marandi as the leader of opposition in the state.Marandi, who won from Dhanwar assembly segment in 2019 state polls, joined the BJP after merging his party JVM (P) with the saffron fold in February last year. Two other MLAs - Pradeep Yadav and Bandhu Tirkey, who had also won the elections on JVM (P) ticket but later expelled from the party on disciplinary grounds, joined the Congress.The merger of JVM (P) and shifting of MLAs in different camps, however, have raised a controversy after one camp headed by Marandi and another by Yadav and Tirkey approached the Speaker making almost similar claims.The Speaker, following the February 16, 2020, letter forwarded by Marandi to inform him (Speaker) about JVM-P merger into the BJP, initiated proceedings under the 10th schedule of the constitution.In November 2020, the Speaker issued notices to Marandi and others seeking their replies.Meanwhile, the BJP, which had emerged as the second largest party after the polls, nominated Marandi as its leader of opposition and forwarded a letter to the Speaker to officially designate him as LoP. But, the Speaker is yet to take a decision in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-vacates-stay-as-jharkhand-speaker-ends-babulal-marandi-s-anti-defection-trial-101611074334380.html
19-01-2021||India||9 states, UTs among better performing areas during Covid-19 vaccination drive||Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan were among the nine better performing states and Union territories in terms of vaccinating their healthcare workers with more than 70 per cent coverage in the first two days of the inoculation drive, the government said on Tuesday. Union health secretary Bhushan said Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Punjab needs to improve. "Better performing states in Covid-19 vaccination coverage include Lakshadweep (89.3 per cent), Sikkim (85.7 per cent), Odisha (82.6 per cent), Telangana (81.1 per cent), UP (71.4 per cent), Rajasthan (71.3 per cent)," he said during the press conference.The government said 631,417 people have been vaccinated by the end of the fourth day of its mammoth inoculation drive, with only nine taken to hospitals after complaining of side effects. They have been given two shots, one developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca and manufactured by Serum Institute of India (SII), and another developed by Bharat Biotech in partnership with the India Council of Medical Research. The vaccination programme was launched on Saturday by Prime Minister Narendra Modi as 30 million healthcare and other front-line workers will be the first to be given the shot.Also read | India 'deeply honoured' to meet the world's healthcare needs: PM Modi"The cumulative number of healthcare workers vaccinated against COVID19 has touched 6,31,417(till 6 pm today) through 11,660 sessions, as per the provisional report. 3,800 sessions were held till 6 pm today," the Union health ministry said in a release. "1,77,368 beneficiaries were vaccinated till 6 pm today, the fourth day of nationwide COVID19 vaccination. Final reports would be completed for the day by late tonight," the ministry added.It also said that only nine people required hospitalisation after reporting side effects. "In Delhi, three cases have been discharged whereas one case is under observation at Rajiv Gandhi, Hospital Shahdara. One more AEFI (adverse event following immunisation) case from Uttarakhand has been discharged. In Karnataka, one person is discharged and other person is stable and under observation at District Hospital, Chitradurga. In Chhattisgarh also, one person is discharged. In Rajasthan, one case is of suspected anaphylaxis is fine and under observation at District Hospital, Bangar," the ministry said.Also read | Nasal vaccine candidate against Covid-19 could be a game-changer: Dr VK PaulBhushan said during the press conference that India inoculated more people on the first day of its vaccination drive than the United States, Britain and France did. Bhushan said 207,229 people were vaccinated in India on the first day, while in the US 79,458 people were vaccinated, in the UK 19,700 and 73 were vaccinated in France on the first day."The important point here is that if we look at the first-week figures then the US conducted vaccinations of 556,208 people so that number will already cross by Day 3. In the UK, in the first seven days, 137,897 were vaccinated, 516 people were vaccinated in France in the first week and in Russia, 52,000 people were vaccinated in the first week. So these are the comparative figures for you and we have just started so we will pick up speed," he said.Also read | People vaccinated against Covid-19 higher than twice the number of active casesNITI Aayog member VK Paul said concerns about adverse effects and serious problems after immunisation as of now seem to be unfounded, negligible, insignificant and stressed that both Bharat Biotech's Covaxin and Covishield of SII are safe. Paul said it was sad that "doctors, nurses and healthcare workers are refusing to get vaccinated" and requested the people to get the shots. He said health workers who failed to take vaccine doses that had been set aside for them were not fulfilling their "societal responsibility"."Please understand the whole world is clamouring for vaccines. If our healthcare workers, our doctors and nurses, if they are declining to take it, I feel sorry. I plead with them, on behalf of the government, because we don't know what shape this pandemic will take going forward," he added.Also read | Centre issues Letter of Comfort to Bharat Biotech for 45 lakh doses of CovaxinIndia reported 10,064 infections, the lowest in seven months, taking the tally to 10.58 million. Deaths rose by an eight-month low figure of 137, taking the country's toll to 152,556.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/9-states-uts-among-better-performing-states-during-covid-19-vaccination-drive-101611072908790.html
19-01-2021||India||AAP leader Raghav Chadha underlines need for monitoring water leakages||Delhi Jal Board (DJB) Vice Chairman Raghav Chadha Tuesday stressed the need to complete the installation of flow meters for better monitoring of water supply and losses across the city.Flow meters are required to measure the flow and quantity of water from a particular point and help detect leakages."Delhi is a landlocked city, and thus, has limited water resources. To conserve water, it is essential to measure the quantity of water by installing flow meters," Chadha said.The DJB has initiated projects for the installation of flow meters and the setting up of a SCADA Centre, a high-tech monitoring system which allows the utility to detect where and how much water is being leaked or tapped.It intends to install about 3,200 flow meters for water auditing. A total of 3,192 flow meters have already been installed and their integration with the SCADA Centre is under progress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aap-leader-raghav-chadha-underlines-need-for-monitoring-water-leakages-101611070806487.html
19-01-2021||India||Sasikala to be released from jail on Jan 27, Palaniswami rules out her return||After meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Delhi on Tuesday, Tamil Nadu chief minister Edapaddi Palaniswami reiterated that there is no possibility of AIADMK’s former interim general secretary VK Sasikala returning to the party after her release.“There is no chance of her joining. She is not in the AIADMK party,” Palaniswami told reporters when asked about Sasikala’s release from prison on January 27.Palaniswami dismissed questions of whether the BJP wanted the AIADMK to take back Sasikala. Her supporters are with her nephew TTV Dhinakaran’s party - Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK).“There was no discussion on her... Most of the people across Tamil Nadu have come back to AIADMK. A few are with him (Dinakaran). Amma (Jayalalithaa) had kept him aside for a long time,” Palaniswami said.A few hours after the CM’s statement, the AIADMK government announced that on January 27, Palaniswami would inaugurate Jayalalithaa’s 79-crore memorial at Chennai’s Marina beach where she is laid to rest. Sasikala is expected to be released from Bengaluru Central Jail the same day.Sasikala’s lawyer Raja Senthoor Pandian on Tuesday said that he received an official communication from the Bengaluru prison authorities that she will be released in the ‘morning hours’ of January 27 as she completes her jail term and has paid the required ₹10-crore fine.Palaniswami is on a two-day visit to Delhi where he briefly held two meetings, with home minister Amit Shah on January 18 and one with PM Modi on January 19. Palaniswami said that they discussed Tamil Nadu’s developments and it was not political.Also read: Indo-Pacific region guided by norms an article of faith for India - Foreign SecyThe chief minister submitted a memorandum to PM Modi seeking the centre’s intervention and funds for 12 projects and schemes.“Palaniswami says in public that they didn’t discuss politics but he would have most likely met them to understand what is on their mind as the BJP’s state unit has no power to take any decision,” said political commentator Maalan Narayanan. “A section of the BJP’s high command would want a merger between the AIADMK and the AMMK, if possible, before the elections, hoping it would consolidate the votes against the DMK.”Though Sasikala has not contested politically, she has largely been a powerful behind-the-scenes operator. Following Jayalalithaa’s death, she briefly held the reins of the AIADMK and was set to become chief minister before O Paneerselvam revolted against her and she was subsequently convicted in the disproportionate assets case and sent to Bengaluru prison in 2017. Sasikala appointed Palaniswami as the chief minister before she left to prison. But Palaniswami joined hands with Paneerselvam, uniting the two factions of the AIADMK, and expelled Sasikala and Dhinakaran from the party. “Sasikala’s original support came from the Thevars community in the south-west Tamil Nadu and much of Dhinakaran’s votes come from this region,” said Narayanan. In 2019 parliamentary polls, Dhinakaran’s AMMK had a 4 per cent of vote share and it was primarily from this community. “AIADMK cadre belonging to that community want her (Sasikala) back to ensure they don’t lose out from this bloc,” Narayanan said, adding that Palaniswami inaugurating Jayalalithaa’s memorial on the same day as Sasikala’s likely release was to keep the flock of the entire cadre across caste lines together.A senior AIADMK minister, however, ruled out Sasikala's re-induction. “When public sentiment is also against Sasikala, it will affect the AIADMK if she is brought back,” the minister said. In the three years, the AIADMK has amended the party by-laws to prevent Sasikala’s re-entry. As per the new rule, only an active member for five years can hold a party post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sasikala-to-be-released-from-jail-on-jan-27-palaniswami-rules-out-her-return-101611074123315.html
19-01-2021||India||Congress falls back on Oommen Chandy to retrieve party prospects in Kerala||The All India Congress Committee (AICC) has named a ten-member jumbo committee under former Kerala chief minister Oommen Chandy to retrieve lost ground in the state and prepare the party ahead of the crucial assembly election which is due in three months.The party was forced to fall back on the 77-year-old reluctant leader after the high command felt that his “inactive role” and “indecisive attitude” of the present leadership affected the party’s prospects in the recent local body elections. Many allies and social organisations have also favoured his return to salvage the prospects of the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF).The first state to experiment with coalition politics five decades ago, the state has never given a second chance to the incumbent and tried both fronts, CPI (M)-led LDF and Congress-led UDF, alternately. But the recent local body results forced the overconfident party leadership to sit up and think.PCC president Mullapplly Ramachandran, opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala, AICC general secretaries K C Venugopal, Tariq Anwar, senior leaders Shashi Thaoor, K Muralidharan, Kodikunnil Suresh, V M Sudheeran and K Sudhakaran are members of the panel. They will devise a fresh poll strategy and oversee election preparations in the state, said the AICC statement.The party leadership had reportedly told three senior leaders (Chandy, Chennithala and Ramachandran) who were summoned to Delhi two days ago that winning the election was top priority and to give more importance to the party than factions. It also asked the state unit to field more youth and women in the election.It has also decided not to project a CM candidate now. Among five states that are going to the polls in April-May, Kerala is the crucial state for the party. In the last general election, the UDF had won 19 out of 20 Lok Sabha seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-falls-back-on-oommen-chandy-to-retrieve-party-prospects-in-kerala-101611070893097.html
19-01-2021||India||Indo-Pacific region guided by norms an article of faith for India: Foreign Secy||India, France and Japan have to work with like-minded countries to ensure the Indo-Pacific region remains open and peaceful even as they focus on economic resilience and post-Covid-19 recovery, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla said on Tuesday.“An Indo-Pacific guided by norms and governed by rules, with freedom of navigation, open connectivity, and respect for the territorial integrity and sovereignty of all states, is an article of faith for India,” Shringla told a workshop organised by the Observer Research Foundation and the embassies of France and Japan.Japanese ambassador Satoshi Suzuki, in his address, said his country perceives India as “the indispensable partner” in its efforts to achieve a free, open, and inclusive Indo-Pacific. He added this vision can’t be achieved by any single country, and requires collective efforts by like-minded states such as India and France with universal values such as freedom and inclusiveness.French envoy Emmanuel Lenain said the Covid-19 crisis was a “great accelerator of both opportunities and risks” and there had been a “rapid change in the balance of power, including unilateral policies by some countries”. He added, “All this creates uncertainties and triggers the risk of non-cooperative policies.”Against the backdrop of China’s assertive actions amid the Covid-19 pandemic, India has stepped up cooperation with its partners to oppose unilateral actions and protect the freedom of navigation and overflight across the Indo-Pacific. This includes cooperation through the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad and trilateral meetings involving Australia, France, Japan and the US.Shringla said India has mainstreamed the expression “Indo-Pacific” and encouraged others to “perceive and define the region in its full extent”. He added, “That is why countries such as Germany and Netherlands, physically distant but economic stakeholders in the Indo-Pacific, have released strategies for the region.”India’s Indo-Pacific strategy was outlined by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in a speech in Singapore in 2018 as the “SAGAR” doctrine or "Security and Growth for All in the Region”. Shringla said this depends on “securing end-to-end supply chains in the region, no disproportionate dependence on a single country, and ensuring prosperity for all stakeholder nations”.New Delhi also has the Indo-Pacific Oceans’ Initiative, which envisages building a rules-based architecture on seven pillars, including maritime security, disaster risk management, and trade connectivity, he said.Shringla also said India and France have a highly developed maritime security partnership, which includes the joint naval exercise Varuna and cooperation to enhance maritime domain awareness in the Indian Ocean. At the same time, India and Japan work together on maritime security, and recently signed an agreement on reciprocal provision of military supplies and services that will promote interoperability between their defence forces, he said.Lenain said a “strategic triangle” is being created between Paris, Tokyo and Delhi that is committed to a rules-based Indo-Pacific order, and the three countries stand as factors of stability and progress.Suzuki said the three countries should also seek a partnership with other like-minded states such as the members of the Association of South East Asian Nations (Asean) to build on efforts to ensure the region remains free and open.“As the challenges in (maritime security and digital connectivity) go beyond geographical boundaries, international cooperation is essential, and region-wide trilateral cooperation should make a difference,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indopacific-region-guided-by-norms-an-article-of-faith-for-india-foreign-secy-101611070658919.html
19-01-2021||India||Assam Congress to join hands with AIUDF, AGM, 3 Left parties for assembly polls||Ending months of speculation, Congress on Tuesday announced that the party would have a pre-poll alliance with the All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) for the coming assembly polls in Assam.Newly-formed Anchalik Gana Morcha (AGM) of journalist-turned-politician and Rajya Sabha MP Ajit Kumar Bhuyan and three Left parties, CPI, CPI-M and CPI-ML, will also be part of this pre-poll tie up.Leaders of the six parties announced formation of this alliance at a press meet in Guwahati in presence of Congress observers for Assam polls, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel and senior party leader Mukul Wasnik.“I am thankful to all the parties who came together to form this alliance without any pre-condition just with the aim to save Assam’s culture and identity from the divisive politics of BJP. Our alliance is confident of a win in the assembly polls,” said Jitendra Singh, Congress in-charge for Assam.Assembly polls in Assam are due in April-May and tenure of the present 126-member House expires on May 31.This is the first time Congress and AIUDF, both opposition parties in Assam, have officially announced a pre-poll alliance. In 2016, both parties were said to have a secret understanding on seats.Congress had 20 seats in the assembly while AIUDF has 14. None of the other parties that joined the alliance have seats in the 126-member House.“We have come together to oust the ruling BJP, which has completely destroyed Assam in the past five years. We are confident that our alliance of six parties would be able to overthrow it from power,” Mohammed Aminul Islam, organizational secretary of AIUDF said.Formed in 2005 by perfume baron Badruddin Ajmal, AIUDF has significant hold among the Muslim settlers from erstwhile East Pakistan (present Bangladesh). The party won 10 seats in 2006 and got 18 in 2011.“We are hopeful that in coming days other political parties in the state would also join our alliance. Today is the beginning of the end of BJP’s misrule in Assam,” said Rubul Sarma, state secretary of CPI-ML.The Congress-led alliance would have to take on the BJP-led front which has Asom Gana Parishad and the United People’s Party Liberal (UPPL). Two newly formed regional outfits, Assam Jatiya Parishad and Raijor Dal, are likely to announce a tie-up soon.“The three Cs-Congress, communists and communal (AIUDF)-coming together is an unholy alliance. Congress and AIUDF had secret understandings in previous polls and voters in Assam rejected them. This time too, with them having an official alliance, voters will repose faith in us,” said BJP spokesperson Roopam Goswami.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-congress-to-join-hands-with-aiudf-agm-3-left-parties-for-assembly-polls-101611070237381.html
19-01-2021||India||India strongly condemns attacks on UN peacekeepers in Central African Republic||India on Tuesday strongly condemned the recent attacks on UN peacekeepers in the Central African Republic that resulted in the death of two peacekeepers.In a statement, the Ministry of External Affairs said India strongly condemns the attack on peacekeepers of MINUSCA in the Central African Republic that has resulted in the death of a peacekeeper from Rwanda on January 13 and one from Burundi on January 15."We also remember the three Burundian MINUSCA peacekeepers who had laid down their lives on December 25 last year," the MEA said."We extend our deepest condolences to the bereaved families of the peacekeepers from Rwanda and Burundi, and also wish for the speedy recovery of the injured," it said.At least one peacekeeper was killed and two were injured in two successive attacks by armed rebels near the town of Grimari in Central African Republic.Members from a coalition of armed rebels staged the attacks on Friday while peacekeepers from both Burundi and Bangladesh were carrying out a security operation around Grimari, more than 200 kilometres northeast of the capital, Bangui.The Burundian peacekeeper was killed in the second ambush, and two Bangladeshi peacekeepers were injured during the attacks and are receiving treatment, the UN mission in Central African Republic, known as MINUSCA, said in a statement.On Wednesday, security forces repelled attacks by rebels trying to seize Bangui, after intense fighting on the city's outskirts in a major escalation of violence that has rocked the country since last month. At least one Rwandan peacekeeper was killed and another injured, said the United Nations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-strongly-condemns-attacks-on-un-peacekeepers-in-central-african-republic-101611070211986.html
19-01-2021||India||India 'deeply honoured' to meet the world's healthcare needs: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday reiterated India's commitment towards helping the world meet its healthcare needs while announcing that several countries will receive vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) from Wednesday. “India is deeply honoured to be a long-trusted partner in meeting the healthcare needs of the global community. Supplies of Covid vaccines to several countries will commence tomorrow, and more will follow in the days ahead,” PM Modi tweeted using the hashtag VaccineMaitri.Bhutan, the Maldives and Bangladesh will be among the first countries in the neighbourhood to receive Covid-19 vaccines from India as grant assistance, with supplies of millions of doses to six nations set to begin on Wednesday. India will send 100,000 doses of the Covishield vaccine to the Maldives on Wednesday under emergency use approvals to vaccinate frontline and health workers and senior citizens, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. A consignment of vaccines is also expected to reach Bhutan on Wednesday, they added.The ministry of external affairs in a statement said that India will continue to supply vaccines to neighbouring countries in a phased manner over the next few months and remains committed to helping the world fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. “In keeping with India’s stated commitment to use India’s vaccine production and delivery capacity to help all of humanity fight the Covid pandemic, supplies under grant assistance to Bhutan, Maldives, Bangladesh, Nepal, Myanmar and Seychelles will begin from 20 January 2021,” the statement said.PM Modi had on Monday assured leaders of Sri Lanka and the Maldives that India remains committed to helping its neighbours and the world at large in fighting against the pandemic. While replying to a tweet addressed to him by Sri Lankan president Gotabaya Rajapaksa, the Prime Minister said that India will fulfil the promises it had made under its ‘Neighbourhood First’ policy. The Sri Lankan president had congratulated PM Modi on India’s successful launch of the Covid-19 vaccination drive.Modi said, “Thank you, President @GotabayaR. We will continue to give due importance to our Neighborhood First policy while collectively fighting the pandemic.”Modi also thanked Maldives president Ibrahim Solih and said that the vaccines developed in India will help in humanity fight against the pandemic which has taken over 2 million lives across the planet.PM Modi has several times assured neighbours and friendly countries that India will live up to its reputation of being the ‘pharmacy of the world’. During his address to the United Nations General Assembly in September last year, the Prime Minister said that India’s vaccine production capability, cold storage chains and distribution systems will be used to ensure equitable distribution of vaccines.Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan said on Monday that India remains committed to equitable distribution of vaccines while addressing the World Health Organization’s (WHO's) executive board session. He said vaccines have brought a ray of hope and now governments across the world have to ensure that the ray of hope reaches everyone.India had extended support to several nations in the early days of the pandemic in 2020 and also supplied hydroxychloroquine and paracetamol tablets to the United States and Brazil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-deeply-honoured-to-meet-the-world-s-healthcare-needs-pm-modi-101611069212619.html
19-01-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Sajad Lone withdraws from Gupkar Alliance and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Sajad Lone withdraws from Gupkar Alliance three months after its formationLess than three months after the Peoples’ Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), an amalgam of Jammu and Kashmir’s mainstream parties demanding restoration of Article 370 was formed ,it received a jolt on Tuesday with Sajad Lone deciding to withdraw his Peoples’ Conference from the group. Read moreMaldives, Bangladesh to be among first to get Covid-19 vaccines from IndiaBhutan, the Maldives and Bangladesh will be among the first countries in the neighbourhood to receive Covid-19 vaccines from India as grant assistance, with supplies of millions of doses to six nations set to begin on Wednesday. Read moreHealthcare workers of Andaman & Nicobar Command get Covid-19 vaccine jabsThe first phase of the nationwide vaccination campaign against Covid-19 rolled out in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands on Tuesday, with the first set of healthcare workers (HCWs) of India’s only tri-service command –the Andaman and Nicobar Command --- getting vaccine jabs to protect them from the disease, a defence ministry spokesperson said. Read moreFrom Neera Tanden to Vivek Murthy: Indian Americans in Biden's administrationUS president-elect Joe Biden has nominated or named several Indian Americans, including quite a few women, for key posts in his administration. Biden had indicated during the campaign that he would rope in a large number of Indian Americans. Read moreIndia squad for first two England Tests: Kohli, Ishant, Hardik return, Shaw axedThe Board of Control for Cricket in India's senior selection committee on Tuesday announced the squad for the first two Test matches against England. Regular captain Virat Kohli returned to the squad after missing out the last three Test matches in Australia as he was on paternity leave. Read moreMi 10i Review: Good looks, reliable performance, and moreSmartphone companies do not seem to be much interested in the ₹20,000- ₹30,000 segment for reasons best known to them. Unlike the budget and premium segments, this space sees less action. Read moreTandav creator Ali Abbas Zafar says changes will be implemented to controversial scenes, thanks I&B MinistryAli Abbas Zafar, creator and director of the controversial web series Tandav, has issued a statement announcing that changes will be made to the show, after a certain section of the audience alleged that it was disrespectful towards Hindu deities. Read moreAlgerian photographer captures mesmerising ‘frost paintings’ over sand-dunes, wows netizensAfter hearing the word desert, the first image to pop up in one’s mind is probably miles and miles of sand-dunes. If you also had a similar thought, let these series of images taken by Algerian photographer Karim Bouchetata astonish you. Read moreWatch: Punjab artist paints Joe Biden & Kamala Harris portraits ahead of oath takingA Punjab artist painted portraits of US President-elect Joe Biden and VP-elect Kamala Harris on the eve of their inauguration. Jagjot Singh Rubal painted the portraits as a gift to the leaders on their swearing-in. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-sajad-lone-withdraws-from-gupkar-alliance-101611068470649.html
19-01-2021||India||Epicaricacy: Shashi Tharoor's word of the day is tongue-in-cheek response to ex-Australia cricketers||On a day when the country was elated after the historic win by the Indian team over Australia in the Test series, Congress leader Shashi Tharoor shared his word of the day on Twitter to respond to former players from Down Under. Tharoor shared the word epicaricacy along with an image of former cricketers who had predicted India’s defeat.“#WordIfTheDay: epicaricacy! I am not the gloating kind but there’s a special pleasure in reading these comments today... When everything else has been said,what remains but “wow”?! #IndvsAus,” Tharoor tweeted. He also shared a graphic of four former Australian cricketers Michael Clarke, Ricky Ponting, Brad Haddin and Mark Waugh and former English cricketer Michael Vaughan along with the text of what they said about how India would not win the Test match series against Australia.#WordIfTheDay: epicaricacy! I am not the gloating kind but there’s a special pleasure in reading these comments today... When everything else has been said,what remains but “wow”?! #IndvsAus pic.twitter.com/ZauqQ2DMP9Tharoor also didn’t spare the explanation of his word-of-the-day to his followers. In a response to his initial tweet, he wrote “epicaricacy is taking pleasure (usually malicious) in the misfortunes of others,” explaining the word.Even as Twitter was abuzz with reactions with wishes pouring in from all corners for Team India, this was not the tweet from Tharoor on the topic. A few minutes later, he shared another similar graphic of the same former Australian players. The graphic showed former Australian captain Clarke with the quote “India can celebrate for a year if they can beat Australia without Virat [Kohli].” Tharoor replied to this saying “Yes, Michael Clarke is right -- let's celebrate for a year... starting with hammering the English from next month!”Also read: India claim top-spot in WTC standingsThe Congress leader is known for often amusing and entertaining his Twitter followers with interesting words such as the one that he shared on Tuesday. However, it was not the first time Tharoor used the word epicaricacy. Earlier in 2018, in a much troubling time for him personally, he used the word to announce that he would be staying off Twitter for a while because of public reactions about the death of his wife Sunanda Pushkar.Staying off @Twitter for a while -- one encounters too much epicaricacy! pic.twitter.com/znaj8vUl0R||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tharoors-word-of-the-day-is-tongue-in-cheek-response-to-ex-australia-cricketers-101611068387430.html
19-01-2021||India||Man rapes friend’s minor daughter, tries to bury her alive in Madhya Pradesh||A 36-year-old man raped his friend’s 14-year-old daughter and then tried to bury her alive in an agricultural field in Betul district of Madhya Pradesh, police said Tuesday.The girl was found buried under stone slabs late Monday light in an unconscious state. She was rushed to a nearby hospital from where she was referred to Nagpur in a serious condition, said Simala Prasad, superintendent of police, Betul.Police arrested Sushil Verma, a resident of the victim’s village on Tuesday under section 376 (rape) and 307 (attempt to murder) of IPC and under the relevant section of Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (POCSO)."The victim's father told police that Sushil was a friend of his and was a regular visitor to their house. The girl used to call him uncle,” said the SP“The girl had gone to the family’s agricultural field to switch off a water pump when Sushil, who was working in a nearby field, dragged her and raped her. The accused also beat her up and hit her head with a stone. Sushil buried the girl alive under stone slabs to kill her,” Prasad said.The officer said the girl’s family began searching for her after she failed to return home.“In the night, the family members saw footprints near the agriculture field. When they followed the footprints, they found the girl buried under stone slabs,” said the SP.“The girl’s statement was recorded at the hospital where she named Sushil as the culprit. Police arrested Sushil who confessed his crime,” said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-rapes-friend-s-minor-daughter-tries-to-bury-her-alive-in-madhya-pradesh-101611068829619.html
19-01-2021||India||Sajad Lone quits Gupkar Alliance 3 months after its formation||Less than three months after the Peoples’ Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), an amalgam of Jammu and Kashmir’s mainstream parties demanding restoration of Article 370 was formed ,it received a jolt on Tuesday with Sajad Lone deciding to withdraw his Peoples’ Conference from the group.The six parties in the PAGD had recently fought district development council (DDC) polls together.Lone wrote to PAGD chairperson and National Conference president Farooq Abdullah saying that the party decided to part ways over the issue of fielding proxy candidates by constituent parties against the officially mandated candidates of the alliance during DDC elections.“No party is willing to cede space; no party is willing to sacrifice. We fought against each other in Kashmir province not against the perpetrators of August 5 (2019). And those who perpetrated August 5 and their minions are now vocally gleeful. It is difficult for us to stay on and pretend as if nothing has happened,” Lone wrote.“Trust between allying partners who have been rivals all along can be very elusive and extremely fragile. Proxies have made it perpetually elusive. This alliance needed sacrifice,” he said.The PAGD was formed on October 20, 2020 after six political parties, some of them rivals – National Conference, Peoples Democratic Party, CPI(M), Awami National Conference, Peoples’ Conference and Peoples’ Movement came together to fight for the restoration of special status of Jammu and Kashmir under Article 370.that was revoked on August 5, 2019.The alliance fought the District Development Council polls jointly on individual party symbols, which was held in November-December and won an impressive 110 seats of the total 280 constituencies.Lone alleged that in a majority of the places where the party fielded candidates on behalf of PAGD, it was either left to fend for itself or other parties compounded the problem by fielding proxy candidates.“DDC elections per se may not matter institutionally. But… it was less of an election and more of an opportunity to send a strong unanimous political message,” he said.Lone said apart from the number of seats that PAGD won, another important statistical variable in the context of August 5 was the number of votes polled against the PAGD.“We believe that the votes polled against the PAGD are majorly the votes cast by proxies of PAGD constituent parties against official PAGD candidates. And the net outcome of selectively voting for and against PAGD is a very poor vote share. This is certainly not the vote share that people of J and K deserved post August 5,” he said.Lone, however, said that they would continue to support the alliance on the objective for which it was formed.“I would however want to add that we are divorcing from the alliance not its objectives… And the PAGD leadership should be assured that we will extend support on all issues which fall within the ambit of stated objectives. We have issued clear instructions to all party leaders not to issue any statements against PAGD alliance or its leaders,” he said.Sources said Lone was under pressure from two senior leaders of Peoples Conference, vice president Abdul Gani Vakil and party general secretary, Imran Reza Ansari to quit the alliance as this was suicidal for the party, especially in the areas of north Kashmir where the party has a strong presence. Ansari had recently written to Lone asking him to end the alliance for the party’s benefit.Sources said the party was also angry as the National Conference leaders have started meeting Lt Governor Manoj Sinha and for not holding any meeting of the PAGD especially after they won 110 seats. Lone was the spokesman of the alliance.Peoples Conference spokesman Adnan Ashraf said the party quit the alliance to survive. "Many of our party leaders were against this alliance from day one. Also we contested elections on our own and no alliance was visible on the ground. So our party decided to part ways.”NC spokesman Imran Nabi Dar termed the resignation of Sajjad Lone from PAGD unfortunate. "It’s unfortunate and a loss to PAGD. I am sure Farooq Abdullah who is chairman PAGD will meet other leaders of the alliance to devise the future course of action."The PDP declined to comment on Lone’s letter.BJP’s J&K spokesman Altaf Thakur said it was an alliance of self-interested politicians. "They had promised that they will restore Article 370 if they will win and now they know that it can’t happen so the alliance has broken as parties want to save their credibility for future."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sajad-lone-quits-gupkar-alliance-3-months-after-its-formation-101611067368002.html
19-01-2021||India||Need to modernise Ayurveda knowledge, spread information in Hindi: Rajasthan Guv||Rajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra has emphasised the need for modernising Ayurveda knowledge available in the Charaka Samhita, Sushruta Samhita and Kashyapa Samhita and the need to spread the information in Hindi.He said that important research is being conducted in many countries on the herbs used in Ayurvedic systems and it has been found to be effective in complex diseases.Addressing the fourth convocation ceremony of Dr Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan Rajasthan Ayurved University of Jodhpur virtually on Tuesday, the governor said that AYUSH practices have also drawn the attention of the World Health Organization (WHO).He said that in Ayurveda, there is important mention about the treatment of heart and all other diseases.Mishra said the traditional Indian lifestyle and Ayurveda system of medicine have played a very important role in the difficult circumstances amid the coronavirus pandemic.He suggested that Panchakarma and Yoga among other disciplines of Ayurveda should be developed under a planned strategy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-to-modernise-ayurveda-knowledge-spread-information-in-hindi-rajasthan-guv-101611061304161.html
19-01-2021||India||Nasal vaccine candidate against Covid-19 could be a game-changer: Dr VK Paul||The Central government on Tuesday said that a nasal vaccine candidate against Covid-19 has been identified that could be a game-changer."A nasal vaccine candidate has been identified. It has come for consideration for phase 1 and phase 2 trials. If it works then it could be a game-changer," said Dr VK Paul, Member, NITI (National Institution for Transforming India) Aayog.He also called upon people to end vaccine hesitancy as India was in a comfortable situation, assuring that both the vaccines against Covid-19 were safe."We would like to reassure everyone with the data we have seen that the two Covid-19 vaccines are safe. The vaccine hesitancy should end. How will we defeat the pandemic then?" Paul added.Paul further requested the doctors and nurses to accept the vaccine.He said, "We are not fulfilling our societal responsibility if a vaccine assigned to you is not being taken. The whole world is clamouring for the vaccine. I request the doctors and nurses to accept the vaccine."The health ministry had earlier said that 580 adverse events following immunization (AEFIs) were reported till Monday.The concerns about adverse effects and serious problems, as of now, seem to be insignificant, Paul said. Data show that we are in a comfortable situation and we would like to reassure you that the two Covid-19vaccines are safe, he added.A total of 4,54,049 people have been vaccinated till January 19, the Health Ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nasal-vaccine-candidate-against-covid-19-could-be-a-game-changer-dr-vk-paul-101611065568300.html
19-01-2021||India||Maldives, Bangladesh to be among first to get Covid-19 vaccines from India||Bhutan, the Maldives and Bangladesh will be among the first countries in the neighbourhood to receive Covid-19 vaccines from India as grant assistance, with supplies of millions of doses to six nations set to begin on Wednesday.People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that 100,000 doses of Covishield vaccine will be sent to the Maldives on Wednesday under emergency use approvals to vaccinate frontline and health workers and senior citizens. Another consignment of 150,000 doses of Covishield will reach Bhutan on Wednesday.Bangladesh’s foreign ministry said on its Facebook page the country will receive two million doses of Covishield, the Oxford-Astrazeneca vaccine, from India as a “gift”. It said: “A special flight of India carrying the consignment will land at Hazrat Shahjalal International Airport in Dhaka [on January 21].”The external affairs ministry said supplies under grant assistance to Bhutan, the Maldives, Bangladesh, Nepal, Myanmar and Seychelles will begin from Wednesday in line with India’s commitment to use its vaccine production and delivery capacity to help the world fight Covid-19.The ministry said there were also plans to provide vaccines to Sri Lanka, Afghanistan and Mauritius after "confirmation of necessary regulatory clearances”.“It will be ensured that domestic manufacturers will have adequate stocks to meet domestic requirements while supplying abroad,” it added.Also read: China gives no return date for Indian students stranded homeAlongside the supply of vaccines, a training programme covering administrative and operational aspects is being conducted on January 19 and 20 for immunisation managers, cold chain and communications officers and data managers of recipient countries.The only country in the region unlikely to be an immediate beneficiary of India’s efforts is Pakistan, which has not made any formal request for vaccines.Bangladesh’s ruling Awami League party said on Twitter the two million doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine would be in addition to 30 million doses that the government had a deal for with the Serum Institute of India in November.Since Maldives has a population of about 500,000, India’s grant will cover the vaccination of a significant percentage of the population. In addition, the Maldives plans to buy 300,000 doses from Serum Institute at commercial rates.India’s grants are part of plans to provide up to 10 million doses of both Covidshield and Covaxin, the vaccine made by Bharat Biotech, to friendly countries, the people cited above said.Also read: 'Past views by members cannot be ground to discredit a committee' - SCBangladesh, Bhutan and the Maldives are among the countries in the region that have the closest ties with India and have benefited from connectivity and development projects worth hundreds of millions of dollars in the past few months.Decisions on government-to-government sales and commercial sales will take more time as the government is engaged in a complex exercise focused on vaccine production, domestic requirements to vaccinate 270 million people by August, and factors such as commitments to Gavi or the Vaccine Alliance.The Serum Institute has an agreement to supply 200 million doses to Covax, a facility coordinated by Gavi and the World Health Organisation (WHO) to provide vaccines to lower-income countries.“Keeping in view the domestic requirements of the phased rollout [of the immunisation programme], India will continue to supply Covid-19 vaccines to partner countries over the coming weeks and months in a phased manner,” the external affairs ministry said.India will also “continue to supply countries all over the world with vaccines” and this will be “calibrated against domestic requirements and international demand and obligations, including under Gavi’s Covax facility,” it added.Also read: Tandav creator says changes will be implemented to controversial scenesOn Monday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi referred to his government’s plans to help the neighbourhood and other regions in replies to tweets from Sri Lanka President Gotabaya Rajapaksa and Maldivian President Ibrahim Solih who congratulated India on the rollout of the world’s largest vaccination programme.“We will continue to give due importance to our 'Neighbourhood First' policy while collectively fighting the pandemic,” PM Modi tweeted.Officials have repeatedly said the neighbourhood will get priority in the provision of vaccines as grant assistance, as was the case in the supply of hydroxychloroquine to numerous countries amid the pandemic last year.India earlier supplied hydroxychloroquine, Remdesivir, paracetamol tablets, diagnostic kits, ventilators and medical supplies to several countries during the pandemic. It helped train personnel in neighbouring countries to enhance their clinical capabilities under the Partnerships for Accelerating Clinical Trials (PACT) programme.Former ambassador Rajiv Bhatia, distinguished fellow for foreign policy studies at Gateway House, said, “This decision is a manifestation of the Modi government’s policy of ‘Neighbourhood First’. Clearly, as the needs of our own people begin to be met, the first people we think of are our close neighbours.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maldives-bangladesh-to-be-among-first-to-get-covid-19-vaccines-from-india-101611065327104.html
19-01-2021||India||Healthcare workers of Andaman & Nicobar Command get Covid-19 vaccine jabs||The first phase of the nationwide vaccination campaign against Covid-19 rolled out in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands on Tuesday, with the first set of healthcare workers (HCWs) of India’s only tri-service command –the Andaman and Nicobar Command --- getting vaccine jabs to protect them from the disease, a defence ministry spokesperson said.The exercise was carried out at the naval hospital Dhanvantari. The senior health officer and 36 HCWs were vaccinated.“All frontline workers of the Command (based in Port Blair) will be vaccinated subsequently in a phased manner. A total of 370 doses of the vaccine for the first phase have been received from the Directorate of Health Services, Andaman & Nicobar Administration,” he said. The commander-in-chief of the Andaman and Nicobar Command (CINCAN) Lieutenant General Manoj Pande inaugurated the vaccination drive.A defence ministry release quoted him as saying that the vaccination drive would not ensure the availability of a “fighting-fit” and “operation-ready” command but would also contribute to the global effort towards controlling the pandemic. He asked personnel not to believe in rumours surrounding the vaccine and trust experts.The armed forces on January 16 kicked off the first phase of the Covid-19 vaccine drive at multiple locations across the country including Ladakh, Delhi, Mumbai and Visakhapatnam where thousands of Covid warriors including military doctors, nurses and paramedics were vaccinated.In the army alone, a total of 3,129 HCWs were vaccinated on the first day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/healthcare-workers-of-andaman-nicobar-command-get-covid-19-vaccine-jabs-101611063583420.html
19-01-2021||India||Freezing cold in Himachal, Keylong records minus 8.9 degrees celsius||Keylong and Kalpa in Himachal Pradesh reeled under sub-zero temperatures on Tuesday, the Meteorological Department here said.Keylong, the administrative centre of tribal Lahaul and Spiti district, continued to be the coldest place in the state at minus 8.8 degrees Celsius, Shimla MeT centre director Manmohan Singh said.Kalpa recorded a low of minus 2.8 degrees Celsius, he added.The minimum temperature in Manali, Kufri and Dalhousie was recorded at 0.4, 2.1 and 4.1 degrees Celsius, respectively.Shimla registered a low of 5.3 degrees Celsius, Singh said.The highest temperature in the state was recorded in Bilaspur at 23.5 degrees Celsius.The MeT centre predicted dry weather in the state till January 22.A fresh western disturbance is very likely to affect Western Himalayan Region from January 23 and it may cause scattered to fairly widespread rain, snow over the state, Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/freezing-cold-in-himachal-keylong-records-minus-8-9-degrees-celsius-101611061901238.html
19-01-2021||India||Subsidy stopped, prices of food served in Parliament canteens to go up||Food served in Parliament canteens for MPs and others will become costlier as a subsidy given for it has been stopped, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla said on Tuesday.While Birla did not specify the financial implications of the move, sources said the Lok Sabha Secretariat can annually save more than ₹8 crore with the subsidy coming to an end.Talking to reporters about preparations for the next Parliament session, beginning January 29, Birla also said the Parliament canteens will now be run by ITDC in place of Northern Railways.Birla said all Members of Parliament will be requested to undergo the COVID-19 test before the start of the Budget session.While Rajya Sabha will sit from 9 am to 2 pm, Lok Sabha will function in the second half from 4-8 pm. The Question Hour will be allowed during the session for an already fixed time of one hour.He said all arrangements have also been made for RTPCR COVID-19 tests of MPs near their residence.In Parliament premises, the RTPCR tests will be conducted on January 27-28, while arrangements have also been made for these tests of families and staff members of MPs.Birla said the vaccination drive policy finalised by the Centre and states will apply to parliamentarians as well. PTI JTR BJ BJ||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/subsidy-stopped-prices-of-food-served-in-parliament-canteens-to-go-up-101611063987971.html
19-01-2021||India||Amit Shah to chair 69th plenary session of North Eastern council on Jan 23, 24||Union Home Minister Amit Shah will chair the 69th Plenary Session of North Eastern Council in Shillong, Meghalaya on January 23 and 24.The meeting will be attended by Dr Jitender Singh, Minister of State (MoS) for Development of North Eastern Region, Governors and Chief Ministers of eight north-eastern states, according to a an official statement of Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions."Senior officials from the states and key ministries of the Government of India are also expected to be present on the occasion," the release stated.Dr. Jitender Singh today held a meeting with senior officers of Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER) and North Eastern Council (NEC) in New Delhi to review the preparedness and modalities for the 69th Plenary Session of NEC at Shillong.During the two-day session, there will be presentations from the Ministry of DoNER, NEC, the state governments as well as selected central ministries on various developmental initiatives and future plans for the North East Region.According to the statement, the Plenary is expected to deliberate on the progress of ongoing projects, confirmation of the proceedings of the 68th Plenary meeting, outlays by central ministries in the North Eastern Region and plans for the period beyond March 2021 during the term of the Fifteenth Finance Commission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-to-chair-69th-plenary-session-of-north-eastern-council-on-jan-23-24-101611062118158.html
19-01-2021||India||Railway officials bribery case: CBI recover ₹2.04 cr from Delhi hotel||The CBI has seized an additional ₹2.04 crore hidden in a private hotel in South Delhi by the executives of ABCI Infrastructure Pvt Ltd, accused in a bribery case involving senior officials of Northeast Frontier Railways, officials said Tuesday. The agency had arrested Chief Administrative Officer MS Chauhan of NFR and other senior officials in the case involving a bribe amount of ₹1 crore, they said.So far, ₹4.43 crore (approx) have been recovered, the CBI said."It was found during further searches at the premises of a private firm (allegedly involved in the said case) located at Kailash Colony, New Delhi that certain items were removed and concealed at another place in Delhi."After a thorough search, Rs. 2.04 crore (approx.) cash along with other items were seized from the said place for further investigation," CBI Spokesperson RC Joshi said in a statement.During earlier searches at 26 locations, including Delhi, Uttrakhand, Assam, Tripura and West Bengal, a total amount of Rs. 2.39 crore (approx) was recovered, he said."This includes an alleged bribe of Rs. one crore, which exchanged hands and is stated to be one of the biggest bribe money trapped."Besides this, jewellery and property documents were recovered from the locations of the accused. Thus, so far, Rs. 4.43 crore (approx.) have been recovered," the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railway-officials-bribery-case-cbi-recover-rs-2-04-cr-from-delhi-hotel-101611061831356.html
19-01-2021||India||'Habitual offender': Centre, Haryana blame Delhi for polluting Yamuna||The Centre and the Haryana government on Tuesday pinned the blame for the high level of pollution in the Yamuna on the Aam Aadmi Party-led Delhi government, with Haryana telling the Supreme Court that the state had released unpolluted water into the river and the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) describing the Delhi government as a “habitual offender".All this boiled down to amicus curiae Meenakshi Arora who suggested the Court to call for a report from the Yamuna Monitoring Committee (YMC) working under the National Green Tribunal (NGT) since 2018 to get a clear picture on the shortfalls in implementing steps to keep the river clean.On January 13, the Court had initiated suo moto proceedings on the drop in quality of Yamuna river, seeking responses from Centre, the CPCB, Delhi government and states of Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh. On that day, a petition filed by the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) pointed out alarming levels of ammonia in Yamuna, way beyond the permissible limits of 0.5 ppm. If the ammonia level exceeds 0.9 ppm, the water treatment plants in Delhi are not in a position to treat the water. The DJB requested the Court to direct Haryana government not to release ammonia and other pollutants into the water and squarely blamed the non-functional sewage treatment plants in Haryana for the increase in ammonia content in the river.Senior advocate Shyam Divan who represented Haryana informed the Court that the fault was not at their end and contradicted the version given by the DJB. Divan said, “We supply unpolluted water. This projection about ammonia pollution in water is not at our end. The problem is happening not in Haryana, but in Delhi.”The 3-judge bench of Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde, Justices L Nageswara Rao and Vineet Saran allowed two weeks for Haryana to file its response. The statement by Haryana found concurrence from the Centre as well.Also read: China gives no return date for Indian students stranded homeAdditional Solicitor General (ASG) Aishwarya Bhati representing the Centre as well as CPCB said, “The affidavit by the CPCB is getting ready. The figures give out a stark picture. Delhi is a habitual offender as far as pollution in river Yamuna is concerned.” The Court also allowed CPCB two weeks to prepare its report as per the last order by identifying the municipalities along the stretch of the river which are yet to install sewage treatment plants (STP) or common effluent treatment plants.Amicus curiae Meenakshi Arora informed the Court that since 2018, the NGT had entrusted the Yamuna Monitoring Committee to monitor pollution in the river. She requested the Court to seek a report on the steps carried out so far by the two-member Committee comprising former Delhi Chief Secretary Shailaja Chandra and former Expert Member of NGT, BS Sajawan.The bench said, “We direct the Yamuna Monitoring Committee to submit its report regarding recommendations made for improvement of water in Yamuna and the extent to which its recommendations were implemented.”Interestingly, this is the second time the apex court is suo moto examining pollution in river Yamuna. In July 1994, the Court took suo moto notice of an HT report, 'And Quiet Flows the Maily Yamuna', monitored it for 23 years, and transferred it to the NGT on April 24, 2017, to monitor further progress.The Delhi government was also represented by senior advocate Mohan Katarki. He pointed out that in the suo moto proceedings, two other states – Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh - also need to be added.Ironically, on a day when the states sparred in the top court over ammonia pollution in the Yamuna, Arora pointed out that as on January 18, water quality was “excellent” with ammonia level dropping to as low as 0.3 ppm. She said, “Where there is a will, there is a way. The Court may observe that low level of ammonia concentration should be maintained.” On December 25 last year, ammonia concentration peaked to 13 ppm as against the permissible limit of 0.5 ppm.The DJB had stated on the last occasion that due to high ammonia content, its water treatment plants at Chandrawal, Wazirabad and Okhla functioned at nearly 50 per cent capacity. It had even accused Haryana of supplying less water than its promised share of 450 cusecs at Wazirabad. Divan, appearing for Haryana, denied the charges and said, “This petition is not maintainable. We are supplying far more water than the projected share.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-haryana-blame-delhi-for-polluting-yamuna-101611062848725.html
19-01-2021||India||1000 doses of Covishield vaccine found frozen in Assam; probe ordered||The Assam health department has ordered a probe after 100 vials containing 1000 doses of Covid-19 vaccine Covishield were found in frozen condition in Sircar Medical College Hospital (SMCH).According to reports, the vaccine doses could have frozen due to malfunctioning of the cold chain storage at SMCH, the premier medical institution in Assam’s Barak Valley region.“We have got reports that the doses froze. It could be due to a problem in storage. The exact reason for that would be known only after a thorough probe, which has been ordered,” said Munindra Nath Ngatey, director, health services (family welfare).He added that the frozen doses would be sent for laboratory tests to know about their efficacy. Action could also be initiated against senior administrative staff for any negligence on their part.According to officials, Covishield and Covaxin, the two vaccines rolled out as part of the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive on Saturday needs to be stored at temperatures of 2-8 degrees Celsius.Assam had received 221,500 doses of vaccines-201,500 of them Covishield and 20,000 Covaxin-of the total 380,000 doses needed to vaccinate 190,000 health workers in the first stage.Till Monday, 5,542 people including doctors, nurses, hospital staff, lab technicians and ambulance drivers had got vaccinated across the state. No serious adverse impact following immunization (AEFI) was detected in the recipients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1000-doses-of-covishield-vaccine-found-frozen-in-assam-probe-ordered-101611062312397.html
19-01-2021||India||India to start Covid-19 vaccine exports as soon as this week: Officials||India, one of the world's biggest drugmakers, will start exports of Covid-19 vaccines as early as Wednesday, government sources said, paving the way for many mid- and lower-income countries to secure supplies of the easy-to-store Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine.The first batch of exports will be shipped to the tiny nation of Bhutan, said the officials, who asked not to be named as no formal announcement has yet been made in India.Two million doses of the Covishield vaccine, developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University and manufactured by Serum Institute of India (SII), will also be despatched to Bangladesh on Thursday, said the officials briefed on the plans.Bangladesh's foreign ministry confirmed the plan, saying a special flight from India carrying the first consignment will land in Dhaka on Thursday."Bangladesh will receive 2 million doses of Oxford-Astrazenca Covid-19 vaccines from India as a gift on Jan. 21," it said in a statement.SII, the world's largest maker of vaccines, did not immediately respond to a request for comment.Last week SII told Reuters it soon expected emergency use authorisation from the World Health Organization (WHO) for the Oxford/AstraZeneca shot, which it has been licensed to make for dozens of low- and middle-income countries.That would pave the way for SII to begin supplies to the WHO-backed COVAX initiative aimed at fairly distributing Covid-19 shots across the world.The Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine, which can be stored at refrigerator temperature, is widely viewed as a more viable option for many poorer nations than shots from Pfizer and Moderna which need to be stored at very low temperatures.India has received requests from dozens of nations, including urgent appeals from Brazil, to begin exports of the vaccine from the SII centre in the western city of Pune.Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government, however, wanted to roll out the vaccination drive at home before launching exports, one of the sources said.India began giving shots of the Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine, as well as another developed by Bharat Biotech, to health workers on Saturday.The country plans to start exporting Bharat Biotech's vaccine at a later stage.Another source said landlocked Bhutan would get its Oxford/AstraZeneca shots free. "We will begin from tomorrow, other neighbouring countries will follow soon," the source said.Sri Lanka, Nepal, Myanmar and the Maldives have all made requests for early delivery of vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-start-covid-19-vaccine-exports-as-soon-as-this-week-officials-101611062192842.html
19-01-2021||India||Employees protest at Trivandrum airport against takeover by Adani Group||Employees of the International airport here raised slogans and protested in front of the office of the Director on Tuesday against the takeover of the airport by the Adani Group.The protest was held hours after the Adani Group signed concession agreements at Delhi on Tuesday with the Airports Authority of India (AAI) for the management, operations and development of the Thiruvananthapuram, Guwahati, Jaipur airports.The employees said their Special Leave Petition is pending in the Supreme court and wanted to know the reason for the hurry in signing the agreement by the AAI."Now the government has decided to handover the airport to Adani. Now, what about the employees? Will they be sold to Adani as well? What if the employees, who were recruited by the Airports Authority of India are asked to work under Adani and they refuse? " they asked."There is no reason to sell this airport, but just to help the businessman..AAI has been giving crores of tax to the GoI," they said.Delhi and Mumbai were the major source of income for the AAI."However, the private management there, with the backing of a court order, are not sharing their income with the GOI, citing Covid-19 pandemic.. What if other airports alsodo the same?" they asked.Besides the three airports, the Centre had in February 2019 privatised the Lucknow, Ahmedabad and Mangaluru airports.Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi asking the Centre to reconsider its decision.As the state government had rendered assistance to the airport wholeheartedly, including providing land on various stages, the Kerala government had the rightful claim on the management and operation of Trivandrum International Airport,Vijayan had stated in the letter.The state government through its SPV, which participated in the bidding process, had expressed the willingness to match the highest bidder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/employees-protest-at-trivandrum-airport-against-takeover-by-adani-group-101611062068064.html
19-01-2021||India||Green bonus, special Ayush zone in Uttarakhand’s wish list for Union Budget||The Uttarakhand government has demanded a green bonus as compensation for the conservation of its forests by not expanding the industrial development by chopping forests in the pre-budget virtual meeting with Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Tuesday.The demand was part of 17 suggestions that Uttarakhand’s urban development minister Madan Kaushik made at the meeting chaired by Sitharaman."The meeting which was held to invite suggestions for each state before the Union budget is presented, was attended by finance ministers and chief ministers of other states. We gave about 17 suggestions for Uttarakhand in the upcoming budget," Kaushik said after the meeting."Among those, the major demand was to give us green bonus for conserving about 71% of the state's total area which comprises glaciers, forests and rivers. Unlike other states which cleared the forests for industrial development, we didn't do that for which we suggested a green onus. As per a study on green accounting in our state, the conservation has a yearly monetary value of about ₹95,000 crore," said Kaushik.The minister also informed that he also suggested setting up an Ayush corridor in the state."That Ayush corridor should include wellness centres, Yoga university, spiritual centre and herbs unit which will not only benefit the people but also add to the state's economy. Apart from this, we also suggested increasing the central fund for the development of areas of our state bordering China and Nepal," said Kaushik.Citing Uttarakhand as a major tourist destination, he also asked Sitharaman to include the ropeway projects of the state in the Centre's infrastructure development projects."The move will help ease the traffic issue during peak tourist season and also provide a new public transport system," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/green-bonus-special-ayush-zone-in-uttarakhand-s-wish-list-for-union-budget-101611060718208.html
19-01-2021||India||'Past views by members cannot be ground to discredit a committee': SC||Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde on Tuesday hinted that the criticism doing rounds against the three members of an Expert Committee formed by the Supreme Court to hear concerns of farmers over the new farm laws was totally unwarranted.Commenting on a case unrelated to the farmer protests or the farm laws, a bench headed by CJI Bobde on Tuesday remarked, “We are noticing there is some misunderstanding of the law. When we appoint a committee and we find the members have expressed their opinions on the subject, they are still entitled to continue.”Without dropping any names, the CJI was candid to admit that persons appointed to a committee were free to express their views on the subject on which they have been called to consider. “Speaking in general, people are expected to be intelligent and informed. You are entitled to give your view. There is lack of comprehension about the composition of a committee. This is not a situation where somebody alleges bias towards a person whose relative is a beneficiary.”Also read: Budget session - MPs to undergo Covid-19 test; arrangements made for families, staffThe Court’s outburst came in a suo moto proceeding related to address inadequacies and deficiencies in criminal trials following the lockdown. Senior advocate Sidharth Luthra was part of a three-member committee constituted by the Court to examine the rules framed by various High Courts and recommend changes in rules to facilitate early disposal of criminal trials. He had assisted senior advocate R Basanth and advocate K Parmeshwar to this task.Luthra said, “Today we are moving towards a hybrid system and norms must be laid down for having a mix of physical and virtual proceedings for not just hearings but also trial through video-conferencing.”The bench, also comprising Justices L Nageswara Rao and Vineet Saran, requested Luthra to assist them as amicus curiae in this regard. But Luthra felt that his comments, openly supporting videoconferencing as against physical court hearings, could go against him in undertaking this responsibility. This provoked the CJI to pass the above observation.Justice Bobde said, “Where is the question of your disqualification? Everybody is entitled to speak their mind.”The comments by the Court seemed to fit well in the context of the four-member committee appointed by it to hear concerns of farmers and submit a report in eight weeks. On January 12, the Court formed a four-member committee comprising Bhupinder Singh Mann (National President, BKU and All India Kisan Coordination Committee), Pramod Kumar Joshi (Agricultural Economist, Director for South Asia, International Food Policy Research Institute), Ashok Gulati, Agricultural Economist and Former Chairman of the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices, and Anil Ghanwat, President, Shetkari Sanghatana.Even before the committee could begin its work, news circulated about the pro-farm law comments expressed by the four members as doubts emerged on whether the selection by the Court was fair. On January 14, one of the members, Bhupinder Singh Mann withdrew from the committee leaving just three members to complete the Court-assigned task.Last week, one of the protesting farmer unions, Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) - Lokshakti, filed an affidavit in Supreme Court demanding the removal of the three members alleging that they were biased in favour of the farm laws. This affidavit will come up for consideration by the top court on Wednesday along with an application by Delhi Police to restrain protesting farmer organizations from taking out a tractor rally on Republic Day. Meanwhile, the three-member committee has also begun its task and is expected to meet farmer organisations on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/past-views-by-members-cannot-be-a-ground-to-discredit-a-committee-sc-101611060085433.html
19-01-2021||India||3,000 farmers from Uttarakhand to drive their tractors to Delhi to join protest||Around 3,000 farmers from Uttarakhand’s Udham Singh Nagar affiliated to the Bharatiya Kisan Union will drive their tractors to Gazipur on the Delhi border on January 23 to participate in the kisan tractor parade on Republic Day in the national capital, the union said Tuesday.“We have decided that 3,000 farmers will go to Gazipur border with their tractors to take part in the tractor parade being held on republic day. A 13-member committee will contact farmers across the district with an appeal to join the parade,” said Karam Singh, president Bharatiya Kisan Union, UttarakhandFarmers’ unions agitating for the repeal of three controversial farm laws have decided to hold the tractor parade on January 26 in a bid to pressure the government to withdraw legislations. Several farmers from US Nagar district have already joined other protesters at Gazipur and have been staying there to participate in the protests.A meeting of the farmers was held in Bazpur on Monday to fine tune preparations for the tractor rally. It was also decided in the meeting that the committee will tour the district to ensure farmers’ participation with their tractors.Ajit Pratap Randhawa, a farmer leader of Bazpur said, “Farmers will leave for Gazipur border on January 23 so that they can reach in time to join the tractor rally. We are holding meetings with farmers’ outfits in the district.”On Monday the Supreme Court declined to pass any order on a plea by Delhi Police seeking injunction against farmers’ unions from causing any disruption to the Republic Day celebrations in the national capital.The top court said it was not for it to remind the authorities of their policing power by passing an order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3000-farmers-from-uttarakhand-to-drive-their-tractors-to-delhi-to-join-protest-101611058718521.html
19-01-2021||India||Budget session: MPs to undergo Covid-19 test; arrangements made for families, staff||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on Tuesday said that arrangements have been made for reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests for members of Parliament (MPs) near their residences ahead of the Budget Session from January 29. He added RT-PCR tests will be conducted at the Parliament House on January 27-28 and that the arrangement for the Covid-19 testing have also made for families, and staff members of the lawmakers.Birla said the vaccination drive policy finalised by the Centre, and the states will apply to parliamentarians as well and that the question hour during the Session will be for one hour.“All MPs [members of Parliament] will be requested to undergo the Covid-19 test before the start of the Parliament session,” said Birla.Birla said the Zero Hour for the members to raise any issues of regional or national importance will resume during the session.The Rajya Sabha will sit from 9am to 2pm and Lok Sabha will function in the second half from 4-8pm, he added. Replying to a question on the demand for a Joint Parliamentary Committee (JPC) on farm laws, Birla said demands made outside the House are not part of the Parliament agenda so far.“I will talk to all political leaders and then the issues for debate and bills will be decided at the Business Advisory Committee [meeting] of the two Houses.”Birla said he has not received any proposal so far for a special discussion on farm issues. “But I will meet all parties on January 28. I am already in touch with different parties.”Birla said no physical copies of Budget papers will be provided. “Online budget documents will be provided.”Birla said food served in Parliament canteens for MPs and others will become costlier as a subsidy given for it has been stopped. News agency PTI reported the Lok Sabha Secretariat is expected to save annually over ₹8 crore with the end to the subsidy.Birla said Parliament canteens will now be run by India Tourism Development Corporation in place of Northern Railways.The Winter Session of Parliament was earlier scrapped due to the Covid-19 pandemic even as Opposition parties opposed the move amid the farmers’ agitation near the Capital.The farmers’ protests, the state of the economy, the border stand-off with China, and the handling of the Covid-19 pandemic were some of the important issues the Opposition was expected to raise during the Winter Session. Personal Data Protection Bill, Assisted Reproductive Technology (Regulation) Bill, DNA Technology (Use and Application) Regulation Bill and National Commission for Allied and Healthcare Professions Bill were some of the key bills due for discussion and passage.Also Read: Union budget: Development Finance Institution likely to be announcedParliament normally holds three sessions in a calendar year–Budget (end of January to early April), Monsoon (July to August), and Winter (November to December). The Budget Session last year was cut short by eight days, and an already shortened Monsoon Session was also reduced by the same duration due to the pandemic.Several MPs and Parliament officials tested positive during the Monsoon Session (September 14 to September 23).The government pushed three controversial farm bills in the Monsoon Session, ignoring repeated demands by the Opposition for a review of the proposed laws. The Rajya Sabha passed the bills amid a massive disruption that led to the suspension of eight MPs from the chamber. The Opposition also said that none of the key issues, such as the economy, the plight of migrant workers, inflation was discussed in the House.As per the rule, there should not be a gap of more than six months between two sessions of Parliament.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/budget-session-mps-to-undergo-covid-test-arrangements-made-for-families-staff-101611057273536.html
19-01-2021||India||Karnataka Association of Resident Doctors' president raises concern over Covaxin||The president of the Karnataka Association of Resident Doctors, Dr Dayanand Sagar on Tuesday raised concern over the Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin.In a video message, he said, "Central government has approved Covid-19 vaccine Covishield, and Covaxin. Covishield has at least got an interim analysis report. However, Covaxin is still in the phase-III trials, where the trial is being done on healthcare workers. We strongly condemn this. Health workers should be given a choice of the vaccine. We demand that govt should provide a vaccine which has interim analysis."On January 3, India gave emergency use authorisation to two Covid-19 vaccines - Covishield and Covaxin - both being manufactured in the country.While Covishield has been developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University, Covaxin is an indigenous vaccine developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).Out of 3.81 lakh health care workers who received Covid-19 vaccine in the three days (from January 16 to January 18), 580 beneficiaries reported adverse event following immunisation (AEFI) and seven of them required hospitalisation, Union Health Ministry said on Monday."So far, cumulative 580 AEFIs have been reported. A total of 7 beneficiaries required hospitalisation. Three cases of an adverse event are reported in Delhi. Where two beneficiaries were discharged from their respective hospitals, the third beneficiary who fainted is under observation at Max Hospital, Patparganj," Additional Secretary in Health Ministry Manohar Agnani said at a media briefing on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-association-of-resident-doctors-president-raises-concern-over-covaxin-101611056034181.html
19-01-2021||India||Kashmir: Families of 3 killed by security forces hold protest in Pulwama||A day after Kashmir police chief Vijay Kumar said they would soon show proof that the two young men and a teenaged boy killed by security forces in Srinagar on December 30 were involved in militancy, families of the deceased protested in south Kashmir’s Pulwama on Tuesday. Families of the teenager, and Ajaz Maqbool (22) from Pulwama, and Zubair Ahmad (24) from Turkawangam Shopian protested in Bellow Pulwama, also demanding that the bodies be handed over to them.The teenaged boy’s father insisted that the trio was innocent and rejected police chief Kumar’s claim that there was “60%” proof that the deceased were involved in militancy.“Twenty-two days have gone by and they are saying 60% documents are ready. This is a ‘fake’ (claim) and is being done for the public (image). Today this happened with us, tomorrow this fire will engulf the whole of Kashmir,” he said.On Monday, Kumar had said, “According to the meta data we have collected so far, all the three associates who were killed in the encounter were involved in militancy. They were providing logistic support (to militants). We want to take a few more days so that we collect all the evidence which we will show to their parents first to convince them of their children’s involvement.” Also read | Army sets up ‘feedback and grievances’ helpline in KashmirPolice and army have said that the trio was killed in an exchange of fire at Hokersar-Lawaypora in Srinagar after they refused to surrender, but their families insisted they were civilians. The boy was a class 11 student, Aijaz was pursuing graduation while Zubair was a skilled worker, according to their families.The boy’s father said, “The killers have to be brought to book...I will not hesitate to go to the Supreme Court even...I will wait for a week or I will end my life at Lal Chowk. This case should be investigated before that.” Claiming that the police report showed the trio had no FIR against them, he said, “Today they are saying that they were over ground workers of militants, tomorrow they will claim that they were terrorists.” The families demanded that the bodies be returned to them for burial at their respective places. Since Covid-19 pandemic, the authorities have been burying the bodies of militants, allowing only a few family members to be part of the burial. Bodies of the trio killed on December 30 were taken to Ganderbal, some 110 km from Pulwama, for burial. The claims of the families questioning the deaths in Lawaypora come just three weeks after the Jammu and Kashmir Police filed a charge sheet against an army captain and two others for killing three young men of Rajouri in a staged encounter in Shopian on July 18 allegedly for “prize money”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kashmir-families-of-3-killed-by-security-forces-hold-protest-in-pulwama-101611056912444.html
19-01-2021||India||Rhino that strayed out of Kaziranga tranquilized, sent to Assam state zoo||An adult male rhino that strayed out of the Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve (KNPTR) a few days ago was tranquilized on Tuesday and shifted to the Assam state zoo for observation.The large herbivore had moved out of KNPTR on January 16 at Jakahalabandha area of Kaliabor. But forest personnel were able to successfully guide it inside the park.On January 18, the rhino crossed the Brahamaputra River and moved to Dighali, Jamuguri and Sootea areas creating fear and curiosity among residents in those areas. The animal, however, did not harm anyone.On Tuesday, the animal was successfully tranquilized at Bamunipam area and shifted to the zoo in Guwahati.KNPTR director P Sivakumar expressed his gratitude for the local people including residents of Bamunipam village for being tolerant and cooperating with park authorities and acknowledged the support and coordination of civil administration and police departments in the operation.Last week a wild buffalo had strayed out of KNPTR and killed two persons in Biswanath district. During efforts to guide the animal back to the park, the buffalo reportedly attacked forest personnel who then shot it dead on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rhino-that-strayed-out-of-kaziranga-tranquilized-sent-to-state-zoo-101611056388056.html
19-01-2021||India||Rajasthan seeks spot registration for beneficiaries due to glitches in CoWIN app||With the Covid-19 vaccination drive in Rajasthan going through hiccups due to technical glitches in the CoWIN app, the state government has urged the Centre to allow on-the-spot registration of beneficiaries.The glitches in the CoWIN application have affected the vaccination drive in Rajasthan. The second day of the inoculation program saw 11,288 health workers of the 68.7% of targeted beneficiaries, which works out to 5 percentage points less than the first day when 12,258 or 73.8% of health workers were vaccinated.Nearly 15 AEFI (adverse event following immunization) cases surfaced in the state on the second day. A total of 23,546 people have been vaccinated across the state in the first two days, according to official data.A senior doctor on condition of anonymity said the CoWIN application does not work effectively and has several problems. The beneficiaries are not receiving messages of vaccination on time and later were being called over the telephone to reach the vaccination centres.“We have asked the Centre to allow vaccinating through on-the-spot registration as there is some technical snag with the software,” said Dr Sudheer Bhandari, Principal SMS Medical College.He said a number of frontline workers are queuing up but unfortunately as per the directions, offline registration is not yet allowed. There is a lot of enthusiasm among the healthcare workers to enrol for the vaccination drive, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-seeks-spot-registration-for-beneficiaries-due-to-glitches-in-cowin-app-101611056019370.html
19-01-2021||India||Nongkhyllem Wildlife Sanctuary in Meghalaya is Northeast’s best protected area||Nongkhyllem Wildlife Sanctuary in Ri Bhoi district of Meghalaya has been found to be the best protected area (PA) in the North East, according to a management effectiveness evaluation (MEE) report of national parks and wildlife sanctuaries.The report ranked Meghalaya at 79.17% (Very Good).“The fact that the management plan in respect of Nongkhyllem Wildlife Sanctuary has been in place from 2001 through 2022 shows that irrespective who’s posted, there is continuity,” it said adding, “There are also prospects of increasing landscape continuity as efforts are on to increase protected areas from the vicinity, which are community forests. The community is also supportive of conservation.”Biotic interference in Nongkhyllem Wildlife Sanctuary has been significantly reduced, zonation has been done in terms of core and buffer zones and it has a duly notified eco-sensitive zone, the report elaborated.Welcoming the recognition, Meghalaya principal chief conservator of forest, Bayar Lyngwa told HT over phone, “It has been a long-drawn effort and collective responsibility of our staff and the community at large. Nothing can be achieved if we don’t work together. We need two hands to clap and the community is definitely the other hand.”Nongkhyllem is an area where annual community hunting had been a tradition, but with sensible intervention of the forest department and conscientious support of the neighboring communities, it is now a pristine sanctuary. “If the forest is left alone to itself, it shall regenerate on its own. We need to appreciate that,” the forest chief said.One of the architects of this turnover, Harish Choudhury, Meghalaya additional principal chief conservator of forests (Wildlife) and chief wildlife warden, said many things are in the offing which will definitely bring more positive change in the sanctuary.“Communities here are sensitive and respectful to nature. Everything is natural on a broad platform and we are so happy that they acknowledge and support our humble efforts. Yes.... some unscrupulous beings exist but we are working hard to prevent them from violating norms and laws with the support of the communities surrounding the protected area,” he said.Responding to the MEE report urging on the need for forest authorities to initiate research in key faunal species, especially in endangered species, Choudhury said a project is already underway to boost the clouded leopard population in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nongkhyllem-wildlife-sanctuary-in-meghalaya-is-northeast-s-best-protected-area-101611054720800.html
19-01-2021||India||PM Modi to inaugurate event to celebrate Netaji’s birth anniversary in Kolkata||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the main event to celebrate freedom fighter Subhas Chandra Bose’s 125th birth anniversary in Kolkata on January 23, Union culture minister Prahlad Patel said. The anniversary is being celebrated as Prakaram Diwas from this year. The event in Kolkata will feature a tableau and two other major events will be held in Cuttack (Odisha) and Haripura (Gujarat) as part of the celebrations.“Different ministries will roll out different programmes throughout the year to celebrate the great freedom fighter Subhas Chandra Bose,” Union culture minister Prahlad Patel said. “[A] padyatra and cycle rallies will be organised in the honour of the freedom fighter.”Also Read: Subhas Chandra Bose’s birth anniversary to be celebrated as Parakram DiwasPatel said the railways will name a train after Bose and the education ministry has approved the setting up of five chairs at five universities in the freedom fighter’s memory. He added 200 young artists were working on a canvas to capture Bose’s life. The civil aviation ministry is also planning to have a few aircraft with Netaji’s image.The culture ministry earlier on Tuesday announced Bose’s anniversary will now be celebrated as the Parakram Diwas. In a gazette notification, the ministry said the decision was taken to “honour and remember” Bose’s indomitable spirit and selfless service to the nation. “The government has decided to celebrate his birthday on 23 January every year as Parakram Diwas to inspire the people of this country, especially the youth to, act with fortitude in the face of adversity as Netaji [Bose] did.”The government on January 8 set up a high-level committee led by Union home minister Amit Shah for the 125th birth anniversary celebrations.Patel demised criticism that the government was planning the celebrations keeping in mind the assembly elections due in West Bengal later this summer. The Bharatiya Janata Party is hoping to wrest power in West Bengal after emerging as the second biggest party in the state in the 2019 national polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-event-to-celebrate-netaji-s-birth-anniversary-in-kolkata-101611055171832.html
19-01-2021||India||Apprehensions after AEFI cases, technical issues may be factors: Experts on low Covid vaccination turnout||People becoming apprehensive after some cases of adverse events following immunisation (AEFI) being reported on day one of the Covid-19 vaccination drive and technical problems encountered initially could be among the factors behind further slump in the turnout on the second day of the exercise, say experts.Nearly 3,600 healthcare workers received the shots in Delhi on Monday, the second day of the drive in the national capital, with sources saying just eight medical staff got the jabs at AIIMS.According to data shared by officials later, the target of the day in Delhi was 8,136, thus only 44 per cent of that could be reached.Cases of AEFI was reported in 26 persons, including two severe ones, and one person was hospitalised, officials said on Monday.On day one, 4,319 healthcare workers -- 53.3 per cent of those registered, had got the shots in Delhi, while one "severe" and 51 "minor" cases of AEFI (adverse events following immunisation) were reported.Various reasons are being attributed to the low turnout, including some technical issues and fears related to adverse events.However, the government has maintained that no case of serious or severe AEFI is attributable to vaccination till date.Experts feel people becoming apprehensive after several cases of AEFI reported on day one could be a major factor.Besides, many adopting a "wait and watch" approach, lack of communication and glitches in Co-Win app are among other reasons for low turnout on day one and even further low on day two."Yes, the AEFI cases reported must have played on minds of people and the apprehension may have resulted in lower turnout. But there are other factors too. And, after all it's a voluntary exercise, so people make their own choice. But, we at our hospital are trying to reach out to healthcare workers through heads of all departments to boost their confidence level," said B L Sherwal, medical director of Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital.At the Delhi government-run LNJP Hospital, only 12 healthcare workers got vaccination on Monday, compared to 32 on day one, as per data shared by officials. No one showed AEFI at this site, a senior official said.At the Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital, the number of people who got vaccinated on Monday stood at 20 with no AEFI cases. It was nearly half of the figures on day one -- 45, officials said.Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain, interacting with reporters on Tuesday, reiterated that this is a voluntary exercise and people are making their own decisions, as it is the initial phase.Asked if statements made by a few political leaders raising doubts over its efficacy and safety, could be a factor, he said, "No. Going for vaccination is a personal decision, and has nothing to do with what political statements have been made about it."When asked if AEFI was a factor in low turnout on the second day, the city health minister said, turnout of nearly 50 per cent is "not very low" and coronavirus situation is also under control in Delhi."It's initial days of the drive, and it will take time, but people's confidence will be increased and it will pick up. As a government, we are also taking all the steps to push up their confidence level," he said.Asked if technical issues with CoWIN app, was also a factor, he said, the app is "creating hurdles" at times."Sometimes, it is not working, and it has not stabilised yet," Jain said, adding, no plan to do the job manually.Co-Win is an online platform for monitoring Covid-19 vaccine delivery. "There were some glitches in the app at our hospital. We expect the number to increase during the course of the drive," said Suresh Kumar, medical director of LNJP Hospital.N K Ganguly, former director-general of Indian Council of Medical Research, said the numbers will increase gradually as people become "well-informed" about the vaccines. On Saturday, the Resident Doctors' Association of the Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital had requested the hospital to vaccinate them with Serum Institute's Covishield instead of Covaxin.The association wrote a letter and said the doctors were a bit apprehensive about Covaxin due to the lack of a complete trial.Those taking Covaxin are asked to sign a separate consent form, acknowledging that the jab is being administered without the phase-3 trial.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/apprehensions-after-aefi-cases-technical-issues-may-be-factors-experts-on-low-covid-vaccination-turnout-101611054042078.html
19-01-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Petrol prices cross ₹85 mark in Delhi, diesel above ₹75
and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Petrol rate crosses record ₹85/litre in Delhi; diesel above ₹75/litrePetrol price on Tuesday crossed ₹85 per litre in Delhi, beating its own record for the fifth time in less than two weeks since January 7 even as India’s average crude oil import price softened a bit, according to official data. Read moreFirst military team heads to Russia to train on S-400 air defence systemsThe first group of Indian military specialists is set to travel to Russia for training in operating the S-400 air defence systems, deliveries of which are set to start this year against the backdrop of possible US sanctions. Read more'Will send people to disturb BJP meetings’: Mamata Banerjee announces at rallyWest Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday accused the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of disturbing the meetings held by her Trinamool Congress (TMC) and warned she will do the same. Read moreBangladesh to get 2 million doses of Covishield from India as ‘gift’ tomorrowBangladesh on Tuesday announced it would receive two million doses of the AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine from India as a gift even as countries in the region look to New Delhi to help their vaccination programmes with grants. Read moreIs this India's greatest Test win?Had this series been scripted for a Bollywood movie, it would’ve been widely panned by the audiences and critics alike for being a little too over-the-top. Read moreBruce Wayne meets Great Gatsby: Custom BMW R 18 'Spirit of Passion' revealedIn collaboration with Kingston Custom (run by Dirk Oehlerking), BMW Motorrad has revealed a custom R 18 known as 'Spirit of Passion'. The bike features Kingston's signature handmade fairings. Read moreIndia Vs Australia: Twitter floods with wishes as Indian cricket team breaches ‘Fortress Gabba’After chasing a target of 328 runs, Team India has secured a historic win in the fourth test match against Australia at Gabba in Brisbane. The 2-1 win helped the team to retain the Border-Gavaskar trophy and win the hearts of people along with it. Read more‘Who gave Balakot information to Arnab Goswami?’: Rahul Gandhi questions govtRahul Gandhi launched an attack on the Modi government over the alleged leaked charts of journalist Arnab Goswami, which purportedlky reveal that he had priori information about the Balakot airstrike. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-petrol-prices-cross-rs-85-mark-in-delhi-diesel-above-rs-75-and-all-the-latest-news-101611053976069.html
19-01-2021||India||Assam parties asks EC to hold assembly polls around Bohag Bihu||Political parties in Assam have asked the Election Commission to hold the next assembly polls in the state around Bohag Bihu, the Assamese New Year, which falls in mid-April. Leaders of several political parties said this to a high-level EC team headed by chief election commissioner Sunil Arora, which is on a three-day tour to the state to take stock of poll preparedness. Tenure of the 126-member House expires on May 31. “We have asked the EC team to hold the elections in three phases in the state. The first two phases should be held before Bohag Bihu and the last one after it,” Ranjeet Kumar Dass, state president of ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), said. “The first phase should be held in assembly seats in upper Assam districts and the second one in central and lower Assam. Election for the seats in the three districts of Barak Valley and the two hill districts should be conducted after Bihu,” he added. Also read | ‘BJP has given due recognition to Assam’s culture’: Nadda in SilcharAnother ruling partner, Asom Gana Parishad (AGP), requested the EC team to conduct all the phases of polling ahead of Bohag Bihu. Opposition All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) too has asked polling to be completed before the Bohag Bihu festivities. The team insisted that CCTV cameras should be installed in all polling stations in order to ensure there’s no tampering of electronic voting machines. “Polling should be completed before Bohag Bihu so that people of the state can take part in the festival properly. Also, adequate measures should be put in place to ensure compliance of Covid-19 safety protocols during campaigning and voting,” senior CPI-M leader Biren Sarma told a local daily. Apart from political parties, the EC team is also holding meetings with senior bureaucrats and police officers to know about security arrangements. They will also have discussions with poll officials on preparations ahead of the polls. Deliberations will also take place on electoral rolls and poll logistics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-parties-asks-ec-to-hold-assembly-polls-around-bohag-bihu-101611054692323.html
19-01-2021||India||'Will send people to disturb BJP meetings’: Mamata Banerjee announces at rally||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday accused the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of disturbing the meetings held by her Trinamool Congress (TMC) and warned she will do the same.“I have been seeing for a few days that some people are being sent by the BJP to create disturbance in our meeting. Now, I will send some people to disturb BJP, CPM meetings,” Banerjee said at a rally in Purulia, according to news agency ANI.I have been seeing for a few days that some people are being sent by BJP to create disturbance in our meeting. Now I will send some people to disturb BJP, CPM meetings: West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee, in Purulia pic.twitter.com/XhiKkrxMcLBanerjee also took a jibe at BJP leaders eating food with Dalit families while visiting West Bengal, saying she would ask her party workers to pay money to those hosting them. “A Dalit family said we fed them (BJP leaders) from our pocket, how can we pay the amount? I will tell my workers that when you see something like that, then pay them,” she said, according to ANI.A Dalit family said that we fed them (BJP leaders arriving at their house) from our pocket, how can we pay the amount? I will tell my workers that when you see something like that, then pay them. If anyone gives you money for vote, take the money: West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee pic.twitter.com/T3MMXhKxbYBJP leader and union home minister Amit Shah had lunch with a tribal family in a remote village in Birbhum district during his two-day visit to West Bengal in December last year. The lunch for Shah was hosted by folk singer Basudeb Das Baul on December 20.Also Read | Bengal village plays host to Amit Shah with live baul performance, local cuisineAssembly elections are scheduled to be held in West Bengal in April-May this year. Banerjee, who has been the chief minister since 2011, is looking at a third consecutive five-year term in office but faces a stiff challenge from a resurgent BJP, which aims to form its first government in the state. A host of TMC leaders, including heavyweight Suvendu Adhikari, have jumped ship to the BJP in recent days.On Sunday, Banerjee announced she will contest the upcoming elections from Nandigram, as well as Bhawanipore. From Nandigram, she will be up against Adhikari, who has announced he would leave politics if “I cannot defeat her by 50,000 votes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-send-people-to-disturb-bjp-meetings-mamata-banerjee-announces-at-rally-101611052988493.html
19-01-2021||India||Petrol rate crosses record ₹85/litre in Delhi; diesel above ₹75/litre||Petrol price on Tuesday crossed ₹85 per litre in Delhi, beating its own record for the fifth time in less than two weeks since January 7 even as India’s average crude oil import price softened a bit, according to official data.Petrol and diesel have become costlier by 25 paise per litre each on Tuesday, raising their pump rates in Delhi to ₹85.20 per litre [all-time high] and ₹75.38 per litre, respectively. Diesel surged to a record ₹82.13 per litre in Mumbai, according to state-run Indian Oil Corporation (IOC). Petrol is sold at ₹91.80 per litre in Mumbai. Retail rates of the two auto fuels vary across the country because of differences in local levies.According to IOC, the largest fuel retailer in the country, petrol and diesel rates have been revised upward by ₹1 per litre each after January 7 in four small doses of 25 paise each, on January 13, January 14, January 18 and January 19. Official data shows that India’s average crude oil import price [Indian basket] was ₹3,977.18 per barrel on January 7 this year when petrol price in Delhi had jumped to an all-time high for the first time after about 27 months to ₹84.2 per litre, beating its previous record of ₹84 per litre on October 4, 2018.Even as the current price of Indian basket of crude is ₹3,972.74 a barrel, marginally lower than the January 7 figure, the retail prices of automobile fuels were raised. The price of Indian basket of crude oil represents actual average import cost that also factors in the rupee-dollar exchange rate. India, that imports more than 80% of crude oil it processes, pays the import bill in dollars.Requesting anonymity, a government official said oil marketing companies enjoy pricing freedom. They align pump prices of auto fuels daily with their respective international benchmarks, which may not necessarily move in tandem with international crude oil prices. According to Indian refiners, crude constitute about 90% of the refining costs.State-run oil marketing companies – IOC, Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL) and Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd (HPCL) – did not respond to email queries. The three companies enjoy monopoly in fuel retail. International oil prices that had plunged below $20 a barrel on April 21, 2020, because of rapid spread of Covid-19 pandemic and its devastating impact on the global economy, is on a surge especially in the backdrop of vaccination programmes in various economies. Benchmark Brent crude that closed at $55.1 a barrel last week [Friday], was weak on Monday at $54.75 per barrel. Brent crude, however, gained 55 cents in the early trade on Tuesday to $55.30 a barrel on optimism of economic recovery from Covid-19 pandemic. An executive of a state-run oil company said requesting anonymity that the Centre and states must reduce excise duty and value-added tax on the two fuels to provide relief to the people. Petrol in Delhi attracts over 62% taxes that include ₹32.98 per litre central excise and ₹19.55 a litre VAT. Similarly, levies on diesel are in excess to 57% ( ₹31.83 per litre central excise and ₹10.99 per litre VAT).The Opposition hit out at the government for excessive taxes on auto fuels. Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala said in a tweet that “petrol and diesel are costliest in 73 years” and accused the government of mopping up “ ₹19 lakh crore in six years” by raising taxes on auto fuels. The ministry of petroleum and natural gas did not comment on this matter.There has been a demand to reduce taxes to provide relief to consumers, but the government is not in a position to forego easy revenues at a time when it needs huge funds to fight the pandemic and revive the economy, one official said requesting anonymity. “Now, there is no pressure of inflation as retail inflation eased to a 15-month low, at 4.59%, hence the government would like to wait till Budget on reducing excise duty on fuel. However, a final decision will be taken by the competent authority,” he added.The retail inflation, as measured by the Consumer Price Index (CPI), was a 77-month high at 7.6% in October. Although it had soften a bit to 6.9% in November, it was still above the Reserve Bank of India’s (RBI) medium-term target of 4%, with a band of plus or minus 2%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/petrol-rate-crosses-record-rs-85-litre-in-delhi-diesel-above-rs-75litre-101611053311464.html
19-01-2021||India||3 sites in MP selected for hosting cheetah, officials to train in Africa||A Supreme Court-appointed committee has selected four possible sites - three in Madhya Pradesh and one in Rajasthan - for cheetah introduction in the wild even as MP forest department officials plan a visit to Africa to train themselves on handling the fastest animal on the planet."We found Kuno National Park, Nauradehi Wildlife Sanctuary and Gandhi Sagar-Chittorgarh in Madhya Pradesh and Bhainsrogarh Sanctuary in Rajasthan suitable for translocation of cheetahs because of an appropriate geophysical feature of forests. The areas are well protected and have well-managed grassland,” said Wildlife Institute Director Dhananjay Mohan, a member of the panel.The top court in January 2020 gave its approval to introduce African cheetahs to a suitable habitat in India on an experimental basis. The cheetah was declared extinct from India in 1952.The decision for relocation of the African cheetah, said the apex court, will be taken after a proper survey and the action of introduction of the animal will be left to the National Tiger Conservation Authority’s discretion. The cheetah will be introduced on an experimental basis in the best suitable habitat to see whether it can adapt to Indian conditions, the court had said.Of the three sites in MP, the state forest department has selected Kuno and Nauradehi wildlife sanctuaries as they have good grassland, key for survival of cheetahs.“Madhya Pradesh is planning to develop Kuno National Park in Sheopur and Nauradehi Wildlife Sanctuary spread in four districts of Bundelkhand of MP, for translocation of cheetah and the forest department is also preparing a special project ‘Cheetah’ to change the physical features of the forest, as suggested by the expert committee," said JS Chauhan, additional principal chief conservator of forest (APCCF), (wildlife).MP forest department will send a team of forest officials to Africa to gain expertise about Cheetah and to learn management practice of habitat to the fastest land animal, said the officer.Mohan said, “The geophysical feature of MP is suitable for Cheetah as the last Cheetah was seen in undivided MP in 1950s. India lost cheetahs at least 70 years ago. Nobody has any idea about cheetahs so it is necessary for forest officials to go and learn about the habitat of cheetahs."Retired PCCF (wildlife) SK Mandal said, “The state government shouldn’t send a political person and only top officers for training in Africa. It should be vertical training. The government should send top officers to lower staff for training to make the project successful.”The translocation of African Cheetah is a part of Government of India to reintroduce the fastest land animal in India after extinction of the Asiatic cheetah in the 1950s. The expert committee visited four sites in MP and one in Rajasthan to select the suitable habitat for Cheetah. In January first week, the committee submitted its report to the state government."On the basis of the suggestion of the report, the forest department will cut down more than 200 thorny trees in Kuno. The grassland will also be changed. Now, the department will replace tall grass with short grass. In Nauradehi Wildlife Sanctuary, prey base will be increased, said a second MP forest officer, not willing to be named.In 2010, the central government set up an expert panel for reintroducing the cheetah in India. This panel recommended that the home of the fastest animal in the world could be Kuno Palpur in Madhya Pradesh, Velavadar National Park in Gujarat and Tal Chapar sanctuary in Rajasthan. Kuno Palpur was also the place prepared by Madhya Pradesh to house Asiatic lions from Gujarat, till the latter refused to share its pride. Kuno Palpur was the preferred location for the introduction of the cheetah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-sites-in-mp-selected-for-hosting-cheetah-officials-to-train-in-africa-101611051513469.html
19-01-2021||India||‘I will never change from secularism’: Karti Chidambaram on Tamil new year row||Congress leader and member of Parliament from Tamil Nadu Karti P Chidambaram on Tuesday denied allegations he is supporting the ideologies of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and said that he believes strongly in secularism and he would never change his path. Chidambaram's comments came after he was criticised over the issue of the Tamil new year being proposed to be changed by the DMK.“When I said Chithirai 1 should be Tamil new year, some people criticised me as a Sanghi, BJP. Do they not hear my opinions, interviews? I will always oppose BJP’s Hindi, Hindutva policy. I will never change from secularism, my faith,” he tweeted in Tamil. He also shared two of his speeches about secularism and inclusive politics - one during Christmas celebrations in Chennai last year and an interview from February 2019 - supporting his stance.சித்திரை 1 புத்தாண்டாக கருத வேண்டுமென்று கூறியவுடன் என்னை சிலர் சங்கி,BJP என விமர்சித்தனர்.அவர்கள் எனது பேட்டிகளை, கருத்துக்களை கேட்பதில்லையா?BJP யின் ஹிந்தி,இந்துத்துவா கொள்கையை என்றும் எதிர்ப்பவன்.நான் மதச்சார்பின்மையிலிருந்தும், என் நம்பிக்கையிலிருந்தும் என்றும் மாறமாட்டேன். https://t.co/3scHatVP6IEarlier the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam's (DMK) lawmaker Kanimozhi had said that the if her party wins the 2021 assembly election in Tamil Nadu, the date of Tamil new year would be changed from the first date of Chithirai month in the April to the first date of Thai month (Pongal festival) in January. “Chithirai 1st is the New Year. All of us who follow the traditional almanac, which is scientific-taking into account the constellations as accepted by astronomy, will only consider Chithirai as the beginning of the new year,” Karti had reacted in a tweet on January 14, 2021.The Congress, the DMK’s poll partner in Tamil Nadu, has not made any comments regarding the matter. “I believe in god, religious practices. Our alliance partner DMK is calling Thai 1 as the Tamil new year. I can’t accept this. We don’t have to accept everything that an alliance party says” Karti Chidambaram was quoted as saying by the Tamil daily newspaper Dinamalar on Tuesday.Also read: Tamil Nadu governor condoles death of oncologist Dr V ShantaThe issue of the DMK and the AIADMK clashing over the date of Tamil new year is not new. In 2008, the DMK had announced that the festival of Pongal would be celebrated as the new year, which was met with a lot of backlash and opposition. However, the order was revoked and Chithirai 1 was restored as the new year by the AIADMK government in 2011.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-will-never-change-from-secularism-karti-chidambaram-on-tamil-new-year-row-101611049958896.html
19-01-2021||India||Bird flu: Red Fort shut till January 26 after sample of dead crow tests positive||The historic Red Fort has been shut for the public at least till January 26 (Republic Day) as carcasses of dead crows found within the premises of the monument tested positive for the H5N1 virus that causes bird flu. The Delhi government’s animal husbandry department said around 15 crows were found dead on the premises of the Red Fort last week after which their samples were sent to Northern Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory in Jalandhar, Punjab.“The result of at least one of the samples is positive for avian influenza. We have directed the authorities to restrict public entry into the monument’s premises. This will be in place till January 26 until further orders are issued,” said a senior official of the department. Also Read: Bird flu confirmed in 5 states for poultry, culling operations underway“Deep sanitisation and cleaning of the area is now being carried out,” the official said.Following the letter from Delhi government’s animal husbandry unit, the Archeological Survey of India issued an order to keep Red Fort shut for visitors till Thursday (January 21).The report from the Red Fort comes just three days after an owl, found dead in the Delhi zoo, tested positive for bird flu on Saturday. There are no major restrictions on the sale or consumption of chicken or eggs in Delhi at the moment. Preventive measures such as shutting of the Ghazipur wholesale poultry market, ban on sale of chicken or processed chicken or eggs and import of live birds were revoked last week by Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bird-flu-red-fort-shut-till-january-26-after-sample-of-dead-crow-tests-positive-101611050852685.html
19-01-2021||India||Few people owning country, says Rahul; hails protesting farmers||Lashing out at the Narendra Modi government over the farm protests, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi alleged that a handful of people close to the Prime Minister now “own” the country through “massive monopolies” but added that “there are millions of people who do not accept this nonsense that’s going on in this country”. He announced support for farmers and claimed the Congress will provide “the vision for India” as it has the “expertise” to do so. Gandhi also demanded that both journalist Arnab Goswami and the person who provided the information about the Balakot airstrike on Pakistan should be booked as such leaks were against national security. His reference was to transcripts of the journalist’s WhatsApp conversations that seem to suggest he knew the strikes were in the offing. Addressing a press conference at the party headquarters here on Tuesday, Gandhi said, “Across the board what we are watching is the development of massive monopoly in this country. Three or four or five people are now owning this country. This country is owned by a small group of people who are close to the PM,” he alleged, comparing the current situation with that of India under the British Raj. He maintained that the farm laws would mean “3-4 people owning the entire agriculture system.” Releasing a book on the farm issues that are plaguing the country, Gandhi alleged that the government wants to ignore the issue and misinform people about it. “The new laws are designed to destroy agriculture, destroy mandi system and ensure no farmer can go to court.” Gandhi hailed the protesting farmers as “patriots protecting the livelihood of 60% of India’s population” and lent his full support for them.The Congress leader also refused to accept that there’s a deadlock while the negotiations between farm organisations and the Centre have rolled over to ninth round. “There is no deadlock. The government believe they can tire out the farmers, but farmers know more about India than the PM. The only solution is to repeal the three farm laws.” Gandhi also hit out at the government over the recent controversy around Arnab Goswami’s WhatsApp messages. “Sharing official secrets with a journalist is a criminal act. There is nothing patriotic at putting our airforce at risk. I want to know who told Arnab Goswami about the airstrike? Only five people, PM, home minister, defence minister and the NSA must have known about it.” Claiming that China has a clear strategic vision to reshape the world and it is watching the weaknesses of India, Gandhi said, “India doesn’t have a strategic vision. China tested us twice: in Doklam and now in Ladakh. If India doesn’t make a clear military, economic and geo-political strategy, then there is a danger.”Union minister Prakash Javadekar hit out at the Congress, saying it does not want a solution to the farmers’ issue. “Today, the farmer is poor because of Congress’ destructive policies,” he said. “The Congress does not want the government and farmer talks to be successful. Therefore, the Congress has adopted obstructive policies.”Javadekar asked why does not Gandhi answer questions on China. “Who gave away land to China? Under whose rule did Aksai Chin go out of India’s hands? Who took money from China for a private trust? Who gave away India’s UNSC permanent seat to China?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/few-people-owning-country-says-rahul-hails-protesting-farmers-101611050671546.html
19-01-2021||India||Apart from Rafale jets, Indo-French air exercise to feature Su-30s, Mirage 2000s||The air forces of India and France will kick off a five-day joint exercise in Rajasthan on Wednesday, with a raft of aircraft taking part in the drills, including Rafale fighters jets, Mirage 2000s, Sukhoi-30s, mid-air refuellers and airborne warning and control system (AWACS) platforms, the Indian Air Force said in a statement on Tuesday announcing the line-up of aircraft taking part in the wargames. The exercise, codenamed Desert Knight-21 is being held at the Jodhpur air force station. “The exercise marks an important milestone in the series of engagements between the two air forces. As part of Indo-French defence cooperation, the IAF and French Air and Space Force have held six editions of exercises named ‘Garuda’, the latest being in 2019 at Air Force Base Mont-de-Marsan, France,” the IAF said on the eve of the exercise. Both air forces will be fielding their refuellers for the drills. While the IAF’s IL-78 tankers will be seen in action during the exercise, the French side will deploy its Airbus A-330 multi-role tanker transport (MRTT) aircraft during the exercise, officials said. The French air force has also flown its A-400M military transport aircraft to Jodhpur for the exercise, they added. The French contingent taking part in the exercise consists of 175 personnel, the IAF said. “To further the existing cooperation, the two forces have been gainfully utilising available opportunities to conduct ‘hop-exercises’. The French Air and Space Force deployment while ferrying to Australia for Ex Pitchblack in 2018 was hosted by IAF at air force stations Agra and Gwalior for exercise with fighters and MRTT aircraft,” the statement said. Also read | Centre planning scheme to push for production, export of dronesThe French detachment for Ex Desert Knight-21 is deployed in Asia as part of its Skyros Deployment and is transiting through India. The exercise is taking place at a time when India and China are locked in a tense border row in the Ladakh sector. The IAF said as the two sides would “put into practice operational experience gained across terrains and spectrums and endeavour to exchange ideas and best practices to enhance interoperability”. “For sure, air crews imbibe information from each other’s operating procedures from military exercises between nations but they are more a demonstration of strategic relations than one of tactical learning,” said Air Vice Marshal Manmohan Bahadur (retd), additional director general, Centre for Air Power Studies. The air exercise in Jodhpur is a continuation of Indo-French ties that go back many decades, he said. “It would be interesting to see whether any live armament work is also undertaken since the Pokhran firing range is close by,” Bahadur said. Hindustan Times reported on January 1 that Rafale fighters of the French air force will land in Rajasthan this month to participate in joint exercises with the IAF’s Golden Arrows Squadron that was resurrected last September with the induction of the Rafale fighter jets. The Rafale jets will be taking part in an exercise with a foreign air force for the first time. The IAF’s solitary Rafale squadron will add more muscle with the arrival of at least three more fighter jets by the month-end. The delivery of the three jets will take the number of Rafales in the IAF’s inventory to 11. India has ordered 36 warplanes from France at a cost of ₹59,000 crore. The IAF is operating its Rafale fighter jets in the Ladakh theatre where the military is on its highest state of alert to deal with any misadventure by China. Its current fleet of eight Rafale fighters is fully operational and ready to undertake any mission, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/apart-from-rafale-jets-indo-french-air-exercise-to-feature-su-30s-mirage-2000s-101611049351508.html
19-01-2021||India||Bose family, TMC, Left react sharply to ‘Parakram Diwas’ decision||Members of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose’s family, the ruling Trinamool Congress and the Left parties in West Bengal on Tuesday reacted sharply to the Centre’s decision to celebrate the icon’s birth anniversary on January 23 as Parakram Diwas (day of valour) and not by the names they had proposed. The news was tweeted on Tuesday morning by Amit Malviya, head of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) national information and technology cell. “In honour of Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose’s indomitable spirit and his selfless service to the nation, Government of India has decided to celebrate his birthday, 23rd January as Parakram Divas. Thank you Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi,” tweeted Malviya. “Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has been demanding for years that January 23 be declared a national holiday and celebrated as Desh Nayak Viwas. That is the appropriate name because Rabindranath Tagore called Bose a desh nayak (national hero). The Modi government takes all decisions unilaterally,” said TMC Lok Sabha member and party spokesperson Saugata Roy. BJP leader and Netaji’s grandnephew, Chandra Kumar Bose said the day should be observed as Desh Prem Diwas (day of patriotism). “#Netaji’s birthday on 23 January is celebrated as #DeshPremDivas across the country by people from all religions, caste & creed as he was the #LiberatorofIndia & their own leader. Govt sponsorship is not required. However its time the GOI officially announce! @narendramodi @PMOIndia,” tweeted Bose. Naren Chatterjee, state general secretary of the Forward Bloc, the party Netaji formed in 1939, also said the day should be declared Desh Prem Diwas. “This was the demand we made when the Left Front was in power in Bengal. The Centre does not bother to care for public sentiment,” said Chatterjee. In January 2010, the then CPI(M) general secretary Prakash Karat wrote a letter to Prime Minister Manmohan Singh demanding that January 23 be declared Desh Prem Diwas. BJP state vice-president Jay Prakash Majumdar told the media that the Centre named the day Parakram Diwas because Netaji is a symbol of valour and patriotism for the entire nation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/designation-of-netaji-s-birth-anniversary-as-parakram-diwas-criticised-101611049051362.html
19-01-2021||India||Supreme Court-appointed panel to meet farmers on Jan 21||A member of the committee appointed by the Supreme Court to examine the three farm laws, which have triggered protests by farmers, said it will meet farmers on Thursday, after holding its first round of internal consultations, news agency ANI reported on Tuesday. The news agency cited Anil Ghanwat, one of the members of the committee, as saying that they will hold talks with farmers' organisations which want to meet them in person. "Video conferencing will be held with those who can't come to us," Ghanwat said, according to ANI."If the government wants to come and speak with us, we welcome it. We will hear the government too. The biggest challenge is to convince the agitating farmers to come and speak with us, we will try our level best," he added.Farmers have been protesting since November last year at Delhi's borders to demand the scrapping of three contentious farm laws, which they say will hurt their livelihoods. The Supreme Court had on January 12 suspended the pro-reforms farm laws approved by Parliament in September 2020 and also appointed a committee to look into farmers’ grievances over the laws. The court had named economists Ashok Gulati and Pramod Kumar Joshi and farm activists Bhupinder Singh Mann and Ghanwat as members of the panel. Mann opted out of the committee a day later, citing the “interests of farmers”.Also read | After row, key farm leader says will not meet political partiesGhanwat, a member of the now three-member panel, had told HT on Monday that the committee will start deliberations on Tuesday, which will include framing of issues before the committee. “In our first meeting, we will take note of our terms of reference and chalk out processes we will follow,” Ghanwat said. He said it was up to the Supreme Court to appoint a member in place of Mann, who has recused himself but the committee’s work would continue.Ghanwat has said the committee will examine the three farm laws and draw up a list of stakeholders for consultations, including farm unions, representatives of agribusinesses, scholars, scientists and even the government. “Our basic terms of reference are to look into the laws and consult stakeholders with the objective of addressing grievances of farmers,” Ghanwat, who heads the Shetkari Sangathan, a farm organisation from Maharashtra that advocates pro-technology and pro-reform agricultural policies, had said.Also read | Decoding fine print of Supreme Court order on farm lawsThe Samyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of farm unions leading protests against the laws, has however said its members would not appear before the committee. Farm unions have also said that all members of the top court-appointed committee had previously publicly praised the laws that farmers want to be scrapped.The agriculturists have been protesting against the Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act 2020, the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-appointed-panel-to-meet-farmers-on-jan-21-101611048447883.html
19-01-2021||India||Bangladesh to get 2 million doses of Covishield from India as ‘gift’ tomorrow||Bangladesh on Tuesday announced it would receive two million doses of the AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine from India as a gift even as countries in the region look to New Delhi to help their vaccination programmes with grants. “Bangladesh will receive 20 lakh doses of Oxford-Astrazenca Covid-19 vaccines (Covishield) from India as a gift on 20 January,” Bangladesh’s foreign ministry said on its Facebook page. “A special flight of India carrying the consignment will land at Hazrat Shahjalal International Airport in Dhaka tomorrow,” it added. The ruling Awami League party too posted on Twitter that Bangladesh is set to get two million doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine, which would be in addition to 30 million doses that the government has contracted for with the Serum Institute of India. Also Read: Govt assesses supply of Covid-19 vaccines to neighbours, developing countries“#Bangladesh to receive 2 million doses of #Oxford #Astrazeneca #COVID19 #vaccines from the Indian Govt as gift. This is in addition to the procurement of 30 million #CoronaVaccines from @SerumInstIndia. The gift doses are expected to arrive on 20 Jan: DGHS, Ministry of #Health,” the party said via its official Twitter handle. There was no immediate word from Indian officials on the development. The government had held a virtual meeting with the two Indian manufacturers of Covid-19 vaccines – Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech – on Monday to review the supply of vaccines to foreign countries, both as grants and through commercial sales. Also on Monday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi referred to his government’s plans to help the neighbourhood and other regions in replies to tweets from Sri Lanka President Gotabaya Rajapaksa and Maldives President Ibrahim Solih congratulating India on the rollout of the world’s largest vaccination programme. “Thank you, President @GotabayaR. We will continue to give due importance to our Neighbourhood First policy while collectively fighting the pandemic,” Modi tweeted. Officials have repeatedly said that the neighbourhood will get priority in the provision of vaccines as grant assistance, as was the case in the supply of hydroxychloroquine to numerous countries amid the Covid-19 pandemic last year. However, at the same time, the government doesn’t want to be seen as playing favourites within the region. People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that the only country in the region unlikely to be an immediate beneficiary of India’s efforts is Pakistan, which has not made any formal request for vaccines. A number of countries have either signed agreements or are in talks with Serum Institute or Bharat Biotech, including Bangladesh, Brazil, Saudi Arabia, South Africa and Morocco.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bangladesh-says-it-will-get-2-million-doses-of-covishield-from-india-as-gift-tomorrow-101611048871073.html
19-01-2021||India||Cardinals meet PM Modi, urge him to invite Pope Francis||Three Cardinals of the Catholic church on Tuesday met Prime Minister Narendra Modi and requested him to invite Pope Francis to the country. Talking to reporters after the meeting in Delhi - Cardinals George Alancherry, Baslios Cleemis and Oswald Gracias - said the PM agreed to their request and promised to take a decision soon.The meeting was part of the PM’s interaction with various church heads initiated by Mizoram Governor PS Sreedharan Pillai.There is a long pending complaint that central funds for minority welfare were not distributed proportionately between different communities in the country. Similarly, the PM tried to broker peace between two warring Christian communities in Kerala: Jacobite and Orthodox factions.Cardinals said they have been asking for an invite to the Pope for quite some time and expressed hope it will be realised soon. In 2018 there was a growing demand for the Pope to be invited to the country when he visited two Asian neighbours, Bangladesh and Myanmar. “It is overdue. We expect a decision from the PM soon,” said Cardinal George Alancherry. He said they requested the PM about an equitable distribution of the minority funds.He also said they also discussed the two expert committee reports on Western Ghats (Gadgil and Kastuirangan), continued incarceration of Father Stan Swamy, among other issues.Swamy, 83-year-old human rights activists and priest, was held in connection with the Bhima Koregaon case and charged with alleged Maoist links.Politics did not come up during talks, they said adding the PM lauded the church’s contribution in education, social work and health.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cardinals-meet-pm-modi-urge-him-to-invite-pope-francis-101611048057329.html
19-01-2021||India||'Unfathomable loss': Tamil Nadu governor condoles death of oncologist Dr V Shanta||Tributes poured in for senior oncologist and chairperson of the Adyar Cancer Institute Dr V Shanta after her demise in the early hours on Tuesday. She was 93.The oncologist was a recipient of many national and international awards including Padma Shri, Padma Bhushan and Ramon Magsaysay.Tamil Nadu governor Banwarilal Purohit expressed grief over the Padma Vibhushan awardee’s death and said, “A fine human being, as having dedicated over 60 years of her life to cancer care treatment, Dr Shanta has always emphasised on compassion and sympathy while treating patients.”“She was an inspiring role model for the entire women community in the world,” he said in a statement, adding that her unparalleled commitment and complete dedication to cancer patients and Adyar Cancer Institute was impressive.“Her demise is an irreparable loss to the people of Tamil Nadu and particularly to the medical fraternity and poor cancer patients. I convey my deep condolences to the bereaved members of the family and pray to the Almighty God to rest her soul in eternal peace and give strength to her family and her colleagues to overcome this unfathomable loss,” the statement read.The senior oncologist played an important role in the development of the Cancer Institute from a cottage hospital of 12 beds to a major comprehensive Cancer Centre of national and international stature.Earlier in the day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi also condoled Dr Shanta’s death. "Dr. V Shanta will be remembered for her outstanding efforts to ensure top-quality cancer care. The Cancer Institute at Adyar, Chennai is at the forefront of serving the poor and downtrodden. I recall my visit to the Institute in 2018. Saddened by Dr. V Shanta's demise. Om Shanti," he wrote on Twitter.Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami has announced police honours for the oncologist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unfathomable-loss-tamil-nadu-governor-condoles-death-of-oncologist-dr-v-shanta-101611047911614.html
19-01-2021||India||Covishield not being sold under $3 per dose anywhere in the world, says SII||Serum Institute of India (SII), the manufacturer of the Covid-19 vaccine developed by Oxford-AstraZeneca, has clarified that a dose of Covishield was not being sold under $3 (approximately ₹220 as of Tuesday’s currency value) anywhere in the world.“Nowhere on the planet is the AstraZeneca product, Covishield, made by us or AstraZeneca sold under $3. ...no one understands the complete picture,” said SII CEO Adar Poonawalla.SII said the government has purchased the first batch of 11 million doses for ₹210 per dose. It added the cost includes Goods and Service Tax. SII maintained Covishield is one of the world’s lowest-priced Covid-19 vaccines.The Congress on Sunday accused the Centre of spending more on Covid-19 vaccines. It said Covishield costs ₹200 per dose in India and ₹158 per dose in Belgium, quoting an article of The Guardian that cited a Belgian minister’s tweet about the cost of vaccines being sold to the European Union (EU).“AstraZeneca earlier said that it would supply the vaccine at no profit. Then why is the government of India paying ₹200 for the AstraZeneca vaccine to Serum Institute of India?” asked Congress spokesman Randeep Surjewala.Poonawalla said the price being quoted for EU is just 50% of the cost while the other 50% would be paid by the respective member countries.“What they have failed to say is that it is only 50%... balance 50% will get paid by the European Union. So, it is 1.7$ roughly and another 50% will come from the EU. So, it will be more than $3. You can reach out to the Belgian government and they will also confirm this,” said Poonawala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covishield-not-being-sold-under-3-per-dose-anywhere-in-the-world-says-sii-101611048211515.html
19-01-2021||India||Man arrested under Madhya Pradesh's new anti-conversion law||Madhya Pradesh police have arrested a married man under its new law which penalises religious conversions through fraudulent means, following a complaint filed by a woman in Barwani district, an official said on Tuesday.Earlier this month, the state government promulgated the Freedom of Religion-2020 ordinance, which provides for 10 years in jail in some cases."On the basis of a written complaint filed by a 22- year-old woman, a 28-year-old man was arrested on Monday on charges of rape and under provisions of the Freedom of Religion ordinance," Barwani police station in-charge Rajesh Yadav said."This is the firstcase in Barwani under the new legislation," he said.Yadav said the woman in her complaint alleged that the accused had introduced himself to her as Sunny, and she later came to know that he was a married Muslim man.The woman then started keeping a distance from him, but he allegedly continued to pressurise her for marriage and conversion, the official said.Talking to reporters after filing the complaint, the woman on Monday said, "This is an issue of 'love jihad', so I made a complaint. The man is a Muslim and got into a relationship with me by posing as a Hindu. He beat me up. He physically exploited me for four years."The case falls under the jurisdiction of the district's Palsud police station and is being transferred there for further action, Yadav said.The Madhya Pradesh Freedom of Religion Ordinance penalises religious conversions through fraudulent means including those for the sake of marriage.There is a provision of three to 10 years of imprisonment and a fine of ₹50,000 in cases of marriage carried out by hiding religion.In cases involving religious conversion of members of Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and minors, a provision has been made for imprisonment of two to 10 years and ₹50,000 fine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-arrested-under-madhya-pradesh-s-new-anti-conversion-law-101611047562306.html
19-01-2021||India||We were a preeminent economy, now we are a laughing stock: Rahul Gandhi targets govt over farm laws||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday criticised the government over the farm laws claiming that there is a huge section of the country’s population which is unhappy with how the government is running the nation. “There are millions of people in this country who do not accept what is going on in the country. They understand that there is a massive failure… We used to be a preeminent economy in the world. We are a laughing stock (now), we cannot give jobs to our youngsters and our farmers are out protesting in the cold,” Gandhi said.The Congress leader also said that the nation’s image is being tarnished due to the agitations. “This is something to be ashamed of. The whole world is asking us why are lakh farmers protesting daily,” he said during a press conference.The Congress lawmaker from Wayanad also targeted JP Nadda over the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president's tweets where he questioned Gandhi over the promises of reforms made by the Congress in its election manifesto for the Lok Sabha in 2019. While replying to Nadda's criticism Gandhi said that Congress supported farmers by protesting against land acquisition and extending farm loan waivers. “During land acquisition, Congress stood with farmers. Congress also extended farm loan waivers to farmers, JP Nadda was not there during all this,” he said.Nadda had claimed that Gandhi sympathises with farmers only when he is in the opposition. “Rahul Gandhi has been spreading lies that all APMC Mandis will be closed down. But wasn't action against the APMC Act a part of Congress manifesto? Would that not have closed down mandis,” Nadda had questioned him in a tweet on Tuesday. “Why did the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) stall the Swaminathan Commission report for years and did not increase the minimum support price (MSP)? Why did farmers remain poor for decades under Congress Governments? Does he feel sympathy for farmers only in opposition?” he had asked.Farmers’ union representatives will hold the tenth round of discussions on Wednesday over the three farms laws passed in September last year. Farmers have been protesting for almost two months against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance, and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 at Delhi’s borders.Farmers say that these laws will not double the incomes for the farmers as the government claims but will pave way for contract farming and allow multinational companies to reap profits off the agricultural sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-were-a-preeminent-economy-now-we-are-a-laughing-stock-rahul-gandhi-targets-govt-over-farm-laws-101611046671649.html
19-01-2021||India||'Tragedy unfolding today in country,' says Rahul Gandhi on protest over farm laws||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of monopolising the agriculture sector as he renewed his attack against the Centre over the contentious farm laws. Gandhi on Tuesday released a booklet to highlight the pitfalls of the legislation enacted in September last year. "There is a tragedy unfolding today in the country, govt wants to ignore the issue and misinform the country," he said while addressing a conference after the release. "I am not going to speak about farmers alone as it is only part of the tragedy. It is important for youngsters. This is not about present but about your future," he added."Today, every industry is under a monopoly of three to five people. Be it airport, telecom or power. Modi government wants to give the agriculture sector as well to those four to five industrialists," he added.The Congress leader also said that the new farm reforms are designed to destroy India's agriculture sector. "The biggest business in this country is agriculture. Sixty per cent of our people are engaged in agriculture and in terms of value, agriculture is by far the biggest hit. Now we are seeing is that the last bastion which was protected from monopoly is now being overrun. Three new laws have been passed. They are designed to destroy agriculture by destroying the mandi, Essential Commodities Act, and by making sure that no Indian farmer can go to court to protect himself," he added."We were a preeminent economy, now we are a laughing stock," Gandhi also said.Farmers are agitating against the farm laws for over 50 days now and the government has held nine round of talks so far. However, it has failed to bring any resolution to the matter. The farmers are adamant on the demand to repeal the laws which the government has refused and is firm on their offer to amend the legislation.In the last meeting, the Centre had suggested that the unions constitute their own informal group to prepare a concrete proposal on the three farm laws for further discussion at their next meeting. Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar has also assured that the government will hear the proposal with an "open mind."The Centre on Monday postponed the tenth round of talks scheduled to be held on Tuesday with the farmers. The meeting will now take place on January 20.Farmers are agitating against Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tragedy-unfolding-today-in-country-says-rahul-gandhi-on-protest-over-farm-laws-101611045338115.html
19-01-2021||India||Supreme Court shouldn’t stay but scrap farm laws: Congress’s DK Shivkumar||Congress’s DK Shivakumar on Tuesday expressed solidarity with protesting farmers and announced that his party will be holding a “big protest” on Wednesday to support the farmers’ demands.He added that the top court must order a complete roll-back of the three contentious agricultural laws, which have been stayed for the time being. “We stand by farmers of this country. The Supreme Court has stayed the laws. They shouldn't stay but scrap it. This is what Congress demands. The farmers' demand is justified. On behalf of the Congress party, we are holding a big protest tomorrow to support them,” he told news agency ANI.Follow latest updates on farmers protest hereFormer party president Rahul Gandhi released a booklet on 'pitfalls' of the three farm laws passed by the central government in the last monsoon session of Parliament."A majority of farm labourers are SC-ST and OBC and these laws also affect them. The booklet will provide detailed information on how these laws will affect the farmers and at the same time how it will impact government purchase and thus the public distribution system too," a leader involved in the process of finalising the booklets told ANI.Meanwhile, BJP national president JP Nadda accused Gandhi and the Congress party of misleading farmers. “When will Congress stop provoking and misleading farmers of India? Why did UPA stall the Swaminathan Commission report for years and did not increase the MSP? Why did farmers remain poor for decades under Congress Governments? Does he feel sympathy for farmers only in opposition?,” he wrote on Twitter.He said that Gandhi has been spreading lies that all APMC Mandis will be closed down. “But wasn’t action against the APMC Act a part of Congress manifesto? Would that not have closed down mandis?,” he added.Farmers have been protesting at the different borders of the national capital since November last year, against the three farm laws—Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020—enacted in September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-shouldn-t-stay-but-scrap-farm-laws-congress-s-dk-shivkumar-101611044076280.html
19-01-2021||India||Maharashtra mulls police action against Arnab in leaked chats case: State home minister||Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh on Tuesday said that the state government is taking legal opinion on the possibility of action against Republic channel’s editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami under Official Secrets Act 1923 over the alleged leaking of sensitive information related to the Pulwama attack and Balakot strike two years ago. The minister said that the Centre should take cognisance of the chats as they are directly related to national security.A delegation led by Maharashtra Congress general secretary Sachin Sawant met Deshmukh and demanded action in the leaked chats case. The delegation said the state government has every right to initiate action.Deshmukh said, “We have taken serious note of the 500 pages of leaked WhatsApp messages between Republic channel’s Goswami and former Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) chief Partho Dasgupta. In the messages, Arnab speaks about the Balakot airstrike two days before it actually happened on February 23, 2019. It’s a serious threat to the national security if such sensitive information was leaked to the media house. The Centre should initiate strict action into it. On state level, we are checking if Maharashtra Police can initiate action. I am speaking to senior police officers and have sought legal opinion if action can be initiated under section 5 of Official Secrets Act 1923.” Pointing out another alleged violation by Republic channel, Deshmukh said, “There should have been an agreement in place between Doordarshan and Republic if the latter used the platform owned by the former. Without any such agreement, Republic used Doordarshan’s DTH platform. A formal complaint was made to the Central government, but no action was taken,” he said.Sawant said that the state government can initiate action in both the cases. “We have demanded action by the economic offences wing of Mumbai Police in the alleged DTH platform use case as the Republic operates from Mumbai. Secondly, the state has right to take action under Official Secrets Act and there is precedent of a Delhi case. A journalist was booked by Delhi Police in similar action. The home minister has assured us action in both the cases,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-mulls-police-action-against-arnab-in-leaked-chats-case-state-home-minister-101611044910631.html
19-01-2021||India||Subhas Chandra Bose’s birth anniversary to be celebrated as Parakram Diwas||The Ministry of Culture on Tuesday announced that the birth anniversary of freedom fighter Subhas Chandra Bose will now be celebrated as the Parakram Diwas. In a gazette notification, the ministry stated that decision was taken to “honour and remember Netaji’s indomitable spirit and selfless service to the nation”. “The government has decided to celebrate his birthday on January 23 every year as Parakram Diwas to inspire the people of this country, especially the youth, to act with fortitude in the face of adversity as Netaji did,” the government said.Also Read: ‘Will wipe TMC out in 2021’: BJP’s Dilip Ghosh on West Bengal Assembly pollsOn January 8, the government had set up a high-level committee headed by home minister Amit Shah plan the freedom fighter’s 125th birth anniversary celebrations. Minister for culture Prahlad Patel in a press conference on Tuesday is also likely to announce the details of planned celebrations for Bose. The move comes on the heels of the assembly elections in West Bengal, where the Bharatiya Janata Party is taking the Mamta Banerjee-led government head on. The polls are scheduled to be held before May this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/subhas-chandra-bose-s-birth-anniversary-to-be-celebrated-as-parakram-diwas-101611044010502.html
19-01-2021||India||Maharashtra resumes Covid-19 vaccination drive after delay over CoWin||After a delay of two days, the Covid vaccination drive in Maharashtra resumed on Tuesday. The state intends to inoculate 28,500 people in a day through sessions at 285 centres across the state.The drive resumed amid doubts over the efficiency of CoWIN app which developed technical glitches on January 16, the first day of the drive. On Saturday, the state government had announced a two-day suspension of the drive owing to problems in the software application.Starting today, vaccination will take place four days a week, and will be done on Wednesday, Friday, and Saturday as well, the state government announced. Mumbai has 10 centres where vaccination will be carried out.State health department officials said that the daily target of beneficiaries is a floating number. Each centre has been given a target of inoculating 100 beneficiaries per session day.The CoWIN app, that assists programme managers while conducting vaccination sessions, had developed glitches on Saturday wherein it could not select beneficiaries to be inoculated, failing to send out messages to beneficiaries. Later, during the session, it was slow due to load on the server, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-resumes-covid-vaccination-drive-after-delay-over-cowin-101611042450418.html
19-01-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Rahul Gandhi targets PM over Chinese village in Arunachal and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Remember his promise: Rahul Gandhi targets PM over Chinese village in ArunachalCongress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday took a swipe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi over a report that China has built a village in a disputed region of Arunachal Pradesh. Read moreHere is how Donald Trump, the least liked US president, will spend his last days in officeUS President Joe Biden and first lady Jill Biden will not be greeted at the White House Wednesday by the outgoing first couple, Donald Trump and Melania Trump, as is the tradition. Read moreMVA, BJP both claim victory in Maharashtra panchayat polls: All you need to knowPartners in the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi — Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress — won 58% of the 12,711 seats that went to polls on January 15. Read moreWoman Maoist carrying ₹8 lakh bounty arrested in ChhattisgarhA woman Maoist with ₹8 lakh reward on her head was arrested from a village in Bijapur district of Bastar region in Chhattisgarh, officials said on Tuesday. Read moreIndia vs Australia: Rishabh Pant breaks MS Dhoni's record at GabbaRishabh Pant on Tuesday became the 7th Indian wicketkeeper-batsman to reach the 1000 Test runs mark. Pant reached the landmark during the final day of the fourth Test against Australia. Read moreIndia considering raising import duties by 5%-10%, likely to affect Tesla carsIndia is considering hiking import duties by 5%-10% on more than 50 items including smartphones, electronic components and appliances in the upcoming budget. Read moreKarisma Kapoor's killer look in red puff-sleeved dress sets fans hearts aflutterAs the blockbuster star of the 90s, Karisma Kapoor has only seen her fashion style evolve but the bright pops of colour and prints stayed. Read moreDeepika Padukone says Ranveer Singh keeps on asking why she manages home herself, even orders groceriesDeepika Padukone may have a bevy of personal staff at her disposal but she likes to manage her home and office herself. Read moreCISF personnel’s swift action saves passenger in Delhi Metro. WatchA CISF personnel was able to save the life of a passenger travelling in Delhi Metro on Monday with his rapid response. Read moreWatch | ‘Apology not enough, won’t stop till team Tandav in jail:’ BJP’s Ram Kadam||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-remember-his-promise-rahul-gandhi-targets-pm-over-chinese-village-in-arunachal-and-all-the-latest-news-101611039595899.html
19-01-2021||India||Climate change may change rainfall patterns in south India, intensify floods: Study||Future climate change will cause an uneven shifting of the tropical rain belt -- a narrow band of heavy precipitation near the Earth's equator -- leading to increased flooding in parts of India, a new study warns.The study, published in the journal Nature Climate Change, examined computer simulations from 27 state-of-the-art climate models, and measured the tropical rain belt's response to a future scenario in which greenhouse gas emissions continue to rise through the end of the current century.According to the research, a northward shift of the tropical rain belt over the eastern Africa and the Indian Ocean could result in "intensified flooding in southern India," and may impact global biodiversity and food security by 2100.The scientists, including those from the University of California (UC) Irvine in the US, said this "sweeping shift" of the rain belt was disguised in previous studies that provided a global average of the influence of climate change.However, they said climate change caused the atmosphere to heat up by different amounts over Asia and the North Atlantic Ocean.The current study highlighted the drastic alterations to come over future decades in India by isolating the response in the Eastern and Western Hemisphere zones."In Asia, projected reductions in aerosol emissions, glacier melting in the Himalayas and loss of snow cover in northern areas brought on by climate change will cause the atmosphere to heat up faster than in other regions," said study co-author James Randerson from UC Irvine."We know that the rain belt shifts toward this heating, and that its northward movement in the Eastern Hemisphere is consistent with these expected impacts of climate change," Randerson said.According to the scientists, the study combined the engineering approach of system's thinking with data analytics and climate science to reveal subtle manifestations of global warming on regional rainfall extremes."The complexity of the Earth system is daunting, with dependencies and feedback loops across many processes and scales," said Efi Foufoula-Georgiou, another co-author of the study from UCI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/climate-change-may-change-rainfall-patterns-in-south-india-intensify-floods-study-101611040966201.html
19-01-2021||India||Why is Congress misleading farmers, surrendering to China: Nadda to Rahul||Ahead of former Congress president Rahul Gandhi’s press conference on Tuesday, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Jagat Prakash Nadda trained his guns at the Congress leader and said that he should answer questions on why “time and again the Congress party surrenders to China” and why it has been “misleading” the farmers about the new farm laws. In a series of tweets, Nadda took potshots at the Congress. “Now that Mr. @RahulGandhi has returned from his monthly vacation, I would like to ask him some questions. I hope he will answer them in his today’s Press Conference,” Nadda tweeted. He went on to say, “When will @RahulGandhi , his dynasty and Congress stop lying on China? Can he deny that thousands of kms, including the one in Arunachal Pradesh he is referring to was gifted by none other than Pandit Nehru to the Chinese? Time and again, why does Congress surrender to China?” The BJP’s leader’s comments come in the wake of the Gandhi’s demand that the government should issue a clarification on the Chinese aggression in Ladakh and whether the Chinese forces continue to occupy Indian territory along the Line of Actual Control. The BJP leader also brought up the issue of a MoU that was signed between the Congress party and the Communist Party of China. “Does @rahulgandhi have any intention to cancel the Congress Party MoU with China and their Communist Party? Does he intend to return the Chinese largesse to trusts controlled by his family? Or will their policies and practices continue to be dictated by Chinese money and MoU?,” Nadda tweeted. The MoU referred to was allegedly signed between the Congress and the Communist Party of China in 2008, and an alleged photograph of the signing was put out on social media last year. The BJP has also targeted the Congress for accepting donations for the Rajiv Gandhi Foundation (RGF) from the Chinese government. In a separate tweet Nadda targeted the Congress leader for trying to mislead the farmers by claiming that the recently passed farm laws benefit corporates. “When will Congress stop provoking and misleading farmers of India? Why did UPA stall the Swaminathan Commission report for years and did not increase the MSP? Why did farmers remain poor for decades under Congress Governments? Does he feel sympathy for farmers only in opposition?” The BJP leader said Gandhi has been “spreading lies” that all APMC Mandis will be closed down. “…But wasn’t action against the APMC Act a part of Congress manifesto? Would that not have closed down mandis?” he said. Following its opposition to the farm laws, the BJP has accused the Congress of double-speak on the issue. The BJP claims that the Congress in 2013–14 told its own state governments to denotify fruits and vegetables from the APMC and in its manifesto said it will repeal APMC act and make Agriculture produce free from market restrictions. Nadda also took a swipe at Gandhi for attending jallikattu in Tamil Nadu earlier this month even as his party had supported the ban on the annual sport. “Rahul Gandhi enjoyed Jallikattu in Tamil Nadu. Why did his party ban it and insult Tamil culture when they were in power? Is he not proud of India’s culture and ethos?” The BJP president also criticised Gandhi for not acknowledging the efforts of the scientists in coming up with a Covid-19 vaccine in a short span of time. He said, “Rahul Gandhi spared no opportunity to demotivate the nation in the spirited fight against COVID-19. Today when India has one of the lowest cases and our scientists have come up with a vaccine, why hasn’t he congratulated the scientists and lauded 130 crore Indians even once?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-is-congress-misleading-farmers-surrendering-to-china-nadda-to-rahul-gandhi-101611041370295.html
19-01-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi to release booklet to highlight pitfalls of farm laws today||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi will release a booklet on 'pitfalls' of the three farm laws passed by the Central government in the last monsoon session of the Parliament, on Tuesday.Gandhi will release the booklet during a press conference at the party headquarters in Delhi today.Party sources on January 15 said the booklet has been prepared to highlight the drawbacks of the new farm reform laws and their impact on farmers in the country.Follow latest updates on farmers protest here "A majority of farm labourers are SC-ST and OBC and these laws also affect them. The booklet will provide detailed information on how these laws will affect the farmers and at the same time how it will impact government purchase and thus the public distribution system too," a leader involved in the process of finalising the booklets told ANI.Congress has been continuously demanding a repeal of the three laws and has also called a nationwide protest and a "Raj Bhavan Gherao" in all the states.Farmers have been protesting at the different borders of the national capital since November last year, against the three newly enacted farm laws -- Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-to-release-booklet-to-highlight-pitfalls-of-farm-laws-today-101611040665925.html
19-01-2021||India||Union minister Shripad Naik briefly brought out on wheelchair, will be discharged in a few days||Union minister Shripad Naik was on Tuesday briefly brought out of the Goa Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) where he is undergoing treatment after meeting with an accident last week.Speaking to news agency PTI, Naik said that by God's grace, he has recovered from the tragic accident."I am seeing this day after a long time. I appeal to people not to crowd at the hospital to meet me. I will be discharged in four to five days and after that, I will meet everyone," he said.The minister greeted the hospital staff and doctors as he was brought out of his ward on a wheelchair.A joint team of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi, and the GMCH is monitoring the minister's health. Naik is Union minister of state for defence and AYUSH.Naik, 68, was on his way from Yellapur to Gokarna in Karnataka on January 11 when the accident took place. The minister's wife Vijaya and personal assistant were killed in the accident which took place near Ankola in Uttar Kannada district.Police said Naik, along with his wife, personal assistant Deepak, his close confidante Sai Kiran, gunman and the driver were heading from Yallapur to Gokarna.On the way, the driver lost his control over the car near Hosakambi village in Ankola Taluk of Uttara Kannada and the vehicle overturned."It was not a collision between vehicles. Prima facie it appears to be the case of the driver losing control of the car" a police officer had told news agency PTI.The doctors have said that it will take at least three to four months for Naik to recuperate completely.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nearly-10-days-after-accident-minister-shripad-naik-discharged-from-hospital-101611040183221.html
19-01-2021||India||China’s PLA may ramp up military activity in Ladakh in 2 months||With Indian Army and People’s Liberation Army (PLA) frozen in their positions in East Ladakh sector’s polar winter, national security planners expect China to ramp up military activity at the friction points when the snows melt in late March. There has been no withdrawal of any PLA troops from the contested points and China has used the stand-off to build advanced landing grounds across the Daulet Beg Oldi sector in Tianwendian, humongous shelters to house personnel and a shorter link from Hotan airbase to Karakoram pass. "There could be military pressure north of Depsang bulge," said a senior commander.According to people familiar with the matter, the dates of the ninth round of military talks are expected to be decided soon to top the good progress made by both sides in disengagement and de-escalation plan. This view is in sharp contrast to the view within a section of the government, who believe that the PLA is in no mood to move out of the contested points at least till paramount leader Xi Jinping delivers his address to the celebrations to mark 100 years of Chinese Communist Party’s rule. “This is the unfortunate record,” said a senior official.While the Indian Army is prepared to sit out in East Ladakh for as long as it takes, the Chinese moves may also be influenced by the tone and tenor of the incoming Joe Biden administration towards Beijing. Although many believe that the incoming US administration could strike a balance by its de facto recognition of China as the other superpower, this new G-2 factor will hurt former superpowers like Russia.India, on its part, believes that it is a multi-polar world and New Delhi is not dependent (much to the chagrin of western strategists) on Washington to deal with China to protect its frontiers. And hence, the strategy of Atmanirbhar Bharat in developing indigenous technologies in areas of drones, fighter aircraft and stand-off weapons with the involvement of the public and private sector. The onus lies on DRDO and HAL to roll-out the Tejas Mark I A on April 1, 2024, along with a prototype of the twin-engine indigenous fighter or AMCA as the government has shot down Mark II project.According to senior officials familiar with the national security deliberations, India does hope that the incoming Biden administration will stand by its commitments on China, South China Sea, Taiwan or Indo-Pacific at large but New Delhi is not dependent on the US for handling the PLA. The fact is that the US has indeed increased Indian awareness of the Indo-Pacific by providing access to information, the same cannot be said about the Ladakh stand-off. This approach is contrary to China’s perception that sees India through the prism of the US and as an adversary.With PLA ramping up border infrastructure all along the 3,488 kilometre Line of Actual Control (LAC), India is alive to the distinct possibility that China could open up fronts in Arunachal Pradesh and around the Sikkim-Bhutan-India tri-junction area. However, after the Galwan flare-up on June 15 and significant casualties on the PLA side, China will engage India with stand-off weapons and not repeat the mistake of engaging Indian Army in hand-to-hand combat in a worst-case scenario.But there is a downside to such an engagement and China is acutely aware of it. Much as China would like to teach a lesson to Indian Army as its state media often warns, Beijing is well aware that the political leadership under Prime Minister Narendra Modi has the capacity to retaliate like it did on 29-30 August 2020 on the south bank of Pangong Tso. For a country that sees itself as a contender to the superpower slot now occupied by the US, any military loss of face to India will take the wind out of that claim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-preps-for-fresh-chinese-military-activity-in-east-ladakh-from-march-101611038975489.html
19-01-2021||India||‘Will go back same route’: Farmer leader on farm law ordinance||On a day the Supreme Court-appointed panel, formed to resolve issues and end the deadlock over between the government and farmer unions over the three contentious farm laws, is scheduled to meet for the first time, the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) on Tuesday said the farmer unions will not attend the meeting, adding that the ordinance through which the laws were brought will go back the “same route it came from.”“We don’t know, we’re not going to attend the meeting. Nobody from the agitation approached the court. Govt brought the Bill through Ordinance, it was tabled in the House. It’ll go back the same route it came from,” Rakesh Tikait, the BKU spokesperson was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. Tikait is in the group of over 40 farmer leaders which has held nine rounds of talks with the government thus far.We don't know, we're not going (to first meeting of SC-formed committee). Nobody from the agitation approached Court. Govt brought Bill through Ordinance, it was tabled in the House. It'll go back the same route it came from: Rakesh Tikait, spox, Bharatiya Kisan Union#FarmLaws pic.twitter.com/EW0sqf7GWFLast week, the Supreme Court put on hold the implementation of the laws till further orders and set up a four-member committee to oversee the negotiations. However, the farmers, while welcoming the stay, rejected the committee, saying nobody from the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), the umbrella body of farmer unions representing the protesting farmers, had approached court in this regard. They also pointed out that all four members had publicly backed the three laws. Following this, Bhupinder Singh Mann, one of the four members, announced his decision to step down from the panel.Ashok Gulati, PK Joshi and Anil Ghanwat are the other three members of the panel. On Saturday, another farmers’ group, BKU (Lokshakti) filed an affidavit in the top court, seeking the trio’s removal from the committee.Tuesday marks the 55th day of the farmers’ protest on various borders of Delhi. The tenth round of talks was scheduled to take place on the day but on Monday, the government postponed it by a day. It will now take place on January 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-go-back-same-route-farmer-leader-on-farm-law-ordinance-101611039082301.html
19-01-2021||India||Centre issues Letter of Comfort to Bharat Biotech for 45 lakh doses of Covaxin||Bharat Biotech has secured a fresh Letter of Comfort from the Centre for another 45 lakh doses of its Covid-19 vaccine, Covaxin, sources said. Out of the 45 lakh doses, the city-based vaccine maker will be supplying over eight lakh to some of the friendly countries such as Mauritius, Philippines and Myanmar, free of cost as good will gesture sources added. "The company was given a fresh letter of comfort recently for supplying another 45 lakh doses of Covaxin. The doses will be dispatched as when the Ministry places orders with the company," sources told PTI. After having received the government purchase order for 55lakh doses, Bharat Biotech shipped the first batch of vaccines (each vial containing 20 doses) to Gannavaram (Vijayawada), Guwahati, Patna, Delhi, Kurukshetra, Bangalore, Pune, Bhubaneswar, Jaipur, Chennai and Lucknow, it said. Bharat Biotech said it has also donated 16.5 lakh doses to the Government of India. Sources further said the supplies from the company depend on the orders being placed by the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-issues-letter-of-comfort-to-bharat-biotech-for-45-lakh-doses-of-covaxin-101611038760730.html
19-01-2021||India||BJP MP blames Rajiv Gandhi for Chinese construction in Arunachal Pradesh, slams Cong policies for current situation||Bharatiya Janata Party MP from Arunachal Pradesh Tapir Gao on Tuesday claimed that it was during Congress' regime China occupied Sumdorong Chu Valley in Tawang and added that the then Army Chief planned an operation but former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi denied him permission to push back People's Liberation Army troops.The MP from Arunachal East pointed out that China has been constructing roads in the region since the 1980s.The comments of the BJP leader came after the Opposition questioned Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government over the alleged construction of village in the territory.Gao blamed Congress and its policies for the Chinese construction on and inside the McMahon line, while maintaining that the land where the village has been constructed is already under China's occupation."Since 80s China is constructing roads. They've built Longju to Maza road. During Rajiv Gandhi's regime, China occupied Sumdorong Chu Valley in Tawang. The then Army Chief planned an op but Rajiv Gandhi denied him permission to push back PLA," he said."Since the 80s till today, they (China) are occupying this area and construction of villages is not a new thing. They have already constructed military base between Bisa and Maza which is inside McMahon Line, under Indian territory," Gao added.He pointed out that "There was a wrong policy of government during the Congress regime. They didn't construct roads up to the border which left a buffer zone of 3-4 km which China occupied. Construction of new villages isn't a new thing, it's all inherited from Congress."The BJP MP praised the Modi government for building two-lane roads till the border."This is not a new issue for people of Arunachal Pradesh. The village might have been constructed new but the land was occupied during the Congress regime. It has a mini hydel project on Tsari Su, the actual local name is Lensi, and Army infrastructure. They will keep on constructing if there are no demarcations on basis of McMahon line. Congress should answer why the Chinese have been able to occupy the land," Gao told ANI."Operation Pelican was hatched to flush out the Chinese army. But Rajiv Gandhi quashed the plan and instead went to Beijing in 1986 and came back empty-handed. From the 80s till today, the Chinese have occupied this area and they have constructed a military base on land in the Indian Territory as per McMahon line. I don't know what happened to Indian intelligence reported to the Government of India," stated Gao."I had raised the issue in Parliament in zero-hour how China has occupied the upper Subansiri district," he added.Lashing out at Congress MP Shashi Tharoor for a tweet over the issue, Gao asked if he would make an agreement between Rahul Gandhi and Chinese President Xi Jinping public."I have read a tweet of Shashi Tharoor and Owaisi. I would like to request Tharoor whether he would be able to give an agreement signed by Rahul Gandhi and Xi Jinping and whether Arunachal and Aksai Chin were mentioned in the agreement. Before Opposition questions the PM, they should try to answer this," said Gao.Giving a historical background to the issue, Gao maintained that Indians should use Indian names rather than names given by the Chinese to places and rivers."Local name of this river is Lensi river, Chinese may call it Tsari Su. In 1959 Assam rifle and Sikh regiment were posted in Longzu. In 1962 Assam rifles were martyred by the Chinese and took over the area. Since the 80s, PLA is constructing roads," said Gao.The BJP MP also said that one should not use Line of Actual Control (LAC) in place of the Mcmahon line."We are with LAC in Ladakh but not in Arunachal Pradesh. We have the Mcmahon line in Arunachal. If we call the Mcmahon line as Line of Actual Control, it means we are considering that we have surrendered our area to China," Gao added.The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) on Monday said that it has seen recent reports on China undertaking construction work along with the border areas with India and asserted that the government keeps a constant watch on all developments having a bearing on India's security and takes all the necessary measures to safeguard its sovereignty and territorial integrity.The MEA said China has undertaken such infrastructure construction in the past several years and the government too has stepped up border infrastructure which has provided much-needed connectivity to the local population.MEA's response came after a media report that China has resorted to construction in the border area in Arunachal Pradesh. There were reports earlier of China having constructed three new villages near Arunachal Pradesh border. India and China are in a standoff in Ladakh for over eight months following actions of the Chinese Army.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-mp-blames-rajiv-gandhi-for-chinese-construction-in-arunachal-pradesh-slams-cong-policies-for-current-situation-101611038415297.html
19-01-2021||India||Remember his promise: Rahul Gandhi targets PM over Chinese village in Arunachal||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday took a swipe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi over a report that China has built a village in a disputed region of Arunachal Pradesh. "Remember his promise- “मैं देश झुकने नहीं दूँगा।”," Gandhi posted on Twitter along with a newspaper clipping on the issue.The tweet comes against the backdrop of an NDTV report citing satellite imagery from Planet Labs, a private US-based imaging company, that shows China built a new village, consisting of 101 homes, in Arunachal Pradesh, about 4.5 km “within Indian territory of the de facto border”.Remember his promise- “मैं देश झुकने नहीं दूँगा।” pic.twitter.com/NdXT4hqkNKThe village is located on the banks of Tsari Chu river in Upper Subansiri district, an area along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). This was the same area where five people were detained by Chinese troops last September. Comparing two satellite images provided by Planet Labs, NDTV reported the village had been built sometime in the past 15 months.The ministry of external affairs has said that it closely monitors all developments affecting national security and acts to safeguard territorial integrity. The government has stepped up the construction of border infrastructure, including roads and bridges, in response to China’s “construction work along the border areas”, it added.Congress national spokesperson Randeep Surjewala also the government over the alleged “Chinese village.” "After Ladakh, #China occupies our territory 4.5 Km inside #Arunachal & builds a whole village. BJP MP Tapir Gao claims Chinese incursion “60-70 Kms inside upper Subhansiri District” Why is PM Modi ‘mum’? Will BJP Govt act against Chinese incursions?,” he tweeted.Meanwhile, Bharatiya Janata Party MP from Arunachal Pradesh Tapir Gao trained guns at the Congress claiming that it was during their regime that China occupied Sumdorong Chu Valley in Tawang and added that the then Army chief had planned an operation but former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi denied him permission to push back People Liberation Army's troops, reported news agency ANI.Gao pointed out that China has been constructing roads in the region since the 1980s. "Since the 80s till today, they (China) are occupying this area and construction of villages is not a new thing. They have already constructed a military base between Bisa and Maza which is inside McMahon Line, under Indian territory," he was quoted as saying.Hitting out at the then Congress government over “wrong policies”, he told ANI, “They didn't construct roads up to the border which left a buffer zone of 3-4 km which China occupied. Construction of new villages isn't a new thing, it's all inherited from Congress."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/remember-his-promise-rahul-gandhi-targets-pm-over-chinese-village-in-arunachal-101611037548626.html
19-01-2021||India||Amartya Sen asks Visva-Bharati to withdraw allegation of illegal holding of land||Nobel laureate economist Amartya Sen has written to Visva-Bharati demanding that the university authorities withdraw the allegation that his family is in "illegal" possession of land in its Santiniketan campus and alleged that the accusations are a crude attempt at harassment.Sen had on Monday written the letter to Visva-Bharati Vice-Chancellor Prof Bidyut Chakraborty two days after the authorities of the central university asked the West Bengal government to measure the plot owned by him at Santiniketan as soon as possible to permanently resolve the dispute.The noted economist said in the letter that his father had purchased free-hold land from the market and not from Visva-Bharati - to add to their homestead and he has been paying taxes for them.Sen had also sent a legal notice earlier this year to the VC asking him to withdraw "false" allegation made to the news agencies that a plot of land owned by Visva-Bharati is unlawfully occupied by the economist.While the university was not able to provide any justification for the allegation, it has requested the West Bengal government "to measure the area of our homestead, Pratichi, to compare with the long term lease of land taken by my father in 1940 from Visva-Bharati", Sen said in the letter."This sudden abuse of an 80-year-old document is clearly a crude attempt at harassment or worse," he said."Among other errors it ignores the big fact, which I have stated many times (even in the context of this dispute), that a substantial amount of free-hold land was purchased by my father (in the market -- not from Visva-Bharati) to add to our homestead on which khajna and Panchayat taxes are paid by me yearly," the letter said.Hence the officiating registrar's threat of legal action if the official discovers any additional land beyond the leased land seems hugely mischievous, Sen said.Stating that he is tired of the VC's repeated claims despite emphatic denials on his part about his phone call to Chakraborty in 2019, Sen said that the VC insisted that the call was made either on June 2 or June 14."On being informed that I was abroad for the entire month of June 2019 and came back to India only in July, the story was promptly altered by the V.C.'s office to assert that I had called in June or July but said the same things," the letter said."Rather than inventing new falsities and adding to their culpability, Visva-Bharati should withdraw the false allegations made by them, as my lawyer has asked," Sen said.A controversy had erupted on December 24 last year, the day Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed the centenary celebrations of Visva-Bharati, when media reported that the university has written to the West Bengal government alleging dozens of land parcels owned by it were wrongfully recorded in the names of private parties including Sen.Sen, who now lives in the US, has said that the land, on which his house stands is on a long-term lease, which is nowhere near its expiry.Stating that the Visva-Bharati authorities had never complained to him or his family about any irregularity in holding the land, Sen has accused the VC of acting at the behest of the Centre "with its growing control over Bengal".Visva-Bharati officials were not available for comment on the letter.West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and several prominent intellectuals of the state have expressed their supports to the economist on the row.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amartya-sen-asks-visva-bharati-to-withdraw-allegation-of-illegal-holding-of-land-101611037280003.html
19-01-2021||India||MVA, BJP both claim victory in Maharashtra panchayat polls: All you need to know||Partners in the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi — Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress — won 58% of the 12,711 seats that went to polls on January 15. However, among all parties individually, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) won the highest number, with the Sena a close second. Results of all seats were not announced till late on Monday and a clear picture is expected by Tuesday. Here is a look at the key aspects of the polls: • The Bharatiya Janata Party won about 2,600 gram panchayats (village councils), followed by the Sena (2,570), of the 11,800 panchayats whose results were declared late Monday evening. • The NCP and Congress bagged 2,400 and 1,825 panchayats respectively, while local panels and independents won over 2,335. • A total of 214,880 candidates were in the fray for 125,709 seats. • At least 26,718 members in 1,665 panchayats were elected unopposed.Also Read: Maharashtra gram panchayat polls: BJP, Congress, Shiv Sena, NCP claim victory• Another 162 panchayats in Gadchiroli will go to the polls on January 20. Village panchayat elections are not fought on party symbols• The parties claim victory on the basis of the local panels formed by the candidates affiliated with them. • Some of the panels at the local level claim their affiliations to more than one party. • Three ruling parties fought the elections separately. • The BJP declared victory, but the MVA parties insisted that the number of panchayats won by them together was much higher. • Of the 27,782 gram panchayats in the state, 14,432 were due for the elections last year. • The elections were deferred because of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-vikas-aghadi-wins-58-of-gram-panchayat-seats-all-you-need-to-know-101611037290166.html
19-01-2021||India||FIR filed in Greater Noida against makers of 'Tandav' for allegedly showing UP Police in bad light||A First Information Report (FIR) has been filed in Greater Noida against the makers of web series 'Tandav' for allegedly showing UP Police in bad light and hurting religious sentiments.The FIR has been filed in Rabupura and also accuse the makers and actors of 'Tandav' of inciting communal disharmony and hurting religious sentiments. The FIR has named Ali Abbas Zafar (Director), Aparna Purohit (Head, India Amazon original contents), Himanshu Krishna Mehra (Producer), Gaurav Solanki (Writer), and actors Saif Ali Khan, Dimple Kapadia and Sunil Grover.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s media advisor Shalabhmani Tripathi had earlier warned the makers of the web series of serious legal fallout while tagging them all to his tweet.“The UP Police has left for Mumbai, that too in a car. There are strong sections in the FIR, remain prepared, will have to pay a price for hurting religious sentiments," Tripathi had said in his tweet.Also Read: Why Amazon's political drama ignited a firestormThis is one of the several complaints filed against 'Tandav' in several parts of the country.A criminal complaint has been filed before a Delhi court seeking action against the makers of the web series.The criminal complaint filed under Section 200 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) seeks summoning, commencing of trial under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, and punishing of the accused persons, alleging that the web series is provoking communal disharmony and is hurting the sentiments of Hindus.The matter is likely to come up for hearing on January 23.Earlier, an FIR was registered at Lucknow's Hazratganj Kotwali against Amazon Prime's India head of original content Aparna Purohit, director of the web series Zafar, producer Mehra, writer Solanki and others, for allegedly hurting religious sentiments.BJP leader Ram Kadam had filed a complaint against 'Tandav' at Mumbai's Ghatkopar police station. He, along with another BJP leader Manoj Kotak, has sought ban on the web series.Taking cognizance of complaints, the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting had on Sunday sought an explanation from streaming platform Amazon Prime Video on the issue.The government recently brought OTT platforms such as Netflix, Amazon Prime Video and Disney+ Hotstar, besides other online news and current affairs content, under the ambit of the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, giving it powers to regulate policies and rules for the digital space.Meanwhile, the cast and crew of 'Tandav' on Monday issued an unconditional apology if their fictional show had “unintentionally” hurt sentiments.Security has been stepped up outside the office of Amazon Prime and residence of Saif Ali Khan in Mumbai.The series premiered on streaming platform Amazon Prime on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fir-against-tandav-makers-for-allegedly-showing-up-police-in-bad-light-101611036548278.html
19-01-2021||India||Gorakhpur woman says was not kidnapped, forced to convert||A 19-year-old woman has told police in Uttar Pradesh’s Gorakhpur that she had gone to Karnataka on her own for a job days after her father lodged a First Information Report against a 22-year-old Muslim man for allegedly kidnapping his daughter and forcing her to change her religion, a police officer said.The two were brought to Gorakhpur on Monday from Karnataka. “The woman told us that she went to Karnataka to meet the man on her own looking for a job. She denied allegations of kidnapping or forceful conversion by the man,” said additional police superintendent (Gorakhpur) Manoj Kumar Awasthi. He added she was being presented before a magistrate to record her statement on Tuesday even as her medical examination report was awaited.Deputy inspector general (Gorakhpur) Jogendra Kumar said the father lodged a missing report on January 5 and fresh charges under Uttar Pradesh’s new anti-conversion ordinance were added after the woman’s call records showed she was in touch with the Karnataka man for over a year. “The girl’s father alleged... [the man] concealed his religious identity to kidnap his daughter.”Also read | Transfer pleas on ‘love jihad’ law to Supreme Court: UP govt tells Allahabad HCIn his complaint, the father said his daughter was in touch with the man on Facebook since November 2019. An Uttar Pradesh police team arrested the man from Bijapur in Karnataka last week.Uttar Pradesh has criminalised religious conversion, including through interfaith marriages, amid criticism that the ordinance enacted for it in November was being used to target inter-faith couples. The ordinance was introduced after the Hindu right campaigned against interfaith marriages.Uttarakhand and Madhya Pradesh have also enacted anti-conversion laws and other Bharatiya Janata Party-ruled states such as Haryana, Karnataka, and Assam are planning similar legislation.Critics allege the laws are being used against the Muslim minority and infantilise women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gorakhpur-woman-says-was-not-kidnapped-forced-to-convert-101611036089493.html
19-01-2021||India||Woman Maoist carrying ₹8 lakh bounty arrested in Chhattisgarh||A woman Maoist with ₹8 lakh reward on her head was arrested from a village in Bijapur district of Bastar region in Chhattisgarh, officials said on TuesdayPolice said that Korsa Maase (24), resident of Sakin Pujaripada village, was a member of Maoists’ Company Number 1, in Maad division of CPI (Maoist).“Maase was also involved in instigating tribals to organise a rally against opening of camp in Gangaloor region in December last year. The arrest was made by the District Reserve Guard (DRG) during an operation launched on Monday. She is in police remand and investigation is underway,” said a police officer.On Monday, during another anti-naxal operation in Bijapur, police have arrested Sunita Karam, from Cherelapal area of district, who was involved in hurling crude bombs on the new camp in Pamed area.Meanwhile, eight Maoists surrendered in Dantewada district of Bastar region on Monday.The eight, including a woman, said they surrendered due to their disappointment with the Maoist ideology.Out of the eight, Suresh Oyami (20) was active as a member of Platoon No 13 under Bhairamgarh Area Committee of the Maoists and carried a reward of ₹2 lakh on his head.Three others - Jogi Madvi (19), Pradip alias Pandru Kovasi (20) and Sule Kawasi (35) - carried reward of ₹1 lakh each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-maoist-carrying-rs-8-lakh-bounty-arrested-in-chhattisgarh-101611035262083.html
19-01-2021||India||Public bike-sharing cheapest mode for last-mile connectivity in Mumbai: Survey||Cycling could turn out to be the cheapest mode of transport for the last-mile connectivity in Mumbai, shows a recent survey.The analysis by the World Resources Institute (WRI) India shows that while public bike-sharing (introduced at two Mumbai Metro stations) costs ₹2 for a five km ride, the same distance costs ₹5 in a BEST bus and local train (second class), ₹50 in first class and ₹20 in Metro.It gets more expensive if one opts for an auto ( ₹60.67), a black and yellow taxi ( ₹74) or an app-based cab ( ₹115). The analysis has assessed the cycling speed to be around 6km per hour. The newly-introduced public bike-sharing scheme at the Versova and Jagruti Nagar Metro station costs ₹2 per hour. For trains, the report looks at the pricing between the Churchgate and Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus (CST) stations. First- and last-mile connectivity refers to the beginning and end of a commute made using public transportation and has been a huge issue in the city.Prateek Diwan, senior project associate - urban innovative and integrated transport, WRI India said, “Public transportation becomes effective when commuters have a range of last-mile connectivity options, which is usually at a distance of about 2-5 kms. Apart from being a low-cost mode of travel, cycling also allows commuters flexibility to change routes and is the most sustainable transport option.” Almost 35% of vehicular trips in India are short trips (less than 5 kms). The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) development plan 2032 also states that 60% of the start and end of public transport trips are by walking and more than 80% of it is for less than 15 minutes, which effectively means that these trips, in conducive weather, can also translate into cycling trips.The Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA), which is implementing a 337km-Metro network in Mumbai and its adjoining areas, is also giving a lot of importance to cycling as an attractive last-mile option. Apart from introducing cycling in two Metro stations, it has introduced e-scooters in Bandra-Kurla Complex. MMRDA has also planned cycle bays across all upcoming 200+ Metro stations as part of its larger multimodal integration plan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cycling-cheapest-mode-for-last-mile-connectivity-in-mumbai-survey-101611034348598.html
19-01-2021||India||Indian Army organises 5-day recruitment drive for women in Lucknow||In a move at increasing women's numbers in the Army, the Indian Army on Monday organised a five-day recruitment drive for women at AMC Stadium in Lucknow Cantonment.Major General NS Rajpurohit, Additional Director General (ADG)-Recruiting of Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand said, "From March to October 2020, these drives were not conducted due to Covid-19 pandemic. We resumed our operations in November 2020. Since then, this is the first time we are conducting such a drive for women. Also, we have made negative Covid-19 test reports mandatory for participation."The recruitment drive for women comes after the apex court on February 17, 2020, had ordered that the permanent commission will apply to all women officers in the Indian Army in service, irrespective of their years of service.The apex court had also ordered that after the judgement of Delhi High Court, Centre should grant permanent commission to women officers.Additional Director General encouraged people to participate in physical exercise to boost the immunity of the body."We are happy to see that a lot of women have participated with enthusiasm in this drive. For being recruited, the woman must pass the physical test successfully," Rajpurohit added."This drive will be conducted for four more days. Today is the first day. We will be covering 75 districts of Uttar Pradesh and 15 in Uttarakhand," he added."For registering in this drive, participants can access the details on our online portal," he further added.On February 17, 2020, the apex court ordered that the permanent commission will apply to all women officers in the Indian Army in service, irrespective of their years of service.The apex court had also ordered that after the judgement of Delhi High Court, Centre should grant permanent commission to women officers.Defence Minister Rajnath Singh had termed it as a historic decision and said Prime Minister Narendra Modi has supported the idea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-army-organises-5-day-recruitment-drive-for-women-in-lucknow-101611033368769.html
19-01-2021||India||India’s daily Covid-19 cases drop to 10,064, recoveries surpass 10.22 million||India’s daily cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) came down to 10,064 on Tuesday, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare. Though the total number of confirmed cases has gone up to 10,581,837, the active caseload has come down to 200,528, which is merely 1.97% of the country’s total tally.As many as 10,228,753 people have recovered from the viral disease with 17,411 recoveries reported in the last 24 hours. Recoveries account for 96.59% of the total cases, according to the health ministry.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 hereThe decline in active cases comes at a time when the Covid-19 vaccination drive is underway across the nation. A total of 3,81,305 beneficiaries were vaccinated in the first three days of the immunisation drive. Following the inoculation, 580 cases of Adverse Event Following Immunization (AEFI) have been reported so far. Out of these, seven required hospitalisation.Officials said concerns over the vaccines’ safety appear to have deterred many people as side-effects of the jabs were being highlighted.Two vaccines-Serum Institute of India’s Oxford-AstraZeneca called Covidshield, and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, which is still in the third phase of trials- are being administered to the beneficiaries across all states.In the first phase of the vaccination drive, nearly 30 million health and frontline workers are being given the dose and in the second phase, those above 50 years of age, and those below 50 years of age with comorbidities or with a high risk of infection, will be vaccinated.The health ministry has also released fact sheets for both the vaccines that are approved for use in India, warning against use of these vaccines in immuno-compromised persons or in persons taking medicines that can affect the immune system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-daily-covid-19-cases-drop-to-10-064-recoveries-surpass-10-22-million-101611033011391.html
19-01-2021||India||Kashmir: Wet spell later this week could end cold wave, says IMD||Srinagar witnessed another cold night as the temperature plunged to -7 degrees Celsius.According to India Meteorological Department (IMD), a wet spell is expected later this week that could increase the temperature and end the cold wave in Kashmir. From the past one week,a cold wave has gripped the Valley and the night temperature has been hovering around -8 and -7 degrees Celsius. Also Read: Cold wave claims lives of two nomad children in KashmirIMD officials said that a western disturbance (winds blowing from the Mediterranean) is most likely to affect Jammu and Kashmir and Kargil district of Ladakh between January 22 and 25 , bringing widespread light to moderate snowfall and rain in the plains of Jammu.. “The western disturbance will affect the region from Friday evening and may impact air and surface transport,” said Met director Sonam Lotus.The weather office said that the coldest place in the valley on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday was Qazigund in south Kashmir where the mercury plunged to -8.6 degrees Celsius, around 5 notches below normal.The ski resort of Gulmarg in north Kashmir recorded -6. 2 degrees Celsius while the temperature went down to -8.4 degrees Celsius in the tourist resort of Pahalgam. Winter capital Jammu recorded 11.2 degrees Celsius as night temperature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kashmir-wet-spell-later-this-week-could-end-cold-wave-says-imd-101611033088960.html
19-01-2021||India||MP high court rejects bail of man arrested for sharing Yogi’s morphed picture||The Madhya Pradesh high court on Monday rejected the bail plea of a man arrested on December 4 for allegedly “outraging religious feelings” by morphing and posting a picture of Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath.Akash Sharma, a government advocate, said judge Rohit Arya rejected Sameer Chhepa’s plea saying Adityanath is not only a chief minister but also a saint. “The accused hurt the religious sentiments by insulting a saint,” said Sharma.Chhepa has been booked under the Indian Penal Code’s Section 295 (A) (deliberate and malicious acts intended to outrage religious feelings) and under the Information Technology Act.(With inputs from Neha Jain in Indore)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-high-court-rejects-bail-of-man-arrested-for-sharing-yogi-s-morphed-picture-101611032429076.html
19-01-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccines: Fact sheets warn against use in immuno-compromised||Fact sheets for both the Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccines that are approved for use in India have warned against use of these vaccines in immuno-compromised persons or in persons taking medicines that can affect the immune system. A fact sheet released by the Union health ministry doesn’t specifically mention these conditions as contraindications for Covid-19 vaccines. “You should not get the Bharat Biotech Covid-19 vaccine, Covaxin, if you are immune-compromised, or are on a medicine that affects your medicine, have any history of allergies, have fever, have a bleeding disorder or are on a blood thinner, are pregnant or breastfeeding, have received another Covid-19 vaccine, or any other serious health related issues, as determined by the vaccinator/officer supervising vaccination,” says Bharat Biotech’s fact sheet on Covaxin that the company has put out in compliance with the national drugs controller’s regulatory approval conditions under clinical trial mode. Also Read: Vaccine drive expands as Covid-19 probe criticises global responseSerum Institute of India (SII), that is locally manufacturing Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine that it calls Covishield, has also put out a fact sheet enlisting contraindications and precautions that need to be taken while administering the vaccine. “What should you mention to your health care provider before you get Covishield vaccine? Tell the health care provider about all your medical conditions, including: if you are immunocompromised or are on a medicine that affects your immune system, ever had a severe allergic reaction (anaphylaxis) after any drug, food, any vaccine, or any ingredients of Covishield vaccine, have fever, have a bleeding disorder or are on a blood thinner, are pregnant or plan to become pregnant, are breast feeding or received another Covid-19 vaccine. You should consult your health care provider before deciding to take the vaccine…,” says SII fact sheet on Covishield. The Covaxin fact sheet was released last week, and for Covishield, SII released the fact sheet earlier this month. The health ministry’s guidance document for States on precautions and contraindications for Covid-19 vaccine released two days before the launch of Covid-19 vaccination drive on January 16, however, did not mention a recipient’s immune status as a contraindication for taking these vaccines. “Following conditions are not contraindicated for Covid vaccines: immune-deficiency, HIV, patients on immune-suppression due to any condition (the response to the Covid-19 vaccines may be less in these individuals); history of chronic diseases and morbidities (cardiac, neurological, pulmonary, metabolic, renal, malignancies); Persons with a past history of Sars-CoV-2 infection (sero-positivity), and or RT-PCR positive illness,” read the health ministry document sent to states by Manohar Agnani, additional secretary (health). Agnani’s letter to states also mentioned certain conditions for which giving the vaccine should be deferred by four to eight weeks after recovery, and that include having active symptoms of Covid-19 infection, hospitalized patients who were given convalescent plasma therapy or monoclonal antibodies, and those who are acutely unwell and hospitalized (with or without intensive care) due to any illnesses. “Special precautions need to be taken while giving the vaccine to persons with history of any bleeding or coagulation disorder such as clotting factor deficiency, coagulopathy or platelet disorder,” it said. India has so far seen 0.15% adverse events following immunisation (AEFI) since it launched the Covid-19 vaccination drive on Saturday, January 16.Experts say it is a minuscule number in comparison to the benefits that vaccinating country’s high-risk population will achieve.“Acceptable level of AEFI would ideally be zero, but that is not the case. I think it is around 0.2% and yet we are focussing on that and not the 99.8% benefit,” said Dr Shahid Jameel, former CEO of Wellcome Trust/DBT India Alliance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccines-fact-sheets-warn-against-use-among-people-with-medical-conditions-101611031888505.html
19-01-2021||India||Cancer Institute WIA chairperson and senior oncologist Dr V Shanta dies, PM Modi pays tribute||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday condoled the death of senior oncologist and chairperson of the Adyar Cancer Institute Dr V Shanta who passed away in the early hours on Tuesday. She was 93."Dr. V Shanta will be remembered for her outstanding efforts to ensure top-quality cancer care. The Cancer Institute at Adyar, Chennai is at the forefront of serving the poor and downtrodden. I recall my visit to the Institute in 2018. Saddened by Dr. V Shanta's demise. Om Shanti," PM Modi tweeted.Dr. V Shanta will be remembered for her outstanding efforts to ensure top quality cancer care. The Cancer Institute at Adyar, Chennai is at the forefront of serving the poor and downtrodden. I recall my visit to the Institute in 2018. Saddened by Dr. V Shanta’s demise. Om Shanti. pic.twitter.com/lnZKTc5o3dThe veteran oncologist was admitted to a private hospital in the city last night after she complained of chest pain.Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said he is sad with the demise of the renowned oncologist. Vardhan said she "The veteran oncologist was admitted to a private hospital in the city last night after she complained of chest pain.""With the sad demise of renowned oncologist Dr V Shanta, we have lost a great humanitarian. As Chairwoman of the Cancer Institute at Adyar, Chennai, she championed the cause of providing health to those without wealth. My deepest condolences to her family," the health minister tweeted.With the sad demise of renowned oncologist Dr V Shanta, we have lost a great humanitarian.As Chairwoman of the Cancer Institute at Adyar, Chennai, she championed the cause of providing health to those without wealth.My deepest condolences to her family.y pic.twitter.com/ywP0kfXv4kHer body has been moved to the old cancer institute premises, which she helped build along with her mentor Dr. Krishnamoorthy. Dr Shanta played an important role in the development of the Cancer Institute from a cottage hospital of 12 beds to a major comprehensive cancer centre of national and international stature.The Padma Shri (1986) and Padma Bhushan (2006) awarded doctor was renowned for her efforts towards making quality and affordable cancer treatment accessible to all patients. She was also awarded the Padma Vibhushan and the Ramon Magsaysay awards.Dr Shanta was the Chairman and Executive Chairman of the Cancer Institute (WIA) Chennai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/saddened-by-dr-v-shanta-s-demise-pm-modi-pays-tribute-to-senior-oncologist-101611031387675.html
19-01-2021||India||Magh mela: Organisers of dance fined for obscenity||Authorities on Monday issued a notice to the organisers of a show and slapped a Rs2 lakh fine on them for allegedly organising obscene dance at the Magh Mela.“We have imposed a monetary penalty on the organisers and will ensure that such obscene dance is not repeated in the Mela area which is only for religious activities,” said Prayagraj district magistrate Bhanu Chandra Goswami.An official said a strict warning against staging such obscene dances has also been issued and the show was stopped immediately. The official added that the organisers were allotted space at the Mela for a merry-go-round for kids. But the organisers used the space to play obscene Bhojpuri songs and dance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/magh-mela-organisers-of-dance-fined-for-obscenity-101611031648695.html
19-01-2021||India||UP govt lifts ban on import of poultry from other states||The Uttar Pradesh government on Monday lifted the ban on the import of poultry from other states following an advisory from the central government to this effect. The move has come as a big relief to the poultry traders in the state. The order to lift the ban was issued after chief minister Yogi Adityanath approved a proposal to this effect here on Monday, sources said. The UP government had on January 10 issued a circular declaring the whole state as “controlled zone” and banning the import of all kinds of live birds, including poultry, into UP from other states till January 24. Also Read: Bird flu confirmed in 5 states for poultry, culling operations underwayThe ban that was put in view of avian influenza (bird flu) cases being reported from neighbouring states, such as Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana and Punjab, was to be reviewed after January 24 and a further call taken depending on the situation. “We have withdrawn the earlier ban order midway with immediate effect on the centre’s advice,” principal secretary, animal husbandry, Bhuvnesh Kumar said. The order also quoted a report by the director, animal diseases, to make a case for lifting the ban. According to that report, the department took 2,811 swab and 1,013 serum samples and also examined 43 dead birds during a statewide surveillance till January 15. “But only 11 samples were found to be positive, which is very low at only 0.54%,” the order said. The centre’s advisory, according sources, said that not only there was no evidence of the avian influenza virus spreading from birds to human beings but the virus is also destroyed at 70 degree Celsius temperature and there was no risk from eating well-boiled eggs and meat. “Moreover, while stressing on the need for lifting the ban, the centre also said the virus in UP was mostly affecting wild birds and poultry birds were not hit, barring sporadic cases,” sources said. The centre saw the poultry import prohibition as a knee-jerk reaction to the situation. Sources, however said the ban was lifted mainly due to financial losses it was causing to people engaged in the poultry business in UP as well in states from where poultry birds are imported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-govt-lifts-ban-on-import-of-poultry-from-other-states-101611031408845.html
19-01-2021||India||Cancer Institute founder V Shanta passes away in Chennai||Senior oncologist and chairperson of the Adyar Cancer Institute Dr V Shanta passed away in the early hours on Tuesday morning. She was 93.The veteran oncologist was admitted to a private hospital in the city last night after she complained of chest pain.Her body has been moved to the old Cancer Institute premises, which she helped build along with her mentor Dr. Krishnamoorthy.The Padma Shri (1986) and Padma Bhushan (2006) awarded doctor was renowned for her efforts towards making quality and affordable cancer treatment accessible to all patients. She was also awarded the Padma Vibhushan and the Ramon Magsaysay awards.Dr Shanta was the Chairman and Executive Chairman of the Cancer Institute (WIA) Chennai."Her entire medical life over 50 years has been dedicated to the mission of organising care of Cancer patients, the study of the disease, its prevention and control, the generation of specialists and scientists in different aspects of Oncologic Sciences," the Adyar Cancer Institute said.The senior oncologist played an important role along with Dr. Krishnamurthi in the development of the Cancer Institute from a cottage hospital of 12 beds to a major comprehensive Cancer Centre of national and international stature.Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami has also announced police honours for Dr Shanta who passed away today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cancer-institute-founder-v-shanta-passes-away-in-chennai-101611030980051.html
19-01-2021||India||Hike in fuel prices due to lower production amid Covid-19: Dharmendra Pradhan||Stating that fuel prices had gone up because of lower production in oil-producing nations due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Union Minister for Petroleum and Natural Gas Dharmendra Pradhan on Monday said that the lower production had caused an imbalance in demand and supply."Our main challenge is, we have to import 80 per cent of crude oil of our requirement. Due to coronavirus, many oil-producing countries stopped production or reduced it. There is a pressure on fuel price due to imbalance in demand and supply," Pradhan said while speaking to media in Betul."Consumption has been increasing. India is third as far as energy consumption is concerned," he said.The Union Minister asserted that the government was focusing on electric vehicles (EVs), solar energy, production of ethanol etc to become self-reliant in the energy sector.On Monday, the Union Minister also flagged off two welfare projects of Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC).In line with Prime Minister Narendra Modi's vision to increase the use of renewable energy and making India Atmanirbhar, two projects supported by Energy Maharatna ONGC for the welfare of people here were launched by Pradhan.The Minister laid the foundation stone of a hostel-cum-training facility for farmers at Bharat Bharati Shiksha Samiti. He also launched the distribution of Solar Chulhas to poor households in Betul, which is being developed as a solar village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hike-in-fuel-prices-due-to-lower-production-amid-covid-19-dharmendra-pradhan-101611030388588.html
19-01-2021||India||Health worker, who was administered Covid-19 vaccine, dies of heart attack in Karnataka||The death of the 43-year-old man in Bellary, who was administered the Covid-19 vaccine on January 16, was caused by cardiorespiratory arrest secondary to acute anteroseptal wall MI, said the Karnataka Health Department on Monday.The deceased Nagaraju was a permanent employee of the health department who was vaccinated on January 16 around 1 pm and was normal till Monday morning."Today morning when he came to duty, he complained of chest pain at around 9.30 am and collapsed. He was treated immediately and referred to Jindal Sanjeeveni hospital for higher treatment where he was admitted at 11.15 am. The highest level of treatment was provided, but he could not be saved," the department said in a statement."Apart from him, none of the other health care workers who took the vaccine from the same vial had any adverse events. The district-level AEFI Committee met and had detailed discussions. The conclusion is that the death was due to cardiorespiratory arrest secondary to acute anteroseptal wall MI," it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-worker-who-was-administered-covid-19-vaccine-dies-of-heart-attack-in-karnataka-101611030057193.html
19-01-2021||India||China only major economy with positive GDP growth in 2020||China has become the only major economy in the world the end up with positive GDP growth in 2020. Data released by China’s National Bureau of Statistics put GDP growth in the December quarter at 6.5%. This has catapulted the annual growth figure for 2020 to 2.3%, despite a 6.8% contraction in the quarter ending March 2020, which was when China was dealing with a spike in Covid-19 cases.The 2.3% GDP growth in 2020 is 30 basis points – one basis point is one hundredth of a percentage point – more than the 2% projection made by the World Bank’s Global Economic Prospects released earlier this month. All major economies, country groups and sub-regions (East Asia and Pacific being the only exception, thanks to China) are expected to experience a contraction in their GDP in 2020.Chinese economy is expected to outperform most major economies even in 2021. This is despite the fact that the others will have a more favourable base effect due to economic contraction this year. The difference in growth performance in 2020 and 2021 is likely to close the gap between the US and Chinese economies significantly. In 2019, China’s GDP was $14.3 trillion in current prices, around two-thirds of the US GDP of $21.4 trillion. With China’s GDP growth exceeding that of the US by 5.9 and 4.4 percentage points in 2020 and 2021 respectively, the US-China GDP gap is expected to come down significantly.To be sure, the Chinese economy has its share of challenges. Chinese economy’s exceptional performance has “been fuelled by a surprisingly resilient export sector” even as “consumption – a key driver of growth – has lagged expectations”, Reuters reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-only-major-economy-with-positive-gdp-growth-in-2020-101611030088272.html
19-01-2021||India||UP govt to take a call on budget session soon||The Uttar Pradesh government will soon take a call on convening the budget session of the state legislature for the 2021-2022 fiscal. The state budget session has to be convened by the third week of February to meet the constitutional requirement. The Constitution of India provides “six months shall not intervene between its last sitting in one session and the date appointed for its first sitting in the next session”.As the monsoon session of Uttar Pradesh legislature ended on August 22 last year, the state government has only about a month left to meet the constitutional requirement of holding the budget session in the second half of the next month.Also Read: Transfer pleas on ‘love jihad’ law to Supreme Court: UP govt tells Allahabad HCUP minister for parliamentary affairs Suresh Khanna was not available for comment. A senior officer, however, hinted that the state cabinet may soon take a call on convening the budget session in the second or third week of February.“We understand the state government is likely to convene the budget session any time after February 10, 2021,” said the senior officer of state on condition of anonymity.Prime Minister Narendra Modi and UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath have categorically stated that the ministers and public representatives would have to wait for their turn for the administration of Covid-19 vaccine.The state government will, therefore, have to keep the Covid-19 guidelines in mind and make arrangements for the same accordingly when it convenes the budget session, the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-govt-to-take-a-call-on-budget-session-soon-101611029488602.html
19-01-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccination drive Day 4: Challenges faced so far||Roughly 50% of the people the government expected have been given doses per session in the first three days since Covid-19 vaccinations began in India on Saturday amid reports of vaccine hesitancy. Here is all you need to know about vaccination drive so far and the challenges it faces: • Between Saturday and 5pm on Monday, 381,305 people were given doses in 7,704 sessions. • There were no immunisations on Sunday. • The turnout dipped from 4,319 on Saturday to 3,593 on Monday in Delhi. • Only eight people were vaccinated on Monday at Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences. • Officials said concerns over the vaccines’ safety appear to have deterred many people as side-effects of the jabs were being highlighted. Also Read: Vaccine drive expands as Covid-19 probe criticises global response• Some doctors said they were apprehensive or would not prefer Covaxin, the vaccine made by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, which has not yet been tested entirely in Phase 3 trials, and the manufacturers do not know how effective it is in preventing Covid-19. • Recipients of Covaxin were required to sign consent sheets typically given to people participating in clinical trials. • The Bharat Biotech vaccine has been approved under “the clinical trial route”, as per the regulators’ decision on January 3. • The other vaccine, Covishield, developed by Oxford-AstraZeneca and manufactured by Serum Institute of India, has proved its efficacy in human trials. • In Uttar Pradesh, the state government issued a notice to a government hospital in Kanpur where only 40 people were given doses on Saturday. The state is carrying out immunisations only two days a week, Thursday and Friday from this week onwards• A total of 580 cases of adverse effects following immunisation have been reported until Monday with the Centre maintaining most of them have been mild, with symptoms such as pain at the injection site, nausea and mild fever. • Of the 580, or 0.15% of those vaccinated, seven required hospitalisations. Four of them were still hospitalised. • Experts said that these numbers were much below the thresholds for anything that should be worrying and that the benefits outweigh the risks of immunisation. • Some glitches were also reported in the Co-WIN mobile application that vaccinators use to create lists of who will be given doses during a particular session and record their status. • The portal has been crashing intermittently, leading to delays. • Some beneficiaries have complained that they did not receive any intimation about their vaccination• Sometimes, midway through the exercise, names of beneficiaries also disappear from the portal. • Maharashtra suspended the vaccination drive on Saturday after only less than 2,000 people were vaccinated across the state due to the glitches.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-covid-vaccination-drive-all-you-need-to-know-101611029128159.html
19-01-2021||India||'Advisable to not take vaccine if...': Bharat Biotech issues Covaxin fact sheet||India has launched a massive exercise to inoculate its population against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) which has claimed more than 1.5 lakh lives in the country.In the vaccination drive that began on January 16, the doctors are using two vaccines - Covishield made by Serum Institute of India (SII) and Covaxin manufactured by Bharat Biotech.But days into the vaccination programme, Bharat Biotech has come out with a fact sheet about the process involved and who should avoid taking the vaccine.According to the fact sheet posted on Bharat Biotech's website, it is advisable not to take the vaccine if a person has allergies, fever or bleeding disorder or is on a blood thinner.It also said that pregnant and breastfeeding women should also avoid taking Covaxin. Those who are immune-compromised or are on medicine that affects immune system, and those who have received another Covid-19 vaccine should also not get the Bharat Biotech's medicine, the company said.Also Watch | First feeling, side-effects, doubts: Vaccinated doctors share experienceSo who all are eligible to get Covaxin shots? The fact sheet from Bharat Biotech says that CDSCO has authorised the restricted use of its vaccine under clinical trial mode."Individuals who are prioritised under the public health program of the ministry of health and family welfare, will be covered under this endeavour. Informing the individuals about the offer for vaccination with Covaxin will rest with the respective government program officials. Those offered Covaxin at pre-specified booths will have the options to receive or reject administration of the vaccine," the fact sheet said.The company document further described the ingredients in the Covaxin. It contains 64g of whole-virion inactivated SARS-CoV-2 antigen (Strain: NIV-2020-770), and the other inactive ingredients such as aluminum hydroxide gel (250 μg), TLR 7/8 agonist (imidazoquinolinone) 15 μg, 2-phenoxyethanol 2.5 mg, and phosphate buffer saline up to 0.5 ml."The vaccine thus has been developed by using inactivated/killed virus along with the aforementioned chemicals," said Bharat Biotech.Covaxin is administered as an injection into the deltoid muscle of the upper arm. It is a two-dose series given four weeks apart, Bharat Biotech further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/advisable-to-not-take-vaccine-if-bharat-biotech-issues-covaxin-fact-sheet-101611027834226.html
19-01-2021||India||Lucknow shootout: Doctor held for treating injured shooter||Lucknow Police have taken into custody a Sultanpur-based doctor for allegedly treating a shooter involved in the January 6 shootout in Vibhuti Khand area of the state capital.“The doctor has been taken into custody for further interrogation on people involved in the crime,” said a senior police official privy to the investigation said on Monday.He will be booked under section 176 (omission to give notice or information to public servant by person legally bound to give it) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) , the official added.In the shootout, Ajit Singh, an alleged henchman of gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari, was killed when four assailants opened indiscriminate fire on him near Kathauta crossing. His accomplice Mohar Singh had sustained gunshot injuries on his leg.A senior police official said the doctor runs a private hospital in Sultanpur and he kept Singh admitted in his hospital on forged identity for two days, January 7 and 8, before the latter was shifted to an unidentified location on January 9. On hospital records, Singh is listed as Manish; and that an iron rod accidentally pierced through his body.The official said the CCTV footage of the hospital showed that Singh was accompanied by Ansari’s aide who got him admitted. He said the doctor was accused of treating the injured shooter on the behest of the former MP. Earlier, one Lucknow-based doctor was also booked under section 176 of the IPC for not informing the police about the injured shooter when Ansari’s aide Vipul Kumar Singh took him to a flat in Lucknow for Singh’s treatment before shifting him to the Sultanpur hospital.The official said one of the four shooters had also suffered the gunshot during retaliatory firing by Mohar Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lucknow-shootout-doctor-held-for-treating-injured-shooter-101611028227877.html
19-01-2021||India||BJP chief Nadda may visit Lucknow on January 21||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national president JP Nadda may make a two-day trip to Lucknow beginning January 21 for meetings with party leaders and workers, sources said. He is expected to also meet ministers, MPs and MLAs to discuss issued related with the government and the organisation. BJP spokesperson Manish Dixit, however, said the state unit had received no official programme about Nadda’s visit. “We are yet to get any official communication or confirmation,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-chief-nadda-may-visit-lucknow-on-january-21-101611027087875.html
19-01-2021||India||Hindu non-profit org Jagadguru Kripalu Parishat contributes Rs1 crore for Ram Mandir||The Jagadguru Kripalu Parishat, a Hindu non-profit organisation, has contributed Rs1 crore for the construction of the Ram Mandir in Ayodhya. Chairperson of the Parishat Dr Vishaka Tripathi said that the amount was directly transferred to the bank account of Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, Ayodhya. On the occasion, Dr Vishaka, Dr Krishna Tripathi and Dr Shyama Tripathi, daughters of founder of the Parishat Kripalu Ji Maharaj, stated that the Parishat wants to see a grand Ram Mandir in Ayodhya. Also Read: Ram temple trust has received around ₹100 crore donation, says Champat RaiThe Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP)’s nationwide campaign, Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Ram Mandir Nidhi Samarpan Abhiyan, for the construction of Ram Mandir started on January 15 and will continue till February 27. During this campaign, VHP workers will approach around 1.2 million families and 5.5 million people. The temple’s construction is expected to cost around Rs1,100 crore. The country’s leading construction company, Larsen and Toubro, is constructing the temple for free. Experts of Tata Consulting Engineers are also assisting in the construction work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hindu-non-profit-org-jagadguru-kripalu-parishat-contributes-rs1-crore-for-ram-mandir-101611026667867.html
19-01-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: SC-appointed farm laws panel to meet today||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Supreme Court-appointed panel on farm laws to hold first meeting on TuesdayThe meeting will take place at Pusa campus in New Delhi, its member Anil Ghanwat said on Monday. Read moreDense fog reported from most northern states; temperature likely to dropDue to the change in wind direction, minimum temperatures are likely to fall by 2 to 4°C during the next three days, leading to cold wave conditions. Read moreSecond phase of panchayat polls in Himachal Pradesh todayThe panchayat polls in are being held in three phases - the voting in first phase took place on on Sunday and the final phase is scheduled for January 21. Read more'Warm-up for England Tests already underway': Ashwin, Bumrah begin training for England Tests in BrisbaneAs the Australia tour comes to end on Tuesday, the duo was seen getting into the groove for the upcoming English challenge at home. Read moreBoney Kapoor confirms Khushi Kapoor to make acting debut soon: ‘She will be launched by someone I respect’Khushi Kapoor, daughter of producer Boney Kapoor and late actor Sridevi, is all set to follow in the footsteps of her mother and elder sister Janhvi Kapoor. Read more$220 million worth of bitcoin locked away as man forgets passwordStefan Thomas, a German-born programmer who lives in San Francisco, forgot the password to his almost $220 million worth bitcoin fortune. Read moreRecipe: Tick nutrition with this chocolate covered strawberry baked oatmealIf there is a match made in heaven that everyone believes in universally, it has to be the combo of chocolate with strawberries. They make us go weak in the knees every single time. Read moreStone pelting during BJP rally in Kolkata ahead of Bengal pollsViolence erupted in Kolkata during an election rally on January 18. A BJP worker was allegedly injured when stones were pelted at the rally. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-sc-appointed-farm-laws-panel-to-meet-today-101611023572774.html
19-01-2021||India||Schools for class 10, 12 resume in Tamil Nadu: All you need to know||The schools in Tamil Nadu are opening for the senior classes on Tuesday, after a gap of 10 months. This comes after a fall in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the state.However, strict Covid-19 protocols have been put into place by school authorities for Class 10 and 12 students.Preparations have been in full swing in all high and higher secondary schools for the reopening. The department of health has prepared a list of measures that will be followed by the schools. The list includes frequent sanitisation of areas, storing vitamins and other immunity boosters for the students.The Centre had, in Unlock 5 guidelines, allowed schools to reopen from October 15. However, the decision was left to states/union territories to decide as to when they would resume physical classes.Schools and colleges have remained shut since March 2020 in the light of the Covid-19 pandemic which has infected more than 10,571,700 people so far.Here is all you need to know about the reopening of schools in Tamil Nadu:1) School authorities have been asked to compulsory screen all students and faculty for Covid-19 within a week of reopening. They will also check for comorbidities.2) The Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine mandated cleaning of school premises by school management besides the creation of sufficient hand washing facilities and following the standard operating procedures (SOPs) without any deviation.3) If required, the schools can ask for primary health centre (PHC) teams which will be equipped to handle suspected symptomatic children as per SOPs.4) Mobile medical units will also be made available and the details for the same will be shared with the schools for any emergency.5) Vitamin C, multivitamin tablets and other immuno-boosters will be kept ready for children.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/schools-for-class-10-12-resume-in-tamil-nadu-all-you-need-to-know-101611026262448.html
19-01-2021||India||Union budget: Development Finance Institution likely to be announced||The creation of a mega Development Finance Institution (DFI) is likely to be announced in the Union Budget. The institution is expected to be created by merging some existing financial institutions to meet the long-term financing needs of new, stalled, and work-in-progress infrastructure projects worth over ₹100 lakh crore, people aware of the matter said.A large DFI is necessary for rapid infrastructure development and is likely to be one of the key focus areas of Budget 2021-22.Infrastructure development will put India on a higher growth trajectory and impact every sector of the economy, the people cited above added, requesting anonymity.Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman will on February 1 present the Budget, which is expected to be focussed on reviving the economy hit hard by the Covid-19 pandemic and the 68-day-long nationwide lockdown imposed from March 25 to check its spread. The Indian economy contracted by 23.9% in the quarter that ended on June 30. It recovered to contract by 7.5% in the three months that ended on September 30. According to the first advanced estimate by the National Statistical Office, GDP is expected to contract by 7.7% in fiscal 2020-21.There is a need for a mega DFI as commercial banks are not suited for long-term financing of infrastructure projects with long gestation periods, the people cited above said. They added that apart from funding new projects, such an institution could also help revive stalled projects worth at least ₹10 lakh crore. “Most of these projects are languishing because of fund crunch,” one of the persons said.The proposed mega DFI may include an existing financial institution and some existing funds. “It will meet the long-term financing need of these projects,” the person said. “The government has already announced its ambitious ₹111 lakh crore National Infrastructure Pipeline, which will require debt financing of at least ₹60-70 lakh crore in the next four-five years.”A second person said although the government has created several funds to finance infrastructure and revive stressed projects, the idea of having a mega DFI is to create a competitive financing option.The Cabinet on November 25 approved a ₹6,000 crore capital infusion in National Investment and Infrastructure Fund, a government-backed entity created to provide long-term capital to the infrastructure sector.The government also set up ₹25,000 crore Special Window for Affordable and Mid-Income Housing Fund on November 6, 2019, to help stalled projects in the real estate sector.Niranjan Hiranandani, president of the National Real Estate Development Council, said the creation of the fund for the stressed real estate sector was appreciable, but not sufficient as the funds required to complete these projects is in access to ₹1.25 lakh crore.Divakar Vijayasarathy, founder and managing partner at consulting firm DVS Advisors LLP, said funding is the most important aspect of infrastructure projects.“Banks are reeling under the piled-up NPAs [non-performing assets] and in addition to this, funding of greenfield projects by commercial banks leads to asset-liability mismatch which already has left a lasting impact. The government does not have fiscal room to spend. The issues clearly indicate the necessity for a DFI for infrastructure development.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-budget-development-finance-institution-likely-to-be-announced-101611026367782.html
19-01-2021||India||Indian American organizations urge Supreme Court to give bail to Sanjiv Bhatt||Several civil rights activists and organizations from India and the US on Monday urged the Supreme Court to give bail to former police officer Sanjiv Bhatt.At a virtual press conference organized by the Indian American Muslim Council (IAMC) and Hindus for Human Rights, the organizations and activists argued that conviction of Bhatt in a murder case was wrong and based on fraudulent evidence.The Supreme Court of India has scheduled a bail hearing for Bhatt on January 22.Senior Congress leader and former minister Shashi Tharoor said he was “outraged by the injustice meted out” to Bhatt, whose “conscientious service to society” and “indomitable capacity for speaking truth to power” had put him in jail.“Sanjiv’s case is a reflection of the grim times that we live in, where constitutional values and fundamental privileges that have been granted by the constitution to all Indians appear in many cases to be diluted and in many cases perhaps even supplanted by illiberal forces,” Tharoor said.“All Indians with a conscience like Sanjiv Bhatt’s must stand up and fight back against such challenges that threaten to undermine the very foundation of our republic,” he said.Renowned documentary filmmaker and human rights defender Anand Patwardhan said Bhatt had been jailed “for no other reason than the fact that he opposed the massacre in 2002” and spoke against it. Patwardhan said the civil society “should build a movement for Bhatt’s release”.Human rights activist, classical dancer and actor Mallika Sarabhai said there was a “definite agenda” not only in Bhatt’s case but in most cases of most critics of the Modi government.“If anyone speaks against the government or asks a question, which is a fundamental right of our democracy, they are somehow punished. Raids are carried out against them, false cases are brought up, fraudulent charges are made, and they are made to silence,” Sarabhai alleged.Rasheed Ahmed, executive director of Indian American Muslim Council, said the Indian government must stop “politically managing Sanjiv Bhatt’s case and let the law take its course under the supervision of independent judges not the judges who are either scared of government or have themselves becomes political”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-american-organizations-urge-supreme-court-to-give-bail-to-sanjiv-bhatt-101611026042793.html
19-01-2021||India||This monsoon, IMD to begin special forecast for rain-fed areas||This monsoon, India Meteorological Department (IMD) will issue a special seasonal forecast for rain-fed areas where there is no irrigation to support agriculture. IMD will also use a multi-model ensemble forecast (a combination of different models) for the first time to predict monsoon rains this year. IMD held a day long brainstorming session on Monday to analyse the features of monsoon in 2020 and forecast plans for 2021. “We were using some models like the Monsoon Mission Coupled Forecasting System (MMCFS) which is a dynamic model. Now we may have to use a combination of models to issue probabilistic forecasts and more accurate monsoon forecast. As an experiment we will also try issuing specialised forecasts for rain-fed areas this year,” said M Mohapatra, director general IMD.IMD scientists said monsoon in 2020 was unique with large month-on-month variation and unusual rainfall patterns in four sub-regions of the country. An assessment of the seasonal forecast performance of IMD for monsoon 2020 was not found to be up to the mark. The error limit was breached for certain zones in the regional distribution forecast of IMD. IMD had forecast normal monsoon rain in 2020 at 102% of long period average (LPA) with error margin of +/-4% for the season. But actual rainfall was above normal at 108.7% of LPA. IMD in its zonal monsoon forecast last year predicted 107% of LPA (with model error of +/-8%) monsoon rain over northwest India but the region recorded 84% of LPA; for northeast India it was predicted to be 96% of LPA but recorded 106%; for south peninsula it was predicted 102% but recorded 130% of LPA.To address concerns of inaccurate forecasting of monsoon patterns in some years, IMD has decided to use a multi-model ensemble forecast.Mohapatra said the reason monsoon 2020 was unique and difficult to forecast is because of intra-seasonal variability and formation of several low pressure systems which couldn’t be captured. Deficient rain or excess rain spells also couldn’t be predicted well. “There is need therefore to quantify the uncertainty in the monsoon forecast so that forecast can be used for various applications like energy, health, agriculture etc,” Mohapatra added.IMD is also likely to revisit the monsoon withdrawal criteria this year. For the past ten years, withdrawal of monsoon has been significantly delayed compared to the normal withdrawal dates. IMD scientists will assess whether this is because of IMD’s strict monsoon withdrawal criteria, like no rain in the region for at least five days, establishment of anticyclonic wind pattern, considerable reduction in moisture content, or is it because monsoon withdrawal has actually delayed significantly in the past decade.IMD’s modelling groups have been asked to improve their forecasts for river catchments as a new feature of providing five-day forecast (instead of three day) for sub-river catchments in the country is likely to be started this year. New forecasting models will also be deployed for forecasting of urban flooding in Chennai and Mumbai.DS Pai, senior scientist, IMD Pune, said operational forecast error was highest between 1998 and 2002—over 10% with 1998 recording a forecast error of 21% and 2002 recording an error of 22%. But forecast error has improved in the past 13 (2008 to 2020) years to an average of 5.82% after an ensemble model was implemented. “But we need further improvement in models. IMD is now planning to use both Monsoon Mission Coupled Forecasting System (MMCFS) and National Centre for Medium Range Weather Forecasting (NCRMWF)’s models this year to generate monsoon forecast for better accuracy.”Pai also highlighted that in a few years, India may be entering an epoch of above average monsoon rains. From 1945 to 1985 was also an above average rain epoch but from 1985 onwards, it has been a below average rain epoch.“In a few years, we are likely to transition to an epoch of above average monsoon rains because monsoon follows epochs of around 31 years in these transitions. An above average epoch will be good for the country and agriculture but would mean more extreme rainfall events for which we should prepare,” added Mohapatra.Monsoon rains are a lifeline for about 60% of the country’s net cultivated area, which have no irrigation.The monsoon impacts inflation, jobs and industrial demand. Good farm output keeps a lid on food inflation. Ample harvests raise rural incomes and spending, helping inject demand into the economy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/this-monsoon-imd-to-begin-special-forecast-for-rain-fed-areas-101611025287359.html
19-01-2021||India||Farmer’s protest: Delhi’s Singhu, Tikri borders remain completely blocked||The traffic situation at the Delhi-Ghaziabad border and at the Delhi-Noida border remained the same on Tuesday as vehicular movement on the carriageway going towards Delhi continued to be blocked by farmer groups. Singhu and Tikri borders, however, continued to remain completely blocked as they have been since November 26 because of the ongoing farmers’ agitation. A senior police officer said traffic moving from Delhi to Noida is smooth as usual at Chilla border while the carriageway leading to Delhi remains blocked. Farmers also continued to block one carriageway on Delhi-Meerut elevated expressway, while the other one for those exiting Delhi is open, he said.Also Read: Supreme Court-appointed panel on farm laws to hold first meeting on Tuesday“We are maintaining sufficient deployment of security personnel at the border to ensure law and order,” the officer said.At Ghazipur border, the NH-24 service lane that has been blocked by the farmers November 27 onwards, also continued to remain closed for traffic on Tuesday.Apart from Chilla and Ghazipur borders, seven borders that continue to remain completely blocked, are Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Jharoda, Piao Maniyari, and Mangesh borders.Traffic police also asked people in its advisory to take alternate routes for coming to Delhi via Chilla, Anad Vihar, DND, Apsara and Bhopra borders. The traffic police said that currently, the borders between Haryanna and Delhi that are open to traffic are Jharoda (only single carriageway), Daurala, Kapashera, Badusarai, Rajokri, NH-8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera borders.Delhi traffic police also tweeted on Monday, “The Chilla and Gazipur borders are closed for traffic coming from Noida and Gaziabad to Delhi because of farmer protests. Please take alternate route for coming to Delhi via Anand Vihar, DND, Apsara, Bhopra and Loni borders.”Police also said in a tweet, “Singhu, Auchandi, Mangesh borders closed. Lampur, Safiabad, Saboli, Piau Maniyari, Singhu school and Palla toll tax borders opened. Pl take alternate route. Traffic diverted from Mukarba and GTK road. Please avoid Outer Ring Rd,GTK road and NH 44.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-delhi-s-singhu-tikri-borders-remain-completely-blocked-101611025047761.html
19-01-2021||India||Second phase of panchayat polls in Himachal Pradesh today||The second phase of the panchayat election in Himachal Pradesh will take place on Tuesday where the voters will exercise their franchise. The panchayat polls in Himachal Pradesh are being held in three phases - the voting in first phase took place on on Sunday and the final phase is scheduled for January 21.The state government has declared that the days when voting will be held in panchayat polls will be public holidays.All shops, government offices, boards, corporations, educational institutions and industrial establishments in HP as recognised under the Industrial Disputes Act will remain closed on the three days in the areas where voting will take place.Importantly, the particular days will also be a paid holiday to daily wage workers, a state government official said.In the first phase, 1,227 panchayats went to polls on Sunday. Electoral Officer Sanjeev Mahajan said a voter turnout of over 70 per cent was recorded in the first round.Over 63 per cent voters of two panchayats in Kaza block in Lahaul-Spiti braved extreme cold weather conditions at a temperature of minus seven degrees Celsius to cast their vote, a district official said.The counting of votes for ward members, deputy village heads and village heads will take place soon after voting. However, the counting for members of panchayat samitis and zila parishads will be conducted on January 22.The candidates are contesting elections as independents and not on a party symbol.Himachal Pradesh has 3,615 gram panchayats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/second-phase-of-panchayat-polls-in-himachal-pradesh-today-101611023925640.html
19-01-2021||India||Bird flu confirmed in 5 states for poultry, culling operations underway||The outbreak of avian influenza (AI) has been confirmed in five states for poultry birds and in nine states for crows, migratory and (or) wild birds, the ministry of fisheries, animal husbandry and dairying said on Monday, adding that culling operations are underway.Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana and Chhattisgarh are among the five states where culling of poultry birds is being done by rapid response teams (RRTs), the ministry said.The central team formed for monitoring the situation in the affected areas of the country is visiting the affected sites. So far, it has visited Maharashtra to monitor the epicenters of AI outbreak and conducting epidemiological studies in Kerala.Bird flu or avian influenza is spread mainly by migratory birds coming into the country during winter months between September and March. The disease is known to be zoonotic, which can spread from animals to humans, though no such case has surfaced so far.The flu has also been confirmed in samples of dead heron in the national capital’s Tis Hazari area and an advisory has been issued to the Delhi government in this regard, the ministry said in a statement.Talking about the status in Maharashtra, the Centre said that culling of poultry birds is underway in all the affected epicentres. According to the statement, culling operations have been completed in the Central Poultry Development Organisation (CPDO), Mumbai and cleaning and disinfection is in process. Culling and sanitisation operations have also been completed in the epicenters of Latur district in village Kendrewadi, Ahmedpur, village Sukani, and village Tondar (Vajrawadi) in Udgir taluk and village Kurdwadi in Ausa taluk, it addedThe department of animal husbandry and dairying is taking continuous efforts to generate awareness about avian flu through various platforms including social media like Twitter, Facebook handles, the statement said.“Ensure regular disinfection of coops as infected #poultry can transmit #AvianInfluenza virus to susceptible birds through contaminated secretions!,” the department wrote on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bird-flu-confirmed-in-5-states-for-poultry-culling-operations-underway-101611023495317.html
19-01-2021||India||Dense fog reported from most northern states; temperature likely to drop||Delhi woke up to very dense fog on Tuesday morning with less than 50 m visibility at Safdarjung and Palam.Dense to very dense fog is also affecting other northern states with Amritsar, Ganganagar, Patiala, Jaisalmer, Agra, Gorakhpur recording visibility of less than 25m each; and Bikaner, Churu, Sultanpur, Varanasi, Bhagalpur, Purnea, Patna and Gaya at less than 50m visibility, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD). Fog layer causing less than 50m visibility is categorised as very dense fog by IMD.Delhi’s Safdarjung recorded minimum temperature of 8.6 degrees C at 5.30am. Wind direction is likely to have changed from easterly to westerly/northwesterly over northwest India from Monday night. Due to the change in wind direction, minimum temperatures are likely to fall by 2 to 4°C during the next three days, leading to cold wave conditions in isolated pockets over eastern Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi from January 18 to 20 and over western Uttar Pradesh and northern Rajasthan from January 19 to 21, according to IMD’s Monday bulletin.Dense to very dense fog is likely over parts of Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, north Rajasthan, Bihar and Odisha during the next 24 hours. Cold day conditions are also likely in isolated pockets over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar during the next two days.A fresh Western Disturbance is likely to affect the western Himalayan region from January 22 that is likely to cause widespread rain or snow in the region on January 23 and 24, and isolated rain/thundershower over the adjoining plains of northwest India during January 23 and 24.According to IMD, a cold day or a severe cold day is classified as such based on two parameters—a minimum temperature of under 10 degrees C and maximum temperature of 4.5 degrees C or 6.4 degrees C below normal, respectively.A cold wave occurs in the plains when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and/or is 4.5 notches lower than the season’s normal for two consecutive days. A cold wave is also declared when the minimum temperature is less than 4 degrees C in the plains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dense-fog-reported-from-most-northern-states-temperature-likely-to-drop-101611024147082.html
19-01-2021||India||Delhi’s temperature set to drop further, air to improve: IMD||The air quality of Delhi deteriorated marginally on Tuesday morning, with the average hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am recorded at 394, in the "very poor" zone.The AQI in Delhi on Monday was 372, categorised as "very poor", a minor increase from 347 the previous day, according to Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).According to the air quality early warning system under the Union ministry of earth sciences, there will be northwesterly winds of around 10 kmph blowing on Tuesday and of 15 to 20 kmph on Wednesday, which will help disperse pollutants and improve the city’s air.Meanwhile, the India Meteorological Department said that the temperature in Delhi is likely to fall by 1-2 degrees as the wind direction is to change again from easterly to north-westerly. On Tuesday, the minimum temperature is likely to be around 8 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhis-temperature-set-to-drop-further-air-to-improve-imd-101611023906707.html
19-01-2021||India||Supreme Court-appointed panel on farm laws to hold first meeting on Tuesday||The Supreme Court-appointed committee to scrutinise three new farm laws is scheduled to hold its first meeting with members on Tuesday. The meeting will take place at Pusa campus in New Delhi, its member Anil Ghanwat said on Monday."We are going to meet tomorrow. Only members will meet to discuss the terms of reference and decide the future course of action," Ghanwat told news agency PTI before boarding a flight to Delhi yesterday.Ghanwat leads the Shetkari Sangathan, a farm organisation from Maharashtra that advocates pro-technology and pro-reform agricultural policies.The Supreme Court had on January 12 stayed the implementation of the three laws, against which farmers are protesting at Delhi borders for over 50 days now, till further orders and appointed a four-member panel to resolve the impasse.Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) president Bhupinder Singh Mann, however, recused himself from the four-member committee last week. Ghanwat said it was up to the Supreme Court to appoint a member in place of Mann.Apart from Ghanwat, agri-economists Ashok Gulati and Pramod Kumar Joshi are the other members of the panel.The panel will hear views of farmers across the country, both who support and oppose the new farm laws, and submit a report within two months to the apex court.According to the Supreme Court’s instructions, the committee had to meet within 10 days of its constitution and submit a report to the apex court in two months.The protesting farmers have said that they won't appear before the committee as all its members had previously publicly praised the laws that they want scrapped.So far, nine rounds of talks have been held between the government and the protesters, but no solution has emerged to end the impasse. The 10th round of talks was on Monday pushed back by a day to January 20, with the Centre saying both sides want to resolve the stalemate at the earliest but it was getting delayed due to involvement of people of other ideologies.Farmers want the three farm laws repealed but the government has rejected the demand. The farmers say that the pro-reform farm laws will hurt their livelihoods, but the government has asserted that the new laws are in the interest of the farming community.The laws in question are the Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act 2020, the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-appointed-panel-on-farm-laws-to-hold-first-meeting-on-tuesday-101611022304429.html
19-01-2021||NA||LIVE: Honoured to meet healthcare needs of global community, says PM||India's tally of cases of the coronavirus disease currently stands at 10,581,837 after the country registered 10,064 new infections in the preceding 24 hours, the Union health ministry's dashboard showed on Tuesday. India's caseload is the second-highest in the world after that of the United States, which, according to the Johns Hopkins University tracker, has crossed the 24 million mark. Brazil, meanwhile, is third with more than 8.5 million cases, Johns Hopkins' tally shows.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageTuesday marks day 4 of India's vaccination drive against Covid-19, the largest in the world. The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) earlier this month announced emergency use authorisation for Covishield and Covaxin anti Covid-19 vaccines. While Covishield has been developed by Oxford University-AstraZeneca, Covaxin has been developed by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech International Limited. Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) is manufacturing Covishield in India, while Covaxin is the country's first indigenous vaccine against the disease.Follow all the updates here:Jharkhand reports 101 new cases, three deathsJharkhand reported 101 new COVID-19 cases, 141 recoveries and 3 deaths reported today, as per State Health DepartmentTotal cases: 1,17,887Total recoveries: 1,15,683Active cases: 1,147Death toll: 1,057 pic.twitter.com/CqDQ9ZtnwWJharkhand reported 101 mew coronavirus infections, taking the state's tally to 1,17,887. The death toll after three new fatalities stands at 1,057. UK reports 1,610 Covid-related deathsThe UK reported 1,610 Covid-related deaths, the highest it has in a single day since the beginning of the pandemic. West Bengal reports 412 new cases, 11 deathsWest Bengal reports 412 new #COVID19 cases, 513 discharges, and 11 deaths today, as per State Health Department Total cases: 5,66,073Total recoveries: 5,49,218Active cases: 6,781Death toll: 10,074 pic.twitter.com/RuAWFERRxaWest Bengal reported 412 new coronavirus infections, taking the state's tally to 5,66,073. The death toll after 11 new fatalities stands at 10,074. Centre allocates 92,500 additional Covishield doses to UttarakhandThe Centre has allocated 92,500 additional doses of Covishield to Uttarakhand which will reach the Dehradun airport tomorrow as per the state chief minister's office.6,31,417 healthcare workers vaccinated against Covid-19A total of 6,31,417 healthcare workers have been vaccinated against Covid-19 until 6pm today through 11,660 sessions as per the provisional report. 3,800 sessions were conducted today until 6pm as per the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.Karnataka reports 645 new cases, six deathsKarnataka reported 645 new #COVID19 cases, 807 discharges, and 6 deaths today.Total cases: 9,33,077Total discharges: 9,13,012Death toll: 12,181Active cases: 7,865 pic.twitter.com/JkwPwycGJVKarnataka reported 645 coronavirus infections, taking the state's tally to 9,33,077. The death toll after six new fatalities stands at 12,181.4936 receive shots on Day 3 in Delhi, 16 adverse events reported4936 received coronavirus vaccine shots on day 3 of the vaccination drive in the national capital. 16 cases of adverse events were reported as per officials.Gujarat reports 485 new cases, two deathsGujarat reported 485 new coronavirus infections, taking the state's tally to 2,56,852. Two new fatalities pushed the death toll to 4,369.Boris Johnson warns ministers of UK Covid situation despite declining casesPrime Minister Boris Johnson told his team of cabinet ministers on Tuesday the COVID situation in Britain was still “very serious” despite infection rates beginning to decline, urging others to follow the lockdown guidelines.Honoured to meet healthcare needs of global community, says PMIndia is deeply honoured to be a long-trusted partner in meeting the healthcare needs of the global community. Supplies of Covid vaccines to several countries will commence tomorrow, and more will follow in the days ahead. #VaccineMaitri https://t.co/9Czfkuk8h7Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that India was deeply honoured to be a lomg-trusted partner in meeting the healthcare needs of the global community. He also said that vaccine supplies would be rolled out to countries in need starting tomorrow.57 healthcare workers vaccinated across two hospitals in Delhi27 healthcare workers from RML hospital and 30 from Safdarjung hosiptal in Delhi were vaccinated today against Covid-19.Maharashtra reports 2,294 new cases, 50 deathsMaharashtra reports 2,294 new #COVID19 cases, 4,516 discharges, and 50 deaths todayTotal cases - 19,94,977Total recoveries - 18,94,839Death toll - 50,523Active cases - 48,406 pic.twitter.com/BRZ6jKxIthMaharashtra reported 2,294 new coronavirus infections, taking the state's tally to 19,94,977. The death toll after 50 new fatalities stands at 50,523.Jammu & Kashmir records 113 new cases, one deathJammu & Kashmir reported 113 new coronavirus infections, taking the union territory's tally to 1,23,538 including 1,103 active cases. The death toll after one new fatality stands at 1,923.India to supply Covid-19 vaccines under grant assistance to six countriesIndia will supply Covid-19 vaccines under grant assistance to Bhutan, Maldives, Bangladesh, Nepal, Myanmar and Seychelles from Wednesday.First phase of vaccination begins for healthcare workers of Tri-Services CommandThe Defence Ministry said that the first phase of the coronavirus vaccination drive began for healthcare workers of the Tri-Services Command today at the INHS Dhanvantari under Headquarters, Andaman & Nicobar Command. 370 doses were administered.Nagaland reports five new Covid-19 casesNagaland reported five new coronavirus infections, taking the state's tally to 12,066 including 112 active cases. The death toll currently stands at 88.Five states account for 72% of total active cases: GovtThe government said that five states, Kerala, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka and West Bengal accounted for 72% of the total active cases in the country.India has 7,668 Covid cases per million: GovtThe government said that India's Covid cases per million stood at 7,668. Deaths per million was 110 and the tests per million stood at 136,089.Andhra Pradesh reports 179 new coronavirus casesAndhra Pradesh reports 179 new #COVID19 cases in the last 24 hours, as per State Health Ministry.Total cases: 8,86,245Total recoveries: 8,77,443Death toll: 7,142Active cases: 1,660 pic.twitter.com/JtMXLzqRmuAndhra Pradesh reported 179 new coronavirus infections, taking the state's tally to 8,86,245.Delhi reports 231 new cases, 10 deathsDelhi reports 231 new COVID-19 cases, 222 discharges, and 10 deaths in the last 24 hours, says Delhi Health DepartmentTotal cases: 6,32,821Active cases: 2,334Total discharges: 6,19,723Death toll: 10,764 pic.twitter.com/omKCQJaSdVThe national capital reported 231 new coronavirus infections, taking its tally to 6,32,821. The death toll after 10 new fatalities stands at 10,764.Total number of people with UK Covid strain 141: MinistryThe Ministry of Health and Family welfare said that the total number of people with the UK coronavirus strain in the country stood at 141.Humbly request citizens, doctors to accept Covaxin: K'taka health ministerKarnataka health minister K Sudhakar requested citizens and doctors to accept the Covaxin vaccine, despite it not being manda. He said that citizens did not have the choice of vaccine but that both were cleared by the DGCI.Hospitalization cost to be borne by authorities if casual relation between vaccine and adverse eventDr VK Paul said that since one of the two approved vaccines was under clinical trial, in case of any adverse, serious or severe event that has a casual relation to the vaccine, the hospitalization costs would be borne by the authorities.Nasal vaccine candidate considered for phase 1 and 2 trialsNiti Aayog member Dr VK Paul said that a nasal vaccine candidate had been identified and considered for phase 1 and phase 2 trials . He also said that it could be game changer if functional.Request the doctors and nurses to accept the vaccine: Niti AayogDr VK Paul, Niti Aayog, urged doctors and nurses to accept the coronavirus vaccine, stating that their societal responsibility would not be fulfilled should the ones chosen reject the vaccine.UP reports 376 new cases, four deathsUttar Pradesh reported 376 new coronavirus infections, taking the state's tally to 5,97,238 including 8,172 active cases. The death toll after four fresh fatalities stands at 8,584.TN, Puducherry, Punjab have less than 40% vaccine coverageThe Union Health Ministry said that Tamil Nadu (34.9%), Puducherry ( 34.6%) and Punjab (27.9%) had less than 40% vaccine coverage and needed to improve.Odisha, UP, Rajasthan best performing in vaccine coverageThe Union Health Ministry said that Odisha (82.6%), Uttar Pradesh (71.4%) and Rajasthan (71.3%) were the nest performing states in terms of vaccine coverage.Vaccine concerns about adverse effects insignificant: MinistryThe Union Health Ministry said that the concerns of adverse effects arising due to the vaccines seemed insignificant since data showed that the two vaccines were safe.Vaccination process will pick up speed: Health MinistryThe Union Health Ministry said that the vaccination process in the country had just started and it would pick up speed in the coming days.India's cumulative Covid-19 positivity rate 5.63%: MinistryThe Union Health Ministry said that the country's cumulative Covid-19 positivity rate was 5.63% and the rate last week was recorded at 1.99%.Vaccination drive policy finalised by Centre, states will apply to parliamentarians: Om BirlaLok Sabha speaker Om Birla said that the vaccination policy finalised by the Centre and states would apply to Parliamentarians as well.RTPCR tests on Parliament premises on Jan 27-28: Om BirlaLok Sabha speaker Om Birla said that RTPCR tests would be made available on the Parliament premises from January 27-28. He also said that testing arrangements were in place for the MPs' staff members.0.18% adverse events after vaccination: Health MinistryThe Union Health Ministry said that only 0.18% of the total number of vaccine recipients reported adverse events and 0.002% of people were hospitalized following immunization. The ministry said that these numbers were the lowest so far in the world in the first three days.Arrangements for RTPCR tests made near MP residences: SpeakerLok Sabha speaker Om Birla said that arrangements were made for RTPCR tests for MP's near their residences.All MPs to undergo Covid test before Parliament sessionLok Sabha Speaker Om Birla said that all MPs would have to undergo Covid testing before the session of parliament.Maha, Kerala only states with over 50k active casesThe Union Health Ministry said that Maharashtra and Kerala were the only states with over 50,000 active cases.4,54,049 people have been vaccinated till now: Health MinistryThe Union Health Ministry said that 4,54,049 people have been vaccinated till now. The active cases number is around 2 lakhs after seven months is declining, and the daily number of deaths was than 140 after eight months.Thailand passes $7 billion cash handout for low income group peopleThe Thai cabinet signed off on a $7 billion cash handout program to help millions of low-income people weather the impact of control measures imposed to contain a new wave of Covid-19 infections.Odisha reports 122 new cases, one deathOdisha reported 122 new coronavirus infections, taking the state's tally to 3,33,566 including 1,810 active cases. The death toll after one new fatality stands at 1,902.Condemn Covaxin trials on healthcare workers, says Karnataka doctors' associationGovernment of India has approved Covishield and Covaxin vaccines. Covaxin is still in phase-III trials, where the trial is being done on healthcare workers. We condemn this. Healthcare workers should be given a choice of vaccine: President, Karnataka Association of Resident DoctorsPakistan crosses 11,000 Covid-19 deathsThe number of coronavirus deaths in Pakistan reached 11,055 on Tuesday according to the National Command and Operations Centre (NCOC) tally.UK health secretary Hancock says self-isolatingLast night I was alerted by the @NHSCOVID19app to self isolate so I’ll be staying at home & not leaving at all until Sunday. We all have a part to play in getting this virus under control. pic.twitter.com/MaN1EI7UyY"Last night I was alerted by the @NHSCOVID19app to self isolate so I’ll be staying at home & not leaving at all until Sunday. We all have a part to play in getting this virus under control," tweets UK health secretary Matt Hancock.Taiwan cancels festival as domestic Covid-19 cases riseTaiwan has cancelled the upcoming Taiwan Lantern Festival as it reported four locally transmitted cases of Covid-19, the biggest daily rise in local infections in nearly 11 months.Russia records over 21,000 new Covid-19 casesRussia records 21,734 new Covid-19 cases and 586 deaths. Tally rises to 3,612,800 including 66,623 deaths.Total people vaccinated more than double active cases: Govt#Unite2FightCorona 22 States/UTs have weekly positivity rate less than the national average. pic.twitter.com/v8CBc02ubYThe total number of people vaccinated is more than double the number of country's active Covid-19 cases: Health ministryPuducherry's Covid-19 tally crosses 38,700Puducherry's Covid-19 tally reaches 38,706 with 37 new cases. Death toll remains at 643.Andaman and Nicobar's Covid-19 tally nears 5,000Andaman and Nicobar Islands record five new Covid-19 cases as tally reaches 4,988. Death toll remains at 62.Schools reopen in Tamil Nadu for class 10th and 12th studentsTamil Nadu: Schools reopen for class 10th & 12th in Madurai post COVID19 lockdown."I'm happy that schools have reopened after ten months. School administration took all precautionary measures," says a student. pic.twitter.com/tdo4XeAuBiSchools reopen in Tamil Nadu for class 10th and 12th students post Covid-19 lockdown.100 new Covid-19 cases, 4 deaths in JharkhandJharkhand records 100 new Covid-19 cases and four deaths. Tally rises to 117,786 including 1,054 deaths.800,000 Covaxin doses for Mauritius, Philippines and Myanmar: ReportsOut of 4.5 million Covaxin doses, over 800,000 are intended to be supplied to countries such as Mauritius, Philippines and Myanmar, as a goodwill gesture: ReportsBharat Biotech receives letter to supply another 4.5 million doses of its vaccine: ReportsBharat Biotech has secured a fresh letter of comfort from the Centre to supply another 4.5 million doses of its Covid-19 vaccine, Covaxin: ReportsCambodia seeking assistance for vaccine provision from India: State mediaPrime Minister Hun Sen is seeking assistance from India for the provision of Covid-19 vaccines as the country has produced its own vaccine which is scheduled to be rolled out to more than 300 million Indians this year: Cambodian media30 boxes of Covishield shifted from Pune to Hyderabad30 boxes of Covishield, by Serum Institute of India, shipped from Pune in Maharashtra to Hyderabad in Telangana today.#COVID19 pic.twitter.com/wDO5P0QrNW30 boxes of Serum Institute of India's (SII), Covishield, shifted from Pune to Hyderabad today.Germany's Covid-19 tally tops 2.05 millionGermany records 11,369 new Covid-19 cases and 989 deaths. Tally reaches 2,052,028 including 47,622 deaths.Telangana's Covid-19 tally crosses 292,000Telangana's Covid-19 tally reaches 292,128 after the state recorded 254 new infections. Death toll at 1,581 with two new fatalities.India's recoveries rise to 10.22 million, active cases slump furtherIndia's Covid-19 recoveries rise to 10,228,753 with 1,411 new discharges. Active cases slump by 7,484 to 200,528.India logs 10,064 new Covid-19 cases; 137 deathsIndia's Covid-19 count rises to 10,581,837 with 10,064 new infections in last 24 hours. Death toll at 152,556 after 137 fresh fatalities.187,802,827 samples tested for Covid-19: ICMRCOVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/my757zYCLN187,802,827 samples tested for Covid-19 up to 18 January 2021: Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)Night curfew extended in Colombia's capitalColombia's capital Bogota will impose nightly curfews for almost two weeks, mayor Claudia Lopez said on Monday, while the whole city will enter yet another full quarantine this weekend.China reports 118 new cases of Covid-19China reports over 100 new Covid-19 cases for seventh straight day. 118 new infections take tally to 89,454 while death toll unchanged at 4,635.Mexico nears 1.65 million Covid-19 case markMexico registers 8,074 new Covid-19 cases and 544 deaths. Tally reaches 1,649,502 including 141,248 deaths.381,305 people vaccinated in India thus far💉 आज देश भर में कुल 1,48,266 लोगों को टीका लगाया गया।💉 इसके साथ ही देश में #COVID19 टीकाकरण अभियान के तहत आज शाम 5 बजे तक 3,81,305 लोगों को टीका लगाया जा चुका है।यह जानकारी @MoHFW_INDIA के अपर सचिव श्री मनोहर अगनानी जी ने एक प्रेस वार्ता मे साझा करी।#Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/Z6tWpE2iI7148,266 people vaccinated in India on January 18, 2021. 381,305 vaccinated thus far: Health minister Harsh Vardhan.US' Covid-19 count crosses 24 millionThe US' Covid-19 tally has reached 24,062,465, as per the Johns Hopkins University tracker. Death toll reaches 398,879.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-india-world-latest-news-covid-19-death-toll-date-january-19-2021-101611021161353.html
19-01-2021||India||15 killed, 6 injured after being run over by truck in Gujarat's Surat||At least fifteen people were killed after a truck ran over them in Kosamba city in Surat, Gujarat, ANI reported on Tuesday. "All the deceased are labourers and they hail from Rajasthan," the news agency reported quoting police.Six others were also injured in the incident. They are now being treated at a local hospital.The labourers were sleeping when the truck ran over them, it also reported."A truck collided with a tractor loaded with sugarcane after which the driver of the truck lost control of the vehicle and drove it over the pavement where the labourers were sleeping," ANI quoted CM Jadeja, deputy superintendent of police, Kamrej Division, Surat, as saying.According to a report by PTI, police has arrested the driver.Mourning the loss of the lives in the incident, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced an ex-gratia of Rs. 2 lakh each from Prime Minister's National Relief Fund (PMNRF) to the next kin of the deceased. The government will also give Rs. 50,000 each to those who were injured."The loss of lives due to a truck accident in Surat is tragic. My thoughts are with the bereaved families. Praying that the injured recover at the earliest," PM Modi said in a tweet.Gujarat state chief minister Vijay Rupani also announced an ex-gratia 2 Lakhs each to the next kin of of those who lost their lives in the accident in Surat.Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot also extended his condolences to the families of the victims and wished for the speedy recovery of the injured.Deeply saddened to know many labourers from #Banswara, #Rajasthan have lost lives after a truck ran over them as they were sleeping near the road in #Surat. My heartfelt condolences to the bereaved families and prayers for speedy recovery of those injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/13-killed-as-truck-run-over-them-in-gujarat-s-surat-reports-ani-101611020922829.html
19-01-2021||India||Transfer pleas on ‘love jihad’ law to Supreme Court: UP govt tells Allahabad HC||The Uttar Pradesh government has approached the Supreme Court seeking a transfer of the pending writ petitions from the Allahabad high court to the top court on the state government’s contentious anti-religious conversion ordinance.The state government made the disclosure before the high court on Monday during the hearing of a bunch of pleas against the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020. It also asked the HC not to continue with the hearing of the cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/transfer-pleas-on-love-jihad-law-to-sc-up-101611018787795.html
19-01-2021||NA||LIVE: SC-appointed committee can't resolve crisis over farm laws says Sukhbir Badal||The Supreme Court-appointed committee on the three new farm laws will hold its first meeting in Delhi today. The panel will hold an internal consultation over the contentious laws which has prompted farmers to hit streets for almost 55 days now. As per the top court's order, the panel is required to send the report in two months.On Monday, the Centre postponed the tenth round of talks between its representatives and farmers to January 20. Earlier it was scheduled for today.As the ninth round of talks between the central government and farmer unions on January 15 remained inconclusive, Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar had said the unions have been asked to form informal groups among themselves and submit a draft to the government regarding their demands. Tomar had assured the agitating farmers that government will their demands with an "open mind".Farmers have been protesting on the different borders of the national capital since November 26 against the three newly enacted farm laws - Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.Follow all the live updates here:Follow all the updates here:SC-appointed committee can't resolve crisis over farm laws: Sukhbir BadalShiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Tuesday claimed the Supreme Court-appointed committee could not play any constructive role in resolving the deadlock between the farmers and the Centre following the latter's refusal to accept peasants' demand of repealing the farm laws. He also said that 'kisan shakti' had the power to "wipe out" the BJP. Badal was speaking to the media after holding ward-level meetings in Nawanshahr, Banga and Phagwara. The committee formed by the apex court could not play any constructive role in resolving the crisis following the central government's refusal to repeal the three agricultural laws, he said.NCP chief, Maha CM to take part in protest against farm lawsMaharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and NCP president Sharad Pawar will take part in a protest to be staged here in support of the farmers agitating against Centre's three new farm laws on borders of New Delhi, state Minister Nawab Malik said on Tuesday.Some farmers' organisations have planned to hold protests in Mumbai from January 23 to January 25. "Sharad Pawar will take part in the protest to be held at Azad Maidan (in south Mumbai) on January 25. The NCP has opposed the farm laws. The chief minister and leaders of the ruling MVA (Maha Vikas Aghadi) will also take part," said Malik, who is the national spokesperson of the NCP.Panel members outlines 'challenge' ahead of discussionsBiggest challenge before panel is to convince farmers to speak to us and share; We'll make all possible efforts: Member Anil GhanwatSC-appointed panel member says it will be one of primary objectives to convince farmers to speak to the members and share their concerns, report PTI.First meet with farmers on Jan 21: Anil GhanwatIt has been decided that the first meet with farmers will be held on Jan 21st. Physical meeting will be held with those organisations who want to meet us in person. Video conferencing will be held with those who can't come to us: Anil Ghanwat, member of SC-formed committee'Tragedy unfolding today in country', says Rahul Gandhi on protest over farm laws"There is tragedy unfolding today in country, govt wants to ignore issue & misinform the country. I'm not going to speak about farmers alone as it is only part of tragedy. It's important for youngsters. This is not about present but about your Future," saysCongress leader Rahul GandhiRahul Gandhi releases a booklet about farm lawsThe book released by Gandhi in Delhi higlights the pitaflls in the contentious legislation."There is tragedy unfolding today in country, govt wants to ignore issue & misinform the country. I'm not going to speak about farmers alone as it is only part of tragedy. It's important for youngsters. This is not about present but about your Future," said Rahul Gandhi.We stand by farmers of this country: DK Shivakumar"We stand by farmers of this country. Supreme Court has stayed the laws. They shouldn't stay but scrap it. This is what Congress demands. The farmers' demand is justified. On behalf of Congress party, we are holding a big protest tomorrow to support them," said DK Shivkumar, Congress.Farm laws will go back the same route it came from: Farmers' unionBharatiya Kisan Union spokersperson, Rakesh Tikait said noone from the agitation will be participating in the meeting of SC panel. "We're not going (to first meeting of SC-formed committee). Nobody from the agitation approached Court. Govt brought Bill through Ordinance, it was tabled in the House. It'll go back the same route it came from," he also said, ANI reported.Delhi’s Singhu, Tikri borders remain completely blockedThe traffic situation at the Delhi-Ghaziabad border and at the Delhi-Noida border remained the same on Tuesday as vehicular movement on the carriageway going towards Delhi continued to be blocked by farmer groups. Singhu and Tikri borders, however, continued to remain completely blocked as they have been since November 26 because of the ongoing farmers’ agitation. Read moreProtests enter 55th day todaySC panel on farm laws to begin work on January 19A committee appointed by the Supreme Court to scrutinise three agricultural laws that have prompted farmers to stage a months-long protest will meet on January 19 for its first round of internal consultations, a member of the panel said. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-live-updates-january-19-2021-101611018411493.html
19-01-2021||India||MP files first case under new conversion law||The first case under the newly enacted MP Freedom of Religion Ordinance 2020 was registered against a 25-year-old man in Barwani area late night on Sunday, police said.The accused, who is a truck driver and a resident of Palsud village, was arrested by police under the new law and under sections 376 (rape), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code. Barwani police station in-charge Rajesh Yadav said, “The woman alleged that the man met her four years ago. He hid his religion and raped her on the pretext of marriage. Recently, she came to know that he wanted to convert her When she confronted him, he beat her.” He added that a probe is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-files-first-case-under-new-conversion-law-101611018577265.html
19-01-2021||India||Rajasthan HC extends interim relief to Robert Vadra in money laundering case||The Rajasthan high court on Thursday extended the interim protection from arrest to businessman Robert Vadra till January 28 in an alleged money laundering case related to a land scam in Bikaner.On Monday, an application by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) was scheduled to be heard in the high court, where ED has sought the custodial interrogation of Vadra, but the court could not take up the case for hearing due to the paucity of time.Vadra is the son-in-law of Congress president Sonia Gandhi. On January 21, 2019, the court asked Vadra, a partner in Sky Light Hospitality, and his mother Maureen Vadra, to appear before ED for questioning. The court of Justice Dr Pushpendra Singh Bhati has fixed January 28 as the next date of hearing in the case, and granted Vadra and his mother interim protection from arrest till then. ED has registered an enforcement case information report (ECIR) in the alleged Bikaner land scam. In connection with the case, on December 1, 2018, it summoned Sky Light Hospitality’s partners, including Robert Vadra, for questioning, but the firm on December 18, 2018 approached the Rajasthan HC against the ED move.The probe is related to the purchase of 275 bigha land allegedly by the company in the Kolayat area in Bikaner. The probe agency had registered a criminal case of money laundering in 2016 on the basis of FIRs filed by the state police after the local tehsildar had made a complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-hc-extends-interim-relief-to-robert-vadra-in-money-laundering-case-101611017206641.html
19-01-2021||India||Kerala: Minor rape survivor reveals she was sexually abused by 38 men||A 17-year-old rape survivor has alleged that she was sexually abused by 38 people following her release from a rescue centre in Kerala’s Malappuram last year, police officials said on Monday. Thirty-three of the 38 accused have been arrested, the officials said. The sexual abuse came to light during a counseling session at a Nirbhaya centre recently, the officials said.The minor girl was first raped in 2016, when she was 13, the officials said. A case under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act was filed and the girl was moved to a shelter home in the district, the officials said. She was allowed to go home in 2017, but soon she filed another complaint accusing a neighbour of sexual assault, police officials said. She was then shifted to the Nirbhaya centre, they said. The authorities at the centre allowed her to go home to live with her mother and brother during the lockdown early last year, the officials said. The girl went missing after her release from the centre and was traced to Palakkad in December last year, investigating officer Mohammad Haneefa said. Authorities at the child shelter home said that they track survivors after their release but could not conduct proper follow-ups with the girl amid Covid-19 restrictions.“We have started an inquiry against the care home to find out any lapse on its part,” a senior official of the social welfare ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-minor-rape-survivor-reveals-she-was-sexually-abused-by-38-men-101611016767876.html
19-01-2021||India||Reservations: SC rejects ad hoc promotion plea, asks states to apprise AG of matter||The Supreme Court on Monday took up several pleas regarding alleged hurdles over reservation in promotion to the Scheduled Castes (SCs) and Scheduled Tribes (STs) in various states, asking them to apprise the attorney general about the issues that need examining and submit a list in four weeks.A three-judge bench, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde, however, turned down the Centre’s request to permit ad hoc promotions to fill over 130,000 vacant posts in public employment across the country. The bench, also comprising Justices L Nageswara Rao and Vineet Saran, told the attorney general to finalise the issues and posted 80 petitions for hearing after six weeks.The issues arising in these matters pertained to the application of a decision passed by the apex court in a 2006 case titled M. Nagaraj vs. Union of India where a five-judge Constitution Bench held that for applying reservation in promotions, the government must provide quantifiable data to show the backwardness of a particular class and inadequacy of their representation in public employment. States were finding this yardstick too difficult to achieve. Several high courts even began applying this rule laid down by the top court for carrying out reservation in promotions for SC/ST, thereby forcing states to approach the top court.In 2018, the top court in Jarnail Singh v Lachhmi Narain Gupta case refused to refer the Nagaraj judgment to a higher bench but later altered the decision by saying that states will not be required to present quantifiable data of backwardness of Scheduled Castes or Tribes. However, it made the creamy layer test applicable to reservation in promotions of SC/ST. “The issues are not common in all the cases which have arisen from several states. We therefore consider it appropriate and expedient that the Advocates-on-Record appearing for each state should furnish a note clearly stating the issues within a period of two weeks from today.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/reservations-sc-rejects-ad-hoc-promotion-plea-asks-states-to-apprise-ag-of-matter-101611016358153.html
19-01-2021||India||House panel calls home secretary on cyber crimes||A parliamentary panel has called the union home secretary Ajay Bhalla to hear the ministry’s views on cyber crimes involving women and children.The committee on home has picked up the topic of cybercrime against women and children as such incidents are increasingly being flagged by victims and social activists. Last year, Rajya Sabha chairman formed a panel to probe access of pornographic material to children. The panel, headed by Congress’s Anand Sharma, is also preparing a report on Atrocities and Crimes against Women & Children||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/house-panel-calls-home-secretary-on-cyber-crimes-101611015842315.html
19-01-2021||India||After row, key farm leader says will not meet political parties||One prominent leader who is part of the platform of farm unions leading the ongoing agitation against a set of agricultural laws appeared to spell out a separate agenda for the protests, including talking to some opposition political parties, even as other unions say they want to keep the protests apolitical. He, however, backtracked later on Monday and offered a written assurance not to meet any party in future.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), a platform of nearly 400 farm groups leading the stir, said that efforts by Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni to organise an “all-party meeting” on the farm laws were not authorised by it, and did not figure in its official agenda.Just hours later, Chaduni, in a written statement to the SKM, said his meeting with the political leaders was a personal initiative to strengthen the agitation. The SKM accepted his clarification, a statement by the farm unions read.The farm unions are on a strike since November to demand the scrapping of three contentious farm laws. The unions say the laws will hurt their livelihoods. A team of 41 representatives of the SKM has been participating in negotiations with the Union government. Chaduni also has been a part of the delegation.“The Samyukt Kisan Morcha disassociates itself from the activities of Gurnam Singh Chaduni. His decision for an all-party meeting was never approved or authorised. It is his personal activity,” said Hannan Mollah, a key member of the Morcha’s “general body”, earlier in the day.On January 17, Chaduni, an influential farm leader in Haryana and Punjab, met leaders of the opposition parties, including the Congress, Aam Aadmi Party and Shiromani Akali Dal in Delhi in an attempt to forge a larger political alliance against the laws.According to Mollah, farm unions unanimously decided to keep their agitation “apolitical” and therefore Chaduni’s move was “not acceptable”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-row-key-farm-leader-says-will-not-meet-political-parties-101611015383643.html
19-01-2021||India||AAP's Sanjay Singh receives death threat call, police complaint lodged||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Sanjay Singh alleged that he has received a death threat and registered a police complaint in this matter.Sharing the copy of the police complaint on his Twitter handle, the AAP leader said that he will not get intimidated by such threats and urged the Delhi police to take action on it.The police registered a complaint under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) Section 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation)."Around 7 pm on Monday, a complaint was received at the North Avenue police station from Singh, a Rajya Sabha member, regarding threats being given to him over the phone. A non-cognizable report under section 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered," police said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aaps-sanjay-singh-receives-death-threat-call-police-complaint-lodged-101611014836689.html
19-01-2021||India||A day after jab UP man dies, officials say no link to vaccine||A 46-year-old hospital employee in Uttar Pradesh’s Moradabad town, who died a day after getting vaccinated for Covid-19, suffered a cardiac arrest, his post-mortem report released on Monday said, even as the state government and the man’s family traded charges on whether the inoculation was linked to his death.Mahipal Singh, a ward boy at the Moradabad district hospital, got the Covishield vaccine on Saturday, the first-day of India’s Covid-19 immunisation drive. Later, he complained of breathlessness and chest pain, alleged his family members, and was admitted to the district hospital where he died on Sunday.On Monday, Moradabad chief medical officer Dr MC Garg denied the family’s allegations and said the post-mortem report found “cardio pulmonary disease” as the cause of the death. “Mahipal Singh died of cardiac arrest; it has nothing to do with the Covid-19 vaccine. The fact came to light in Singh’s post-mortem report,” said Garg.The CMO said on orders of the district magistrate, he visited Singh’s place and met his family members who said he contracted pneumonia a few weeks ago. “While carrying out the post-mortem, we also observed that the size of his heart was enlarged. We found blood clotting in the heart. It clearly shows that he died of heart attack or septicemic shock,” he addedBut his family said Singh’s health deteriorated after getting the vaccine jab on Saturday. “Initially, we thought it is normal ...By the time we reached emergency, my father was dead,” said Vishal Singh, Singh’s son.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-day-after-jab-up-man-dies-officials-say-no-link-to-vaccine-101611013916776.html
19-01-2021||India||No spectators at Wagah border on Jan 26, BSF yet to take call on India-Pak parade||No spectators will be allowed on the Indian side of the Attari-Wagah joint checkpost on Republic Day in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, officials familiar with the matter said on Monday.A Border Security Force (BSF) official said that a decision is yet to be taken on whether the coordinated parade with Pakistan will be held this year or not.“Due to the coronavirus pandemic, no spectator will be allowed to enter the joint check post (JCP) at Attari this Republic Day. But we have yet to decide our programme, including the parade ceremony, to celebrate the day on the border,” said a senior Punjab BSF official, requesting anonymity.The joint parade was held on Independence Day last year.Another BSF official said that while they are yet to receive a programme for Republic Day, it is likely that the parade will be held. Celebrations for the Republic Day may be similar to the beating the retreat ceremony which was held in August without any spectators, the official said.Since the Covid-19 outbreak in March last year, only a flag-lowering ceremony is conducted at sunset on the Indian side of the border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-spectators-at-wagah-border-on-jan-26-bsf-yet-to-take-call-on-india-pak-parade-101611013478384.html
19-01-2021||India||Rafale jets to debut in Republic Day flypast||The Indian Air Force’s Rafales, Sukhoi-30s and MiG-29s — fighters that are part of its muscular posture in the Ladakh theatre — are among the 42 aircraft that will take part in this year’s Republic Day flypast — the highlight of India’s biggest ceremonial parade, air force officials said on Monday.The Rafales, whose induction into the IAF began last September and is work in progress, are taking part in the flypast for the first time. A woman fighter pilot will also participate in the parade for the first time.The IAF’s solitary Rafale squadron will add more muscle with the arrival of at least three more fighter jets by the end of the month. The delivery of the three jets will take the number of Rafales in IAF’s inventory to 11.The IAF’s C-17 Globemaster III transport aircraft, C-130J Super Hercules special operations plane, Apache AH-64E attack helicopters and CH-47F (I) Chinook multi-mission choppers — platforms that have formed part of the force’s role in the Ladakh sector — will also participate in the flypast, the officials said.As many as 42 aircraft will be a part of different formations during the flypast including 15 fighter jets, five transport aircraft, 21 helicopters and a vintage Dakota aircraft, the IAF said in a briefing on its role in the parade. A Rafale aircraft will fly with two Jaguars and two MiG-29 fighter jets in one of the formations at the flypast, which will wrap up with the Rafale carrying out another manoeuvre.The flypast will see a vintage Dakota aircraft fly in formation with two Mi-17 V5 helicopters, marking the 50 years of the liberation of Bangladesh. A Bangladeshi military contingent is also taking part in the parade. An IAF C-17 heavy-lifter last week flew 122 Bangladeshi military personnel from Dhaka for the parade.The participation of the Bangladeshi soldiers in the parade will mark the second time that foreign soldiers will march down Rajpath, as reported by HT on January 3. The Bangladeshi contingent has been invited to take part in the parade at a time when the two countries are celebrating the golden jubilee of the birth of Bangladesh.Foreign soldiers took part in the parade for the first time in 2016 when a French army contingent of 130 soldiers marched down Rajpath (then French President Francois Hollande was the chief guest that year).Flight Lieutenant Bhawana Kanth, one of the first women fighter pilots in IAF, will be a part of the air force’s tableau that will showcase mock-ups of the light combat aircraft, light combat helicopter and the Sukhoi-30 fighter plane. The LCA model will be armed with India’s first anti-radiation missile Rudram.The parade will be shorter, involve fewer participants and only a fourth of the usual number of spectators will be allowed at Rajpath, with the ceremonial event being curtailed because of the Covid-19 pandemic.The shortened route of the parade will see it end at National Stadium instead of Red Fort. Not more than 25,000 spectators will be allowed at Rajpath, compared to at least 100,000 people who usually turn up for the parade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rafale-jets-to-debut-in-republic-day-flypast-101611013037042.html
19-01-2021||India||‘Keep constant watch’: India amid Chinese breach report||New satellite imagery showing a village built by China in a disputed region of Arunachal Pradesh prompted a cautious response from India on Monday, with the government saying it closely monitors all developments affecting national security and acts to safeguard territorial integrity.The Indian government has stepped up construction of border infrastructure, including roads and bridges, in response to China’s “construction work along the border areas”, the external affairs ministry said.China built a village, consisting of 101 structures, in Arunachal Pradesh, about 4.5km “within Indian territory of the de facto border”, NDTV reported while citing satellite imagery from Planet Labs, a private US-based imaging company.The village is located on the banks of Tsari Chu river in Upper Subansiri district, an area along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). This was the same region where five people were detained for some time by Chinese troops last September.Comparing two images provided by Planet Labs, NDTV reported the village was built sometime in the past 15 months.The first image, from August 26, 2019, didn’t show any construction activity, while the second, from November 1, 2020, depicted the village with dozens of rows of small and medium-sized structures and roads.The external affairs ministry didn’t address the issue of the particular village referred to in the report, but said: “Government keeps a constant watch on all developments having a bearing on India’s security and takes all the necessary measures to safeguard its sovereignty and territorial integrity.”The ministry said in a statement that India had “seen recent reports on China undertaking construction work along the border areas”.It added, “China has undertaken such infrastructure construction activity in the past several years. In response, our government too has stepped up border infrastructure including the construction of roads, bridges etc, which has provided much needed connectivity to the local population along the border.”The government is committed to creating infrastructure along border areas to improve the livelihood of citizens, including in Arunachal Pradesh, the statement said.People familiar with developments, speaking on condition of anonymity, confirmed the existence of the village but pointed out that control over Upper Subansiri region has been fluid for decades. The particular area where the village is located has been in China’s possession since 1959, when Chinese troops overran an Assam Rifles camp, the people said.Sim Tack, a Belgium-based security analyst for Force Analysis, said the village in question in Arunachal Pradesh appeared to be part of China’s recent construction activity to bolster its territorial claims all along the LAC.Tack said the village appeared to be several kilometres “inside the Indian claim” and noted China has had a “small presence” in this area in the form of a military outpost since about 2000. “So, the Chinese presence is not necessarily new, but what is new is the building of a village to settle people in the area. It would appear China is applying such infrastructure to strengthen its territorial claims,” Tack said. China claims the whole of Arunachal Pradesh as south Tibet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/keep-constant-watch-india-amid-chinese-breach-report-101611009810663.html
19-01-2021||India||‘Will provide 200 million doses to India for first phase’: Gavi deputy CEO||India received 10 million Covid-19 vaccine doses over the weekend from Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance’s Covax facility created last year to ensure equity access to Covid-19 vaccines across the world, the deputy CEO of Gavi, Anuradha Gupta, told Rhythma Kaul in an interview. Edited excerpts:In emergency situations, low- and middle-income countries tend to lose out to higher income countries in the vaccine race. Did this fear lead to the creation of Covax?The Covax facility was set-up to ensure that there was equitable access to vaccines against Covid-19, and low- and middle-income countries did not actually lose out to higher income countries in the Covid-19 vaccine race. WHO, Gavi, and Cepi came together with the intention to bring together countries regardless of their financial status. The concept of Covax facility has strengthened the concept of global solidarity.How are rich countries contributing to the facility?The important part is that rich countries that are a part of the Covax facility are paying for their vaccines. The Covax facility has two categories —one is self-financing countries and second is those needing support. There are a total of 190 countries, and 92 low- and middle-income countries will be financed by rich countries. On top of it, Gavi is trying to raise $7 billion from rich countries for about one billion vaccine doses, which will be a part of Gavi’s aim to procure two billion doses by end of 2021.What is the arrangement with India?The first tranche of the vaccine supplies has been released for roll out for India, which is about 10 million doses that will take care of India’s initial 30 million vaccination target of front line workers. India is going to vaccinate 300 million high risk population in the first phase, and 200 million doses out of 600 million doses for that will come from Gavi, which is about one-third of its need. The arrangement is 20% of Gavi’s total support will be provided to India, which comes to about 200 million doses. It will cost Gavi about $1.4 billion. Gavi will also provide $30 million for technical assistance...Will Gavi also use vaccines produced in India for distribution?The arrangement with India is different as India contributes to Covax facility because their vaccine manufacturing base is solid and appropriate for use in lower and middle income countries. It suits these countries in terms of cold chain, training of workers etc., and India will give us products that are cost-effective and easy to use. WHO approval to India products is what we are waiting for.What care do countries need to take to ensure gains aren’t wasted?If the countries are not able to prioritise high risk groups properly, then all this effort will go to waste. The aim should be to make maximum use of limited supplies that we have currently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-provide-200mn-doses-to-india-for-first-phase-gavi-deputy-ceo-101611009055054.html
19-01-2021||India||‘Infodemic on side effects has created anxiety’: Dr. Randeep Guleria||An infodemic (overabundance of information, some of which is aimed at deliberately pushing false information to erode the credibility of public health responses) and the barrage of social media posts on adverse events after vaccination has resulted in an increase in vaccine hesitancy, director of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Dr Randeep Guleria told Anonna Dutt in an interview. Edited excerptsWhat is the reason for vaccine hesitancy among health care workers?To be honest, early on, health care workers were very keen to get the vaccine. Then, because of the infodemic, because of the things doing the rounds on social media, because of the side effects being highlighted as more than what they were, it created a lot of anxiety — not only among health care workers but also the public at large. And, therefore, a lot of people have had to work on reassuring others that there have been no short cuts (in vaccine trials and approval). The vaccine has come within a year, but that does not mean that there has been a compromise on safety. That (convincing people) is something we are still working on.Some doctors from one of the Delhi hospitals raised concerns about one of the vaccines — Covaxin — being given without completing the trials.We will need as many vaccine shots as we can get because the number of people we need to vaccinate is humongous. We need to get more and more manufacturers on board; we need to get more and more vaccine platforms on board. We may keep arguing about which one is good, but at the end of the day, any vaccine that is safe and provides efficacy will help in saving lives and bringing down mortality.In the second half of this year, we may get new generation of vaccines — vaccines that may need only one shot, vaccines that may be in the form of a nasal spray. Those things are evolving over a period of time. Therefore, currently we should push what we have because it will really help in saving lives, breaking the chain of transmission, getting our economy back on track, allowing schools and colleges to open up, and people to go on holidays.What were the lessons that we learnt from Covid-19?It has been an experience that has told us that we need to be better prepared for the future. We need to have our infrastructure and plans to be in place so that we do not have such a situation in the coming years.This is the final phase of our fight against Covid-19. The past 10 to 14 months have been a roller-coaster ride. Looking back, there is satisfaction that we managed without going into a chaotic situation, with people running out of beds and oxygen that we hear from some other countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/infodemic-on-side-effects-has-created-anxiety-dr-randeep-guleria-101611008186050.html
19-01-2021||India||SC hints at avoiding cases with concurrent decisions||“Fifty percent of our orders will also be reversed if there were a higher court,” observed the Supreme Court on Monday, suggesting that the top court refrain from intervening in a matter if all subordinate courts concur in their decision.Justice Sanjay K Kaul, heading a three-judge-bench, made this avowal while asserting that there has to be an end to appeals against every order passed by subordinate courts. The bench, which also included justices Dinesh Maheshwari and Hrishikesh Roy, was categorical that the Supreme Court should be wary of interference when subordinate courts at all levels have decided in unison about a certain class of dispute.As a matter of principle, said the bench, the apex court should not interfere when there are concurrent findings by all the subordinate courts.“If we (SC) start looking at every matter with extreme minuteness and subjectivity, we will not be able to perform the duty this court is expected to do. There has to be some consistency in the decision-making and if start making exceptions, then there is a problem,” remarked justice Kaul.The judge added that certain definitive principles should be followed by the Supreme Court and that it cannot be called upon to interfere as the fourth court. “This has to end at some point. We always say it, 50 percent of our orders will also be reversed if there were a court above us,” said justice Kaul. The appeal in the present matter had arisen out of a decision by the Delhi high court on December 2 in a case relating to eviction of a tenant. The additional rent controller and the rent control tribunal issued the order of eviction against the petitioner, Arya Kanya Pathshala, from a tenanted premise in Delhi owing to its default in paying for misuse of the property in question. The high court found no fault with this order of eviction.Senior advocate PS Narasimha, appearing for Pathshala, requested the bench to entertain the appeal on humanitarian grounds as the petitioner taught girl students.But the bench said it will not be proper to interfere with the concurrent findings of three courts.“This court has taken a consistent view in the rent and eviction matters, there should be no interference by this court. There are findings by three courts below. Why should we interfere now? If we do it in one case, this will not be good for the consistency,” added the bench.The bench gave the petitioner time till June 30 to vacate the premises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/50-of-our-orders-will-be-reversed-by-a-higher-court-sc-cautions-on-appeals-101611002731998.html
19-01-2021||India||India's daily tally of new Covid-19 cases less than 10,000 first time since June 9||There were 9,975 new cases of Covid-19 in India, data from across the country showed on Monday, the first time this number was below 10,000 since June 9.While these numbers correspond to tests done on a Sunday, when less testing is done, they underscore the trend that the outbreak has been receding. Sikkim reported no new case while seven other states recorded fewer than 10.A further eight states reported fewer than 100 new infections and only two states – Maharashtra and Kerala – had more than 1,000 new infections. Delhi recorded 161 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-daily-tally-of-new-covid-cases-less-than-10-000-first-time-since-june-9-101611002125246.html
19-01-2021||India||Farmers' protest: SC refuses to step in on Republic Day tractor rally||The Supreme Court on Monday refused to “strengthen the hands” of the Centre in stopping a proposed Republic Day tractor rally in Delhi by farmers protesting against three contentious agricultural laws, and asked why the government was seeking its nod on a law-and-order issue.Declining to pass any order on a plea by Delhi Police, a bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde said it was not for the court to remind the authorities of their policing power by passing an order.“Does the Union of India need Supreme Court to tell what powers it has under the Police Act? Why do you want us to tell what powers you have?” the bench asked Attorney General KK Venugopal, who implored the court to issue a prohibitory order on Delhi Police’s application to injunct farmers’ groups from “disrupting” Republic Day celebrations by taking out a tractor rally or any other processions on January 26.Venugopal, who represented the Centre, said it was an extraordinary situation, adding “one word from this court will strengthen the hands of the government”. The bench remained unmoved. “Does the Supreme Court say as to what are the powers of police and how they will exercise them? We are not going to tell you what to do. All that we can tell you is that you can invoke all your powers under the law to maintain law and order. This is your job.”The bench also comprised Justices L Nageswara Rao and Vineet Saran.It further observed: “We cannot come across an instance where first the court issued an order prohibiting (protests) and then the authorities said something. It is always the other way round. We have told you earlier too that we cannot be the first authority to determine this. You have enough power under the Police Act to determine who should or should not be allowed entry, what terms and conditions are to be enforced, and what should be the numbers.”At this, Venugopal said that the government was seeking for an order on this issue since the apex court has taken the charge of the matter. The bench, however, retorted: “No, no. We have not taken charge of this matter at all. We have dealt with only one issue. The intervention of this court has been grossly misunderstood. We have not taken charge of the entire issue except one. And we will hear that issue sometime later.” The AG endeavoured to persuade the court, but it made its position clear: “We are not going to tell you what is your power. Why should we tell you what you should do?” The bench then clarified that it would focus chiefly on the issues relating to farm laws, and adjourned the matter for a hearing on Wednesday before the same combination of judges, who, on January 12, stayed the implementation of the three laws and formed a four-member committee to discuss the legislation with both farmers and the government.Apart from the CJI, justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, comprised that bench.The bench asked all lawyers to be present on Wednesday when it may take a call on filling up the vacancy in its panel, created by the recusal by one of the members — farm leader Bhupinder Singh Mann — last week. The committee is left with three members — agricultural economists Pramod Kumar Joshi and Ashok Gulati, and Anil Ghanwat, president, Shetkari Sanghatana. The members are scheduled to meet for the first time on Tuesday, though farm unions have said they will not negotiate with the committee. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing Delhi police, told the court that when the matter is taken up on Wednesday, the Centre would make detailed arguments on the dignity attached to the constitutional ceremony of Republic Day parade. “But what can be a constitutional question about a parade?” shot back the CJI.The unions are planning a rally on January 26 comprising tens of thousands of farmers to push for the repeal of the three laws. The proposed route covers a 60km stretch and passes through Delhi’s Outer Ring Road, covering areas as Peeragarhi, Janakpuri and Munirka. The unions say their march will commence only after the official military parade on Rajpath ends.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-sc-refuses-to-step-in-on-r-day-tractor-rally-101611001634211.html
19-01-2021||India||580 adverse events reported in three days of vaccination||India reported 580 adverse events following immunisation (AEFI) out of 381,305 people vaccinated for Covid-19 till Monday, said data from the Union health ministry, translating to just 0.15% — a rate experts said was key to dispelling hesitancy among recipients that was dogging the inoculation programme.In Delhi, 26 AEFI were recorded on Monday out of 3,593 shots administered, a rate of 0.72%. Overall, 133 adverse reactions, which can be caused by allergies or underlying medical conditions and are not necessarily causally linked to vaccines, were reported among 148,266 jabs given on Monday, which marked the third day of the nationwide immunization drive.“So far, cumulative 580 AEFI have been reported, of which seven needed hospitalisation,” said Manohar Agnani, additional secretary, Union health ministry.Two people died since Saturday, Agnani added. One of them, a hospital employee from Uttar Pradesh’s Moradabad town, suffered a cardiac arrest and his death wasn’t related to the vaccine, the authorities declared. A post-mortem examination would be conducted late on Monday to ascertain the reason for the other death, of a 43-year-old man from Ballari in Karnataka. Of the seven people hospitalised, three were from Delhi, said Agnani.One was admitted in the intensive care unit (ICU) of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi, after complaining of uneasiness, and developed rashes within 15 minutes of getting the shot. The second was admitted for uneasiness to the Northern Railways Hospital. Both were discharged on Sunday. A third person, who fainted, is under observation at a private hospital in east Delhi, said Agnani.Adverse events are observed with most vaccines and can range from pain, mild swelling at injection site and body ache to breathlessness and hospitalisation. Experts said AEFIs needed to be evaluated in the context of risk-and-benefits associated with immunization.“Acceptable level of AEFI would ideally be zero, but that is not the case. I think it is around 0.2% and yet we are focusing on that and not the 99.8% benefit,” said Dr Shahid Jameel, former CEO of Wellcome Trust/DBT India Alliance.In the case of coronavirus vaccines, the government has said that there can be mild AEFIs, such as pain and swelling at the site of injection, mild fever, nausea, giddiness and mild rashes. Serious AEFIs can be a severe allergic reaction, such as an anaphylactic shock, which could potentially require hospitalisation.India is administering two vaccines as part of the first phase of Covid-19 immunisation covering roughly 30 million health care and other frontline workers. The lead candidate is the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, manufactured by Serum Institute of India and locally known as Covishield, and the second is Bharat Biotech-made Covaxin, which has spurred some controversy because its efficacy data isn’t publicly known.Uttarakhand reported one case of AEFI, and the health care worker is stable and under observation at AIIMS, Rishikesh. He was admitted to the hospital on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/580-adverse-events-reported-in-three-days-of-vaccination-101611000733824.html
19-01-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccination drive hit by hesitancy hurdle||In the three days since coronavirus vaccinations began in India, roughly 50 people have been given doses per session –half of the 100 on average expected by the government, data released by the Union health ministry showed on Monday, as reports poured in of people being reluctant to come forward to take the jab.The government said that between Saturday morning and 5pm on Monday, 381,305 people were given doses in 7,704 sessions. Some health workers across the country, who are first in line to get doses, either did not turn up for their appointments, or outages in the digital platform to manage their records meant they were not informed.The Union government has advised states to call and administer doses to 100 people on average during each session. According to figures collated by HT from across India, the total number of vaccinations by the end of Monday was 429,409.The turnout dipped from 4,319 on Saturday to 3,593 on Monday (there were no immunisations on Sunday) in the national capital. At the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi, only eight people were vaccinated on Monday, an official said, while asking not to be named.Officials said concerns over the vaccines’ safety appear to have deterred many people.“Initially, health care workers were very keen to get the vaccine. But then because of the infodemic, because of things doing the rounds on social media, because of side effects being highlighted more than what they were, it created a lot of anxiety not only among healthcare workers but also in public at large,” said Dr Randeep Guleria, the director of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), in an interview to HT on Monday.Hesitancy was reported among some beneficiaries in the run-up to the January 16 launch of the vaccination drive. Groups of doctors said they were apprehensive or would not prefer to get doses of Covaxin, the vaccine made by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech.This dose has not yet been tested entirely in Phase 3 trials, and the manufacturers don’t know how effective it is in preventing Covid-19. The other vaccine, Covishield, developed by Oxford-AstraZeneca and manufactured by Serum Institute of India, has proved its efficacy in human trials.Two interns at Delhi’s RML Hospital, who asked not to be identified, said they were aware they could walk in and get the shots on Monday, but expressed concerns over lack of long-term data.In UP, the state government issued a notice to a government hospital in Kanpur where only 40 people were given doses on Saturday. The state is carrying out immunisations only two days a week, Thursday and Friday from this week onwards.The problem, as suggested by Guleria, appears to have been made worse by reports of some adverse reactions. Manohar Aghnani, additional secretary in the Union health ministry, said 580 cases of adverse effect following immunisation (AEFI) were reported in the three days.The Union health ministry has said that most AEFIs have been mild, with symptoms such as pain at injection site, nausea and mild fever. Of the 580 – who represent just 0.15% of those vaccinated – seven required hospitalisations. For of these people were still under admission.Experts said that these numbers were much below the thresholds for anything that should be worrying and that the risks outweigh the benefits of immunisation. “Acceptable level of AEFI would ideally be zero, but that is not the case. I think it is around 0.2% and yet we are focussing on that and not the 99.8% benefit,” said Dr Shahid Jameel, former CEO of Wellcome Trust/DBT India Alliance.Officials also reported glitches in the Co-WIN mobile application that vaccinators use to create lists of who will be given doses during a particular session and record their status. “The portal is crashing intermittently, leading to delays. It happened on Saturday and today as well,” said Dr Vidyapati Chaudhary, principal of the Patna Medical College Hospital. “We are not getting the names of beneficiaries on time. As a result, we are unable to contact them telephonically. Some beneficiaries have complained that they did not receive any intimation about their vaccination. Sometimes, midway through the exercise, names of beneficiaries also disappear from the portal.”Similar problems were reported in Delhi, where hospitals allowed health care workers at their facilities to walk in for doses. Their details, an official at one of these centres said while asking not to be named, will be uploaded later.The problem was such that Maharashtra suspended the vaccination drive on Saturday after only less than 2,000 people were vaccinated across the state.A Union health ministry official said glitches in the app were being rectified. “Almost 90% glitches have been addressed. Speed has improved. Session creation and planning has been made more flexible. A lot of the “glitches” are also because of varying degrees of IT awareness of vaccinators,” said this person, asking not to be named.Experts believe vaccine hesitancy may be a bigger challenge in accelerating the drive. “Vaccine hesitancy had a major role to play when it came to the low vaccination rate on Saturday. Many people were comparing the two vaccines, many people wanted to wait and see what happens, and others wondered whether they needed it, having recovered from the infection recently. When people were asked to sign the consent forms, that too led to a lot of anxiety,” said Dr Suneela Garg, professor of community medicine at Maulana Azad Medical College.Recipients who were given Covaxin were required to sign consent sheet that is typically given to people participating in clinical trials – technically, the Bharat Biotech vaccine has been approved under “the clinical trial route”, as per the regulators’ decision on January 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccination-drive-hit-by-hesitancy-hurdle-101611000038997.html
19-01-2021||India||Probe purported chats between Arnab Goswami and Partho Dasgupta: MVA partners||Ruling allies of Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) have demanded action and probe in the purported chats between Republic TV editor in chief Arnab Gowami and Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) former head Partho Dasgupta.The NCP on Monday demanded a joint parliamentary committee probe into the matter whereas Congress demanded an investigation under the Official Secrets Act. Attacking the Centre over the leaked WhatsApp chat, the Shiv Sena said that it was a breach of the country's internal security and demanded action against Goswami.Meanwhile, Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh said next course of action will be decided on Tuesday after a meeting with senior officials of the department.“The WhatsApp chat between the duo (Goswami and Dasgupta) has gone viral. They have found to be discussing very sensitive information, be it Balakot or Pulwama. The question is, how Arnab (Goswami) came to know about all this and that too in advance. We are gathering all the information and a meeting is to be held tomorrow (Tuesday) after which the next course is going to be decided,” Deshmukh told reporters.A political storm is brewing over the transcript of a purported WhatsApp conversation between Goswami and Dasgupta over Balakot air strikes and Article 370 revocation, which has led to allegations of collusion and illegal access to highly classified information. It appears that Goswami was privy to the Prime Minister Narendra Modi government’s plan to launch an air strike on Pakistan’s Balakot in retaliation against the Pulwama terror attack, three days before the Indian Air Force took action against a terrorist camp on February 26, 2019. The 500-page plus long transcript of a purported WhatsApp conversation went viral after it was submitted by the Mumbai Police before the court as part of its charge sheet in the case of misuse of TV rating point (TRP).“The Mumbai police has recently exposed the chats between Goswami and Dasgupta. It is extremely shocking and disturbing to know how issues related to national security have been used to gain TRP. The question also arises how Arnab (Goswami) was privy to such sensitive information. The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has to identify the source and take action immediately. We want the matter to be probed by a joint parliamentary committee (JPC),” said NCP spokesperson Mahesh Tapase on Monday.He said that Goswami had been at the forefront to malign the image of the Mumbai police and also the MVA government in Maharashtra. In his TV debates, he tried to give a communal angle to the Palghar incident (in which two Hindu monks were lynched over rumors). Sushant Singh Rajput (Bollywood actor) death case was blown out of proportion and a false narrative was set. “All this seems to have been done with the sole intention to destabilise the state MVA government,” he said.He said that the Narendra Modi government and the BJP seem to have gone completely silent on the case. Union home minister Amit Shah should come forward and laud the investigation of the Mumbai police, he insisted.Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant said that the offence is a part of criminal investigation as it is a violation of section 5 of the Official Secrets Act. “Goswami has received highly classified information which he passed onto someone else (Partho Dasgupta). In fact, we don’t know the information passed to how many more people. We need to know who is the mole in the government,” he said.“In one of his chats, Goswami was found boasting on how national security advisor (NSA) Ajit Doval was surprised to know that the former knows about the Centre's decision of revoking Article 370 beforehand. All this needs to be investigated,” Sawant commented.Both Sachin Sawant and Mahesh Tapase are also going to meet the state home minister Anil Deshmukh over their demands on Tuesday.Claiming the chats are a threat to national security, Sena leader and party’s chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut said, “I think this is a threat to the country's internal security. Sometimes, such military secrets are not known to top officials. If a jawan is found to possess any such secrets or documents, he is court-martialled. Here, he [Arnab] knew that Balakot [air strike] will happen. This means there is a breach in national security. What action will the country’s home minister and defence minister take on this? This is a matter concerning defence. We ask them, ‘will you court-martial him?’” Raut said to reporters in Mumbai.The Sena also targeted BJP through its mouthpiece 'Saamana' on Monday and said, “If people from the BJP think that sharing of national secrets is not anti-national and acting on such issues is an emergency-like situation, then their definition of nationalism needs to be examined.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/probe-purported-chats-between-arnab-goswami-and-partho-dasgupta-mva-partners-101610996057366.html
19-01-2021||India||MVA gains, but BJP may emerge as largest party in Maha panchayat polls||As counting for gram panchayat elections got underway on Monday, partners in the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi — Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress — won 58% of the 12,711 seats that went to polls on January 15. However, among all parties individually, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) won the highest number, with the Sena a close second. Results of all seats were not announced till late on Monday and a clear picture is expected by Tuesday morning.Of the 27,782 gram panchayats (village councils) in the state, 14,432 were due for the elections last year. The elections were deferred owing to the Covid-19 outbreak. The BJP won about 2,600 gram panchayats, followed by the Sena, which won 2,570 of the 11,800 panchayats whose results were declared late on Monday evening. The NCP and Congress bagged 2,400 and 1,825 panchayats respectively, while local panels and independents won over 2,335 panchayats.A total of 214,880 candidates were in the fray for 125,709 seats. At least 26,718 members in 1,665 panchayats were elected unopposed. Another 162 panchayats in Gadchiroli will go to polls on January 20.Though the village panchayat elections are not fought on party symbols, the parties claim the victory on the basis of the local panels formed by the candidates affiliated to them. Some of the panels at the local level claim their affiliations to more than one party. Three ruling parties, however, had announced to fight the elections separately. While the BJP announced its victory, the MVA parties declared that the number of panchayats won by them together was much higher than the BJP.Deputy chief minister and NCP leader Ajit Pawar said, “The voters voted in favour of the MVA. Ruling parties fought in cooperation and it resulted in the combined victory. The Sena, NCP and Congress and their key leaders retained the village panchayats in their stronghold. We have been working on a Common Minimum Program under the leadership of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray.” Environment minister and Sena leader Aaditya Thackeray said the voters have reaffirmed their trust in the MVA government.However, BJP’s Chandrakant Patil said his party would win more than 6,000 panchayats. “We have won 1,907 of the 7,000 panchayats whose results were declared till 6pm...Voters in the state have defeated the ruling parties as they were angry with the government over its failure on handling Covid-19, poor relief to the farmers in distress and at the same time, they had shown faith in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s leadership and development works,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mva-gains-but-bjp-may-emerge-as-largest-party-in-maha-panchayat-polls-101610994916442.html
19-01-2021||India||Govt assesses supply of Covid-19 vaccines to neighbours, developing countries||The government held a meeting with the two Indian manufacturers of Covid-19 vaccines to review the issue of supplying doses of vaccines to foreign countries both as grants and through commercial sales, people familiar with developments said on Monday.The government is currently working out modalities to provide millions of doses as assistance to neighbouring and developing countries and to fulfil commercial contracts inked by the Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech, the makers of Covishield and Covaxin.The virtual meeting between the ministries of health and external affairs and the department of pharmaceuticals looked at factors such as domestic requirements, India’s commitment to supply vaccines to Gavi or the Vaccine Alliance for developing countries and supply of vaccines through commercial sales and government-to-government channels, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity.Thank you, President @ibusolih. Our scientists and health-warriors have risen to the occasion. The vaccines being developed and manufactured in India will help our people as well as humanity at large in escaping from the pandemic. https://t.co/p3iU34Ba0mOfficials have pointed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s repeated assurances that India’s vaccine manufacturing and delivery capacities will be used to benefit the world, and said the country is committed to fulfilling both commercial contracts and helping developing countries and the neighbourhood.On Monday, PM Modi referred to his government’s plans to help the neighbourhood and other regions in replies to tweets from Sri Lankan President Gotabaya Rajapaksa and Maldives President Ibrahim Solih. The two leaders congratulated India on the rollout of the world’s largest vaccination programme.Also read: Glitches in Co-WIN portal leads to drop in Covid vaccination percentage in Bihar“Thank you, President @GotabayaR. We will continue to give due importance to our Neighbourhood First policy while collectively fighting the pandemic,” the prime minister tweeted.In his reply to Solih, PM Modi said, “Our scientists and health-warriors have risen to the occasion. The vaccines being developed and manufactured in India will help our people as well as humanity at large in escaping from the pandemic.”Thank you, President @GotabayaR. We will contrinue to give due importance to our Neighborhood First policy while collectively fighting the pandemic. https://t.co/tIXUfxqaMGRajapaksa had congratulated PM Modi on the successful rollout of the Covid-19 vaccine and “his generosity towards friendly neighbouring countries”. Solih referred to the landmark programme to vaccinate India’s population and said, “I’m highly confident that you’ll be successful in this endeavour and that we are finally seeing an end to the Covid-19 scourge.”Last week, the external affairs ministry said that a decision on exports will take some more time, though greater clarity on the issue is expected in the near future, the people said. They added that the commerce ministry too will play a key role in the process as it will have to clear exports.Several countries have either signed agreements or are in talks with Serum Institute or Bharat Biotech, including Bangladesh, Brazil, Saudi Arabia, South Africa and Morocco.The first beneficiaries of grant assistance are expected to be countries in the immediate neighbourhood, including Bangladesh, Nepal, Bhutan, Sri Lanka, Myanmar and the Maldives, the people said. Pakistan recently approved the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccines, which is being produced by the Serum Institute. Islamabad, however, hasn’t sought any vaccines from India, the people added.The assistance is expected to be supplied through a state-run entity, as was done when India supplied hydroxychloroquine to numerous countries amid the Covid-19 pandemic last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-assesses-supply-of-covid-19-vaccines-to-neighbours-developing-countries-101610994831864.html
19-01-2021||India||Travel portals expecting better year; long-weekends likely to provide traction||By Neha LM TripathiWith the mass inoculation against Covid-19 in India and availability of vaccines in other parts of the world, travel portals are looking forward to a healthier 2021 for the industry. Unlike last year, with over six weekends in the year, portals expect travellers to explore new places as they have already seen a surge in enquiries for short rejuvenation trips for 2021.Long weekends around Republic Day, Good Friday, Holi, Janmashtami, Dussehra and Christmas are expected to see significant interest from travellers.It has been noticed that, over years, multiple short breaks to relax, reconnect and rejuvenate have become the order of the day for leisure travellers. People look to pause and unwind at quaint, tranquil properties in the hills of Himachal or Uttarakhand, or at beaches of Goa and Pondicherry – spending more time with their loved ones and make the most of the hotel and in-room amenities.Also read: 'Masterstroke' - Mamata Banerjee brings Nandigram back in focusVipul Prakash, chief operating officer, MakeMyTrip, said, "Bookings on MakeMyTrip indicate that couples, small groups of friends and families with kids have already started searching, planning and booking staycations for long-weekends in 2021 starting with the Republic Day. As travel sentiment revives, we hope to see more takers for long weekend travel in the coming months."Cleartrip said they saw a revival in the last quarter of 2020, catalyzed by seasonal demand and easing restrictions. “In 2021, we expect the large pent up demand to further convert into bookings. The vaccination plans will significantly aid the recovery in travel volumes, and as nations continue their vaccination drives, we may also see international travel restrictions easing. Travel will also be spurred by the number of long weekends this year, evenly spread out across all quarters," said it's spokesperson.According to Yatra.com, the travel and hospitality industry is gearing up with customized services among others to attract more travellers and quick getaways as a trend has increased exponentially in the past few years with a number of travellers across India packing their bags and setting out on journeys.Sabina Chopra, co-founder and COO, corporate travel & head industry relations, Yatra.com said, “ In 2021, we can expect this trend to grow further in demand, as travellers plan their travel before or after the weekends. The vaccine announcement is also expected to push this growth furthermore as we foresee people planning their trips judiciously while taking all precautionary measures in terms of health and safety.""For January, at Yatra.com we have witnessed an increase in demand for two upcoming long weekends of Republic Day and Makar Sankranti where travellers enquired about holiday packages as well as alternate accommodation options largely in 4/5 star properties, homestays and villas among others in offbeat locations as people continue to set out for shorter escapes,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/travel-portals-expecting-better-year-long-weekends-likely-to-provide-traction-101610994526748.html
19-01-2021||India||Malicious reporting on SSR case: Bombay HC directs digital media to follow press council rules||The press must exercise restraint when reporting on suicides, and electronic media should follow Press Council of India (PCI) guidelines until a separate framework for television news channels is created, the Bombay high court said on Monday, criticising media coverage of the Sushant Singh Rajput case.A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni was hearing public interest litigation filed by eight former Indian Police Service (IPS) officers from Maharashtra, as well as activists, lawyers and non-government organisations (NGOs). The court accepted their contention that certain news channels violated the programme code while reporting on Rajput, who died by suicide on June 14, and their acts were punishable under the Contempt of Court Act. The bench, however, refrained from taking suo-motu (on its own) action against the channels and left it to the authorities.“No report/discussion/debate/interview should be presented by the press/media which could harm the interests of the accused being investigated or a witness in the case or any such person who may be relevant for any investigation, with a view to satiate the thirst of stealing a march over competitors in the field of reporting,” the bench held.The court also said until there is a mechanism to regulate electronic media, TV channels should follow PCI guidelines on reporting on suicides, and sensitive cases. “Media should observe restraint in discussions about an ongoing investigation so as not to prejudice the rights of the accused and witness,” the high court said.Currently, PCI rules are applicable to print media, while electronic media is regulated by the News Broadcasters Association and News Broadcasting Standards Authority under the guidance of the information and broadcasting ministry. The bench said until the rules are framed, channels should refrain from posting photographs of victims and accused and reconstructing the scene of incident as it would violate the rights of individuals.“Media trial leads to interference and obstruction to administration of justice and violates programme code under the Cable TV Networks (Regulation) Act,” the bench said. “Any reportage has to be in accordance with the norms of journalistic standards and ethics, else media houses stand to face contempt action,” it added.Rajput was found dead in his Mumbai flat on June 14. His death triggered frenzied media coverage that culminated in several central agencies investigating the case and the arrest of his then girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty.The bench said media trials ran counter to the programme code framed under the Cable Television Networks (Regulation) Act, and said the right of freedom of speech should not violate the right of an individual by resorting to malicious reporting. The petitioners suggested that Mumbai Police appoint an officer to act as a link between the media and investigators. The HC accepted it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/malicious-reporting-on-ssr-case-hc-directs-digital-media-to-follow-press-council-rules-101610965032465.html
19-01-2021||India||Don’t use WhatsApp if concerned about data: Delhi HC||The Delhi high court on Monday remarked that WhatsApp is a private app and in case anyone has a problem, he or she can remove it from their phones. The court added that all applications, and not just WhatsApp, take information from their users.Justice Sanjeev Sachdeva also refused to issue notice on a plea by lawyer Chaitanya Rohilla, who had challenged the new updated policy of WhatsApp. The court adjourned the matter to January 25 due to the paucity of time.Appearing for the petitioner, his counsel Manohar Lal requested that a response be sought from WhatsApp on his allegations and the issues raised by him.Also Read: Delhi High Court says parents of road accident victim entitled to compensationHowever, the court said that the petitioner can switch to some other application if he has a problem.Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for WhatsApp, told the court that the policy remains the same as it was for private persons for the last five years.He also said that the policy has been updated only with respect to business accounts, while also adding that private chats would continue to remain end to end encrypted.The plea has contended that updated policy virtually scrutinises the personal profile of a user, violating the Right to Privacy of an individual.The petition had also said that WhatsApp has put a “Damocles’ sword on its users” to accept its new privacy policy by February 8.However, it was informed during the hearing that the implementation of the policy has been deferred till April.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-use-whatsapp-if-concerned-about-data-delhi-hc-101610961072770.html
19-01-2021||Today's||CPEC: China’s designs, Pakistan’s ambivalence, and India’s opposition||The China Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) is earmarked as a flagship project of the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), which is a grand strategy aimed at restoring China’s “rightful’’ great-power status in the world. With an initial outlay of $46 billion, CPEC is envisaged as a hub with Gwadar’s port, energy, transport infrastructure and industrial cooperation as its four main spokes. This project aims to create an alternative route to transport oil and gas to China and to spurt economic growth and development across its remote western regions.The CPEC cuts through Pakistan-Occupied Kashmir (POK) and the trans-Karakoram tract of Shaksgam, which was illegally ceded by Pakistan to China on March 2, 1963 under a provisional boundary settlement. The entire region of Gilgit-Baltistan (GB) through which the highway passes is located close to the Siachen Glacier as well as to Ladakh, the current flashpoint between India and China. Following the effective nullification of Article 370 of the Indian Constitution on August 5, 2019, India has reiterated its long-standing claim to GB in POK.Economic motivation apart, China seeks to use the CPEC to consolidate its presence in a disputed region. If internal instability overwhelms Pakistan in the future, the CPEC affords China an opportunity to claim Hunza on the basis of specious historical records.For China, the CPEC is a beachhead in South Asia, to facilitate a broader thrust in the Persian Gulf. It also provides a maritime connect to Djibouti and the littoral states. The CPEC is viewed with ambivalence in Pakistan. It is regarded as a panacea for Pakistan’s ailing economy. The road and rail networks, especially the energy transportation systems, have the potential to stretch across to Afghanistan, Tajikistan, Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan, Russia and even to Mongolia. The project is also expected to give a shot in the arm to Pakistan’s debilitated power sector, with China committed to spending US $35 billion to build up to 19 new power plants.But contrary to expectations that development in the wake of the CPEC project will bring peace to the insurgency-wracked province of Balochistan, the Chinese presence appears to have infused the Baloch nationalist movement with new energy. Chinese workers, seen as collaborators in the exploitation of the region’s natural resources, have become a major target for insurgents. Even in the army’s heartland of Punjab, media reports indicate clashes between Chinese workers and local police personnel.The Pakistani military is determined to protect Chinese lives and investments, especially in the wake of serious incidents such as the attack on the Zaver Pearl Continental Hotel in Gwadar. A Special Security Division (SSD) comprising 9,000 Pakistan soldiers and 6,000 paramilitary personnel has been set up as a dedicated force.The colossal CPEC project has extracted a high cost across Pakistan. In the case of the Sahiwal Coal power plant project in Pakistan’s Punjab province, many people were forced to part with agricultural land. The police slapped terrorism charges against those who resisted. Some Sahiwal residents have reported health issues, attributed to water contamination caused by the coal-fired power plant. The prevalence of asthma, pneumonitis and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is on the rise in the area.China realises that India’s support for the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), of which the CPEC is the lynchpin, is crucial to its regional success. India’s non-participation in the BRI is predicated on the unacceptability of the CPEC traversing parts of Jammu and Kashmir illegally occupied by Pakistan and China. It is, as stated by India’s External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, a project initiated without consulting India. Besides, BRI, as a whole, lacks transparency and is geared to advancing China’s interests through “debt trap” financing. It should come as no surprise that India has maintained its consistent position in not endorsing the BRI.Sujan Chinoy is director-general, Manohar Parrikar Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses, New Delhi and a retired diplomatThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/cpec-china-s-designs-pakistan-s-ambivalence-and-india-s-opposition-101611066633406.html
19-01-2021||Today's||The political economy driving farm protests||Fearing that India’s controversial proposed farm laws will disproportionately benefit a few corporate magnates, farmers have made Mukesh Ambani’s Reliance storefronts and Reliance Jio infrastructure the sites of major protest over the past few months. While Ambani has insisted that his company has no plans to enter corporate farming, his purported political networks and accrual of wealth in the Narendra Modi-era have created a trust deficit between farmers and corporates.A section of analysts have focused on framing the recent farmer protests solely upon the complexities of farm subsidies and crop diversification and production, the sort of debates that have animated rural-urban conflict over the past few centuries across the world. But what is missed in this simplistic class framing of the recent farmer conflict is the question of whether there is genuine credibility in restructuring markets given India’s political economy.Moving beyond the narrative of agricultural reform, I wish to describe how the current political moment is informed by apprehensions about economic centralisation and political financing in India and how it transforms the political responsiveness of government.India is the most centralised large economy in the world. According to the World Inequality Database, the top 1% of the richest Indians controlled 21.4% of the country’s income in 2019, slightly more than Russia (21.3%), the poster boy for economic centralisation, and other major economies such as the United States (18.7%) and China (13.9%). To be clear, this is not only a product of the Modi era, but a steady accumulation of income among India’s richest over the 2000s.Far more noticeable has been the concentration of wealth by a few corporate actors. A recent analysis by Saurabh Mukherjee and Harsh Shah at Marcellus Investments shows that the top 20 companies in India are responsible for 70% of India’s profits (up from 14% in the early 1990s). While foreign direct investment (FDI) in India showed growth during the coronavirus pandemic, on the back of the Facebook investment in Jio, more that 40% of FDI inflows were captured by Ambani’s Reliance Group.There are examples of explicit sales of State assets such as six airports, some profitable, controlled by the Airports Authority of India (AAI), eventually won by a group headed by Gautam Adani in 2019. The question is not about the legality of these sales, but its impact on the concentration of wealth.As Harish Damodaran recently argued, the concentration of wealth in a few corporate actors has upended the traditional model of funding for political parties. The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) requires extraordinary financial resources to maintain its dominance electorally (at a national level) and the strength of its party machine. No party in India can be successful unless it procures a stable source of funding; this is all the more pressing for a party such as the BJP, which requires significantly more resources. Until recently, a key source of funding came from “regional capitalists” — landed elite, liquor or sugar barons, builders. This diverse pool of regional capitalists provided for a reservoir of funding for myriad political parties, especially regional ones.The recent (and growing) concentration of wealth has weakened the political financing environment for opposition to the BJP in two important ways. First, many corporate actors disproportionately gaining wealth today operate at an all-India level — so it is particularly important to curry favour with the national government. This generates incentives to fund the party in power at the Centre, which has become all the more possible due to India’s controversial electoral bond scheme. Second, given India’s sluggish economic performance, particularly after demonetisation, extracting money from local contracts is less lucrative than before — which, in all likelihood, impacts parties in power at the state level, often other than the BJP, to a greater degree.I view the scale of the farmer protest as fundamentally questioning whether disagreements with the current government can be plausibly framed through democratic procedure. Political financing is important for competing in elections, from paying party workers to mobilising voters through advertising and holding rallies. As political theorist Robert Dahl reminds us, it is not enough to have elections. The political opposition must be able to compete on an equal footing with the party in power in a fully functioning democratic system. To put this another way, with the current concentration in wealth, should we believe the farmers can genuinely field political opposition in the democratic space?This is why we need to see the protests as more than anger over a feared removal of the minimum support prices. Rather, this is an expression of the fact that the farmers understand that they have little opportunity to raise grievances through bargaining within the parliamentary or electoral system. By ramming the controversial farm laws through Parliament without discussion, the ruling BJP fed into this perception. By setting up a committee to look at the issue, only to stack it with largely pro-government voices, the Supreme Court too fed into this perception. This is dangerous terrain. When elections do not provide a genuine platform for democratic bargaining, people find other ways, including street protests, to raise their grievances.Neelanjan Sircar is an assistant professor at Ashoka University and senior visiting fellow at the Centre for Policy ResearchThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-political-economy-driving-farm-protests-101611058953819.html
19-01-2021||Today's||The government must universalise maternity benefits||The key findings from the National Family Health Survey-5 (NFHS-5) of selected states have reminded us that India is facing a crisis of poor nutrition outcomes. Prevalence of stunting among children has remained stagnant or increased in most of these states. The appalling under-nourishment of children reflects poor maternal nutrition, widespread anaemia and insufficient breastfeeding. Anaemia among women also remains very high and has, in fact, increased in several states. Clearly, there is an urgent need to boost maternal well-being through comprehensive maternity protection, including health services, supplementary nutrition and wage compensation for the period during late pregnancy, childbirth and exclusive breastfeeding. The existing arrangements for maternity entitlements are inadequate as the Maternity Benefit Act (2017) addresses only those women who work in establishments with 10 or more workers. The Periodic Labour Force Surveys (2019) show that labour force participation rates among women aged 15 and above is only 25% and among them only 12% work in such establishments. For all other women, the only maternity entitlement available is through the Pradhan Mantri Matru Vandana Yojana, a cash transfer scheme of only ₹5,000, grossly under-budgeted, and barely addressing 25% of pregnant women. Women in agriculture, scheme workers such as anganwadi workers and ASHAs, street vendors and domestic workers are not even included in the Act. There was a possibility for addressing these lacunae in the Code on Social Security (2020) for which rules are being drafted. Unfortunately, this Code has missed the opportunity for creating a framework for universal maternity entitlements. The Code and the draft rules are exclusionary in the provisions for maternity benefits, which are a cut-and-paste from the Maternity Benefit Act, 2017, where only women who are in formal employment are eligible. The Code specifies that to be entitled for a maternity benefit, a woman should have worked in an establishment for a period of at least 80 days in the 12 months preceding her expected date of delivery, which makes it further difficult to avail the benefit given the precarity of work.The Code is further discriminatory towards women with more than two children and deprives the third or later child of the care and breastfeeding from their mother as she would get only 12 weeks leave instead of the recommended period of six months (World Health Organization). The maternity benefits are also limited to only three months in the case of adoptive and surrogate mothers. In fact, maternity benefits should be gender neutral as “parental benefit”, since sometimes men may need to care for the child, or the adoptive parent may not be a woman/mother.Even for women who are eligible, the onerous documentation requirements as laid out in the draft rules include a certificate from a medical officer and a notice to the employer, as well as making submission of Aadhaar details mandatory for unorganised sector workers, and digital application is the norm. This puts an unnecessary burden on the pregnant woman. It would be simpler to rely on the registration of pregnancy with the health department or the Integrated Child Development Services, by just adding a column in the Mother and Child Protection Card, which can be the document used to make her automatically eligible for the payment of a maternity benefit.While the amended Maternity Benefit Act as well as the Code specify that establishments that have 50 employees shall have a creche facility, the draft rules dilute this provision by stating that “in every establishment where fifty or more women employees are ordinarily employed”. This not only reduces the availability of these facilities of children, but it is likely to make employers reluctant about employing more women. In reality, what was required was expanding the creche provision to all children with a locality-based arrangement that permit the mother to go and breastfeed close to the workplace. Given the fragile nature of social protection for these working women, all provision of maternity protection should be universally applicable to all working women regardless of the consistency or duration of work and independent of their current status of employment. If we recognise that maternity protection is essential to ensure that women have enough to eat, can rest and breastfeed the baby, and to improving the nutrition indicators, India must make it a universal entitlement. The coverage of the maternity should neither be establishment-specific nor should it depend on the number of children. In fact, we would be penalising women for no fault of theirs, since during the pandemic and lockdown, lakhs of women went through unwanted pregnancy with no access to contraception or abortion services. Maternity benefits should be a right of all workers regardless of their employment status, or the number of children.Dipa Sinha is faculty, Ambedkar University, and Jashodhara Dasgupta is co-convenor, Feminist Policy Collective. Both are with the group on Universal Maternity Entitlements of the Right to Food campaignThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-government-must-universalise-maternity-benefits-101611057511564.html
19-01-2021||Today's||Enhancing women’s employment is key to economic recovery||In 2019, before the Covid-19 pandemic, female labour force participation in India and South Asia was 20.5% and 23.5%, respectively (ILO estimates, World Bank database). Comparable estimates for males were 76% and 77%, respectively. The Middle East and North Africa are the only regions with lower female participation than South Asia.The pandemic has made this situation worse. It has hit women disproportionately — because they work in sectors that have been the hardest hit; work more than men do in the informal economy; or because they are the primary caregivers at home.Owing to Covid-19, global female employment is 19% more at risk than male employment (ILO estimates). For India, economist Ashwini Deshpande estimates that compared to men, women were 9.5% less likely to be employed in August 2020 compared to August 2019. Ominously, girls are at greater risk of losing their human capital — in India, there is a 30% increase in new registrations on matrimonial websites, and, in South Asia, an additional 200,000 girls are expected to be forced into child marriages this year (Lancet).Recovery efforts cannot be gender-blind, because, as the saying goes, “gender-blind is not gender-neutral.” There are four areas where government policy can help ameliorate long-standing issues.First, address child care-related issues, a critical barrier to women’s labour force participation. The biggest dividends will come from focusing on women in the informal sector. In India, Nepal, Bangladesh and Pakistan, 76, 89, 71 and 66% of working women, respectively, are employed on own account or as family workers (ILO). The Integrated Child Development Scheme provides some support, but it is not a full-time child care solution. The “Sangini Centres” of Self Employed Women’s Association (SEWA) provide full-day child care for 0-5 year olds, including nutrition, health and child care. Women using these centres report a monthly income increase of between ₹500-1,000. Similar centres will have to be significantly expanded. As for the formal sector, governments can mandate paternity leave on a use-it-or-lose-it basis, as one way to get men to share in infant care duties.Second, tackle the digital divide. In India in 2019, internet users were 67% male and 33% female, and this gap is even bigger in rural areas. This divide can become a barrier for women to access critical education, health and financial services, or to achieve success in activities or sectors that are becoming more digitised. To address this, partnerships between the public and private sectors will be most effective. Actions will need to address affordability of phones and computers, female digital literacy and its social context and inadequate technical content dedicated to women and girls.Third, in the formal sector, use the income tax system to push female labour force participation. Women have a higher elasticity of labour supply than men (their labour supply is more responsive to their take-home wages) — lower income taxes for women can incentivise their participation. In India, given the abysmally low rate of female participation, such a move will not have a significant impact on public finances. This can be compensated with a much smaller tax increase on male employees, if needed. This could help create incentives for female employment within households.Fourth, mainstream gender-disaggregated data collection and monitoring. What is measured gets acted upon. Globally, major gaps in gendered data and the lack of trend data make it hard to monitor progress. A UN Women Initiative called “Making Every Woman and Girl Count” was launched in 2016 to help prioritise gender data, ensure regular production of quality and comparable gender statistics, and ensure that data are accessible and used to inform policy. In India, too, significant gaps in data on the girl child prevent a systematic longitudinal assessment of the lives of girls. This needs to be corrected.The best way to “not waste the crisis” is to ensure that women come back stronger. Women in India and other parts of South Asia can become a critical part of the recovery.Sanjay Kathuria is senior visiting fellow, Centre for Policy Research and adjunct professor, Georgetown University.The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/enhancing-women-s-employment-is-key-to-economic-recovery-101610976913528.html
19-01-2021||Today's||Have faith in the vaccines | HT Editorial||India began its vaccination drive against Covid-19 on Saturday. While the stated target to give the first dose of the vaccine to 300,000 people on the first day was not met, 207,229 individuals did get it — making it the single-largest tally on the first day by any country in the world. This is an achievement by any measure, especially given that less than a year has passed since the disease emerged on to global consciousness without having any cure. The government, private manufacturers, and citizens deserve praise. Reports have now indicated that 447 individuals reported adverse events after the immunisation, while three people — .0014% of those vaccinated — have reported significant adverse effects (fever, headache and nausea). All three were hospitalised, but two have been discharged. There is, naturally, a degree of concern about the vaccines (the decision to clear Covaxin for use without its efficacy data did not help). This is reflected in the turnout at the vaccination centres. For instance, in Delhi, only 53% of the 8,117 registered health workers scheduled for immunisation turned up. Reports about side effects may have the impact of inducing more concern.What is important to note is that any medication or vaccine can have side effects. But both vaccines in use have gone through due scientific process regarding safety. And one has gone through the mandatory Phase 3 trials to prove its efficacy. Relatively speaking, the number of people reporting side effects is a fraction of the total immunised. The government must continue to reach out to citizens, explain the science behind the vaccines, remain entirely transparent — including about adverse effects, preferably tabulated by vaccine -- and stay the course with the vaccination drive.There is an equal responsibility on citizens. They must avoid panic and instead have faith that the vaccination process will deliver, for an overwhelming majority, respite from the threat of Covid-19. This is not blind faith, but conviction based on science. Citizens must ask questions, report symptoms, and alert authorities to side effects. But remember Covid-19 was a new disease, its course has been unpredictable, and the vaccines are the best bet to beat the disease. Citizens must be patient, and get vaccinated, when their turn comes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/have-faith-in-the-vaccines-hteditorial-101610974873346.html
19-01-2021||Today's||The government can, and must, stand for privacy||It’s a good thing that WhatsApp created more than a ripple with its proposed privacy policy change, now deferred till May. It indeed is a good thing, as it finally lit a fire under dormant privacy concerns – with users, government, even courts.The first public interest litigation (PIL) was filed against WhatsApp’s move before the Delhi High Court and now another is before the Supreme Court. These call for immediate protections, including through court intervention and also for government action.This clarion call will likely provide succour not only against WhatsApp and its discriminatory data-sharing policy but also against all digital platforms, including social media and e-commerce sites. It will also hopefully result in further review of profiling provisions under India’s proposed Personal Data Protection (PDP) legislation to ensure actual protection against the same for users.The reaction to what WhatsApp believed it could do with impunity is probably going to be the best thing to happen to Indians, who have patiently waited for the PDP legislation, which is technically two decades late and certainly languishing for the last three years. With a PDP Bill draft doing multiple rounds since 2018, there is also misapprehension in the minds of users that India lacks legal frameworks for data protection. This misconception appears to have permeated many debates, emphasising the need for urgent parliamentary action.What India’s Personal Data Protection Bill, 2019, which is being reviewed and revised by the joint parliamentary committee, does is to adapt wider protections in line with the European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), 2016 (effective from 2018).Two aspects of WhatsApp’s actions negate its claims — its ultimatum to users, including individual users, to allow sharing of data with Facebook or exit the app and that it is doing so in a discriminatory fashion. The same WhatsApp gives actual choice to users in the EU to either allow or deny such permission without the demand for exit. This is clearly warranted due to GDPR’s stringent provisions. We do, therefore, need the PDP Bill to become law and quickly to combat such ultimatums that reduce the construct of “consent” to a mere joke.Till such time, we are not totally toothless or powerless to combat the unmitigated data drain. The minimalistic provisions under India’s Information Technology (IT) Act, 2000 (as amended) provide some succour against corporate abuse of data. While the two provisions (one civil, S.43A, and one criminal. S.72A), by themselves, may not be sufficient, the expansive IT rules framed under S.43A of the IT Act provides limitations akin to EU Data Directives of 1995 and of the United Kingdom’s data protection laws, including with respect to consent, use, sharing and transferring of data collected in India.Framing rules under the IT Act is permitted under the IT Act provisions. The government, using this delegated rule-making power, formulated the IT rules for protecting sensitive personal data. These rules can be expeditiously tweaked to include protections similar to those under GDPR to protect against violation of the “consent framework”. The rules could also be expanded to assure transparency to categorically address personal/sensitive personal data collection purpose, use, retention and sharing.The provision, as it exists, read with the existing consent framework gives sufficient leeway for government to intervene through effective rule-making to prevent circumvention of consent through ultimatums and also limit purpose, usage, retention, sharing and transfer of data.The Intermediary Rules framed under Section 79 of the IT Act have been awaiting a change since 2018 also. This is another process through which effective protections can be extended to users of social media, chat apps and e-commerce platforms.Whatever be the path that the government chooses, it will be most effective only if strict adherence is mandated under the rules to consent frameworks, which cannot be predicated on ultimatums. The government also ought to call for transparency and accountability in data use and sharing, for without these, platforms resort to mere platitudes.In 2016, the Delhi High Court missed the opportunity to lead the way in ensuring PDP while deciding the Karmanya Singh Sareen’s case. We now have the unequivocal affirmation of privacy, as a fundamental right through the privacy judgment in 2017 in Puttaswamy’s case. While deciding the PIL, the Supreme Court, therefore, is well within its right to fill vacuums in legal frameworks, if it believes that one exists for PDP or interpret existing provisions to ensure actual implementation of the consent, transparency and accountability framework. This may be needed in the interregnum till either the PDP Bill becomes law or even till the government resorts to rule-making. It is also important for Indian courts to affirm, as have US courts, that extending a free service does not permit platforms to force unconscionable terms on users.NS Nappinai is an advocate in the Supreme Court and founder, Cyber SaathiThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-government-can-and-must-stand-for-privacy-101610974453569.html
19-01-2021||Today's||Decoding India’s move in Kabul||India’s powerful national security adviser, Ajit Doval, undertook a long-overdue visit to Kabul last week. It took place soon after external affairs minister S Jaishankar promised more military support to Afghanistan. Though the specifics of such support are unclear, whatever India offers is unlikely to tilt the military balance in Kabul’s favour after the withdrawal of the United States (US). Why, then, is India opting to intensify support for the Afghan government when the world is hedging its bets and engaging with the Taliban?With negotiations between Kabul and the Taliban in Doha gridlocked, intensification of fighting on the ground, including targeted assassinations of civilians, flourishing factionalism within Kabul, lack of clarity on how US President-elect Joe Biden will proceed with the withdrawal, and an assertive Pakistan, the main question facing India is how long can President Ashraf Ghani withstand these pressures, and what next?The central driver of India’s Afghanistan policy is its desire to ensure a strategic balance between Afghanistan and Pakistan. Given the power asymmetry between these two countries, such a balance, from an Indian viewpoint, then, is to enable Kabul to influence the terms of talks with Pakistan-supported forces such as the Taliban. To that effect, New Delhi has found determined, if embattled, allies in Ghani and Vice-President Amrullah Saleh.But there is no guarantee that New Delhi’s approach will yield results. In fact, given India’s mounting security challenges with both Pakistan and China, there are valid concerns about India losing ground entirely if Kabul collapses. So why intensify support for Kabul even if India is unwilling to overtly engage with the Taliban? After all, there is no need to bind itself further to the Ghani government. History offers clues to better understand India’s decision.In February 1989, Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi dispatched AK Verma, the then chief of India’s external intelligence agency, Research and Analysis Wing (R&AW), to assess the longevity of the Najibullah government, which was under pressure from Mujahideen attacks. Verma returned upbeat and said Najibullah can last “indefinitely” with Soviet support. Parallel to Verma’s visit, India had begun outreach to different Mujahideen factions and found a surprising convergence of interest.Successful outreach to the Mujahideen, hidden from public view and held anathema till that moment, helped India embrace the new realities after Najibullah’s ouster in 1992 when Soviet support ended. For now, there is no evidence that India’s unofficial outreach to the Taliban and vice-versa has generated an understanding of that sort. But even if such an understanding exists, it is unlikely to be made public by either side — similar to what happened with the Mujahideen.Overt engagement with India will complicate the Taliban’s relations with Pakistan when it can least afford this. For India, overt diversification risks expediting Ghani’s political collapse instead of ensuring an internal balance within Afghanistan. Both New Delhi and the Taliban know that they can’t remain aloof forever, especially if the latter comes to power. India’s decision to support Ghani, then, is a sign that there are no endgames for India in Afghanistan. Thus, it would rather accept a setback in its pursuit of a balance between Kabul and Islamabad and securing the few gains that Afghanistan has made over the last two decades, instead of coming across as an opportunistic.The other aspect of India’s decision has a sharper edge. On August 15, 1975, India received a strategic shock in the form Sheikh Mujibur Rahman’s assassination in Bangladesh. The rise of the pro-Pakistan army chief Ziaur Rahman as president in Dhaka generated tremendous anxiety in New Delhi. In a now-declassified top-secret report, R&AW assessed that Pakistan would “exercise a pervasive influence in various ministries and departments of the Govt of Bangla Desh, especially in the foreign office [and] … would widen the differences between India and Bangla Desh”.In response (in first of its kind archival evidence seen by this author), R&AW recommended that the political leadership take all feasible measure to “soften up areas which are contiguous to Indian territories where we are especially vulnerable” and sought re-appraisal of relations with Pakistan. As a first step, it wanted Indira Gandhi to seriously consider the “idea of providing strong support to anti-Pakistani activities in NWFP, and Baluchistan now being carried on from bases in Afghanistan”. To relieve Pakistani pressure on India through Bangladesh, R&AW thought it was necessary “to intensify pressure on Pakistan through Afghanistan”.Given India’s security challenges today, it is entirely possible that Doval’s visit is a signal to Pakistan that the latter is likely to inherit a costly, violent, and ultimately digressionary mess in Afghanistan if it continues to pursue revisionism. Such signalling is buttressed by India’s belief that even if the US leaves lock stock and barrel, neither Iran nor Russia, despite their alliance with China and engagement with the Taliban, would prefer an Islamic Emirate in Afghanistan — offering India space to manoeuvre, and influence the outcome of the Afghan war(s) over the next six-to-12 months.Saleh’s unsubtle tweet: “Had a pleasant meeting with NSA Ajit Doval of India. We discussed the enemy. It was an in-depth discussion”, therefore, must be read for what it is, ie, a real, continuing, challenge to Pakistan.Avinash Paliwal teaches at SOAS, University of London and is the author of My Enemy’s Enemy: India in Afghanistan from the Soviet Invasion to the US Withdrawal.The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/decoding-india-s-move-in-kabul-101610974153284.html
