25-01-2021||News||The policy landscape around digital and physical micro-lending||Micro-lending is in the news again for the wrong reasons. First, the Assam government passed a bill which barred micro-finance institutions (MFIs) from lending to vulnerable sections of society. It was a response to a backlash against MFIs. A large number of borrowers working in tea plantations had taken loans from MFIs. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) noted that the economic slowdown in tea plantations and anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act disruptions led to rise in the delinquencies. MFIs started sending collectors for recoveries to the borrowers, leading first to the backlash and then the political response in terms of the bill.Second, RBI expressed caution against digital lending platforms which promise quick loans, and constituted a working group to study both regulated and unregulated digital lending “so that an appropriate regulatory approach can be put in place”. Digital lending platforms have mushroomed and there are criticisms of high interest rates, hidden charges, unacceptable recovery methods and misuse of data of borrowers. Whether it is physical lending or digital micro-lending, the outcomes seem to be similar across the two cases.In 1870s, a similar backlash emerged in Poona and Ahmednagar districts of the Bombay presidency. The agriculture boom in the early 1860s led farmers to take loans from moneylenders. As the boom went bust, farmers were unable to pay these loans. The moneylenders took away land placed as collateral, fuelling protests and riots.How did the government respond? By passing new laws. In 1879, the Deccan Agricultural Relief Act barred the arrest of the agriculturist-debtor and saved his immovable property from attachment and sale, unless specifically pledged. The Land Improvements Loans Act 1883 and Agricultural Loans Act of 1884 specified legislation relating to loans from the government for agricultural improvements.However, none of these legislations created the desired impact. The discussions moved to establishing new financial institutions to serve the needs of farmers. In 1892, the Madras government established a committee under Sir Frederick Nicholson to study the theory and practice of agricultural and land banks in Europe. The Madras presidency was the ideal setting for this experiment as it was already home to Nidhis (local financial institutions), which financed the needs of farmers. Nicholson summarised his findings in two words: “Find Raiffeisen”. German Friedrich Wilhelm Raiffeisen was seen as the pioneer of the cooperative movement and Nicholson asked to find another Raiffeisen to start the cooperative movement in India. In 1900, ICS H Dupernex also wrote a book titled People’s Bank for Northern India which had similar ideas of cooperation.These ideas gave birth to the Indian Cooperative Movement. In 1904, the government passed the Co-operative Credit Societies Act. It classified societies as rural and urban. Rural society members were bound by unlimited liability whereas urban ones were given a free choice. The cooperatives could raise funds and carry on their business in a corporate capacity. Loans could be given only to members on personal or real security. Since 1904, the cooperative credit movement has gone through many cycles and is currently grappling with a crisis with closures and suspensions of several cooperative banks.In 2010, the Andhra Pradesh government also passed similar legislation like the one in Assam against MFIs leading to a crisis in the industry. Though the scale of lending is lesser in Assam and is unlikely to drive MFIs to a crisis, finance is not about scale alone but interconnectedness of the players. Fintechs will soon be criticised for being Shylocks and loan sharks.Pre-2008 crisis, financiers were the cynosure of all eyes and post-crisis they were branded as devils of the game. Across countries, several legislations were passed to curtail the activities of the financial sector. But is it all the fault of lenders? Shouldn’t borrowers also suffer the consequences of over-borrowing? How do we address this cyclical pattern of hailing and rubbishing financiers? It is time for an honest review of the entire issue.Amol Agrawal is a faculty member at Ahmedabad University. He writes the Mostly Economics blogThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-policy-landscape-around-digital-and-physical-microlending-101611493630996.html
25-01-2021||News||Vaccinating all Indians, for free||India has started vaccinating citizens against Covid-19. As more people get vaccinated, we can slowly start to shed our fears and masks and return to a more normal life. But there are still hurdles to cross before we can move to a true post-Covid era.The most significant hurdle is the cost of vaccinating more than a billion Indians. Other challenges include the logistics of vaccinating such a large population and navigating the economy carefully in the interim period before we reach the vaccination finish line. But the most conspicuous questions as India embarks on the vaccination drive are — will the vaccination be free and who will pay for it?Other than the health benefits, it is obvious that the economy will benefit enormously if most Indians are vaccinated. Economic activity will slowly be restored to pre-Covid normalcy. Sure, some sectors of the economy will recover faster while others such as travel and entertainment may be laggards. Perhaps, it is prudent that the sections of the economy that will stand to gain immediately may be tapped to help fund India’s vaccination drive — a “win-win” as they say in the corporate sector.India’s stock market and the financial economy are certain to benefit almost immediately from the vaccination drive. Stock markets react to future expectations of economic and corporate sector performance. As the vaccination progresses, industries may take time to return to full capacity and companies may take several months or years to get to their pre-Covid levels of revenues and profits. But the stock market reacts sooner to factor in the inevitable return to economic normalcy.When the nation was under a total shutdown, India’s stock markets were brimming with activity. In the ten months between April and December last year, when 130 million jobless Indians were toiling in the sun to earn the paltry wages of ₹200 a day under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS), a few thousand investors bought and sold shares worth $155 billion and bet on a trillion dollars worth of financial derivatives (notional value) in India’s stock market. The activity in the stock market during the lockdown was 60% higher than in the same period last year.Despite the lockdown, the top 50 companies in India’s stock markets added $35 billion in wealth. India’s stock market indices are at their highest levels ever. The prospect of freedom from Covid-19 by vaccination is bound to excite India’s stock markets further and turn them even more “bullish”. A tiny tax on stock market transactions can help fund India’s vaccination drive without burning a hole in the fat wallets of stock market investors and give the government fiscal headroom for other expenditure to help save lives and livelihoods.A Covid-19 vaccine surcharge just for the next fiscal year (FY2022) could be added to the securities transaction tax (STT) structure on stock market transactions. Currently, trading in shares carries a 0.1% STT while financial derivatives have a complex STT structure of varying rates for varying products. The surcharge can be an additional flat charge of 0.1% (10 basis points) on the value of all buy and sell transactions in shares and derivatives in the stock market. So, if a buyer buys shares worth ₹1 crore from a seller, both the buyer and seller will pay just ₹10,000 each as a Covid vaccine surcharge. While this may be an additional burden on stock market investors, it is a mere pinprick for them but one that could help inoculate a billion Indians and nurse India’s $3 trillion economy back to health quickly.The government earned ₹12,800 crore from STT last year (FY2020). Given the 60% increased activity in the stock markets this year, the government may earn ₹20,000 crore in STT in FY2021. With a Covid vaccine surcharge, the government can potentially earn an additional ₹20-30,000 crore next year (FY2022), to be used exclusively for India’s vaccination drive. All Indians above 18 years can be vaccinated for free with this additional revenue for the government. The economic benefits of a vaccinated population will be reaped quickly by stock market participants as the economy bounces back faster.Financial economists and market participants will expectedly argue that such a transaction tax will deter investors from the stock market and trading volumes will plummet. This is mere fear-mongering. In the 15 years since STT was introduced in March 2005, rates have been increased four times. But there has been no consequent reduction in stock market activity. On the contrary, trading in shares has more than doubled and trading in derivatives has increased 12 times in the in the last decade. There is simply no evidence to show that a small transaction tax has caused investors to abandon the lure of profits from India’s booming stock markets.Central banks across the world have pumped enormous liquidity into the global financial sector, which is now awash with cash and searching for investment opportunities. A fully vaccinated India coupled with the prospect of a faster economic recovery is a mouth-watering investment opportunity for global investors. Hence, it is even less likely now that a small one-year transaction tax will drive investors away, especially when the tax proceeds are used to pay for vaccination which will only help the economy and the stock market investors immediately.Before economists argue over demand versus supply side policies for the Covid-19-impacted economy, the necessary condition for a strong economic recovery is conquering the coronavirus by vaccinating all Indians.The brahmastra for this battle may be found in Mumbai’s Dalal Street and its “warrior” investors.Praveen Chakravarty is a political economist and senior office-bearer of the CongressThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/vaccinating-all-indians-for-free-101611493626837.html
25-01-2021||News||Farm protests: The costs of a prolonged standoff||We did what we could, now the ball is in your court.” With these words, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar brought to an end the 11th round of talks between the farmers’ leaders and the government on Friday. Unlike in the previous 10 rounds, there is no date set for the next round of dialogue — both sides now have to pull back from the precipice, if things have to move forward.The government showed flexibility by postponing the implementation of the controversial laws for a year-and-a-half, and offered to reach an agreement through negotiations during this period. But the farmers are firm in their resolve, demanding a repeal of the laws, and have announced plans to intensify their movement. They are also determined to take out a tractor rally on January 26.On Saturday evening, while tensions mounted, there was positive news. During a marathon conversation between the farmers and the Delhi Police, it was agreed that the proposed tractor rally would be allowed to enter Delhi on Republic Day. The police had opposed this earlier. Though the details of the route have not been disclosed yet, farmers have apparently agreed not to make any stops or deviate from the agreed upon path. The onus for the whole event passing off peacefully is now squarely on the Delhi Police and the farm leaders. The movement has been peaceful so far, and so great care must be taken that agent provocateurs do not try to disrupt the rally when it enters Delhi.But, it must be asked — why is it that, despite the government displaying its willingness to take a step back, the matter was not resolved? An old anecdote may offer a clue. Some time in the 1990s, a friend of mine, a senior Indian Administrative Services officer, was suddenly offered the post of collector in an important district by the Uttar Pradesh (UP) government. This district was known for farm agitations and demonstrations. My friend later spoke about dealing with the farmers effectively. When asked how he did that, he replied that if farm discontent is not controlled in time, different kinds of problems could potentially arise. This could take the form of a sit-in at the agitation site, and with an increase in crowd size, the escalation of their demands. I recalled his words — and the need to address issues in time or face escalation — when witnessing the collapse of talks in the 11th round now.The matter should have been dealt with when the agitation was confined to Punjab. Now it has taken hold in Haryana. Many felt the farmers found support in Punjab as it is ruled by the Congress. But what explains the support they have got in Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled Haryana? Instead of talking to the farmers, the state government used water cannons and tear-gas shells, even the roads were dug up to stop the farmers moving towards Delhi. But, nothing has worked.This has to be seen through the prism of the Jat-Sikh psyche. This is a community whose ancestors fought against the Mughals, and this is why their traditional proverbs and songs are about a glorious narrative of fighting the takht (seat) of Delhi. While the agitating farmers have no intention of occupying any seat in Delhi, they are not likely to back off easily. Initially, many hasty conclusions were arrived at when assessing the agitation. One theory was that it was just a ragtag movement by some disparate farmers. But this was clearly flawed.Sikh gurdwaras have a tradition of providing assistance to agitators. The concept of seva (service) is a recurring theme among the farmers. This is the service, which was initiated by the Sikh gurus to strengthen the morale and fibre of society. Today, community kitchens, pharmacies, toilets and laundry services are being run as a part of the tradition of gurdwaras at the agitation site. All this seems commendable, but it does give rise to several questions, some of which relate to national security.Farmers in Punjab and Haryana have received support from the border areas of western UP and Rajasthan. While many of these areas are Jat-dominated, it would be a mistake to assume that this is just a Jat farmers’ movement. It is also true that the movement has not yet expanded geographically beyond a certain area.No one doubts the patriotic credentials of the agitating farmers. But in the 1980s, a terrible catastrophe opened the doors to militancy in Punjab and interference from across borders. When emotions are running high, a small spark can snowball into a firestorm. Past experience suggests that it is best to resolve disputes well in time before they spiral out of control. The government has extended an olive branch. The farmers must respect this and reciprocate. The tone set on Saturday should pave the way for a permanent solution.Shashi Shekhar is editor-in-chief, HindustanThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/farm-protests-the-costs-of-a-prolonged-standoff-101611493566988.html
25-01-2021||Mumbai||Eknath Khadse not an accused as per ECIR: ED informs Bombay HC||The Enforcement Directorate (ED), while arguing the petition filed by Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Eknath Khadse seeking quashing of the enforcement case information report (ECIR) and proceedings related to it, said that the petition was premature and not maintainable as the report is not a first information report (FIR) and does not declare Khadse to be an accused. ED also submitted that Khadse’s plea to quash future summons was also not valid as investigators needed to question him regarding a Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) case against him. The case pertains to the purchase of a plot in Bhosari by Khadse’s kin for ₹3.75 crore, against the prevalent market rate of ₹30 crore. The plot’s ownership was contentious as the industries department acquired it in 1971, but the final award of the plot was not granted, and the owner had not been compensated for it.However, Khadse’s counsel submitted that his client was apprehending arrest for non-cooperation when he would respond to the summons and would choose to remain silent, hence the petition was valid. The counsel also refuted ED’s claim that Khadse was not an accused, pointing out that the ECIR was based on a 2017 FIR, wherein Khadse was named as the first accused. The court will continue hearing arguments on January 28. A division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice Manish Pitale, while hearing the petition filed by Khadse, was informed by additional solicitor general Anil Singh for ED that the petition was premature and not maintainable. “The ECIR is not an FIR but an internal document for administrative purposes, hence the petitioner is not being considered as an accused by the investigating agency,” said Singh. He further referred to various judgements wherein courts had rejected petitions seeking to quash ECIRs on the grounds that in PMLA cases, interrogation of all persons involved was necessary. However senior counsel Aabad Ponda refuted the submissions saying that if ED was willing to make a statement that they would not arrest Khadse when he went for interrogation, then he would be willing to withdraw the petition. He further added that ED would not make a statement of not arresting Khadse as they intended to arrest him for non-cooperation in the event of Khadse choosing to remain silent and not divulging any information. Ponda further submitted that as his client was in the ICU and there was an obvious threat of being arrested by ED, the petition was not premature and the court should decide on it. After hearing the submissions, justice Pitale sought to know from Ponda to elaborate on how ED would arrest Khadse under section 50 of the PMLA, which deals with summoning a person for interrogation. Ponda responded saying that ED would invoke section 19 of the PMLA in case of non-cooperation and hence the plea for quashing future summons was valid. The court then directed ED to continue its assurance of no coercive action against Khadse till the next hearing on January 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/eknath-khadse-not-an-accused-as-per-ecir-ed-informs-bombay-hc-101611599236382.html
25-01-2021||Mumbai||Maratha outfits seek Maharashtra minister Vijay Wadettiwar’s resignation over ‘bogus’ quota remark||State relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar stirred up controversy on Sunday by saying that the state backward classes commission’s report, based on which the Maratha reservation was given, was “bogus”.While speaking at a rally of Other Backward Classes (OBCs) in Jalna, Wadettiwar said that the commission’s report was unscientific. Maratha organisations have now demanded his resignation for the statement which has led to the disputes between communities.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) member of the Legislative Council (MLC) and Maratha leader Vinayak Mete said, “The statement by the minister is uncalled for and against the state culture. The Congress and Ashok Chavan who heads the cabinet sub-committee should clear the official stand or else take action against him [Wadettiwar].”Maratha Kranti Morcha staged a protest outside the Congress office, condemning the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maratha-outfits-seek-maharashtra-minister-vijay-wadettiwar-s-resignation-over-bogus-quota-remark-101611598996434.html
25-01-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula leads in meeting Covid vaccination target in tricity||Panchkula on Monday registered the highest turnout for Covid-19 vaccination across the tricity. Of the targeted 1,500 health workers, 1,133 were inoculated, helping the Panchkula heath department record 71.5% target achievement. In Mohali, of 1,054 expected to get the jab during the day, only 505 came forward, leading to 48.3% achievement rate.Even as the lowest target was kept in Chandigarh, it lagged behind with 47.3% achievement. Only 426 of 900 health workers turned up at various vaccination sites.In terms of overall achievement rate, too, Panchkula leads with 61.6%, while Chandigarh and Mohali have achieved almost 50% target on an average daily. Mohali on top in absolute numbersHowever, in absolute numbers, Mohali leads with 3,614 health workers inoculated so far, followed by 2,557 in Panchkula and 2,037 in Chandigarh. Chandigarh health secretary Arun Gupta said employees are being motivated by their institutes to take the shot. “The exercise is voluntary and beneficiaries will start coming forward once more and more people get inoculated,” he said. Dr Adarsh Pal Kaur, civil surgeon, Mohali, said senior medical officers have taken the shot and awareness is being created among other employees by sharing their photos and experiences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-leads-in-meeting-covid-vaccination-target-in-tricity-101611597856309.html
25-01-2021||Chandigarh||Apni mandis set to reopen in Chandigarh||Apni mandis are set to reopen in Chandigarh after a span of nine months.These farmer markets were shut down to contain spread of Covid-19 in March last year.The decision to open them was taken during the review meeting chaired by UT administrator VP Singh Badnore on Monday. It came following the Punjab government’s decision to allow apni mandis. “The mandis will open after Republic Day,” said UT adviser Manoj Parida, while not sharing any specific date.Welcoming the decision, Vinod Vashisht, convener, City Forum of Residents Welfare Organisations, said: “Opening of apni mandis will prevent overcrowding at the wholesale vegetable market in Sector 26. It will also help more than 1,500 families of vendors and helpers earn their livelihood.”CTU buses to run at full capacityIn another development, Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) buses will now be allowed to run at their full seating capacity. The UT transport department has also decided to scale up CTU operations in a phased manner.The restrictions on the number of passengers were imposed last year to ensure social distancing. Safety measures such as mandatory masks, thermal scanning and sanitisation of buses will remain.In a notification issued on Monday, the department said that while transport department of adjoining states were operating buses with no restrictions regarding seating capacity in interstate as well as intrastate routes, the limitations, especially on long-route buses, were leading to heavy losses to CTU.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/apni-mandis-set-to-reopen-in-chandigarh-101611597676509.html
25-01-2021||Chandigarh||3,000 cops on vigil in and around Chandigarh on R-Day||Apprehending protest by farmer unions and to ensure peace on Republic Day, the Panchkula police have imposed prohibitory orders near Parade Ground in Sector 5. Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar will be unfurling the Tricolour during the function at Parade Ground on Tuesday.As per orders issued under Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code, assembly of five or more people and carrying of weapons has been banned within a kilometre of the venue. Also, all markets, cinema halls, shopping malls, coaching centres and other such establishments within a kilometre will remain closed.The order will remain in force from 7pm on Monday till 1pm on Tuesday.“There is likelihood of causing tension, annoyance, obstruction or injury to persons or risk of danger to human lives and tranquillity within the territorial limits of Panchkula district by some agitators, miscreants, and antisocial elements by blocking roads, passages on account of Bhartiya Kisan Union and other kisan unions in the celebrations of Republic Day at Parade ground, Sector 5,” read the press statement issued by police.Meanwhile, BKU block president Karam Singh said: “All union members from Panchkula are in Delhi to participate in the tractor march.”The Republic Day programme will start at 9:40am with Khattar paying tribute to martyrs at Shaheedi Samarak in Sector 12 and from there he will move to the Parade Ground. The event will end with the national anthem at noon.Along with two commando companies and 25 quick response teams on bikes, 1,100 police personnel will be deployed to ensure security. Barricades will be placed at 30 places, of which 21 barricades are being set up especially for the Republic Day. Police have also released a traffic advisory, mentioning that only invitees will be allowed to enter from the Sector 4/5 light point and Sector 9/10 traffic light chowk. All other routes towards the Parade Ground will remain closed.No major protest planned in UT: SSPIn Chandigarh, no major protest is planned by farmers, but the security has been beefed up in view of the Republic Day, said Kuldeep Singh Chahal, senior superintendent of police.On Monday, locals could be seen standing at various traffic light points and roundabouts with placards to show solidarity with farmers. Police had to intervene during one such gathering at Matka Chowk.Led by 18 deputy superintendents of police and 30 inspectors, more than 1,150 cops from various wings will be on duty across the city. They are keeping a tab on busy markets, hotels and vital installations in the city. The dog squad and anti-bomb disposal squad will be deployed at the Parade Ground in Sector 17. Movement of traffic has been restricted around the venue. Rally in Mohali after R-Day eventPunjab governor VP Singh Badnore will hoist the national flag at the state-level Republic Day function at Shaheed Major Harminder Pal Singh Government College, Phase 6, Mohali. The function will begin at 9.58am and end at 11 am. Farmer unions will be holding a vehicle rally against the contentious farm laws later in the day. It will begin at Gurdwara Sahib in Phase 2 at 2pm. After crossing Phases 5, 3B2, 7,8, 9, 10 and 11, it will culminate at Amb Sahib Gurdwara in Phase 8. A spokesperson said the event is in support of the tractor march in Delhi. “We urge all protestors to maintain decorum,” he said. Senior superintendent of police Satinder Singh said: “We have deployed 700 police personnel on duty for Republic Day events and rallies in the district. Instructions have been given to them to deal with any troublemakers strictly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3000-cops-on-vigil-in-and-around-chandigarh-on-rday-101611597496376.html
25-01-2021||Pune||Pune’s Sindhutai Sapkal and Girish Prabhune named Padmashree award winners||The Padmashree awards for the year 2021 were declared on Monday by the Ministry of Home Affairs, and two prominent names from Pune – Sindhu Tai Sapkal and Girish Prabhune, are among the awardees. Sapkal, popularly known as “Mai”, has been working throughout her life for orphaned children, starting and running an orphanage in Pune near Hadapsar. Reacting to the award, Sapkal said, “I am overwhelmed after hearing the news of me being given the Padmashree award. It will certainly help to reduce the hunger of my children at the orphanage. All of them, who have till now, helped, supported and stood behind me strongly - this award is dedicated to them. And to all my children, who are my backbone. I never give up or have stopped my work despite the many obstacles in front of me. This award is for the hunger of my children. I never forgot my past and look forward to work more for my children.” Sapkal added: “There was hunger and fire in my belly, which I realised is there in all my children’s stomach, so I shared my hunger with all and started the work for orphaned children. I remember my father while accepting this award. He always used to tell me to fight the situation rather than cry. I really miss him today.” Sapkal runs an orphanage called ‘Sanmati Bal Niketan Sanstha’ in Manjri near Hadapsar. It has its own building with all the facilities for children, and is run on public donations. In 2010, a Marathi biopic on Sapkal was released in Maharashtra. Reacting to his award, Girish Prabhune said, “For the deprived community I have worked for my entire life and all our volunteers who are struggling for the last 50 years, this award is dedicated to them. And similarly, the Pardhi community. They fought hard for their survival and sent their children, especially the girls, to be educated. It is all because of them all. While accepting this award I am really happy, but at the same time I would like to say that it is all because of all these volunteers who have worked along with me. This Padmashree award is a recognition of my work by the government,” Prabhune started the Punarutthan Samarasata Gurukulam, an NGO in the Chinchwad area for the upliftment of the Pardhi community and their children. Prabhune runs a school and residential facility for the Pardhi children. There are 200 boys and 150 girls from the Paradhi community staying at the facility, based on the “Gurukul” stystem of education. “In 1970 I started my social work and then I came in contact with rural parts of the state. I learnt about the difficulties and issues faced by the Pardhi community. They never give up, is the lesson I learnt from them. Looking at them I changed and developed myself towards social work,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/punes-sindhutai-sapkal-and-girish-prabhune-named-padmashree-award-winners-101611596656660.html
25-01-2021||Pune||State holds public meetings to resolve students’, administration issues||In an attempt to resolve the crisis, Uday Samant, minister of higher and technical education has begun an initiative called ‘public meetings’ to resolve issues faced by students, faculty, non-teaching staff and college administrators. The educational institutes which were closed for nine months due to the Covid-19 pandemic have now gradually began reopening after the unlock process ushered in. However, students, faculty, non-teaching staffers, college administration and universities across the state are facing issues for which they needed to go either to Mumbai at the state higher and technical education head office or Pune at the department’s directorate office. But, the public meetings will now let the educators give an opportunity to resolve their issue in their hometown. The first of its kind program was held at Shivaji University, Kolhapur, where a total of 2,764 issues were resolved of 3,635. While studying or working in the field of education, there are many issues people face which needs to be addressed by the state education department. In order to get their issue resolved, the people in the education sector had to go to Mumbai or Pune. Now, the initiative will provide them with a solution across the state at all state universities. “While conducting these public meetings I will be accompanied by the department’s chief secretary, secretary, director, deputy directors, vice-chancellor of that university and senior officials from Mantralaya. The idea is to meet the public at their hometown and try to resolve their pending issues immediately or as early as possible. Today, we started with the first public meeting in Kolhapur University and there was a great response. Of the total 3,635 pending issues, 2,764 were resolved today,” said Samant. “Similar kind of public meetings will now be organised at other universities in the state. For the Savitribai Phule Pune University, two separate public meetings will be held - one in Pune and the other in Nashik district,” added Samant. Welcoming the decision of state higher and technical education department, Prof Pralhad Keni said, “While working in the field of education everyone right from students, their parents, teaching and non-teaching staff and college administration faces many issues. They want them to be solved immediately, but everyone cannot afford to go to Mumbai or Pune to get their work done. And work is also done after repeated follow-ups, so it is good that minister along with senior officials is taking such public meetings.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/state-holds-public-meetings-to-resolve-students-administration-issues-101611596656139.html
25-01-2021||Other||RTE notification: Online admission form available beginning February 9||PUNE In order to avail admission under the Right To Education (RTE), parents can now fill the application form online from February 9 for the academic year 2021-22.Under RTE, 25 per cent seats are reserved for nursery and class one admission in schools. The list of schools under the RTE will be published on February 8. As per the latest notification by the school education and sports department, the online forms for schools under the RTE will be available from February 9 until February 26. “The list of schools will be declared by February 8. The admission will be done by a lottery system like every year. The lottery will be done from March 5 and March 6. The last waiting list will be out by May 15,” stated the notification.The schools shall enrol themselves until January 30, according to the education department.Last year, the RTE admissions were stalled due to the pandemic. The last round of admissions was completed in January this year. This has led to confusion among parents. “Because of the confusion and delay from last year, I was not very hopeful if my child will get admission this year under the RTE. But this notification has given a ray of hope,” said Pradnya Gaikwad, a Pune-based parent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rte-notification-online-admission-form-available-beginning-february-9-101611596596635.html
25-01-2021||Other||With rise in private hostel fee, students struggle to make ends meet||PUNE The students who are returning to the city from their hometowns are facing financial stress as they struggle to support themselves amid rising housing cost and other necessities.Shailesh Kshirsagar, who returned to the city from his hometown in Kurduwadi, Solapur district to prepare for competitive exam, said, “ When the lockdown was announced I went to my village and returned after almost eight months (in December 2020). Earlier I used to pay Rs2,500 per rent at a private hostel which runs on coat basis, but now they have increased the rent to ₹3,500.”“It is difficult to pay so much rent along with other necessities like mess service and daily miscellaneous maintenance,” he said.In the last 10 to 15 years Pune has emerged as a hub for competitive exam preparation for students coming especially from rural areas. At least 10 lakh students come from the rural parts of the district to study at the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) and other institutes every year.Another student Ketan Garje from Yavatmal district said, “I returned to Pune last week with just ₹5,000 in my pocket. My family is involved in farming which has already been affected due to the lockdown. ““The prices of mess service has increased and even snacks like “poha” and “idli” cost more now. Earlier I used to pay Rs2,800 for a two-time meal, now it has been hiked to ₹4,000. I also have to pay ₹3,000 for hostel and if the same situation continues I will have to return to my village,” he said.In Pune especially in the Peth areas, there are many private hostels, paying guest facilities, study centres, private coaching classes, daily food mess and snacks centres which provide necessities for students coming from outside the city limits. Similar is the case near college campuses like Bharati Vidyapeeth, MIT College and D Y Patil in Chinchwad area.Prasanna Temkar, an owner of a mess in Navi peth, said, “For more than six months our mess was closed during the lockdown. We cannot afford to continue giving service at the same cost. So we have increased the monthly mess charges from ₹1,00 to Rs1,800 for one meal a day.”Kuldeep Ambekar, student and president of Students Helping Hand Association, said, “Most of the students who come from villages are already under financial stress and the current situation is worse.”“The university and colleges have not reopened yet and students cannot afford to pay rent at a private facility. The government should make some arrangements for such students,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/with-rise-in-private-hostel-fee-students-struggle-to-make-ends-meet-101611596595512.html
25-01-2021||Pune||Consumer forum directs insurance service provider to pay ₹1.97 lakh compensation||The Pune district consumer redressal forum has directed HDFC Ergo General Insurance to pay ₹1,96,511 with nine per cent interest for wrongly repudiating the insurance claim of the complainant. The forum held that the repudiation of the claim itself is unjust, illegal, improper, hyper-technical and against the guidelines given by the Insurance Regulatory Development Authority of India( IRDA) .By seeing advertisements on television as well as getting information from various sources including online advertisement,the complainant identified as Priti Prashant Shinde was attracted towards the company’s health insurance policy. Priti purchased an insurance policy named, My Health Medisure Classic Insurance Policy, on March 25, 2014, from the website http:// www.policybazaar.com through internet online services. Renewal of the said policy was done on March 25, 2015, after payment of due premium for the period of March 25, 2016, to March 24, 2017. Shinde paid an amount of ₹15,024 towards the premium of the said policy and period and the company issued a premium certificate for the same. Shinde had purchased the insurance policy for her parents (insured/insured person) named as Sandhya Vilas Bhosale (mother, age – 58 years) and Vilas Vasantrao Bhosale (father, age – 65 years) to fulfill their health related needs for the sum insured of ₹2 lakh plus bonus respectively. At the time of sale of the said plan to her, the company had assured facilities, services and benefits provided by company in their proposal form and also assured that if, during the policy period, the insured/insured person shall contact any disease or illness or suffer any injury and is required to undergo treatment by way of hospitalisation in any hospital/nursing home in India or, in any case of domiciliary hospitalisation upon the advice of a duly qualified medical practitioner, the company agrees to reimburse to the insured/insured person or, his/her nominee, expenses related to such treatment reimbursement of expenses covered under this policy subject to the limits prescribed herein, if any and not exceeding the applicable sum insured (including earned cumulative bonus, if any for all claims during such policy period. In addition, the company also offered pre-and-post hospitalisation expenses, ambulance charges, among others.On November 3, 2016, her mother Sandhya Vilas Bhosale sustained injuries due to a fall at her house and on the same day she was admitted at MMF-Ratna Memorial Hospital with complaints of pain in the right hip joint, tenderness over right hip joint. Immediately, the complainant gave intimation about the said incident to the company for cashless facility which was assured by the company in Clause E7 of the policy clause. However, the same was rejected by the company without giving any proper reason. She was operated upon and given surgical management treatment at MMF-Ratna Memorial Hospital , in the network hospital of the insurance company. Due to rejection of claim, Shinde and her mother claimed to have suffered financial loss and the difficulties for arrangement of medical expenses and post hospitalisation expenses in the period of currency demonetisation which created lot of mental agony, physical stress, pains and suffering and hence, the complainant sought relief of ₹4 lakh. The company traversed all the adverse allegations raised against them. “It is a specific contention of the opposite party that the terms and condition of the policy were explained and known to the complainant from the beginning. The policy was issued under utmost good faith. The company denied that, the mother of the complainant, Sandhya Bhosale sustained injuries to fall in her house. It is admitted by the opposite party that the cashless facility claim of the complainant was rejected by the opposite party for the reasons in the said rejection letter. It is the contention of the opposite party that on receipt of the claim from the complainant, it had verified all the necessary documents and after going to the documents supplied by the complainant it was revealed that, “ Admittedly, the policy was issued from March 25, 2014 .However, as stated above, the patient has h/o- arthritis since four years,which is prior to policy inception and the same was not disclosed in proposal form. Hence, the claim was repudiated under the general condition F of the policy. Therefore, considering the specific exclusion clause of the policy, this opposite party vide its letter/mail dated April 22, 2017, rejected the claim of the complainant under general condition F- Duty of disclosure, of the policy terms and condition. The insured must exercise the same duty to disclose those matters to the company before the renewal,extension, variation, endorsement, or reinstatement of the contract,” the company stated. The forum held that the complainant has duly proved that the opposite party wrongly repudiated her genuine claim without proper application of mind and thereby caused ‘deficient service’ and passed the order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/consumer-forum-directs-insurance-service-provider-to-pay-rs-1-97-lakh-compensation-101611596596069.html
25-01-2021||Pune||Two arrested; 13 Royal Enfields among 15 vehicles recovered||The Pimpri-Chinchwad crime branch officials arrested two men and recovered 13 stolen Royal Enfield motorbikes along with two other vehicles from them, according to Krishna Prakash, commissioner of Pimpri Chinchwad police. He was speaking at a press conference held on Monday.The two men have been identified as Vishal Balasaheb Magar (20), a resident of Lehanewadi in Jamkhed and Vishal Bankat Khaire (21), a resident of Bhutdata in Jamkhed area of Ahmednagar. The police are looking for one Mumbai-based person in the case. They were arrested on Sunday by the crime branch officials and remanded to police custody by a local court on Monday.Of the recovered vehicles, 13 are Royal Enfield motorcycles, one is a TVS Apache, and one Honda Activa, according to the police. The total cost of the stolen vehicles was estimated to be around ₹20,50,000 and the vehicles were reported stolen from various parts of Maharashtra.Of the 15 vehicles, two cases each are registered at Chakan, Bhosari MIDC, Rajgad, and one each at Bhosari, Pimpri, Hinjewadi, Neral, APMC, Rabale, and Kapurbawadi police stations.The arrest was made by a team led by senior police inspector Shankar Babar of Unit 3, Pimpri-Chinchwad police crime branch.The Pimpri-Chinchwad police had noticed a trend of theft of Royal Enfield motorbikes. The police had identified the thefts to have been done by associates of Mumbai-based criminal Amol Shivaji Dhobale. The police then started looking for their known accomplice and tracking them, according to the police statement.On Sunday, hawaldars Pramod Dhakane and Yogeshwar Kolekar received information that two men on a stolen Royal Enfield were coming to a place in the jurisdiction of Chakan police station. A trap was set and the two men were thus arrested later on Sunday.The two collectively have 13 cases registered against them various parts of Maharashtra including Ahmednagar, Pimpri-Chinchwad, and Pune city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-arrested-13-royal-enfields-among-15-vehicles-recovered-101611596536592.html
25-01-2021||Other||Pedestrian killed in accident on Pune-Nashik road||PUNE A pedestrian was killed after he was run over by a vehicle while crossing Pune-Nashik road on Sunday evening.The deceased man has been identified as Gyan Bahadur Jograj Madai, according to police.The accused man has been identified as Mahesh Namdev Pawar, a resident of Supe in Parner area of Ahmednagar, who was driving the vehicle registered at Ahmednagar.A complaint in the matter was lodged by Mohan Dharamsingh Bohra (25), a resident of Nanekarvasti area where the accident took place.A case under Sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way), 337, 338, 304(a) (causing death due to negligence) of Indian Penal Code along with Section 184 of Motor Vehicle Act has been registered at Chakan police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pedestrian-killed-in-accident-on-pune-nashik-road-101611596536027.html
25-01-2021||Other||Joint commissioner among three from Pune to bag police medals||PUNE Ravindra Shisve, joint commissioner of Pune police, is among the three police officers from Pune to bag the police medal that will be presented on Republic Day (January 26). The awards were announced on the eve of Republic Day.Along with Shisve, two other officials from Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad have also been awarded this year.Gajanand Pawar, police inspector, Pune and Shakir Gousmohiddin Jinedi, assistant police sub-inspector, crime branch, Pimpri-Chinchwad police have also been awarded the police medal for meritorious service.Maharashtra police officers scored 40 police medal for meritorious service, 13 police medal for gallantry, and four president’s police medal for distinguished service. There was no president’s police medal for gallantry for Maharashtra police this year.The fire department medals were also announced on Monday. Two officials from Pune were among several others form the country whose work earned them a spot on the list.President’s fire service medal for distinguished service was awarded to Devendra Prabhakar Potphode, chief fire officer Pune division. This was Potphode’s second award in the category.Another officer Rajaram Kalu Kedari has also received the fire service medal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/joint-commissioner-among-three-from-pune-to-bag-police-medals-101611596535513.html
25-01-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka HC bars Centre from sharing Aarogya Setu app data without user consent||Karnataka High Court on Monday issued orders restraining the Government of India and other agencies from sharing data of Aarogya Setu application without obtaining informed consent of its users.A division bench of Karnataka chief justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Vishwajith Shetty issued the interim orders that stated, “Till further orders, we hereby restrain the Government of India and National Informatics Centre, the eighth and seventh respondents respectively, from sharing the response data by applying the provisions of the Aarogya Setu Data Access and Knowledge Sharing Protocol, 2020...”The court, emphasising privacy in its 50-page-long order issued on Monday, said that it prima facie holds that there is no informed consent of users of Aarogya Setu app taken forsharing of response data as provided in the Aarogya Setu Data Access and Knowledge Sharing Protocol, 2020.Also read: 'Constructive talks' - India, China to push for early disengagement in Ladakh“This is to an extent of issuing an interim injunction and the court has not yet decided on the merits of the case yet,” said an advocate aware of the developments, requesting anonymity."The interim relief is only confined to the data sharing protocol," the advocate added.The Central government launched Aarogya Setu app last year in April in a bid to track Covid-19 infections and check its spread. But the app, which has been downloaded over 100 million times from the Google play store, had raised concerns on issues of privacy of the data collected by government authorities.The app had become a critical part of the government’s orders through the Covid-19 pandemic and its gradual lifting of lockdown restrictions as people were required to have it installed in their smartphones before entering restaurants, cinema halls, metro stations among other public places.Another advocate of one of the respondents said that the order is that the government is directed that they cannot share the data with any private agencies unless there is consent from the user.“The interim order, to the extent that sharing of data with other agencies is concerned, is stayed,” the second person cited above said.In September last year, the National Informatics Centre, which designs government websites, said that it had no information on who created the app or how. It fueled more concerns from activists.“After the filing of an affidavit and the documents as aforesaid, it will be open for the said respondents to apply for vacating the limited interim relief granted as above,” the court added.The petition was filed in Karnataka HC on June 2, 2020.The court also recorded the assurance of the Union government that it would not deny any benefit or services to a citizen only on the ground that they had not installed the Aarogya Setu app.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-hc-bars-centre-from-sharing-aarogya-setu-app-data-without-user-consent-101611596229234.html
25-01-2021||Other||Pune divisional office receives 400 objections to merger of 23 villages||PUNE The divisional office has received at least 483 suggestions and objections from the 23 villages set to be merged in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC)limits.While few have supported the decision, around 400 letters have raised objections to the merger stating that municipal corporation has failed to provide basic facilities to previously merged villages, officials from the divisional office said on Monday.Pisoli villagers have registered a maximum of 383 objections, followed by Nanded - 42 and Kirkitwadi - 26 objections. Kolewadi and Manjri Budruk have given five objections each. The most populated and urbanized village Wagholi has given only four suggestions and objections. While Suz, Konde-Dhawade, New Kopre, Narhe, Vadachiwadi, Nadoshi have given one each and 12 others are general.As per state government notification the process to receive suggestions and objections on the inclusion, began on December 22, 2020, and ended on Friday (January 22).Prashant Khandkekar, deputy regional director, municipal administration, Pune division, said, “We have received 483 suggestions and objections and most of them have expressed objection to the decision of merger. Only four applicants have given positive suggestions and supported the proposed merger.”According to Khandkekar, villagers have expressed concern of increasing property taxes, the uncertainty of getting basic services among others. “Some of them have pointed out that earlier villages which were merged in PMC limits are still not getting basic facilities till date. So, there is no need for the merger,” he said.“Now, we will send a report to the divisional commissioner and schedule a hearing in the coming eight days. After that, we will submit a report to the state government. The government will take final decisions on the merger.”Wagholi Housing Societies Association (WHSA) has mentioned in their letter that they are ready to merge in PMC limits. However, the municipal body should provide basic facilities and service in a time-bound programme.On another hand, Nagrik Chetna Manch- a non government organisation (NGO) has suggested that the government will have to provide funds to PMC to provide basic infrastructure in the merged villages. “PMC is already facing problems to provide service to already merged villages. If the government wants to merge 23 villages, they should merge them in a phase-wise manner,” it said.In 2017 when 11 villages were merged in PMC limits, we had received 2,900 suggestions and objections. However, only 265 people were present at the time of the hearing, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-divisional-office-receives-400-objections-to-merger-of-23-villages-101611596475559.html
25-01-2021||Other||Pune city experiences warm winter||PUNE It is almost January-end and there is no hint of winter in the city so far. The coldest day of the winter this month was recorded on January 22 when the city recorded 13.7 degrees Celsius as the minimum temperature. It was 2.6 degrees warmer than normal.“December 2020 was the third warmest December in the last decade with the lowest minimum temperature reported on December 20 at 8.3 degrees Celsius,” as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD).Though the weather department had predicted a cooler winter this year attributing to the existing La Nina conditions, there has been no cold wave-like situation observed in Maharashtra for December and January so far.As per IMD, winter season is considered to be from December to February, but temperature sees a rise post-January.Pune also has experienced a warmer winter this year with above-normal day and night temperatures.Anupam Kashyapi, head, weather forecasting department, IMD, said that La Nina is related to the cooling of the Pacific waters, while the El Nino is linked to its heating. La Nina conditions this year are favourable for cold wave conditions.“Winter could be colder this season due to the prevailing La Nina conditions. As a result, all the features of winter will be more conspicuous over north India, areas of central India and in pockets of eastern India,” said Kahayapi, But colder winds are elusive in Maharashtra. Explaining that, Kashyapi added that the state gets colder winds from the north which result in a drop in temperature in the state.“However, this time is Maharashtra, the weather was mostly dominated by westerly, southwesterly, southerly wind pattern preventing the northerly wind to penetrate. As a result, there the winter is warmer in our state. With almost no cold wave conditions throughout the state except in Vidarbha region, where cold wave conditions occurred at isolated areas for a few days only,” said Kashyapi.IMD officials said that due to weather systems, the cold is not prevailing for more than one or two days because of which the temperature drop not seen this January.BOX- *Night Temperature *January== Temperature (in Degree Celsius)==Year *Highest night temperature from 2011-2020==20==2013 *Highest night temperature this month==19.7 (till Jan 25)==2021 *Lowest night temperature from 2011 to 2020==5.3==2011 *Lowest night temperature this month==13.6==2021 *DayTemperature *January== Temperature (in Degree Celsius)==Year *Highest Day temperature from 2011-2020==34.4==2016 *Highest Day temperature this month==33.6==2021 *Lowest day temperature from 2011 to 2020==25.3==2011 *Lowest day temperature this month==26.6==2021||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-city-experiences-warm-winter-101611596476154.html
25-01-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad: Tractors arriving in groups for rally, officials keep tab on count||Ghaziabad: Amrit Pal Singh, a young man from Ramraj village in Muzaffarnagar, came to the UP Gate protest site on the Ghaziabad-Delhi border along with his group and a tableau for the tractor rally on Republic Day.The group travelled about 150 kilometres and reached UP Gate Monday evening. They said there was no hindrance posed by the police midway. Their tableau shows old equipment which were used by farmers and some of them still continue to be used in the farming sector.“The tableau showcases equipment like hand-pumps, tiller and ‘hal’ (plough), among other tools made of iron. We spent about ₹1.5 lakh to procure this equipment and to get it painted, while about ₹4 lakh was spent on renovating an old vehicle which will pull the tableau,” he said. The farmers have been protesting since November 28 last year at the UP Gate site, which is located on the border of Delhi and Ghaziabad, demanding repeal of the three new farm laws. Their successive talks with the government have ended in stalemates while the government, during the recent round of talks, had offered that it was ready to put on hold the implementation of the three new laws for about one-and-a-half years. However, the farmers did not accept the proposal and the stalemate continues, as they demand a complete repeal of the three laws and a new law on minimum support price (MSP). As a mark of protest, the farmers have planned to take out a tractor rally on Republic Day in the national Capital.Other groups are also congregating at the UP Gate and bringing in different items to showcase at the tractor parade. Jang Bahadur and his group arrived from Khanjarpur village in Modinagar, and brought along four old traditional carts pulled by as many bulls. He says each of the carts has been painted and is almost half the size of normal carts used by farmers. “I have got these painted and decorated, and spent about ₹30,000 on each. They will be pulled by bulls during the parade. With a one time meal, they can move about 60kms. I have been preparing these carts since the start of the farmers’ agitation and now they are ready to be part of the parade,” Bahadur said. On Monday, the mood at the UP Gate was jubilant as youngsters and farmers at the site were making last minute preparations for the event on Tuesday, with almost all tractors and other vehicles sporting the national flag.However, officials estimated that the gathering at UP Gate swelled to about more than 10-15 thousand as families of protesters and farmers’ groups arrived along with tractor-trolleys. With the arrival of tractors and vehicles, the UP Gate site now spans more than two kilometres. The tractors which are arriving for the event have occupied the NH-9 carriageway and also the UP Gate to Vaishali road. Although the farmers’ leaders claim that the tractors will be thousands in numbers but the official sources from the local intelligence unit said that about 1200 tractors and about 500 other vehicles arrived at UP Gate by Monday evening.The count of vehicles is maintained, and registration numbers are being noted by the police at all entry points.“We have not counted the number of tractors, but they will arrive in thousands and have started from different states. It is also a cause of concern that our vehicles are not being given diesel at petrol pumps and the government is trying to create hindrance. If they think that tractors cannot come here without diesel, they are mistaken,” said Rakesh Tikait, farmer leader and national spokesperson of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU). “The time to struggle has come. So, the farmers should come out of their homes and protest,” he added.He, however, did not name any place where incidents of fuel being denied to farmers took place, but his supporters were quick to show a social media post in which they claimed that a letter was put up at one of the petrol pumps at Ghazipur district in Uttar Pradesh.The officials at the UP Gate site, however, said that the allegations were unfounded and probably levied to downplay the tall claims about arrival of thousands of tractors, while only limited numbers could arrive by Monday evening. During the tractor march on January 7, farmers at UP Gate had taken to the Eastern Peripheral Expressway (EPE) with an estimated count of 700-800 tractors. “We have no information about farmers’ tractors being denied fuel at petrol pumps. There is no such thing happening anywhere. We are continuously reviewing the security and safety arrangements and are in regular touch with farmers’ leaders at UP Gate to ensure that their rally goes on peacefully,” said Ghaziabad district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey, adding that about 2,000-2,500 tractors are expected to arrive.The officials of the Ghaziabad police said in a statement that during the proposed tractor parade, they will deploy 1,000 constables, 500 head constables, 300 sub inspectors, 50 inspectors, 12 circle officers and six additional superintendents of police, while 400 traffic constables along with 50 traffic head constables, 15 traffic sub-inspectors and five traffic inspectors will be deployed to ensure smooth movement of tractors.They added that six companies of the provincial armed constabulary (PAC) and one company of the Rapid Action Force (RAF) are already deployed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-tractors-arriving-in-groups-for-rally-officials-keep-tab-on-count-101611596295427.html
25-01-2021||Noida||Tractor rally route key issue for protesting farmers at Ghaziabad’s UP Gate||Ghaziabad: In a development that may create law and order issue during the proposed tractor rally, the farmers protesting at the UP Gate said on Monday that they would proceed to Akshardham in Delhi. However, Delhi Police officials have denied inclusion of Akshardham route to the route plan. The Delhi Police officials on Monday evening submitted a copy of document to the farmers at UP Gate in which they said that they have “no objection” for tractor rally on the three proposed routes and said that the permission is subject to the condition that all the constituents of the ‘Samyukt Kisan Morcha’ shall sign an undertaking having the terms and conditions. While the two routes include rallies to be taken from Singhu and Tikri borders, the third route mentioned in the document is about the UP Gate/Ghazipur border. The route states “Ghazipur border-Apsara border-Hapur Road-Bhopra-IMS College-Lal Kuan-Ghazipur border.” A copy of the document shared by the farmers at UP Gate is with HT. The third route indicates that the rally will head towards Anand Vihar and later to Apsara border from where it will enter the jurisdiction of Uttar Pradesh in Ghaziabad. The farmer leaders, however, are adamant that they would take out the rally up to Akshardham and then return to follow the designated route. “We have conveyed to the police that we will go up to Akshardham and come back to Anand Vihar and follow the other route. On Tuesday, we will go to Akshardham,” said Rakesh Tikait, national spokesperson of the Bharatiya Kisan Union. Jagtar Singh Bajwa, farmer leader from Uttarakhand and member of UP Gate protest site committee, said, “We have discussed the additional Akshardham route with the Delhi Police. The tractors are coming in large numbers and there is no count.” Officials of the Ghaziabad district administration said that they have not received any official communication from the Delhi Police so far. “Our police officials are in touch with their Delhi counterparts and ensuring that the rally by farmers is carried out peacefully and without any hindrance,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate of Ghaziabad. Kalanidhi Naithani, senior superintendent of police, did not respond to calls for his comments over the issue. Asked if the Delhi Police has accepted the demands of the farmers at Ghazipur border (UP Gate) to take their tractor rally near Akshardham temple on NH-24, a senior police officer, who did not want to be named, said, “No such permission has been given. The tractor rally will take a right turn at the Ghazipur roundabout.” The Delhi traffic police on Monday also issued traffic advisory in which they have specified their designated route for the UP Gate farmers. The Ghaziabad officials till late Monday night did not issue any route plan or any traffic advisory ahead of the tractor parade. Instead, the Ghaziabad traffic police reissued the advisory of the Delhi traffic police. The farmers said that thousands of tractors will arrive at UP Gate by Monday night to be part of the proposed tractor parade. “We are taking out this tractor parade to show that farmers love their country, and we will be holding high our national flag during the tractor parade. Every vehicle will have the national flag besides the flag of their respective unions,” Tikait added. Thousands of farmers are on protest at the UP Gate site since November 28 last year and demanding repeal of the Centre’s three new farm laws. Their successive talks with the government have ended in deadlock. The document given by the Delhi police officials to farmers at UP Gate mentioned that the permission will be subject to conditions – the permission is limited to holding of tractor rally on the permitted routes only and should not be construed as permission for holding any Dharna, demonstration or sit-in en-route the rally; the organisers shall keep the limit of gathering of participants in rally to 5000 persons along with 5000 tractors; the rally shall be held within the prescribed time limit period from 1200 hours to 1700 hours on January 26 and also ensure that the tractors carry valid docents like registration-certificates, permit, licence, etc., among other conditions. The conditions also include non-usage of any metal rods for flags/banners and wooden stick should not be more than two metres besides the dimension of flag shall be 9 feet x 6 feet or smaller. (With inputs from HTC, Delhi)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/tractor-rally-route-key-issue-for-protesting-farmers-at-ghaziabad-s-up-gate-101611596236587.html
25-01-2021||Noida||Tractors being stopped in different districts from coming to Delhi borders for rally, allege farmers||Noida: Unlike UP Gate which where thousands of tractors have been parked for today’s rally, only few tractors could reach Chilla border and Rashtriya Dalit Prerna Sthal in Noida by Monday afternoon, with farmers alleging that administrations in various district have adopted coercive measures to thwart farmers’ attempts to reach the protest sites and participate in the tractor parade.Yogesh Pratap Singh, Uttar Pradesh president of the Bharatiya Kisan Union’s (BKU) Bhanu faction said that the union had planned a massive tractor rally on Republic Day. “We are receiving information from districts such as Lucknow, Agra, Etah, Firozabad, Bulandshahr, Hapur and Meerut that local administrations are issuing notices to the farmers and asking them not to participate in the rally. Fuel stations have been told not to sell diesel to farmers’ tractors. We had planned to convey this message to the chief minister on Monday during his visit to Noida but he preferred to address the Shilp Haat gathering via video conference. We do not think the tractor rally will take place as planned,” he said.“If tractors are stopped in other districts, farmers in Noida will block the Mayur Vihar-Noida road in protest,” he added.The Noida-Delhi road at Chilla border remains closed since December 1 due to the farmers protest.Farmers at Chilla border also showed a letter purportedly issued by Firozabad police in which police personnel were directed by senior officials to keep a tab on local farmers’ movement and stop them from coming to Delhi for the tractor rally. The BKU-Bhanu had a planned 15 kilometre parade from Chilla border to Mayur Vihar flyover, and then to Delhi-Noida-Direct (DND) Flyway and back. Meanwhile, BKU’s Lok Shakti faction members at the Dalit Prerna Sthal said they have tried to keep the rally low-profile. “We have asked farmers from only Gautam Budh Nagar and Bulandshahr to participate. They will leave the Dalit Prerna Sthal at noon for Chilla border and then to Akshardham and Ghazipur in Delhi. Around 100 tractors and cars will be in the rally. The round trip would be 30 km,” said Rajiv Malik, spokesperson, BKU-Lok Shakti.The Lok Shakti faction has also issued guidelines to the participants to carry national flags on their tractors. They have advised farmers to ensure that unwanted elements do not create nuisance during the rally. “We have also suggested to them to only give lifts to known persons on their tractors. If unknown persons are given lifts, they will have to submit an ID proof,” Malik said. The police, meanwhile, said they still have not received any route maps from the Delhi Police.Rajesh S, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Zone 1, said: “We have not received the route map from Delhi Police. Noida police teams will be deployed to ensure enforcement of law and order.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/tractors-being-stopped-in-different-districts-from-coming-to-delhi-borders-for-rally-allege-farmers-101611596236041.html
25-01-2021||Other||Jewar airport’s scale model grabs attention of people at Noida haat||NOIDA: The scale model of the proposed Noida International Airport at Jewar put up at an exhibition at Noida Haat in Sector 33A grabbed attention from visitors on Monday.The scale model of the airport has details of passenger terminal, cargo terminal and other facilities under this project. Some visitors were seen taking selfies with it. Some senior police officials and Noida International Airport Limited (NIAL) CEO Arun Vir Singh also visited the stall and discussed the project details. In December last year, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath had given his approval to the name, design and logo of the proposed airport along the 165km Yamuna Expressway, which will be the second major airport in Delhi-NCR. “Now, the state government will sign the support agreement with the Yamuna International Airport Private Limited (YIAPL) so that the work can be started at the site. It is likely to be signed next month,” said the NIAL chief.The exhibition was part of an event organised to celebrate the UP foundation day. The CM who addressed the event through videoconference said that the Noida airport would be the largest airport in Asia.“We are developing the Noida International Airport at Jewar as the largest airport in Asia. The project was announced 10 years ago. But it’s our government that expedited work on this project. This project will become a focal point of growth in the state,” said Adiityanath.On the occasion, Surendra Nagar, Rajya Sabha MP from UP, said, “Gurugram saw exponential development because it was near the IGI airport. Now, Noida will have an airport along with world class infrastructure and this region will supersede Gurugram in terms of development.”Swiss firm Zurich International AG, the concessionaire of the airport project, will invest ₹30,000 crore in the project and it gets 40 years to fully develop this project. Under PPP model, the concessionaire will design, build, finance, operate and transfer the project to government after 40 years. The airport will start with two runways by 2023-24 under phase I and it will have five runways on completion to full capacity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jewar-airport-s-scale-model-grabs-attention-of-people-at-noida-haat-101611596235443.html
25-01-2021||Noida||Development authorities in Gautam Budh Nagar lead industrial growth in UP, says CM||NOIDA: The three industrial development authorities in Gautam Budh Nagar district -- Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway -- has led the industrial growth in Uttar Pradesh, chief minister Yogi Adityanath said on Monday. The chief minister gave the statement during his virtual speech at an event at Noida Haat in Sector 33A, which was organised to celebrate the state’s 71st foundation day.This is for the first time that a chief minister decided to celebrate foundation day of the state in Noida, apart from the state capital Lucknow. All top officials of Noida, Greater Noida, Yamuna Expressway authorities were present at the event. Besides the CM, industry minister Satish Mahana and health minister Jai Pratap Singh also joined the event virtually from Lucknow.The CM said that under his regime the industrial development is put on fast-track to create thousands of job opportunities in the state. “I wanted to visit Noida today but due to bad weather, I could not come and had to connect with you virtually. I congratulate you all on UP foundation day. I congratulate the entire staff of Noida for expediting the infrastructure projects,” said Adityanath.“You may have seen the changing face of the district. Noida alone has inaugurated multiple projects having a budget of thousands of crores of rupees. Similarly, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway authorities are witnessing unprecedented industrial growth and investment in the past three years,” said the CM.Officials said that Noida is hardly left with undeveloped land to be allotted for industries. But Yamuna Expressway and Greater Noida authorities are leading the industrial growth story in the state, they said. Between April, 2017 and December 31, 2020, Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway have received investments of ₹10,000 crore, ₹25,059 crore, and ₹14,803 crore, respectively, the officials said. “We have expedited work on all industrial and infrastructure projects to boost growth and create jobs. We are set to come up with an industrial scheme that will help bring in more investments,” said Ritu Maheswahri, chief executive officer (CEO) of Noida authority. Arun Vir Singh, CEO of Yamuna Expressway authority, said, “Since the Jewar airport project has picked up pace, we are flooded with investment offers. We have tailor-made offers for the investors. As a result, Yamuna Expressway has become a favourite area for the international and domestic investors.” The chief minister said that since GB Nagar is the “economic capital of the state”, his government is taking adequate measures to provide comfort to the investors, citizens and other stakeholders.“We have fulfilled the demand for the police commissionerate system in GB Nagar. Safe city schemes with four new police stations were inaugurated today. We have restored trust in the minds of citizens and I congratulate all police staff for this,” said the CM.The CM also started ‘one district one product’ (ODOP) exhibition at Noida Haat. He said that the ODOP scheme that promotes one product in each of 75 districts has contributed tremendously to create opportunities in terms of jobs for 40 lakh migrant labourers, who returned homes during the Covid-19 pandemic.“With central and state schemes, we are creating jobs for the needy to fulfil the dream of Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” said Adityanath.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/development-authorities-in-gautam-budh-nagar-lead-industrial-growth-in-up-says-cm-101611596175461.html
25-01-2021||Noida||78 high-rises in GB Nagar give consent for multipoint power connection||NOIDA: After several rounds of discussions with officials of the Pashchimanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited (PVVNL), as many as 78 high-rise residential societies in Gautam Budh Nagar have finally agreed to opt for multipoint electricity connections. According to the PVVNL officials, following the recent notices by the power distribution company to the housing societies seeking details to commence work on providing multipoint connections, 78 out of nearly 400 high-rises have given consent for multi-point connections.The Uttar Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission (UPERC) last year had decided to do away with the mandatory 51% consent for multi-point connection.Virendra Nath Singh, Noida divisional chief engineer of PVVNL, said that the list of the societies, which opted for multi-point power connections, has been sent to the discom’s headquarters at Meerut. “The headquarters will finalize an agency that will first convert the supply lines and meters of these societies for multi-point connections. Later, PVVNL will provide connection and supply of electricity, registering all the flat owners under the Jhatpat connection scheme,” he said. Singh further said that as per the existing rule, if a society wants to retain the existing single point connection, they have to give residents’ consent of majority resolution (51%) to PVVNL within 30 days. “In case of no response from the apartment owners’ association (AOA) or builder, it will be considered that the society has given its consent for multi-point connections. All societies which have already submitted their applications can now avail direct connections for their residents. The recent consent of converting the connections given by 78 high-rises will benefit at least 80,000 families,” he said. The chief engineer said that the decision comes after long-pending demand of flat owners paying hefty electricity bills in high-rise societies. “It is being done in accordance with the 13the amendment in the Electricity Supply Code of UPERC in August 2018, which allowed apartment owners to have direct power connection from the discom,” he said. Residents have expressed their happiness at the discom’s initiative of converting societies’ lines to multi-point connections. Raghav Kumar, secretary and treasurer of Apartment Owners Association in a high-rise in Sector 78, said that all the residents must have their say in electricity bills. “I have always supported multi-point connection. After all, the association is for the welfare of the flat owners,” he saidRakesh Kumar Singh of Grihapravesh society in Sector 77 said that the conversion will be a boon for the residents. “We’ve no option than to follow the whims and fancies of our AOA, which indiscriminately charges electricity bills from our prepaid meters,” he said. On the other hand, the real estate association Credai said that the government’s decision of converting single line connection in high-rises to multi-point connections has no meaning. Subodh Goel, secretary, Credai (western UP), said that over 50,000 homebuyers in Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad districts are still waiting to shift into their ready flats as the projects have not been able to install multi-point meters. “The projects were completed two years ago when the state electricity board changed the policy for meters from single point to multi-point. These high-rises were already complete and electric lines were laid with single-point meters. The occupancy of flats has not been issued in the absence of electricity. The issue was brought before UPERC, the electricity regulatory commission has yet not addressed this issue,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/78-high-rises-in-gb-nagar-give-consent-for-multipoint-power-connection-101611595695452.html
25-01-2021||Noida||Man arrested after encounter in Greater Noida||Greater Noida: A 25-year-old man, wanted in several cases, was arrested Sunday night after an encounter with the police in Greater Noida. The suspect was identified as Zakir, a resident of Dadri. Police said the suspect was wanted in as many as 11 cases registered under the Arms Act, attempt to murder, theft and robbery.Vishal Pandey, additional deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said that a police team was on a checking drive at Amka Road near the railway line in Dadri. “The police spotted the suspect riding a motorcycle. The police team signalled him to stop the motorcycle for checking. However, the suspect opened fire at the police team and tried to speed up,” he said.Dadri police sub-inspector Anuj Kumar said that as the suspect was trying to flee, his motorcycle skid and he fell down. “The suspect abandoned the vehicle, ran and hid by a wall, but continued firing at the police team. The police team observed all safety measures and made announcements, asking him to surrender. When he did not, the police team opened fire in which he received a bullet injury in his left leg,” he said in the complaint.The suspect was unable to move due to the injury and the police team apprehended him. The police also seized a countrymade gun from his possession and found two live cartridges inside it. The police also seized the motorcycle and investigation showed he had allegedly stolen this vehicle from under the Sector 24 police station jurisdiction area a few months ago. Pandey said that during interrogation, the suspect allegedly revealed that three days ago he had conducted a burglary at a private school in Dadri and fled with a number of stationery items. A case has been registered against the suspect under Section 307 (attempt to murder) and Section 379 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code.The suspect was sent to district hospital for medical treatment. In the afternoon, he was produced in court and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-arrested-after-encounter-in-greater-noida-101611595635399.html
25-01-2021||Delhi||HC allows DDA to declare results of e-auction of 3 plots that was stayed for want of parking||The Delhi high court on Monday allowed the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) to publish the results of the e-auction of three commercial plots at the District Centre in Netaji Subhash Place, after the agency admitted that there was a deficiency of parking, to address which it would construct additional parking space on six plots.Justice Jayant Nath allowed the DDA to go ahead with the declaration of results of the e-auction while vacating a stay given on February 19, 2020, on a plea by the Netaji Subash Place Traders’ Welfare Association challenging the e-auction of the three plots.The traders association, in its plea filed through advocate Akhil Mittal, had contended that the occupants and daily visitors to the area were facing problems in the absence of adequate parking space at the District Centre in Netaji Subhash Place. It had said the area was extremely crowded owing to the presence of several small and large corporate offices, banks, hospitals, etc.The petition also said what little parking space Netaji Subhash Place had was not being managed properly. Despite that, DDA was auctioning plots which may lead to more congestion in the area. It sought that a multilevel parking be constructed to accommodate the high footfall.On Monday, the court said no purpose would be served by continuing the interim order as the plots have already been auctioned and the process is awaiting confirmation from the court for completion.On February 19 last year, the court had stayed the release of the e-auction results while asking the DDA to address within six weeks the grievances of the petitioners with respect to parking and congestion.Nath also recorded the submission of the DDA counsel, senior advocate Rajiv Bansal, who assured the court that the issue of parking would be properly tackled and six plots which will be auctioned within a month to be used for the construction of a multilevel parking facility.Bansal also added that if for some reason the agency decides to construct the said multilevel parking on its own, an appropriate project would commence within three to four months.“I bind DDA to the submissions made in court…..,” the judge said in his eight-page order.The court also noted that there was a deficiency of 858 parking slots. It also noted the submissions made by DDA in an affidavit on December 21, 2020, wherein the agency had noted that there was a shortfall of 392 parking which can be adjusted by converting the existing surface parking to stack parking.The petitioners had also contended that DDA had illegally changed the development controls and lifted the height restrictions. They had said earlier the area was a service-apartment plus commercial area and now, the entire area has been converted into a commercial space without caring about facilities and infrastructure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hc-allows-dda-to-declare-results-of-e-auction-of-3-plots-that-was-stayed-for-want-of-parking-101611594795965.html
25-01-2021||Delhi||3 held for stabbing man to death in Southwest Delhi’s Sagarpur||Delhi Police has arrested three men for allegedly stabbing a man to death in south-west Delhi’s Sagarpur area last Thursday. Senior police officers said the trio tried to rob the man and killed him when he resisted and tried to raise the alarm.The arrested men have been identified as Sonu Bahadur, 30, originally from Nepal, who works as driver with a courier company. Bahadur was released from jail about three or four months ago, after he was arrested in a case of armed robbery in Janakpuri. The other two were identified as Harender , 36, who was also involved in the Janakpuri robbery, and Rakesh Rawat, 29.Deputy commissioner of police (south-west) Ingit Pratap Singh said a body was found with multiple stab wounds last Thursday near a drain in Nasirpur area. “The dead man was later identified as Sandeep, a resident of Mahavir Enclave Part 2. A case of murder was registered to probe the killing,” Singh said.The DCP said during the probe, technical surveillance was used and several suspects were questioned. “After hours of investigation, the police team managed to zero in on three suspects who were last spotted with the deceased. They were identified as Sonu Bahadur, Harender and Rakesh Rawat , all from Palam area. A search was conducted and all three were arrested,” the officer said.Singh said during interrogation, the three men admitted to killing Sandeep. “They said on Thursday, spotting the man alone, they caught hold of him to rob him but when he resisted and tried to scream for help, they stabbed him and fled with his bag. Harender further disclosed that the same day, he had also robbed another man of his mobile phone in Sagarpur,” the DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/3-held-for-stabbing-man-to-death-in-southwest-delhi-s-sagarpur-101611594675324.html
25-01-2021||Gurugram||Cops deployed at interstate, interdistrict borders; diversion plans ready||The Haryana Police on Monday deployed more than 5,000 personnel at the borders connecting Rajasthan, Gururgam and Badli in Jhajjar, after the protesting farmers received permissions to hold a tractor rally and proceed towards Delhi on Republic Day. The Gururgam police, meanwhile, has deployed 4,000 personnel and Rewari police have deployed at least 1,200 personnel on the stretches under their respective jurisdictions, said senior officials. Senior police officers of Gurugram, Rewari and Rajasthan held a meeting on Monday and decided to allow the farmers to move towards Delhi. However, they maintained that they would not let traffic on city roads to be affected. A separate route has been marked through the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) Expressway, which will connect to Badli toll plaza. for farmers to hold their rally and reach the Dhansa border. Astha Modi, the deputy commissioner of police (headquarters), said that to maintain law and order situation and to ensure smooth traffic for the commuters, they have deployed police personnel along the KMP Expressway route and at all interstate and interdistrict borders from 5pm on Monday. “The rally will be closely watched and anyone found creating a ruckus will be booked under relevant sections and not be allowed to continue the rally,” she said. Modi said that the Gururgam police will use 11 drones, which are outsourced, through which all the deputy commissioners of police will monitor the traffic and protesters. The traffic police have also been kept in the loop and are on alert to employ diversion plans, she said. As per the Gurugram traffic police, heavy commercial and goods transport vehicles coming from the direction of Jaipur on the Delhi-Jaipur Expressway will be diverted at Panchgaon Chowk, via the KMP Expressway. For the supervision on the ground, traffic police officers, a dozen assistant commissioners of police, 40 inspectors, police rider teams, PCR teams, intelligence teams, and crane and fire brigade teams have been deployed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/cops-deployed-at-interstate-interdistrict-borders-diversion-plans-ready-101611594438213.html
25-01-2021||Gurugram||Traffic congestion likely due to restrictions, farmers’ protests||Several routes in the district are likely to witness traffic congestion on Tuesday due to the farmer’s tractor rally and restrictions put in place by the police.The Haryana police have allowed farmers to move on selective routes — between National Security Guard (NSG) campus in Manesar and Shahjahanpur on the Haryana/Rajasthan border along National Highway-48 and from Panchgaon Chowk on NH-48 till the Dhansa border in Delhi along the Kundi-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) Expressway.A small group of farmers within Gurugram had also sought for permission to travel on the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway till Dhaula Kuan in Delhi on their tractors. However, the Gurugram police denied them permission to travel on the national highway, but allowed them to hold a peaceful march within the city’s boundaries on other internal roads.“A small faction of Gurugram farmers was directed to stay away from the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway completely and hold their march on any internal road within the city. It is likely that they will be travelling along the Old Delhi-Gurgaon Road, towards the Kapashera border. However, their numbers are few, and it would only result in minor congestion. Regardless, all officials have been deployed at all key points,” said Astha Modi, the deputy commissioner of police (headquarters), Gurugram police.The group comprises fewer than 250 farmers and 50 tractors, according to police officials.DK Bhardwaj, the deputy commissioner of police (traffic), Gurugram police, said that residents heading from Gurugram towards Jaipur can use Sohna Road and drive towards Alwar to reach their destination and use the same route from the opposite direction, thereby avoiding travel on both these routes.“On one route, tractors have been permitted to travel from Shahjahanpur till the NSG campus in Manesar, from where they will have to take a mandatory U-turn. On the other route, farmers can travel from Shahjahanpur towards Panchgaon Chowk, and then on the KMP Expressway, to Farrukhnagar and Badli. Residents should avoid travelling on these stretches unless necessary,” said.The movement of tractors and farmers on the two designated routes are also expected to result in congestion spilling over to the arterial stretches in Pataudi, Farrukhnagar, and in areas located along the Dwarka Expressway.Bhardwaj said that congestion due to the farmers’ protest is expected between 11am and 7pm.“Permission for travelling along the designated stretches has been provided only after the culmination of Republic Day ceremony. We are expecting the farmers to return to their areas by the evening. Until then, traffic congestion will persist. We have deployed traffic police officials on all relevant routes to assist and direct residents towards alternate routes, if needed,” said Bhardwaj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/traffic-congestion-likely-due-to-restrictions-farmers-protests-101611594437551.html
25-01-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram shows marked improvement in vaccine coverage||Over 80% of the targeted 6,250 front-line healthcare workers took the Covid vaccine jab in private and government facilities on Monday, as per the data shared by the district health department. The surge in vaccination comes after a consistent dip in the turnout during the weekend, when only about 55% of the beneficiaries showed up. Health officials attributed the sharp rise in the footfall to easy walk-in options for staffers of private nursing homes and clinics. As many as 5,002 healthcare workers took the jab as against the target of 6,250 in 101 session sites. Nearly 80% (4,806 health workers) were vaccinated with Covishield out of the 6,000 targeted beneficiaries at 98 sites. Among them, at least 133 healthcare workers of National Security Guard (NSG) and 150 staff members of ESIC hospital took the vaccine. A total of 196 out of 250 healthcare workers took Covaxin at three vaccination sites. According to chief medical officer, Dr Virender Yadav, the footfall was higher on Monday as doctors and healthcare staff were allowed to get vaccinated at any of the sites. “Besides those who have received SMS regarding vaccination location, we permitted the health workers already registered on Co-WIN to freely walk in at any of the 101 sites to take the jab. The vaccination sites were given access to the complete list of registered beneficiaries instead of the targeted ones as was done in the past few days,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer. Yadav said he also visited several hospitals to motivate the staff in private hospitals. “Motivation and mobilisation of the health staff are crucial in clearing the hesitancy. Messages were delivered almost a day before the vaccination to clear the doubts,” he said, mentioning that he interacted with medical officers to reach out to their staff. Dr Ajay Gupta, vice president, Indian Medical Association (IMA), who took the vaccine on Monday, said that the doctors turned up in large numbers at various sites. “For doctors who have not been registered or have missed out the vaccination are likely to be covered in the next rounds,” said Gupta. Till now, over 19,485 front-line health workers have been inoculated, which covers almost 53% of the registered staff in the district. To include the remaining staff in the coverage, health officials are likely to finalise the strategy for the coming week as there will be no be no drive on Tuesday due to Republic Day. “The target on Monday was to inoculate majority of doctors and other health staff by setting up the maximum vaccination sites. Almost 50% of the registered front-line healthcare workers have taken the jab due to continuous drive in the last few days. For the next few days, only limited session sites will be set up.” Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer, said. “On January 27, only limited sites will be set up in private facilities and there will be no vaccination for public health care staff. Further planning will be done on Tuesday,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-shows-marked-improvement-in-vaccine-coverage-101611594436654.html
25-01-2021||Gurugram||No respite from chill as minimum temperature expected to drop sharply||The city got some respite from the cold on Monday morning, with the day’s minimum temperature rising to 8.3 degrees Celsius — up from 6.2 degrees Celsius the day prior. The respite, however, was only momentary as chilly conditions returned during the day. Gurugram’s maximum temperature settled at 16.3 degrees Celsius — down from 19.2 degrees Celsius the day prior. As per official forecast, a cold wave is soon expected to pass over the region, with minimum temperature expected to dip by more than half of Monday’s reading. As per the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) seven-day forecast for Gurugram, the minimum temperature is expected to plunge to about 4 degrees Celsius by January 28 and later rising to about 7 degrees Celsius on January 31. Dry northwesterly winds are likely to pick up pace from January 25 and persist for at least the next three or four days over north India, officials said on Monday. “The recent western disturbance which passed over Jammu and Kashmir last week is now making its way further northeast, and it will continue to have a cooling effect over Delhi-NCR for a few days,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of the IMD’s regional forecasting centre in Delhi.The IMD on Monday also warned that “cold wave to severe cold wave conditions” may be felt, between January 25 to January 27, in isolated pockets over Punjab and Haryana. The IMD declares a cold wave if the minimum temperature dips to 4 degrees Celsius, while a severe cold wave is declared when the minimum drops to 2 degrees Celsius or less.The maximum temperature, on the other hand, is expected to remain between 16 to 17 degrees Celsius until January 28. After this, days are expected to be warmer, with a maximum temperature of 20 degrees Celsius forecasted on January 31. Air quality in Gurugram on Monday improved slightly, settling at 280 (poor) on the CPCB’s daily air quality index (AQI) bulletin. This is down from 300 the previous day, which is just one index point short of the “very poor” AQI category. As per the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, no significant improvement in air quality is expected over the next five days. “The air quality is likely to remain largely in the very poor category,” stated Monday’s bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/no-respite-from-chill-as-minimum-temperature-expected-to-drop-sharply-101611594435947.html
25-01-2021||Gurugram||Medical institutes in Haryana asked to allay fears regarding Covid-19 vaccine||The state health department has instructed all public and private medical colleges to ensure adequate coverage of Covid-19 vaccines among staffers and residents. Accordingly, senior professors and department heads of various medical institutes in Haryana have been asked to take a more proactive role in dispelling hesitancy regarding the vaccines among beneficiaries and to emphasise their safety and efficacy. An order to this effect was issued by Haryana’s director-general of health services on January 22, requesting authorities to treat the matter as “most urgent”. Addressing the directors of all medical, dentistry and nursing colleges in the state, the order states, “You are hereby directed to give full co-operation to do maximum vaccination to cover 30,000 beneficiaries to make 25th January, 2021, COVID-19 vaccination day a success.” Of these 30,000 beneficiaries to be covered, nearly 9,500 are enrolled with the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences(PGIMS) in Rohtak, where officials said that the response to the vaccine has been underwhelming. Dr Dhruv Chaudhury, nodal officer for Covid-19 at PGIMS-Rohtak, said, “Vaccine acceptance so far has been lukewarm. There is a lot of misinformation circulating on social media, which may be giving rise to undue scepticism. We are not trying to force people to take the shot, but we have to reach out to staffers in a personal capacity so that public trust in the vaccine doesn’t take a hit. The vaccine is our only way to stave off a fresh wave in cases like we are seeing in other parts of the world. It is certainly a possibility in India, too, once natural immunity to the virus wears off.” After receiving the state’s instructions on Friday, senior doctors at PGIMS-Rohtak held a meeting, during which it was decided that all senior professors would “motivate faculty, residents and nursing staff,” as well as employees in housekeeping and clerical departments to come forward for inoculation. In a subsequent order issued on the same day, the director, PGIMS, wrote, “All department heads have been requested to ensure that all of them (staffers) are vaccinated for Covid-19.” Department heads have been tasked with filing the status report in the matter, Chaudhury confirmed. Authorities at SGT university in Gurugram, which is the district’s only full-fledged medical institute, also confirmed that they have received the state’s directive. However, a spokesperson for the institute said that they have not faced much vaccine hesitancy among either medical and non-medical staffers. “I am unable to recall the exact number of beneficiaries, but over 90 percent of them are already vaccinated,” said Dr Umesh Lamba, deputy medical superintendent, SGT University.However, Lamba added that hesitancy is present to a much larger degree among SGT’s 2,300-strong student body — who are enrolled in the departments of medicine, dentistry, physiotherapy, behavioural sciences and naturopathy. “Even though they qualify as health workers, and are at risk of contracting Covid-19 while interacting with patients, students are being very reluctant. Not many have come forward to get vaccinated as yet. Some have even said that their parents are preventing them for taking the shot. Senior doctors have been told to reach out to the students and answer any questions that they may still have.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/medical-institutes-in-haryana-asked-to-allay-fears-regarding-covid-19-vaccine-101611594435411.html
25-01-2021||Gurugram||City’s civil defence team gets Central govt’s Utkrisht Seva Medal||The Department of Home Guards and Civil Defence, Gurugram, was awarded the Utkrisht Seva Medal by the Union ministry of home affairs on Monday for its contribution in handling migrant labour crisis and ration distribution in the district during the Covid-19 lockdown. It is for the first time that the civil defence team has received this award, according to the district administration.“Haryana government for the first time submitted the nomination of civil defence department for the award given by the Central government. Selections are done based on the certain criteria like 10 years of active work in disaster management and emergency situations. We are glad about the recognition given to our work in distributing cooked meals and dry ration with the help of volunteers in 2020,” said Mohit Sharma, chief warden, civil defence, Gurugram.The department is managed by the director-general, home guards, and the deputy commissioner at the district level. Sharma and his team had been involved in voluntary activities like ration supply and management of migrant workers during the Covid-19 lockdown last year. The team will be felicitated with a medal in February as the ministry only issues the list of winners as part of the Republic Day celebrations.Sharma will be felicitated at the district level Republic Day ceremony at Tau Devi Lal Stadium in Sector 38 on Tuesday. The ceremony will start at 10am, with state education minister Kanwar Pal Singh as the chief guest. A limited number of government officials and employees will attend the ceremony as the district administration will telecast it live on YouTube and other social media platforms.“Considering Covid-19 infection, the ceremony will be of short duration. Also, to avoid large gatherings, the ceremony will be telecast on social media platforms,” said Yash Garg, deputy commissioner.A parade and a march past by the police department will also be held along with cultural performances by students. Tableau on the schemes run by five departments of the Haryana government will also be displayed.“Freedom fighters, soldiers and their widows will be felicitated at their homes, considering their age, at a time when the pandemic is still prevalent,” said Garg.As a part of the ceremonies, the state education minister will lay the foundation stone for three senior secondary schools in the district, to be built at a cost of ₹6 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/citys-civil-defence-team-gets-central-govt-s-utkrisht-seva-medal-101611594375833.html
25-01-2021||Gurugram||Farmers gear up for rallies to Delhi on Republic Day||Thousands of farmers protesting at multiple locations in Rewari and Dharuhera against the farm laws will carry out a tractor rally via two different routes skirting Gurugram on Republic Day. Another set of farmers who reached the city are also seeking to hold a rally on the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway, despite being denied permission, and said that they would park their tractors and march to Delhi on foot, if stopped by the police.The march will include farmers camping at Jaisinghpur Khera on the Haryana-Rajasthan border, Sangwari Chowk in Rewari and Masani village near Dharuhera. Earlier, the tractor rally was scheduled to take place on the outer ring road in Delhi. However, farmer leaders from the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha and police officials decided on other routes for the march in light of security concerns. Farmers from Rajasthan, Haryana, Maharashtra and several other states have been protesting at Jaisinghpur Khera, located near Shahjahanpur in Alwar district since December last year. Another group of farmers is camping at Dharuhera, while farmers from Mewat are carrying out protests at Sunehra-Junehra, on the Haryana-Rajasthan border. Farmers have been protesting against the three new farm laws, which were passed by the Centre in September last year. They fear that the new laws will leave them at the mercy of big corporations and end the minimum support price (MSP) for important crops. Two different routes have been decided by different farmer groups for the march. The set of farmers marching from Jaisinghpur Khera (Shahjahanpur border) will proceed towards Manesar via NH48 and return. On the other route, protesting farmers from Sangwari Chowk will move towards the KMP Expressway from Panchgaon and reach Dhansa border in Delhi, at the Badli toll.Sanjay Madhav, state convener, All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, Rajasthan, said that farmers protesting at Shahjahanpur would proceed towards Manesar via NH-48. “Around 9am, we will start marching from the protest site with our tractors. We will march till Manesar and return from there. The protest will be peaceful and we do not want any confrontation with the police,” said Madhav. He said that the parade would be a historic one, with the participation of farmers from Kerala, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Haryana and Punjab, among others. Madhav added that around 60% of the farmers will continue their protest at the site while the remaining 40% will take part in the tractor march. Naresh Mehlawat, a protestor from Rewari, said that farmers will start marching from Madan and take the KMP route after Panchgaon. ‘We will move towards Delhi on Tuesday morning and will return in the evening,” said Mehlawat. Naveen Sohlot, a farmer from Bawal, said that farmers would be marching till Manesar and returning. He said that over 2,000 tractors had already reached Dharuhera. “We will start marching from Dharuhera around 9.30 in the morning via NH-48,” said Sohlot. He said that tractors participating in the march will have tableaux demonstrating the farming practices of different states. Another group of farmers, who arrived in Gurugram on Monday, is seeking to move towards Delhi from Bilaspur Chowk connecting to NH-8. However, police officials said that permission for using this route has not been granted and protesters would only be allowed to hold the march within the city. Satnarayan Nehra, head of Nehra Khap of Haryana, said that farmers who had already reached Gurugram will move towards Dhaula Kuan on NH-8 on Tuesday. “We have arranged 50 tractors from Gurugram and will start gathering at 8am at KMP Expressway, which touches Bilaspur. From there, we will move towards the NH-8. If the police do not allow us, then we will park the tractors on the highway and march towards Delhi from Sirhaul border on foot,” he said. Rajesh Kumar, deputy superintendent of Bawal, said the police had given permissions to the protesters and will allow them to cross Kapdiwas border connecting to Gurugram. “After that, the Gurugram police has marked routes and will allow them to reach KMP Expressway from Panchgaon and many will return from Manesar,” he said. Kumar said at least 1,200 personnel of Rewari police have been deployed on the stretch to maintain law and order situation. Astha Modi, the deputy commissioner of police (headquarters), said, “We have deployed 4,000 police personnel in different shifts, at the borders, KMP Expressway and inside the city to control the traffic movement and monitor the law and order situation. With the high volume of protesters, they have to manage the route until they enter Badli, which is in Jhajjar’s jurisdiction,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/farmers-gear-up-for-rallies-to-delhi-on-republic-day-101611594375293.html
25-01-2021||Dehradun||'Good on paper': Saints, experts express concern over Centre's SOP on Mahakumbh||By Sandeep RawatWith about a month left for the Haridwar Mahakumbh in Uttarakhand, the Centre has issued the standard operating procedures (SOP) for the mega event in the holy city. The SOPs include mandatory RT-PCR negative test and medical report on the lines of Amaranth Yatra. However, experts and saints have cast their apprehensions regarding the SOPs saying they are "good on paper but difficult to implement".The Centre issued the SOP on Sunday after the state government approached it for the same on the order of Uttarakhand High Court while hearing a PIL on conducting Mahakumbh amid Covid-19 pandemic. The mega fair will be held from February 27-April 30 with six Shahi Snaans or auspicious baths. The government is expecting one million visitors on normal days while about five million on the Shahi Snaans (royal baths).As per the SOP, the Centre has asked the state government to make it mandatory for all the devotees to carry an RT-PCR negative test report with a 72 hours validity. It also asked all the devotees to get a medical report from a competent medical authority on the lines of Amaranth Yatra before coming to attend the mega event in Haridwar. It has asked the state government to ensure that the aforementioned reports are checked by the mela authorities and not allow anyone without them.Also read: 5 Galwan heroes get gallantry awards, Col Santosh Babu named for Mahavir ChakraSimilarly, it has also asked the state government to discourage devotees aged above 65 years, pregnant women and children under 10 years from attending the event. To ensure the health safety of the health and frontline workers deployed in the Mahakumbh, the Centre has asked the state to deploy only the vaccinated personnel.Saint community raises questionsThe saint community in Haridwar has largely welcomed the SOP, saying that previously, there was uncertainty over organising the Mahakumbh but "now it has been cleared with the Centre's go ahead".Mahant Narendra Giri, national president of the Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad, said, "owing to the new strain of Covid-19, safety of pilgrims is important when such a mass scale congregation is being held".Radha Krishna ashram spiritual ideologue Satpal Brahmachari though questioned the mandatory RT-PCR negative report to be brought by pilgrims."Lakhs of people from rural areas across the country arrive for sacred Ganga dip during Mahakumbh. Many come in groups of joint families, neighbourhood, locality and even whole villages. It will not be financially viable for poor people and pilgrims," said Brahmachari.Some saints also suggested that the government can further slash the rates for RT-PCR for Kumbh-bound pilgrims so that maximum number of people can participate in the holy fair which is being held after eleven years in Haridwar.The authorities, however, said that the SOP would be properly analysed and appropriate steps would be taken for its implementation.The authorities said that it is still being analysed if saints ageing 65 years and above should be discouraged from attending the Mahakumbh.Additional district magistrate, Mahakumbh, Lalit Narayan Mishra said, "We are now working on our own plan while analysing the Centre's SOP in which varied aspects will be taken into consideration."Experts flag concernsExperts have welcomed the SOP but have their doubts on its proper implementation in Mahakumbh.Social activist Anoop Nautiyal, who has been keeping an eye on the Covid-19 situation in Uttarakhand since the lockdown in March, said, "On paper, the SOP looks very good but in reality, it would be very difficult to implement"."It would be a very hard task for the state government, especially to check whether the devotees are carrying a negative RT-PCR test report or not along with the mandatory medical report from the health authorities," said Nautiyal.Another expert and state secretary of Indian Medical Association in Uttarakhand, Dr DD Chowdhury, welcomed the SOP and said, "Implementation will remain a challenge. We have to be cautious as more dangerous diseases are likely to come in the future," he saidState government's takeState cabinet minister and government spokesperson, Madan Kaushik, said, "The Centre has issued the SOP after we approached them. We are now working on it to chalk out a plan on its implementation which will be mentioned in our affidavit before the High Court. We are committed to conducting a safe and secure Mahakumbh while making it grand at the same time."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/good-on-paper-saints-experts-express-concern-over-centre-s-sop-on-mahakumbh-101611593290319.html
25-01-2021||Delhi||Covid-19: Delhi reports 148 new cases, lowest daily new cases in nine months||Delhi recorded 148 fresh Covid-19 cases on Monday, the lowest daily rise infections in nine months, even as the positivity rate stood at 0.31 per cent.This is also the fourth instance of the number of daily cases in the city remaining below the 200-mark in January.The infection tally in the city rose to 6.34 lakh and the death toll mounted to 10,813 with five new fatalities, authorities said on Monday.The active cases tally on Monday stood at 1,694, while the positivity rate was recorded at 0.31 per cent, according to the latest bulletin issued by the Delhi health department.These 148 new cases came out the 48 ,450 tests conducted the previous day, including 32,651 RT-PCR tests and 15,799 rapid antigen tests,On January 18, the city had recorded 161 cases, which was lowest in nearly nine months then, with a positivity rate of 0.32 per cent.This month, 585 cases were reported on January 1 and 494 on January 2; 424 on January 3; 384 on January 4, and 442 on January 5; 654 on January 6; 486 on January 7 and 444 on January 8; 519 on January 9 and 399 on January 10; 306 on January 11 and 386 on January 12 and 357 on January 13 and 340 on January 14.From January 15-24, the daily figures stood at 295; 299; 246; 161; 231; 228; 227; 266; 197; and 185.The bulletin said that the total number of cases has climbed to 6,34,072.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-delhi-reports-148-new-cases-lowest-daily-new-cases-in-nine-months-101611592444118.html
25-01-2021||Other||In a first, 250 fliers departing from Delhi airport for Netherlands undergo Covid testing||i For the first time, around 250 passengers departing from Delhi international airport underwent Covid-19 antigen tests on Sunday, after the Netherlands made it mandatory for all incoming passengers to undergo the test four hours prior to their departure. All 250 passengers tested negative for the novel coronavirus.As per the new rule introduced by the government of the Netherlands, a negative antigen test result, four hours prior to the flight, is required to board a flight to that country. This is in addition to the existing mandatory requirement of getting the RT-PCR test done within 72 hours of arriving in the Netherlands.At Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport, the tests are being conducted by Genestrings Diagnostics Centre, that also runs the RT-PCR Covid-19 testing facility at the airport.Dr Gauri Agarwal, founder and director, Genestrings, said the antigen tests were conducted for the first time on Sunday for KLM’s Amsterdam-bound passengers. “Over 250 passengers were tested on Sunday night under the effective supervision of KLM ground staff and Genestrings. The passengers were appreciative of the facility, given that it was set up quickly, after the new SOP from the Dutch government. Delhi airport team has been very supportive and helped us make arrangements swiftly and efficiently,” she said.Officials from Delhi airport said passengers of all flights going to the Netherlands, even those with a stopover in Amsterdam, will be tested. “On Monday night, an Air France flight is operating on Delhi-Amsterdam-Belgium route. About 20-25 passengers who will alight at Amsterdam are also being tested at the Delhi airport,” the official said, requesting not to be named.The official said there are flights from Delhi to the Netherlands almost every alternate day following the ongoing restrictions on international flights due to the pandemic.In its advisory to passengers, KLM tweeted, “The latest advisory by the government of the Netherlands requires all passengers arriving in the Netherlands effective 23 January 2021 to undergo a rapid antigen test within 4 hours prior to departures.”Recently, the Indian government had also mandated that passengers arriving from the UK are to undertake an RT-PCR test for Covid-19 at the Delhi airport upon arrival. So far, only 22 passengers from the UK have tested positive. All of them were sent to the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) for gene sequencing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/in-a-first-250-fliers-departing-from-delhi-airport-for-netherlands-undergo-covid-testing-101611592935204.html
25-01-2021||Pune||Record 72% vaccinated for Covid in one day at 44 sites in Pune||Pune: With the administration allowing walk-in vaccination at sites and an increase in the number of Covid-19 vaccination sites, Pune district has witnessed a drastic jump in the number of beneficiaries being vaccinated in a day. On Monday, 72% of the targeted beneficiaries were vaccinated, the highest from the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) area, 99%. At 12 sites of the 44 where the vaccination took place on Monday, more than 100% of the targeted beneficiaries could be vaccinated.As per the report shared by the district administration, over 72% of the health care workers (HCW), who are the beneficiaries in the nationwide first phase of the vaccination drive. Since January 16, the Covid-19 vaccination has gone on for six days and during the time the district administration has been able to vaccinate 11,463 which is 10.38% out of the total beneficiaries, 110,434, who have to be vaccinated in the first phase of the nationwide Covid19 vaccination. PMC lags behind in the vaccination drive as per the district health office report until 25 January. Only one case of minor adverse effect following immunisation (AEFI) was reported on Monday at Sassoon hospital. As of Monday, 70% of the targeted beneficiaries for the day from rural Pune or 1,466 of the 2,100 were vaccinated at 21 sites, 99% or 791 of 800 were vaccinated at eight sites in PCMC, while 61% or 921 out of the 1,500 targeted were vaccinated at 15 sites. The average percentage of beneficiaries vaccinated on the day went to 72% as 3,178 of the 4,400 in the district. Multiple sites have also been created at the same hospital to ensure maximum beneficiaries could be vaccinated. Vaccination recordAs per the district health office, vaccination done until 25 JanuaryArea/ data of registered HCW (govt, pvt, total)/ vaccination done/%Rural/17,954; 25,402; 43,356/ 6,327/14.59PMC/5,728; 41,323; 47,051/2,652/5.64PCMC/2,527; 17,500; 20,027/2,484/12.40||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/record-72-vaccinated-for-covid-in-one-day-at-44-sites-in-pune-101611591795179.html
25-01-2021||Lucknow||Dhannipur mosque project to formally begin on Jan 26 in UP's Ayodhya: Trust||The Dhannipur mosque project, which includes a hospital, a museum, a library, a community kitchen, the Indo-Islamic Cultural Research Centre, a publication house, besides a mosque, will formally begin in Ayodhya on January 26.The mosque is coming up in the Uttar Pradesh district pursuant to the Supreme Court verdict in the Ram Janmabhoomi case."At a meeting of the Indo-Islamic Cultural Foundation (IICF), it was decided that Republic Day will be celebrated with the start of the Dhannipur Mosque Project, which includes a hospital, a museum, a library, a community kitchen, the Indo-Islamic Cultural Research Centre, a publication house and a mosque, secretary and spokesperson of the trust Athar Hussain said in a statement on Sunday.He said at 8.30 am on January 26, the national flag will be hoisted on the five-acre plot of the project, which will be followed by plantation of tree saplings by the chief trustee and the member trustees of the IICF.At a virtual meet chaired by IICF president Zufar Ahmad Farooqi and attended by all the nine trustees, the progress of the trust activities, especially the procedural delay in getting the 12-A/80-G clearances under the Income-Tax Act and the proceedings for the opening of an FCRA account, was discussed, the statement said."It was decided to make a formal beginning of the project by applying for the plan clearance from the Ayodhya District Board and start the soil testing process at the five-acre plot," it added.As the focus of the project is to give community service in the area with a determined effort to create awareness on climate change, Hussain proposed that the formal start of the project should be made by planting tree saplings on the five-acre plot of land.As envisaged in the project, a green area, which will have plants from all over the world -- from the Amazon rainforest to areas in Australia that report bushfires -- and from all different geographical regions of India will be developed to create awareness on the imminent threat posed by climate change.Earlier, Hussain had said a mosque measuring 15,000 square feet will be built in Ayodhya's Dhannipur village. It will be of the same size as that of the Babri mosque. The shape of the mosque may be completely different from that of other mosques. It may be square-shaped like the Kaaba Sharif in Mecca, as hinted by the architect, SM Akhtar.The Uttar Pradesh Sunni Central Waqf Board has formed the IICF, a trust, for the construction of the mosque on the five-acre plot.The state government has allotted the plot in Dhannipur for the construction of the mosque on the directions of the Supreme Court.After a protracted legal tussle, the apex court on November 9, 2019 ruled in favour of the construction of a Ram temple at a disputed site in Ayodhya and directed the Centre to allot an alternative five-acre plot to the Sunni Waqf Board for building a new mosque at a "prominent" place in the holy town in Uttar Pradesh.The Babri mosque in Ayodhya was demolished on December 6, 1992 by "karsevaks", who claimed that an ancient Ram temple stood at the same site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/dhannipur-mosque-project-to-formally-begin-on-jan-26-in-up-s-ayodhya-trust-101611591077226.html
25-01-2021||Pune||Pune district sees zero deaths for a third time this month||Pune: On Monday, the district reported zero deaths due to Covid-19 within 24 hours, the third time in the month. Pune also reported less than 300 new virus cases in a day. The district has been witnessing a fall in the number of new cases and deaths since November. As of Monday, the district has reported 3.85 lakh Covid cases of which 3.65 lakh have recovered, 7,939 have been reported dead and 12,115 are active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals or in home isolation. On January 1 and 2, too, the district reported zero deaths due to the infection. Pune city has reported 102 new cases taking the final count to 197,427. The death toll for the city stands at 4,472. Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) reported 78 new cases which took the final count to 96,567, while the death count stood at 1,307. Also, 86 new cases were reported from Pune rural which took the total count to 91,714 and the death count stood at 2,122. According to the state health department, 3,080 patients were discharged on Monday taking the final count of such cases to over 19.15 lakh. The recovery rate in the state is 95.25%. Also, 1,842 new cases in the state were reported taking the total to over 20.10 lakh. In addition, 30 Covid-19 deaths were reported in the state taking the death toll to 52, 043. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.53%. Of 14,257,998 laboratory samples 2,010,948 have been tested positive (14.10%) for Covid-19 until Monday. Currently, 207,971 people are in home quarantine and 2,360 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-sees-zero-deaths-third-time-in-a-month-101611588014671.html
25-01-2021||Pune||₹100-cr Mundhwa jackwell project in Pune fails to deliver adequate treated water to farmers||Pune: Even after four years, the ₹100-crore Mundhwa jackwell has been unable to deliver adequate treated sewage water for agriculture purpose downstream. The jackwell, inaugurated by Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) in 2015, is yet to release 550 million litres per day (MLD) water for agriculture purposes. The ambitious sewage treatment project was developed at Mundhwa by PMC to treat sewage water generated in the city and discharge it for irrigation to nearby villages up to Daund. The plan’s purpose was to use treated water for agriculture needs and save water for drinking purposes. Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar had inaugurated the project on October 1, 2015 which includes a jackwell, a pumping station and a recycling plant. The treated water is released from the plant at Sadesatra Nali area on Pune-Solapur Road for non-drinking and agricultural purpose. The official data released from irrigation department states that sewage water between 21 to 40 MLD per day is released against the mandatory requirement of 550 MLD as per the stated purpose of the project. Experts claim that as a result the remaining demand of water for Pune was fulfilled from dams which has led to a water cut in the city despite heavy rains during the monsoon. Sajak Nagarik Manch president Vivek Velankar who sought information of the project under RTI has demanded strict action against the irrigation department officials alleging failure on their part to lift water at Mundhwa jackwell project. Velankar in his petition to the guardian minister Ajit Pawar stated that PMC has spent ₹100 crore for the sewage water treatment project of Mundhwa jackwell and it was proposed that 550 MLD of wastewater would be released downstream till Daund via baby canal for irrigating agricultural lands. It is the only project of its kind and the project is the complete responsibility of water supply and irrigation department. However, the department is not releasing more than 10-15 per cent water during the past two months, according to the official records. The PMC water supply department claimed that it will supply its citizens 100 MLD additional water, but not providing the mandatory water to farmers is a cause of concern. Tomorrow, the irrigation department officials will oppose release of water for farming from dams saying that the additional water has to be released for Pune during the canal committee meeting chaired by the minister of the department, he stated. “It seems that the irrigation department has no plans for release of either additional water for Pune city or ensure that the treated sewage water is flown forward via canals for irrigation purposes downstream,” he said. PMC water supply chief Aniruddha Pawaskar said, “We release water as per the demand of irrigation department on daily basis. We lift water and release the same in canal and have full capacity to do so.” Another official said that 6.05 TMC of water is to be released as per the agreement. The canal has leakages and is weak. Currently, only five pumps are operational which makes water release a cumbersome task.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/rs-100-cr-mundhwa-jackwell-project-in-pune-fails-to-deliver-adequate-treated-water-to-farmers-101611585314483.html
25-01-2021||Delhi||Republic Day 2021: Traders’ cheer hinges on a tricoloured dream||At one of the oldest manufacturers of flags in Old Delhi’s Sadar Bazar, Raja Ansari, owner of Bharat Handloom Cloth House, sits pondering over his monthly accounts book. “In over half a century, we haven’t seen such a lull in business before Republic Day,” says Ansari. Wholesalers and traders in Delhi-NCR share that their regular customers aren’t turning up to buy flags and other tricoloured decorative items even though R-Day is around the corner.“Because of the pandemic, last Independence Day also our business was hit, but we continued to pay our employees out of our pocket hoping that Republic Day will help us revive our business. Usually we would make around 3 lakh flags for Republic Day, but so far we have barely sold 2000 flags,” adds Ansari. Rajendra Singh, a Dwarka-based flag seller, shares a similar sentiment. “Until 2019, we usually made 200 flags every day. We are right now barely making 25 to 30 flags. Earlier large flags would be in demand at places such as big campuses; but most public events aren’t happening this year,” rues Singh. Though schools have reopened for class 10 and 12, most of the institutions do not plan to hold events wherein all the students will be required to be present at the same time on their premises, to follow Covid-19 protocols. Traders say that this means that R-Day celebrations in schools will also not be a big affair. Some say the sad bit is that demand for both cloth and paper flags has diminished this time. “As far as I know there are no events in schools, so there are no bulk orders for flags, unlike previous years. Also, most corporates are choosing to have low-key virtual celebrations for R-Day, which is another reason for low sales. Most celebrations have moved online, and hence even orders for paper flags is less; yeh toh pehle lakhon bikte the,” says Vikram Singh, a trader in Sadar Bazar. Even decorative items such as badges, scarves, ribbons, and caps in tricolour theme are not selling that well according to shopkeepers. Mahendra Arora, another manufacturer of flags in Sadar, says, “We keep an assortment of tricolour theme items, but since there won’t be many public events, inki demand nahi hai. People are avoiding meeting in large gatherings, so tricolour caps, ribbons log khareed nahi rahe. So I have had to stop their bulk production because jo do-chaar bik rahe hain woh to purane stock me se hi nikal aate hain. We are not investing in inventory since most customers haven’t placed orders yet.” Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/republic-day-2021-traders-cheer-hinges-on-a-tricoloured-dream-101611584559948.html
25-01-2021||Delhi||Republic Day fervour: Run to salute the spirit of Indian armed forces||To ring in the spirit of patriotism, quite a few denizens have chosen to be part of marathons, this Republic Day, be it physically or virtually. Some marathons are promoting a healthy lifestyle amid the Covid-19 pandemic through runs organised within gated premises of residential societies. “We have 110 runners in our society, and they belong to different age groups. Most of them are participating in the event we have planned for January 26. The run is divided into four categories – 3km, 5km, 10km and 21km. Following Covid guidelines, participants have been allotted time slots starting 5am,” says Sunil Grewal, an ultra runner and organiser of one such event in a Gurugram-based residential society, adding, “For each kilometre covered by a participant, we are donating ₹5 to the Indian Army.” Amid the pandemic, large sporting events have been cancelled across the globe. And marathons too, suffered the same fate. In the new normal, a few fitness enthusiasts have thus taken to virtual marathons, especially on the occasion of Republic Day. “We’ve organised a marathon in the honour of India’s armed forces, albeit virtually. Participants have been recording time and distance using running tracker apps since January 23, and will submit their data on January 26. We will share details, including the e-bib (an electronically developed number used to identify the runner) that can be printed out. This allows the participants to run as per their convenience, and therefore time and place isn’t an issue unlike in a physical marathon. Plus, you can run freely and safely since there’s no crowd, which is why over 1,000 people signed up for it,” says Delhi-based Aman Singh, one of the organisers of a virtual marathon. Denizens taking part in such marathons say they feel mixed emotions of honour and patriotism. “My friends are participating in marathons happening on the occasion of Republic Day,” says Jitin Kumar, a Delhi-based running enthusiast, adding, “Since we can’t have large gatherings and most physical events are on hold, I’ve registered for a virtual run, and even some ride events that my friends and I mutually decided. This way we can celebrate this day together, and it’s another joy to pay homage to our country, and armed forces.” Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/republic-day-fervour-run-to-salute-the-spirit-of-indian-armed-forces-101611582855996.html
25-01-2021||Dehradun||Railways gear up for Mahakumbh with integrated command control centre and more||By Sandeep RawatIndian Railways will be deploying additional personnel and trains for the upcoming two-month-long Mahakumbh fair in Haridwar. For better passenger management and prompt action for any untoward situation, a dedicated Integrated Command Control Centre has also been set up at the railway station premise.This Integrated Command Control Centre will be the core centre for railway management during Mahakumbh fair with Railway Protection Force, Government Railway Police and Kumbh Mela Force special team to also coordinate with the Railways Kumbh Nodal officials from this command centre.Equipped with advanced techniques, equipment and facilities, the command centre overlooks the whole railway station premise, the adjacent road and the bus station which is just three kilometres from the core mela zone of Har-Ki-Pauri.According to senior DCM Rekha Sharma, the centre will be the core of management and monitoring activities during Kumbh fair which will see various sections of the railway department working in teams in coordination with Kumbh mela administration.Also read: Farmers to march towards Parliament on Budget DayThe entire railway station premise has also been covered with CCTV set up which will be monitored round the clock from the Integrated Command Control Centre.A new foot-over bridge has been constructed to link Purusharthi market with Nirmala Chawni at the Dehradun side of the railway station.For the two-month-long fair, which is expected to see a turnout of around 10-50 lakh pilgrims and tourists, additional deployment of railway personnel will also be done.As required, additional trains will be operated during the peak of Kumbh fair to ferry pilgrims from other parts of the country.“As soon as Kumbh fair 2021 notification is issued by the Uttarakhand government, additional deployment of railway personnel will be done for Kumbh duty. Railways is well prepared to ferry passengers safely and conveniently during the Kumbh fair,” said NN Singh, additional divisional railway manager (ADRM) Moradabad division, Northern Railways.Suburban Jwalapur railway station, located 4 kilometres from Haridwar city, has also been renovated and expanded for Kumbh fair along with Laksar and Motichur railway stations. A foot-over bridge, electronic display boards, new reservation counters, lighting, shades over passenger waiting lounge, security posts and basic amenities have been upgraded at these stations for the grand fair.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/railways-gear-up-for-mahakumbh-with-integrated-command-control-centre-and-more-101611582244536.html
25-01-2021||Pune||State TT championship: Pune’s Pritha starts post Covid game with two titles||Pune: Fourteen-year-old Pritha Vartikar ousted older opponents to defy the age logic. The teenage paddler claimed two titles at the 82nd Maharashtra State Table Tennis Championships organised by Suburban Table Tennis Association in Mumbai. The tournament post Covid era saw some changes — playing with two balls, sanitising the balls after the set and changing side only by left. Though these measures increased the game duration, it did not affect the players’ performance. Though playing her first tournament after 10 months, Pritha played her shots with flair to clinch the sub junior (u15) and junior (u18) titles. She missed her three-in-a-row moment by losing the quarterfinal to Mumbai girl Diya Chitale. It was the first state championship title in the under-18 category for Pritha. “The new rules of introduction of sanitiser, players serving with separate balls and avoid touching the opponent’s ball seemed a bit odd. Even less tables were placed at the arena as part of coronavirus prevention measures,” said Pritha who is number one in the state table tennis association sub junior category ranking. Pritha took time to get into the groove before winning smoothly in the contest and bag the trophy. In the under-15 final, she defeated Ananya Chande from Mumbai (8-11, 15-13, 10-12, 11-5, 15-13, 10-12, 11-6) “The first few matches were tough for me, but later I enjoyed my game. The confidence of winning the u15 title helped me to perform well in the under-18 title,” she said. “It was an easy final as I won it 4-0 (against Samrudhi Kulkarni from Solapur). I will focus on improving performance in the youth (u21) category as well. Along with coach Soumen Saha sir, I will analyse my games on video and work on improvements that need to be made,” said Pritha. “As dates for national and international tournaments are still not fixed, I will continue with route practice,” said Pritha, who is supported by NGO Lakshya. Results Sub-Junior (Under-15) Final: Pritha Vartikar (PNA) bt Ananya Chande(MSD) (8-11, 15-13, 10-12, 11-5, 15-13, 10-12, 11-6) Quarter Final: Pritha Vartikar (PNA)bt Risha Mirchandani (TSTTA) (11-4, 9-11, 11-4, 13-11 ) Semis Finals: Ananya Chande (MSD) bt Jennifer Verghese (NGP) (8-11, 11-8, 11-13, 11-5, 11-7, 9-11, 11-5); Pritha Vartikar (PNA) bt Mukta Dalvi (MSD) (5-11, 11-7, 9-11, 11-7, 11-9, 12-10) Junior Girls Singles (under-18) Final: Pritha Vartikar (PNA) bt Samrudhi Kulkarni (Sol) (11-8, 11-6, 11-7, 11-5) Semi Finals: Samrudhi Kulkarni (SOL) bt Vidhi Shah (MSD) (11-5, 11-7, 11-9, 11-3); Pritha Vartikar (PNA) bt 1-Sampada Bhiwandkar (MSD) (5-11, 11-6, 11-5, 10-12, 11-4, 14-16, 11-8) Quarter-Finals: Pritha Vartikar (PNA) bt Taneesha Kotecha (Nsk) (11-7, 14-12, 14-12, 12-10) Youth Girls (under 21) Quarter Finals: Diya Chitale (MSD) bt Pritha Vartikar (PNA) (9-11, 12-10, 11-6, 11-7, 11-6) Semi-final: Shreya Deshpande (THN) bt Anannya Basak (MSD) (13-11, 9-11, 11-6, 11-5, 14-12); Diya Chitale (MSD) bt Samruddhhi Kulkarni (SOL) (11-5, 11-7, 11-3, 11-8) Finals: Diya Chitale (MSD) bt Shreya Deshpande (THN) (13-11, 11-5, 11-7, 11-7) PNA (Pune), MSD (Mumbai Suburban), TDTTA (Thane District Table Tennis Association), NGP (Nagpur), SOL (Solapur), NSK (Nashik) and Thn (Thane)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/state-tt-championship-pune-s-pritha-starts-post-covid-game-with-two-titles-101611582014203.html
25-01-2021||Other||Himachal on road to progress from model to number 1 state: Nadda||BJP president JP Nadda on Monday said that Himachal Pradesh has come a long way in 50 years and he is confident the state will continue its journey of progress to emerge as the number 1 state by its 75th anniversary. “We have come a long way and have miles to go. I’m confident the model state will continue this journey of progress under (chief minister) Jai Ram Thakur’s leadership. Changing Himachal is a picture of changing India,” he said while addressing a function in Shimla to mark the state’s golden jubilee celebrations. Urging Himachalis to preserve their cultural heritage, he said: “We have potential in tourism, horticulture and agriculture.” He said the Narendra Modi government had restored the special category status for state and under the 14th finance commission, it got ₹18,000 crore. “Work on the Atal Tunnel at Rohtang Pass was restarted and today it’s strategic from the defence point of view, too,” said Nadda, who represented Bilaspur in the state assembly in 1993, 1998 and 2007. CREDIT ACROSS PARTY LINES “We have seen many difficulties, many achievements. Today, we are a model state. Initially, there were no roads, no health institutions or schools. Today, we can proudly say that we are one of the developed states with a literacy rate of 86% and mortality rate of only 8%,” the BJP chief said. Nadda said people could not forget the contribution of the state’s first chief minister, YS Parmar. “If we have made it as a major category state despite being a smaller one, we can’t forget the contribution of former chief minister Virbhadra Singh,” he said, adding that “similarly former CM Shanta Kumar contributed in strengthening the drinking water supply scheme and also fought the battle for royalty on water.” Nadda remembered the contribution of former chief minister Prem Kumar Dhumal in strengthening the road network under the Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana launched by the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government. “Roads are the lifeline of the state with that has a network of 39,475 km,” governor Bandaru Dattatreya said while presiding over the function. He credited the people of Himachal with overcoming challenges and achieving social and economic goals over five decades through their hard work and determination. “Himachalis have also preserved their cultural and religious identity that sets them apart from the rest of the country,” he said. Union minister of state for finance and corporate affairs and Hamirpur BJP MP Anurag Thakur, who was present as a special guest, announced a bulk pharma drug park for the state. He paid tributes to leaders who contributed to making Himachal a model state and urged the chief minister to make a roadmap for the next 25 years. CM PAYS TRIBUTES TO INDIRA, VAJPAYEE Terming the occasion an important milestone, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur remembered former prime minister Indira Gandhi and Parmar for their contribution in the formation of the state. “Parmar gave the vision and guidance to take Himachal on the path of progress,” he said before recalling the role of former chief ministers Shanta Kumar, Ram Lal Thakur, Virbhadra Singh and Prem Kumar Dhumal besides making a special mention of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee. “If Himachal’s villages are connected with roads today, the credit goes to Vajpayee,” he said, adding that the industrial package and tunnel at Rohtang were also his contributions. He said tourism would be the mainstay of the state for the next 50 years as the industry is growing rapidly. He admitted that air and rail connectivity remains the biggest challenge for the state and work is on in this direction. Union minister Amit Shah, who was to be the chief guest, could not attend the celebrations virtually.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/himachal-on-road-to-progress-from-model-to-number-1-state-nadda-101611579974868.html
25-01-2021||City||'No plan to move court against solar scandal inquiry': Oommen Chandy||Senior Congress leader and former Kerala chief minister Oommen Chandy on Monday said he has no plan to move the court questioning the decision of the state government to hand over the sexual assault case related to the solar scandal to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). He said he was least bothered about the new development.“Let any agency inquire it, I am least worried. Earlier, three police chiefs investigated it and found no substance in wild allegations. The government sat over the case for almost five years and failed to do anything,” he said, adding that the latest move was an election stunt and it will invite more embarrassment to the government.The case pertains to the alleged sexual abuse of Saritha Nair, the main accused in the solar scam, by many Congress leaders including Chandy, AICC general secretary KC Venugopal, MPs Hibi Eden and Adoor Prakash and former Congress MP AP Abdullakutty who is now the BJP national vice-president. In her complaint to the CM, Nair said she was sexually abused by many leaders in return of favours she received from them and she failed to get justice from the local police. The state government decided to hand over the case to the central agency on Sunday.“The ruling CPI(M)had tried its best to implicate me in the case. And it registered a fresh case two years ago with non-bailable provisions. Many advised me to take an anticipatory bail but I did not. My conscience is clear and hands are clean,” said the former CM, who was appointed the head of the party election committee recently. He said CM Pinarayi Vijayan has admitted his failure by lobbing the ball into the CBI's court.Also read: China tries to open new front with Naku La clash, test India’s defence - Experts“In 2018, the government received a setback in the High Court and it did not go to the Supreme Court fearing further trouble. The latest move is just a face-saver for the CM. I don’t see any other importance to it,” he said, adding that the decision to hand over the case at the fag end of the tenure will only expose the government.“People of the state will realise the government’s ploy. It happened at a time when the government is opposing the central agency tooth and nail in many cases, including the twin political murders of north Kerala and the Life Mission project.” He said the government desperately wanted to divert the attention from the gold smuggling and other cases so it dusted out an old cheating case in which the government did not lose a single penny.The solar scandal centred around a fictitious solar energy company called ‘Team Solar’ formed in 2013 by Nair and second husband, Biju Radhakrishnan, who flaunted their contacts with the chief minister’s office and cheated people out of money by seeking investments with the promise of making them business partners or offering to install solar power units. Chandy was then the Kerala CM and had sacked two of his private secretaries and the state public relations director when their names cropped up in the case. The government had also constituted a judicial commission to probe the case.Interestingly, Nair was sentenced in at least six cases and is out on bail. In the 2019 parliament elections, she attempted to take on Congress leader Rahul Gandhi in Kerala’s Wayanad, but her nomination papers were rejected because of her conviction. Last year, the Supreme Court had dismissed her plea which questioned Gandhi’s election and imposed a fine of ₹10,000 on her. Last month, the police had booked her in another case for allegedly cheating many youth offering government jobs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-plan-to-move-court-against-solar-scandal-inquiry-oommen-chandy-101611578730561.html
25-01-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka CM Yediyurappa makes more changes in Cabinet to contain dissent||Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Monday made more changes within his Cabinet to contain dissent, which threatens to rattle his two-year-old government.In the latest set of changes, Yediyurappa ceded to demands by health minister K Sudhakar who wanted the medical education portfolio restored. Sudhakar, one of the 17 turncoats who brought down the HD Kumaraswamy-led Janata Dal (Secular) or JD(S)-Congress coalition government and helped Yediyurappa to power, had publicly aired his disappointment after being stripped of the medical education portfolio.Sudhakar had led talks with the chief minister on behalf of other turncoat ministers like K Gopalaiah, N Nagaraju (MTB) and KC Narayana Gowda. Also Read: Police arrest quarry owner, dynamite supplier after Shivamogga blast: MinisterJC Madhuswamy was allocated tourism, ecology and environment portfolios as reparations for removing him from law, parliamentary affairs and minor irrigation.This is the third change in Madhuswamy’s portfolio after the legislator from Chikkanyakana Halli in Tumakuru district of Karnataka, aired his dissent in public.Madhuswamy had also said that he would “take a decision” within the next few days, even though he never disclosed details of the same.Anand Singh, the former mining baron, has been allocated infrastructure development, Haj and Wakf ministries, according to the state government.Constantly ceding to demands has left the 77-year-old chief minister vulnerable to similar requests from other disgruntled members within the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government.The differences due to the Cabinet expansion exercise have added to the growing divide within the BJP and put Yediyurappa on the backfoot and seemingly isolated. Yediyurappa’s relations with the party’s central leadership have also soured in recent months and dissent within his government further poses a threat to his chief ministerial post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-cm-yediyurappa-makes-more-changes-in-cabinet-to-contain-dissent-101611574394406.html
25-01-2021||Bangalore||Sasikala stable but still in ICU, say hospital authorities||VK Sasikala, the 66-year old expelled All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) leader, remains in the intensive care unit (ICU) even though her condition has improved, according to Victoria hospital authorities.Sasikala is a former aide of late Tamil Nadu chief minister J Jayalalithaa. She was admitted to the hospital on January 20 after she complained of breathlessness and later tested positive for Covid-19.In a health bulletin on Monday afternoon, Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute said that Sasikala was asymptomatic. It said she was “conscious, alert and well oriented”. The hospital said that her saturation levels were at 98% with two litres of oxygen and her sugar levels were 157. She was stable, taking food orally and walking with support.Sasikala has been serving a four-year prison sentence after the Supreme Court convicted her in a disproportionate assets case. Her release from jail, scheduled for January 27, comes at a time when Tamil Nadu is preparing for assembly elections in which AIADMK takes on the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK).Sasikala’s nephew TTV Dinakaran started the Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) to remain relevant within the high-decibel Tamil Nadu political climate.Her time in prison has not been a quiet one either as a senior police officer alleged that she was receiving special treatment and this was being facilitated by the authorities themselves.In 2019, the income tax department attached properties worth Rs1,600 crore belonging to her under the provisions of the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/sasikala-stable-but-still-in-icu-say-hospital-authorities-101611573314451.html
25-01-2021||Other||Tamil Nadu: DMK to form dept to solve people’s grievances in 100 days if elected||If elected to govern, the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) will form a new department to resolve people’s individual grievances, said DMK president MK Stalin on Monday. “I am taking an oath today, that my first job will be to resolve your problems on a war footing within the first 100 days,” Stalin announced in front of the residence of his late father and former Tamil Nadu chief minister M Karunanidhi in Chennai’s Gopalapuram. He said he chose the location to walk the talk like his father. Stalin will launch a new campaign from January 29 titled ‘Ungal Thogithiyil Stalin’ (‘Stalin in your constituency’) from Thiruvannamalai district. He will cover all the 234 assembly constituencies of the state in a month. During the campaign, people can submit their grievances, which the DMK leader will seal and put in a box to be addressed once the party comes to power. For those who cannot participate, the party has announced a website, mobile number and the Stalin Ani app (Stalin party’s app) to register their complaints. Grievances of individuals or families should be on issues such as water connections, pensions, birth certificates and ration cards. General complaints such as lack of infrastructure will be taken care by existing systems such as district collector’s offices and the chief minister’s complaint cell, clarified Stalin.Also Read: NCB catches 2 Lankans sitting tight in Chennai, unravels Pak drug syndicate“I am personally responsible for solving these complaints,” Stalin said, holding up a grievance form for people to fill attached with an acknowledgement receipt that will be given to the complainant. “It has a serial number so they can follow up and keep us accountable,” Stalin said. The DMK chief said that during the gram sabha meetings he held in thousands of villages across the state, people had several grievances. “Mostly women attended these meetings,” Stalin said adding they had complaints about the lack of drinking water, issues in land documents and lack of salary under government programmes. “At least one crore [10 million] families’ problems will be addressed through this in the first 100 days,” Stalin said.“The new department is a temporary arrangement which could be headed by an IAS officer or be formed under an existing ministry to address civil rights and basic amenities provided by the government which haven’t reached individuals,” said DMK’s spokesperson Constantine Ravindran. Reacting to DMK’s new plan, the ruling AIADMK’s spokesperson told reporters, “How many petitions as an MLA has he resolved from Kolathur (the constituency from where Stalin was elected)?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tamil-nadu-dmk-to-form-dept-to-solve-people-s-grievances-in-100-days-if-elected-101611571274438.html
25-01-2021||Chandigarh||3 tourists from Delhi killed in car accident near Shimla||Three tourists from Delhi died when their car skidded off the road at Narkanda, 61 km from Shimla, police said on Monday. The accident took place near Sabzi Mandi ahead of Narkanda on Sunday night. There were five occupants in the car (DL-10CB-8018) and all of them belonged to Delhi, the police said. The three people who died on the spot were identified as Ishak Sharma, Gaurav Kumar and Rashmi Singh. They worked in a private company in Gurugram and were on a weekend trip to Narkanda. The two survivors were admitted to Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital, Shimla, in a serious condition. The bodies of the victims were handed over to their relatives. “The driver lost control of the vehicle and it veered off the road. Investigation is on,” said superintendent of police Mohit Chawla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3-tourists-from-delhi-killed-in-car-accident-near-shimla-101611569414100.html
25-01-2021||Kolkata||'BJP should be rechristened Bharat Jalao Party': Mamata Banerjee at public rally||Days after being 'insulted' by the supporters of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) at an event organised on the occasion of Netaji SB's birth anniversary in Kolkata, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee said that the BJP should be rechristened 'Bharat Jalao Party'.Also Read: BJP indulging in religious polarisation in West Bengal, says Shiv Sena’s SaamanaAddressing a public rally in Hooghly's Pursura months ahead of state legislative assembly election, the chief minister said she was insulted and had to face taunts in presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi at Victoria Memorial event on Saturday. She had refused to speak at the event after she was interrupted with chants of 'Jai Shri Ram'. "Would you invite anyone to your house and then insult the person? Is this the culture of Bengal or our country? I would have had no problem if slogans hailing Netaji were raised. But they didn't do that. To taunt me, they shouted slogans which had no relation to the programme. I was insulted in front of the prime minister of the country. This is their (BJP) culture," the Trinamool Congress boss said.Also Read: TMC’s Abhishek Banerjee takes dynastic politics jab at BJP national leadersTargeting potential defectors, the CM said that those planning to leave the TMC should do it as soon as possible as the party didn't need them."Those who are lining up to leave the Trinamool Congress should leave as early as possible. Bengal and TMC don't need you. The party would not have given them a ticket anyway, so they are leaving in fear," Banerjee said.TMC heavyweight Suvendu Adhikari and MP Sunil Kumar Mandal were among the several party legislators who defected to the BJP earlier last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bjp-should-be-rechristened-bharat-jalao-party-mamata-banerjee-at-public-rally-101611567156670.html
25-01-2021||Lucknow||Mayawati requests Centre to withdraw farm laws ahead of R-Day celebrations||Ahead of Republic Day celebrations, Bahujan Samajwadi Party chief Mayawati on Monday requested the Centre to withdraw the farm laws so that no untoward incident takes place in the national capital.In a tweet in Hindi, Mayawati said, "To fulfill the demands of the agitating farmers, BSP requests the Central Government to withdraw these farm laws. I hope that no new tradition starts on Republic Day and there is no untoward incident in the national capital."Farmers from all across the country are expected to march towards Delhi in order to take part in the scheduled rally. Tractors from Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan have reached on Tikri border as the farmers sit in for protest for nearly two months.The 11th round of talks between farmers and the government was held on Friday, which remained inconclusive.The talks between farmer unions and the government have seemingly broken down after the former insisted on their demand to repeal the three new farm laws and the latter asked them to reconsider its offer to put these laws on hold for about 18 months.Farmers have been protesting on the different borders of the national capital since November 26 against the three newly enacted farm laws -- Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/mayawati-requests-centre-to-withdraw-farm-laws-ahead-of-r-day-celebrations-101611561554638.html
25-01-2021||Mumbai||BJP indulging in religious polarisation in West Bengal, says Shiv Sena’s Saamana||Targeting Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over alleged religious polarisation in the run-up to the West Bengal assembly polls, Shiv Sena on Monday had a word of advice for West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on chants of ‘Jai Shri Ram’. An editorial in Sena mouthpiece Saamana said that BJP has identified the “weak point” of Banerjee as chants of Lord Ram “irritate” her.“When she [Mamata] rose to speak at a government function in the presence of the Prime Minister, the crowd started slogans of ‘Jai Shri Ram’. She got irritated and called it her insult. BJP in Bengal has identified Mamata Banerjee’s weak point and till the elections, they will continue to attack [her] on such issues. According to us, she should not have got irritated...Had joined them [BJP] instead, the tables would have turned. But everybody looks at their vote bank,” the editorial said. Also read | BJP targets CM Mamata Banerjee for appeasement politics in BengalThe advice came at a time when Shiv Sena is expected to contest around 100 seats in the assembly elections in Bengal. Senior party leaders are going to visit Kolkata early next month to chalk out the party’s strategy for the polls.On Saturday, Banerjee lost her cool over sloganeering at a Netaji event in Kolkata and refused to give her speech in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The editorial said that the BJP has started “religious division” like it did in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. It added that Banerjee is responsible for the same happening in her state. “BJP has decided to spark religious divide in a planned manner over the issue of Hindutva... Like Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, it has started religious polarisation in West Bengal. To an extent, Mamata Banerjee is responsible for it. Excessive secularism and leaning towards the Muslim [community] is pinching the majority... Key leaders of BJP have started a campaign of violence and terror in Bengal,” the Marathi daily said.Over the allegation of BJP in Bengal that the CM is backing bomb-making factories in the state, the Sena mouthpiece asked that if that is the case, why are Central agencies, allegedly busy targeting Opposition in other states, not cracking down on them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sena-has-advice-for-mamata-over-jai-shri-ram-chants-101611558613096.html
25-01-2021||Other||Andhra Pradesh: Couple kills adult daughters to ‘appease supernatural forces’||Two sisters were killed by their parents, allegedly to “appease supernatural forces” in Andhra Pradesh’s Chittoor late on Sunday night, the police said. The police has taken the parents into custody.Ironically, the entire family is well-educated, the father is a vice-principal of a government college, while his wife, a gold medallist in mathematics, runs a private college. The older daughter (27) was a forest officer. She returned home on leave during the pandemic and is said to be preparing for the civil services examination. The younger daughter (23) completed her post-graduation in business administration (MBA) and was pursuing a course in music. Also Read: Andhra Asha worker dies after Covid vaccine dose, autopsy awaitedMadanapalle deputy superintendent of police (DSP) R Manohara Chary told reporters, “Enquiries with the locals revealed that the family members were highly spiritual and were regularly performing puja at their home during the pandemic.” He said for the last three days, too, the family had been performing some pujas at home. “On Sunday night, after the completion of a puja, the parents first killed their older daughter and then the younger daughter,” the police officer said. Later, the father called one of his colleagues and informed him about the murders, who immediately informed the police. Apart from the DSP, inspector of police Srinivasulu and sub-inspectors Dilip Kumar and Rama Devi rushed to the house to inspect the scene. The DSP said while the mother had killed the women, the father assisted her. “They appeared to be in a state of trance and were suffering from some psychological issues. They told us that their daughters would come alive after some time,” Chary said.“Investigation is going on,” the DSP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/andhra-pradesh-couple-kills-adult-daughters-to-appease-supernatural-forces-101611556692995.html
25-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Environmentalists begin digital drive against MMR wetland destruction||Ahead of the World Wetlands Day on February 2, environmentalists have kick-started the first green digital agitation on the all-round destruction of urban sponges in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) with a series of virtual activities.For over a decade, MMR has been rapidly losing its wetlands to urbanisation and infrastructure development, leading to a considerable decline in bird life as well increasing instances of flooding during the monsoon. According to Wetlands International South Asia (WISA), Mumbai lost 71% of its wetlands between 1970 and 2014. MMR is home to a large number of wetlands; Raigad district alone has identified 130 wetlands. Environmentalists have, therefore, been raising grave concerns on the issue of destruction of wetlands.BN Kumar, director of NatConnect Foundation, who floated an online petition asking people to raise their voice against the destruction, said, “Since physical activities are limited due to the pandemic, we have chosen the online route to raise our collective voice to stir up the conscience of the powers-that-be and the people in general. NatConnect began to mobilise further support to the cause of wetlands through a series of tweets, posting photographs of the destruction.” According to environmentalists, burial of wetlands such as Panje, Belpada, Bhendkhal and Sawahkhar in Uran has been impacting lives and livelihoods, with the fishing community, the original habitants, losing their source of survival and the constitutional right to practice their trade.Nandakumar Pawar, director Shri Ekvira Aai Pratishtan said, “Wetlands are supposed to be urban sponges and they are nature’s gift to mankind as a flood control mechanism. In their absence, water finds its own course. Our urban planners ignore this and the result is flooding of Uran villages and paddy fields, with saline water.”Disappearance of wetlands, along with mangroves, is having a disastrous effect on the fishing community. “Hence, we have initiated with this digital agitation. Protect some wetlands such as Panje and Talawe as bird sanctuaries, maintain floodplains under the river regulatory zone on the banks of all rivers – both monsoon and perennial – and above all, learn from experience of floods and allow people to live,” Kumar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-environmentalists-begin-digital-drive-against-mmr-wetland-destruction-101611556152907.html
25-01-2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: GI-tagged Joynagar Moa to be delivered at your doorstep||For the first time, people from across India and abroad, would be able to get the authentic GI-tagged Joynagar Moa, a winter delicacy of West Bengal, delivered at their doorstep. The moa would be delivered at their doorstep by India Post, manufacturers of this quintessential winter delicacy in Bengal said. Earlier this month, the moa was exported for the first time since it was prepared 116 years ago. “We have tied up with the postal department and the first two consignments of 10kg each are going to Chennai and Mumbai on Monday. A packet of six of this authentic GI-tagged product costs ₹150 and a kilo costs ₹500,” said Ashok Kumar Kayal, secretary of Joynagar Moa Nirmankari Society. Also Read: Mamata Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek hits out at BJPEven though the markets of Bengal are flooded with the sweetmeat around this time of the year and almost every neighbourhood shop claims to sell the Joynagar Moa, the authenticity of the product is questionable. Manufacturers said that they have tie-ups with only a select few outlets of certain sweet shops in Kolkata and elsewhere in the country to sell the product. Only those outlets are authorised to sell the authentic GI-tagged moa. “It would take around two days to reach Chennai and Mumbai. The shelf life is usually five days but can go up to seven days. The product is found usually till mid-February,” said Kayal. The delicacy obtained the GI tag in 2014 and only around 25 manufacturers from Joynagar block in South 24 Parganas district, around 50km south of Kolkata, are authorised to prepare the product. GI tag signifies a product has a specific geographical origin and enjoys a reputation because of it. Kanakchur Khoi (fried aromatic paddy), nolen gur (molasses), ghee, khoya kheer, cardamom, raisins, and cashew nuts, among others, are used to prepare the delicacy. According to the GI Journal of November 2014, Ashutosh Das, a resident of Joynagar, first prepared the moa in 1904. “One can visit the website of Joynagar Moa Nirmankari Society and place an order over phone. The money has to be sent to our account and we will send the product to the customer’s address by post,” said Kayal. And it is not just the Joynagar Moa that could be availed sitting at home. The manufacturers will also send Nolen Gur (date palm jaggery, also found only around this time of the year).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/kolkata-gi-tagged-joynagar-moa-to-be-delivered-at-your-doorstep-101611555072808.html
25-01-2021||Other||Man attacks 16-yr-old girl with knife; arrested from Varanasi airport||A 16-year-old girl sustained serious injuries after a man attacked her on the outskirts of a village in Sadat police station area of Ghazipur district of Uttar Pradesh on Saturday. Police said the 32-year-old man was upset as the girl had turned down his proposal.A senior police officer said the girl had stepped out of the village along with her cousin sister on Saturday morning when Nand Kishore Tiwari accosted them and attacked the girl with a knife. The minor suffered serious injuries on hand and head. When her cousin cried for help, locals ran to the spot to help at which the accused escaped. The officer said that the girl’s family informed the police and rushed her to a hospital. Police superintendent, Ghazipur, Dr Omprakash Singh also reached the spot and enquired about the incident from the locals who said the accused was planning to escape to Dubai. Also read | Man attacked for stopping two people from drinking outside his house in PuneA look out notice was issued for the accused and a team sent to Lal Bahadur Shastri International Airport, Varanasi, where the accused was caught the same evening. A case was registered under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code against Tiwari following a complaint by the girl’s father.Confirming the incident, Dr Singh said, “The accused was caught before he could flee the country.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-attacks-16-yr-old-girl-with-knife-arrested-from-varanasi-airport-101611554653026.html
25-01-2021||Lucknow||AMU to bury time capsule of its 100-year history on Republic Day||Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) vice-chancellor Tariq Mansoor will bury a time capsule containing the history and achievements of the institution in front of the Victoria Gate on the campus as part of the centenary year celebrations on January 26. The AMU is completing 100 years of its establishment hence this decision was taken, said officials. The five-foot-long capsule weighing 1.5 tonnes will be placed 30 feet beneath the ground and the event would be telecast online, said Dr Rahat Abrar, chairman of the content committee and spokesperson for AMU. “The time capsule is made of highly tempered steel weighing 1.5 tonnes. To safeguard the material inside, nitrogen gas has been filled and acid resistant paper is being used to ensure the longevity of the time capsule,” he said. Also Read: UP govt issues 1,43,929 scholarships to studentsA committee was constituted to determine the content to be placed in the capsule and Abrar was made its chairman while AMU registrar Abdul Hamid was its general convenor. “The event, part of the AMU’s centenary year celebrations, will be held online at 11am and the V-C will be the chief guest on the occasion,” stated Abrar. “Sir Syed was in Varanasi when he thought of the university, which came into being in 1920. We have compiled the history and achievements of AMU since its beginning. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had released the stamp for AMU’s centenary celebrations on December 22, 2020,” he added. The then Viceroy of India, Lord Edward Robert Lytton, was in Aligarh on January 8, 1877 for the foundation stone-laying ceremony of the Muhammadan Anglo Oriental (MAO) College. At that time, a similar exercise of burying a time capsule was undertaken by Sir Syed Ahmad Khan, the founder of AMU, though it was not termed as so, said Shafey Kidwai, the head of the mass communication department at AMU and another spokesperson of the university. “The district gazette dated January 12, 1877, makes a mention of a similar exercise. It mentioned a bottle that carried details about Madarastul Uloom (a madarsa upgraded to MAO College) along with coins made of copper, gold and silver which placed in the cavity of the foundation stone,” added Kidwai. On September 9, 1920, the then viceroy, Lord Chelmsford, had passed the bill for the upgrade of Muhammadan Anglo Oriental (MAO) College to the status of a university.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/amu-to-bury-time-capsule-of-its-100-year-history-on-republic-day-101611554592689.html
25-01-2021||Lucknow||UP: Arrested on kidnapping charge, teen now booked under anti-conversion law||A 17-year-old boy, who allegedly kidnapped a 15-year-old girl from a village in Ghazipur district of Uttar Pradesh on January 20, has now been booked under the state’s anti-conversion law along with other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).The girl’s family had lodged a complaint against the boy who belongs to another community, alleging that he abducted the girl to marry her by force. A case under section 363 (kidnapping), 366 (abduction with intent to marry) was registered against the boy on January 21 and a team was deployed to trace the duo. Also Read: UP govt issues 1,43,929 scholarships to studentsThe boy, who allegedly intended to marry the girl, has been nabbed and the girl was rescued on January 22, said the police.The same day, said the officer, the girl’s family alleged that the boy also forced her to convert. Thereafter, section 120 B (criminal conspiracy) and relevant section of UP prohibition of unlawful conversion were added to the case. “Soon after the girl’s kin filed a complaint, a case was registered under the relevant sections of IPC and a team was deployed to search for them...The boy was produced in the court from where he was sent to a juvenile home. Further investigation is on,” said the circle officer. He said the girl would be produced before the magistrate as well for recording her statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-arrested-on-kidnapping-charge-teen-now-booked-under-anti-conversion-law-101611552852365.html
25-01-2021||Lucknow||UP considers reducing liquor quota limit for homes||After making home license mandatory for possession of liquor above the permissible limit, the Uttar Pradesh exercise department is going to reduce the home stock limit. This is being considered in a bid to stop misuse of liquor in the name of private consumption, people involved with the development said.Two weeks ago, the new excise policy approved by the state Cabinet made a license mandatory for stocking liquor above the prescribed limit at home. The policy also prescribed ₹12,000 as the annual licence fee plus ₹51,000 security deposit.Talking about the maximum limit for home stock, excise commissioner P Guruprasad said, “There is already a 2010 notification that prescribes the retail purchase limit of liquor by individuals.”But that notification was on clear on whether stocking beyond the prescribed limit was an offence or not. As such, action taken on people caught with extra stash was arbitrary. In some cases, people were reportedly given the benefit of the doubt while in others, they were reportedly harassed and punished. According to the 2010 notification, there are different limits for each category of liquor that can be stocked at home. (See graphic) “The new policy is clear that keeping liquor beyond the permissible limit is an offence, unless one has a valid license,” he said.According to Guruprasad, it is being felt that the present maximum permissible limit for home possession of liquor is on the higher side. “Currently, one can stock a total of around 26 litres of liquor of different brands at home at one time and this is being considered to be unreasonable,” he said.He said there was a proposal to reduce the current home stock limit so that private buyers cannot misuse the provision. He was, however, not forthcoming on what the new maximum home possession limit could be.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-considers-reducing-liquor-quota-limit-for-homes-101611550273399.html
25-01-2021||Mumbai||Farmer’s protest: Maharashtra ruling parties likely to join Mumbai rally today||Leaders from the three ruling political parties in Maharashtra are likely to join Monday’s public rally by farmers who have come from across the state to Mumbai’s Azad Maidan. The public rally will then proceed towards Raj Bhavan. Farmers have been arriving in Mumbai, some of them travelling over 200 kms, for two days to protest against the contentious farm laws and in solidarity with those protesting at the Delhi borders for about two months now.The three ruling parties, Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress, along with all Left parties and Aam Aadmi Party, have announced their support to the protest. Key leaders, including NCP chief Sharad Pawar, Sena leader Aaditya Thackeray and state Congress chief Balasaheb Thorat, are likely to join the sit-in at Azad Maidan.Also read | Farmers’ tractor parade on R-Day: Routes, arrangements, traffic advisoryThe protest march is a part of agitation being undertaken under the banner of Samyukt Shetkari Kamgar Morcha (SSKM), which aims to intensify the farmers’ struggle in capital cities across all states.It is not clear if the police will allow the farmers to march to Raj Bhavan for security reasons; there are indications that the rally will be allowed only till Metro Cinema. Meanwhile, the police have stepped up security at Azad Maidan. “We will deploy another 100 officers and 500 police constables to maintain the law and order situation. Nine platoons of state reserve police force have been provided and drones will keep a watch,” said Mumbai spokesperson and deputy commissioner of police S Chaitanya. Farmers have been gathering at Azad Maidan with many social and political organisations pitching in to organise their food and stay. Monday’s programme comprises a public rally between 11am and 2pm followed by the march to Raj Bhavan where a memorandum will be handed over to Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari demanding repeal of the three laws. “Our main demand is repeal of these farm laws and a law guaranteeing Minimum Support Prices (MSP) across the country along with the withdrawal of electricity amendment bill,” said Ashok Dhawale, convenor, SSKM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/farmers-protest-maharashtra-ruling-parties-likely-to-join-mumbai-rally-today-101611549012454.html
25-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Fire reported in Yusuf Sarai, Meera Bagh; injured hospitalised||Two incidents of fire, one of them caused by a cylinder blast, were reported from two areas in Delhi between 1am and 8am on Monday, fire department officials said. The cylinder explosion was on the second floor of a guest house in south Delhi’s Yusuf Sarai.Two persons were rescued by the fire fighters from a building on fire in outer Delhi’s Meera Bagh near Paschim Vihar. They suffered burns and have been admitted to Safdarjung hospital for treatment, said Delhi Fire Services (DFS) chief Atul Garg. According to Garg, the fire control room received a call at 1.05am about a fire in a building at State Bank Nagar in Meera Bagh. “Seven fire tenders were rushed to the spot. The fire was in the fourth floor flat, an office of property dealers. Two persons were trapped in the flat. They were rescued and shifted to Safdarjung hospital,” said the fire chief.Also Read: Farmers’ protest: Key Delhi borders remain closed, curbs on traffic till R-DayThe two rescued men, identified as Desh Raj, 68, and Neeraj, 44, suffered 50% and 10% burns respectively. It was not immediately known if the two were property dealers..In the second incident, two cylinders exploded on the second floor of Gandhi guest house in Yusuf Sarai around 8am. Nobody was injured in the blast or blaze. Three fire tenders were sent to douse the flames, said Garg.Deputy commissioner of police (southwest) Ingit Pratap Singh said that the guest house is names after the father of its owner, Monu Gupta. The guest house is on the ground floor while the owner lives above it, said the DCP.“Cylinder blast was in the owner’s house and not in the guest house. No casualties have been reported. The blaze was controlled by the fire fighters,” said DCP Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-fire-reported-in-yusuf-sarai-meera-bagh-injured-hospitalised-101611548412067.html
25-01-2021||Patna||In Bihar, ‘Kamalam’ has been helping farmers earn a decent livelihood for years now||The dragon fruit may have grabbed the nation’s attention after being renamed ‘Kamalam’ by Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani, but the low-calorie fruit has been helping farmers in Bihar earn a decent livelihood for years now.Farmers who are looking to try something new, and are doing away with traditional farming, are easily earning ₹8-10 lakh per annum with a one-time initial investment of ₹6-8 lakh on a hectare of land in Kosi and Seemanchal areas of Bihar.Also read | Gujarat govt decides to rename dragon fruit as ‘Kamalam’It all started in 2014. Kishanganj Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK) horticulture scientist Hemant Kumar Singh has the story. “The success story of dragon fruit cultivation in Kishanganj dates back to 2014, when an enterprising farmer, Nagraj Nakhat, brought about 500 saplings from Singapore. Initially, he tried with 100 plants which have grown to 15,000 to 20,000 full grown plants on about five hectares of land. The initial investment on a hectare of land is ₹6-8 lakh which is required for construction of 5-foot barge polls, tyre rings and farm equipment for drip agriculture. After a three-year gestation period, the investment starts paying and farmers easily earn ₹8-10 lakh per annum.” Singh, who has been assigned the task of spreading awareness and guiding the farmers about the dragon fruit in Kishanganj and adjoining districts, said farmers from nearby districts, including Purnia, Supaul and Araria, frequently enquire about the method of dragon fruit cultivation and they have started growing it at their places. “In Kishanganj alone, the dragon fruit is grown on about 12 acres of land and farmers of Kosi and Seemanchal districts are trying it in their districts,” he said. “Initially, farmers faced problems in selling their produce, but now the system has been streamlined and buyers from Siliguri in West Bengal come to pick up the fruits. On an average, the fruit sells at ₹300-400 per kg,” he said. Farmer Nagraj, who brought the fruit to the area, said, “In case of traditional crops, many processes were involved and you have to rely on the minimum support price (MSP) to sell your produce. In dragon fruit cultivation, I am unable to meet the demand of even the local market. The government should encourage the farmers with subsidies and providing technical know-how.” The KVK has set up a 500 sq mt field to demonstrate to farmers how the dragon fruit crop is grown and its varieties. “The most popular variety is the red fruit with red pulp,” Singh said. “The Bihar Agriculture University, Sabour, has posted a video on method of growing dragon fruit, which has been widely viewed by farmers,” said BAU, acting vice-chancellor, RK Sohane. Elaborating on the government’s scheme to encourage cultivation of the dragon fruit, deputy director, horticulture, Rakesh Kumar, said, “From this year, we are preparing saplings of dragon fruit on 0.4 acre land at our centre of excellence (CoE), at Desri in Vaishali district. The saplings will be provided to farmers at 50% subsidy i.e; at ₹20 per plant.” He added that after its success in Kishanganj, the government was focusing on area expansion of the crop. “We will also popularise its cultivation in south Bihar,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/in-bihar-kamalam-has-been-helping-farmers-earn-a-decent-livelihood-for-years-now-101611547753145.html
25-01-2021||Lucknow||Ayodhya is heart of India, says Bollywood singer Sonu Nigam||Bollywood singer Sonu Nigam referred to Ayodhya as the “heart of India” and the most revered place for Hindus. Nigam, along with Congress leader Sanjay Nirupam and Bollywood director Sandeep Singh, reached Ayodhya for his maiden visit on Sunday evening. The singer, who is often in the news for his views, paid obeisance to Ram Lalla at Ram Janmabhoomi and attended aarti on Sunday evening. Nirupam and Singh also attended the aarti. “For the several years I wanted to come to Ayodhya. Today, my long cherished wish has been fulfilled,” Nigam told mediapersons after leaving Ram Janmabhoomi. “Ayodhya is the most revered place for Hindus. It is the ‘heart of India’,” said Nigam. Commenting on the under-construction Ram Mandir, he said: “The most beautiful thing (Ram Mandir) is being constructed in Ayodhya. It will be India’s pride.” He also visited Hanuman Garhi temple.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ayodhya-is-heart-of-india-says-bollywood-singer-sonu-nigam-101611546311824.html
25-01-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Key Delhi borders remain closed, curbs on traffic till R-Day||Traffic around Delhi borders remained heavy because of the ongoing farmers’ protest and intensified checking of vehicles entering the national capital because of the Republic Day celebration’s security arrangements. While borders like Singhu, Auchandi, Mangesh, and Tikri have remained closed for the last two months due to the presence of thousands of farmers protesting against the three contentious farm laws, the Ghazipur-Ghaziabad (UP Gate) and Chilla (Delhi-Noida link road) are partially open only for traffic moving towards Ghaziabad and Noida. As the protesting farmers have occupied the carriageways going towards Delhi at these two borders, motorists are using alternate border points such as Anand Vihar, Apsara, Bhopra, Loni, Kondli, Dallupura, DND, New Ashok Nagar, and Kalindi Kunj to enter Delhi from Uttar Pradesh. Also Read: Farmers across India prepare for Republic Day stirSince no vehicle is allowed through Singhu, Auchandi, Tikri and Mangesh borders, the Delhi Traffic Police have diverted the traffic between Delhi and Haryana through Lampur, Safiabad, Piau Maniyari, Singhu School and Palla toll tax borders. The other borders between Delhi and Haryana are open, but traffic is slow because the police have been checking vehicles entering Delhi ahead of the Republic Day celebrations.The Delhi Police have made elaborate security and traffic arrangements for the Republic Day celebrations and certain restrictions on some roads, especially around the national parade route at Rajpath, will come into effect from Monday evening.As per the traffic police’s advisory, no vehicle will be allowed on Vijay Chowk 6pm onwards on January 25 till the parade is over on January 26. Rajpath is already out of bounds. No cross traffic will be allowed on Rajpath intersections at Rafi Marg, Janpath, and Man Singh Road from 11pm on January 25 till the parade is over, the traffic police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-protest-key-delhi-borders-remain-closed-curbs-on-traffic-till-rday-101611545231701.html
25-01-2021||Patna||Bihar: 1-month notice period clause for contractual employees triggers row||The general administrative department’s (GAD) recent circular on contractual appointments has triggered a major row with opposition parties denouncing it as the government’s move to get rid of those on contract.An estimated 1.1 million personnel are working in various departments on contracts, as the government had opted to discontinue the appointment of regular staff several years ago.The GAD’s latest guidelines for engaging staff on contracts evoked widespread criticism, primarily due to the insertion of a clause that allows the government to remove anyone with one month’s notice.Also Read: Notorious interstate contract killer Dhanji Pandey arrested in BiharSenior Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Shivanand Tiwari and Congress leader Prem Chandra Mishra lambasted the government for its design to keep contractual employees on tenterhooks by offering them just one-month notice period.“The state government did not offer jobs as promised during the elections,however, announced a policy that will take away our jobs. The GAD circular made it clear that the contractual employees should not aspire to work on regular basis despite possessing necessary qualification and work experience,” said the RJD leader.Congress MLC Prem Chandra Mishra said, “The government decision has raised a serious question mark on all the announcements made by them earlier.”Principal secretary, GAD, Chanchal Kumar, did not respond to repeated attempts made to contact him. However, a press release by the GAD stated that the circular issued on January 22 regarding contractual employees was basically a reiteration of a similar circular issued by the department in September 17, 2018 to ensure various benefits to them as per the recommendations of an expert committee.The press note further claimed that no facility which is being currently offered to contractual staff was being withdrawn.The press note, however, did not refer to the concerns of contractual employees in connection with regularisation and the notice period of one month for termination of service.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-1-month-notice-period-clause-for-contractual-employees-triggers-row-101611543912084.html
25-01-2021||Delhi||Traffic disruptions on NH between Karnal and Delhi from Jan 25-27||In view of security and traffic arrangements for Republic Day and the proposed tractor rally, commuters will face traffic disruptions on the National Highway between Karnal to Delhi and Rohtak to Delhi from January 25 to January 27, said Haryana police.Traffic on KMP-KGP Expressway will also be impacted and interchanges at Kundli, Assaudha and Badli will not be accessible to traffic movement on these dates.Therefore, all commuters are being advised not to use these routes on these dates, to avoid any inconvenience.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/traffic-disruptions-on-nh-between-karnal-and-delhi-from-jan-2527-101611533687701.html
25-01-2021||Dehradun||20-yr-old takes over Uttarakhand CM role on Girl Child Day||Twenty-year-old Shrishti Goswami who took over the charge of Uttarakhand chief minister for one day on Sunday gave suggestions on three main points — safety of children and girls, checking drug usage among youngsters and stopping hill migration in the state.Goswami, who hails from Haridwar, on the occasion national girl child day on Sunday, made her suggestions during the child assembly session while she interacted with officials in Dehradun.Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said nominating Goswami as the chief minister of child assembly for a day and organising a session in the state legislative assembly on national girl child day is a matter of pride and respect for all the girls in the state. “Such initiatives will also inspire them to fulfil their responsibilities towards the society,” he said.Goswami, a student at a Roorkee-based institution, while symbolically holding the position of the state’s CM for one day, reviewed various ongoing government-run development programmes after officers made presentations before her.Goswami, while talking to reporters, said, “As the CM, my priority was issues related to children as I know what kind of problems they face. These suggestions will be put before the State Child Rights Commission which will then be conveyed to the CM,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/20yrold-takes-over-uttarakhand-cm-role-on-girl-child-day-101611533020639.html
25-01-2021||Mumbai||Groping without skin contact not sexual assault, rules Bombay High Court||The Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court has set aside the conviction of a man who was found guilty under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act for groping a 12-year-old girl four years ago, commuting his punishment.It couldn’t be deemed an offence under the Pocso Act because there had been no skin-to-skin contact with sexual intent, the bench observed in its ruling on January 19. The man allegedly pressed a breast of the minor. “Admittedly, it is not the case of the prosecution that the appellant removed her top and pressed her breast. As such, there is no direct physical contact i.e. skin to skin with sexual intent without penetration,” the court observed.“In view of the above discussion, this court holds that the appellant is acquitted under Section 8 of the Pocso Act and convicted under minor offence u/s 354 of IPC {Indian Penal Code} and sentenced him to undergo RI (rigorous imprisonment). for one year and to pay fine of ₹500/-, in default of fine to suffer RI for one month. The sentence for the offence punishable under Section 342 of the IPC i.e. six months and fine of ₹500/-, in default to suffer RI for one month, is maintained,” noted the bench.Under the Pocso Act, the man had been sentenced rigorous imprisonment for three years and a fine of ₹500; in default of which he was to spend one more month in jail. The man was convicted by the extra joint additional sessions judge, Nagpur on February 5, 2020 for the offence punishable under Section 8 of the Pocso Act read with Section 354 of the IPC and sentenced to suffer rigorous imprisonment for three years and to pay fine of Rs500/-, in default of fine to suffer rigorous imprisonment for one month. The verdict was pronounced on January 19, 2021.According to a complaint lodged by the mother of the minor with the Gittikhadan police station, Nagpur on December 14, 2016, her 12-year-old daughter had gone out of the house to get a guava. On the way, the man stopped the daughter and told her that he would give her a guava and took her to his house. In his house, the appellant pressed a breast of the minor and also attempted to remove her salwar. As the minor shouted for help, he ran away.The mother said she had been informed by a neighbour that the man had taken her daughter to his house. When the mother confronted the man, he denied having seen her daughter, which prompted the mother to search his house, where she found the minor who told her about the incident. She then lodged a police complaint.Arguing for the appellant, advocate Sabahat Ullah submitted that the statement of the mother was on hearsay because she had not witnessed the incident and also raised doubts about the minor’s account. The bench, however, did not accept the submissions. Additional public prosecutor M J Khan opposed the appeal and said that the offence indeed amounted to a sexual assault. After hearing the submissions, the bench observed that the submissions of the state were not acceptable because the appellant had not removed the top of the minor when he committed the offence.“On prima facie perusal of the order, I feel that when section 354 of the IPC is applied in the case of a minor, then both section 7 and 8 of the Pocso Act has to be applied as well. The Act has been made with the aim of safeguarding minors against sexual assault and hence the investigators and the lawyers should pay attention to the fact while collecting evidence, arguing or passing orders and ensure that the accused person is not let off easily,” said Pravin Ghuge, former chairman of the state Child Rights Commission,||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/groping-without-skin-contact-not-sexual-assault-rules-bombay-high-court-101611531281209.html
25-01-2021||Mumbai||Farmers reach Mumbai, vow to intensify agitation||Travelling for more than 200 kms over last two days, thousands of farmers from across Maharashtra reached Mumbai on Sunday evening for an agitation against the contentious three farm laws and in solidarity with the farmers protesting at the Delhi borders. The farmers have announced to take out a morcha to Raj Bhavan after a public meeting at Azad Maidan on Monday.Ruling parties Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party and Congress and other political parties including Aam Admi Party, communist parties have announced their support to the agitation.Key leaders including NCP chief Sharad Pawar, Sena leader Aaditya Thakeray, state Congress chief Balasaheb Thorat are likely to join the sit-in protest at Azad Maidan on Monday.This is a part of agitation being undertaken under the banner of Samyukt Shetkari Kamgar Morcha (SSKM) which aims to intensify the farmers struggle in main capital cities across all the states. Manay social and political outfits and labour unions have joined hands under SSKM to support the protest.The farmers who started their vehicle march from Nashik on Saturday. According to the organisers, farmers from as many as 21 districts have joined the march from Nashik.Rajesh Pinjarkar, who owns three acres land in Chandrapur, called it a conspiracy against the farmers. “We might get good price in the beginning but after that they will take over our land and make us contract workers there,” said Pinjarkar.Leelatai Valvi, who travelled from Nandurbar for 17 hours to come to Mumbai said the whole aim of these laws was to enslave them. “These are black laws meant to snatch our livelihood and hand over our land to the multinational companies,” said Valvi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/farmers-reach-mumbai-vow-to-intensify-agitation-101611531003952.html
25-01-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ rally allowed after Republic Day event ends||The Delhi Police on Sunday gave in-principle approval to farmers to carry out their tractor rallies in the national capital from three border points – Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur – on Republic Day, even as the police said there were inputs that some elements in Pakistan could make attempts to disrupt the event.The police permitted the tractor rally after the Republic Day celebrations end in the afternoon on Tuesday.The three routes are around 194km in length, of which over 100km will fall inside the national capital, said Dependra Pathak, special commissioner of police (intelligence). The police said there would be around 40,000 Delhi Police and paramilitary forces personnel deployed on January 26.Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Friday told farm unions that the government would not repeal the three contentious agricultural laws, and a proposal to suspend the legislation for 18 months was the best it could offer. The farm unions said that they would be going ahead with a tractor rally in Delhi on January 26, but said they would do it after India’s Republic Day celebrations and not disrupt the official function.While the police pegged the number of tractors at around 30,000, farm leaders said there would be about 250,000 tractors entering Delhi from the three border points.Late Sunday evening, the farm leaders held a press conference, assuring that their rally would be peaceful and that no one would be allowed to consume intoxicants or carry weapons of any type. In a press statement after the briefing, the leaders said that their volunteers will take action and remove tractors from the rally if they deviate from the decided route or park on the roadside.The police said that the three routes were chosen to ensure there was no disturbance to the Republic Day parade, the central parts of the city were unaffected and there was as little trouble to local residents as possible. Pathak said that the permission was granted after the police ensured that adequate security will be provided to the rally to ensure that it is carried out with “dignity, honour and respect” even though “clouds of threat hover” over the event.“An analysis by the Delhi Police’s intelligence unit and other security agencies has revealed that between January 13 and 18, at least 308 Pakistani Twitter handles were tweeting using hashtags that could create disturbance in the rally. There are also inputs of attempts to cause violence by Pakistan-based terror groups. But we are prepared to ensure the rally happens without any trouble,” said Pathak.During the press conference, the police also shared screenshots of tweets from proxy accounts in Pakistan, journalists in Pakistan and one political leader from the neighbouring country tweeting with “#Support Khalistan”. The officer said that social media influencers such as Radio Pakistan and other prominent handlers were also tweeting about the farmers’ protest.Detailing the route for Tuesday, the police said the farmers at the Singhu Border will cover 63km and their rally will pass through places such as Sanjay Gandhi Transport Nagar, Kanjhawala, Bawana, and KMP Expressway before returning to the same place. The rally from Tikri will pass through Nangloi, Najafgarh, Jharoda, and KMP Expressway and cover a distance of 62.5km. The farmers at Ghazipur will drive their tractors through Apsara border, Hapur road and Kundli Expressway while covering a total of 68km. Police teams will escort and tail the vehicles at the three places.The farm leaders said they will move at a speed of 20km per hour and that they have many vehicle mechanics and enough fuel to ensure that the tractors do not break down.Pathak said they will ensure the tractors keep moving, no tents are set up anywhere, space is provided to emergency vehicles and there is proper coordination between the police and the farmer volunteers – at least 2,000 such volunteers are in touch with the police.“We are bringing along 50 private ambulances, a host of vehicle mechanics and carrying extra fuel to ensure vehicles do not stop. We’ll be moving at not more than 20km/hr speed,” said Kulwant Singh Sandhu, the general secretary of Jamhuri Kisan Sabha.The police will try to ensure that the rally ends the same day, but Pathak said it would depend on the number of tractors that turn up at the rally. As per police estimates, there are about 15,000 tractors at the city’s borders, but they are aware that more are on the way.“If there are about 30,000 tractors in all, we should be able to wrap up the rally by the end of the day. But anything more than that could spill over to next day,” said another senior police officer who did not wish to be identified.But Sandhu said that there will be at least 200,000 tractors and the rallies could range from 24 hours at Ghazipur Border to 48 hours at Singhu and Tikri border points. “In a place as far as Ludhiana, trucks moving towards Delhi are travelling in two lanes,” said Sandhu.What the police as well as farm leaders agreed on was that the farmers will return to their respective places after the rally, and not camp inside Delhi. “We trust them to return,” said Pathak. Sandhu agreed. “We are a disciplined force,” he said.A consensus on the routes was arrived at on Sunday after six “marathon meetings” between the farmers and the police forces of Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana over the last week.“Along the routes, we have arrangements for evacuation and providing medical aid to the farmers in case of any trouble,” said Pathak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-rally-allowed-after-republic-day-event-ends-101611528983524.html
25-01-2021||Delhi||700 victims of Delhi riots file claims for damages||The North East Delhi Riots Claims Commission (NEDRCC) which was set up by the Delhi government to evaluate the damage to public property caused during last February’s riots and the recovery process has received 700 applications so far from people affected by the communal clashes.The commission has also extended the date for filing claims till February 15 from the earlier deadline of January 15. The first deadline for claims was December 31, 2020.The panel has received applications for compensations against damaged property and deaths or injuries to family members during the riots.The commission has also received the approval of Delhi’s lieutenant governor (L-G) Anil Baijal for the appointment of a panel of five loss assessors, and their appointment is likely to be completed by the end of the next week, said retired Delhi High Court judge Sunil Gaur, who was appointed the claims commissioner by the high court in March. “The appointment procedure for loss assessors has started and it will be completed soon. The process of assessing the human and property losses in the riots will begin after the scrutiny of all the received applications,” said Gaur.The court appointed Gaur after the Delhi government wrote to the court registrar general, seeking the appointment of a claims commissioner. This came following Delhi Police’s decision to recover the cost of damages to public and private property during the riots in north-east Delhi from people identified as “rioters”.A total of 53 people were killed and more than 400 were injured in the riots that ravaged parts of north-east Delhi in February last year. Police have registered 755 cases related to the communal violence.Initially the commission, having its office at old Delhi Police headquarters at ITO in central Delhi, was receiving applications for compensations against property losses. But when people who were either injured in the riots or had lost their family member(s) also started visiting the commission office for compensation, the claims commissioner allowed the filing of such applications as well.“We will take deaths or injuries related complaints on priority so families of the deceased can get justice and their compensations first,” said Gaur.Among the 700 applications for compensation, one claimant, Ikramuddin, has sought a compensation of ₹10 crore against the death of his 19-year-old son Aqib (single name) on February 24. Aqib was out shopping for his sister’s wedding with ₹1,000 he got from his parents, when he received serious head injury in stone pelting during the communal violence in Bhajanpura and succumbed to his injuries in a hospital five days later.Being the main earning member, Aqib’s death left his six-member family struggling to make ends meet. “We got ₹5 lakh compensation from the government but the money was spent on my daughter’s wedding and returning the loans we had taken for Aqib’s funeral. We have demanded ₹10 crore as compensation as my son would have earned at least this much in his life had he been alive,” said his father Ikramuddin.Irshad Khan, a resident of Shiv Vihar, was in his first floor rented home with his 12 family members and relatives when alleged rioters set it on fire on February 25. “The blaze destroyed everything in our house, including electronic items, clothes. We were forced to take shelter in a camp set up by the government for families affected by the riots,” said Khan.Khan’s family received ₹25,000 as compensation. Since the money was not enough to start afresh, the family has moved the NEDRCC and sought compensation of ₹2.5 lakh against the items they lost.Explaining the commission’s functioning and responsibilities, Gaur said the scrutiny of applications will be done to avoid duplication, since they were handed physically and sent through email, or by post. The ones that do not need the commission’s intervention will be discarded. The scrutinised applications will be given to the loss assessors, who will visit the riot-affected areas, meet the claimants, carry out inspection and verification of the claims, compile their reports, and submit them before the commission.“The loss assessors will also take into consideration all investigations carried out by agencies, including the police, while verifying the claims and preparing their reports. I will go through their reports before finalising them and submitting them to the Delhi high court. The court would take the final call on the compensation amount,” added the retired judge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/700-victims-of-delhi-riots-file-claims-for-damages-101611527062593.html
25-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi: 2 Ugandans held for smuggling heroin||Customs officials at Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International airport on Sunday arrested two Ugandan nationals for allegedly trying to smuggle 9.8 kilos of heroin into the country. Officials said that one of the arrested men is suffering from a heart ailment and he was promised a handsome amount in return of delivering the narcotics consignment in India. The man accompanying him is his cousin and both were traveling to India for the first time, officials said.The two passengers were identified as Hamuza Sserugo, 34, and Umar Sebandeke, 36. The smuggling attempt came to the fore around 4am on Sunday when the two passengers landed at Delhi airport from Doha and were intercepted following a tip-off as they crossed the green channel.They were both asked to cooperate for a detailed search. “During search of their checked-in bag, a total of 51 pouches, containing 9.8 kilos of white powder, were recovered. While 45 pouches were recovered from Sserugo, his cousin Sebandeke was found carrying six pouches. The recovered powder was subjected to chemical test that proved it to be heroin. The total value of the recovered contraband is estimated to be worth ₹68 crore. Both the passengers were booked under the NDPS Act (Narcotic Drugs & Psychotropic Substances Act) and the recovered drugs were seized,” said a senior customs officer from Delhi airport.The officers said both the passengers had concealed the heroin filled pouches in a false cavity of their suitcase along the edges.“Their questioning further revealed that Sserugo is suffering from a heart ailment. He said he was promised good money for his medical treatment in India iof he and his cousin successfully delivered the narcotics,” the officer said.“It is being probed if the two men were connected with a bigger syndicate. They claimed that they needed money for the medical treatment of their relatives. Efforts to track their contacts in India are also being made,” the officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-2-ugandans-held-for-smuggling-heroin-101611526916047.html
25-01-2021||Delhi||Two detained for raising ‘Pak Zindabad’ slogans||A banker and a real estate broker were detained by Delhi Police during the early hours on Sunday when they were spotted near Khan Market Metro station in New Delhi, shouting slogans of “Pakistan Zindabad”.A couple of passers by called the police control room to report the incident. The duo, however,were released after a detailed verification, senior police officers said.Police said that the two men told police that they had hired Yulu bikes and named them Hindustan and Pakistan, to race with each other. The dup claimed that they raised the slogans in context of the race, the police officers said.The incident took place around 1am, when some locals and passersby heard them shouting the slogans and reported the matter to the police.The call alerted security agencies as the New Delhi area has been put under a multi-layer security cover due to Republic Day celebrations.A police team found two men and three women present at the spot. “They had hired Yulu bikes. On questioning, it came to light that these two families, along with their children, had come for sightseeing around India gate and had rented Yulu bikes. They started racing on Yulu bikes and had named the bikes after the two countries. They said that during the race, they shouted those slogans to cheer for the two respective teams,” said a police officer.DCP (New Delhi) Eish Singhal said the two men were detained and during questioning their claims were found to be true.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/two-detained-for-raising-pak-zindabad-slogans-101611526610928.html
25-01-2021||Kolkata||Mamata Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek hits out at BJP||Trinamool Congress MP Abhishek Banerjee on Sunday hit back at the Bharatiya Janata Party over accusations of nepotism in his party, daring the Centre to bring a legislation allowing only one member of a family in politics.The Diamond Harbour MP, who is also West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew, said he will quit politics if the Centre brings such a law.Banerjee said Prime Minister Narendra Modi should table a bill banning more than one member of a family from active politics and the next moment, Banerjee will no longer be in the political arena.“From Kailash Vijayvargiya to Suvendu Adhikari, Mukul Roy to Rajnath Singh, there are other members of your families who occupy important posts in the BJP. If you ensure that there will be only one member of a family in active politics, there will be only Mamata Banerjee from our family in the TMC,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/mamata-banerjee-s-nephew-abhishek-hits-out-at-bjp-101611526424857.html
25-01-2021||Environment||Delhi had 7 of India’s 10 bad air hot spots last year: Report||In 2020, seven of India’s 10 most polluted areas were in Delhi, data from a recently launched air quality dashboard shows.The Continuous Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Standards (CAAQMS) dashboard also shows that on January 23, ITO in Central Delhi was the most polluted locality in the country by a significant distance. At the ITO intersection, one of the busiest in the Capital, the 24-hour PM2.5 (ultrafine particulate matter with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres) average on Sunday was recorded 529ug/m3.In comparison North Delhi’s Jahangirpuri, which occupied the second place on the list, recorded a PM2.5 reading of 261ug/m3.The CAAQMS dashboard, which is a part of the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) tracker project, has been developed by Mumbai firm Respirer Living Sciences and Carbon Copy as a one-stop platform to collate pollution data and make available seasonal, monthly and annual emission averages of cities across the country.The national list of most polluted localities in 2020 according to this dashboard was topped by Sidhu Kanhu Indoor Stadium in West Bengal, where the average PM2.5 levels were 140ug/m3. Jahangirpuri occupied the second spot here as well, with PM2.5 levels around 131ug/m3 through the year.This list also included, in order, Bawana, Rohini, Mundka, Anand Vihar, Nehru Nagar, and Vivek Vihar (See Chart 1).This year too, initial trends have not been promising for Delhi. The list of 10 most polluted localities of India this year, according to the average PM2.5 recordings of 2021 (between January 1 and January 24), featured eight areas from Delhi, with Ashok Vihar recording the worst PM2.5 levels, followed by RK Puram and Jahangirpuri.Apart from localities in Delhi, areas from other states that have featured in the list are Talkatora District Industries Centre in Lucknow (124ug/m3), which was ranked seventh and Loni in Ghaziabad, which stood eighth (123ug/m3) (See Chart 2).The dashboard’s list of 10 most polluted areas in the past 24 hours had areas from Delhi occupying the first four stops.ITO, which had the worst PM2.5 levels between January 23 and 24, is followed by Jahangirpuri, Anand Vihar and Wazirpur. Okhla Phase 2 and Nehru Nagar held the sixth and seventh spots in the list, while Vivek Vihar and Patparganj were ninth and tenth, respectively.Experts said such intense monitoring was needed to design pollution control plans at macro and micro levels. SN Tripathi, head of the civil engineering department at IIT-Kanpur, said since NCAP started in 2019, said India is now a fifth of its way through the plan’s targets, and it is important to increase emission monitoring. “It is a five-year plan, with a target to reduce PM2.5 and PM10 by 20-30% by 2024. The measures being taken now are aimed to increase accountability,” Tripathi said.Ronak Sutaria CEO, Respirer Living Sciences, said, “The dashboard has allowed transparency for not just PM2.5 and PM10 data, but also for harmful gases such as Nitrogen oxides (NOx), ozone (O3) and carbon monoxide (CO).”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/environment/delhi-had-7-of-india-s-10-bad-air-hot-spots-last-year-report-101611522717729.html
25-01-2021||Delhi||‘Notorious’: Another tryst with infamy for Delhi’s Palika Bazar||Last week, Baljit Singh Kohli’s office was inundated with phone calls after Palika Bazar was named in 2020 Review of Notorious Markets for Counterfeiting and Piracy by Office of the United States Trade Representative ( USTR). “A lot of them were shopkeepers of the market, but nobody seemed to know abut the agency, or what it said about the market,” says Kohli.“Palika Bazar, the underground market in Delhi is reportedly well-known for the trade of counterfeit products,” according the review by the US agency, which has also listed the Tank Road market in Delhi’s Karol Bagh besides Heera Panna in Mumbai, Kidderpore in Kolkata, and Snapdeal, one of India’s largest e-commerce platforms.Kohli, chairman, Palika Bazar Shopkeepers Welfare Association, countered the assessment. “Our market has completely transformed from an electronics market to a garments hub in the past decade. Most of what we sell now is made in India and some of it could be Chinese like in any other market in the city. So where is the question of counterfeiting and piracy?” he says.The listing by USTR was another chapter in the controversial history of India’s first air-conditioned underground market. The brainchild of late Congress leader Sanjay Gandhi, Palika Bazar was built by the NDMC during the Emergency in a record time of less than a year and opened in 1979. Initially, the shops were allotted to post-Partition refugees who had their shops on Panchkuian Road.“When the market opened in 1979, it mostly had handicraft, gift shops, and many restaurants such as Hackman’s and Tiffin Top; and Lords, the famous ice-cream parlour. However, there were only a few customers,” says Darshan Lal Kakkar, 65, president of the market association, who runs a Forex shop in Palika Bazar.“But the 1982 Asian Games in Delhi came as a big boost to the business here.”By the mid-1980s, as the popularity of audio and video cassettes grew, many gifts and garments shops in the central hall of the market began selling electronics items. And by the late 1980s, the market became a favourite haunt of those looking for video cassettes of Bollywood and Hollywood blockbusters, video cassette players, and a few years later for Walkman, Discman, cameras, digital diaries, gaming consoles — all imported or smuggled from Dubai, Hong Kong, Singapore and Thailand.Not just electronics, the bazar was also a popular place for shoppers of Timotei shampoo, Converse shoes and many other foreign brands in the pre-globalisation era. Many shops like Clydes that sold heavy metal band merchandise commanded a large fan following. And, in summers, many Delhiites descended the steps of the market simply to escape the heat.Piracy hubThe first major blow to the market’s reputation came in the mid-90s when there was a major police raid on the shops selling video cassettes, and many shop keepers, who were allegedly selling pirated movies, were arrested. That was also the time when the market gained an unsavoury reputation for being an underground porn hub.While Sanjay Arora , a shopkeeper in the market, says adult movies were mostly sold by hawkers who came to the market from outside, another shopkeeper who does not wish to be named admits that a few video cassette sellers in the market had set up units in places such as Nangloi, with as many as 200 VCRs churning out pirated copies of movies. Some of these, he says, did sell adult movies mostly reproduced on cheap video cassettes. “There was a lot of money to be made in the 1980s in the video cassette business and piracy thrived in the market,” he says.Most shops in the central hall and its mezzanine floor that once sold only video and audio cassettes are today electronics goods and garments shops. In fact, today Palika presents a curious sight—there are many shops with a front sign identifying them as electronics shops, but they are actually selling garments and shoes. So, you have a Rainbow Video selling ladies garments; Sound Trek, another electronics shop, selling garments at a fixed price of ₹250.Changing businessMost of the erstwhile owners of the electronics and video cassettes shops have been experimenting with different businesses for the past decade.For instance, Jasbir Singh Gill, 66, who was once known in the market as cassette king, started a small snacks shop three months ago, having run a garments shop for over a decade.Similarly, many other shops that were popular in the 1990s have changed their line of business. Clydes, which used to sell heavy rock bands cassettes and merchandise including T-Shirts, shorts and beanies. “In the 1990s, apart from tourists most of our clients were fashionable, English-speaking youngsters from Delhi, Mumbai, and northeastern states of India. Our customers had been dwindling drastically. We stared selling garments by 2005, as the number of our customers had dropped drastically,” says Sushil Deshwar, who runs the shop with his brother.Some shopkeepers feel that the dubious reputation of Palika Bazar has adversely affected their business. Rakesh Talwar, who runs Leather Talks, a leather goods shop, says he opened the shop in the market in 1979. “We were based in Kolkata, where we produced our goods. In the first few years, we felt our decision to open our second outlet was right. But today, I feel suffocated here; it has not been easy convincing customers about the genuineness of products because of the market’s reputation for counterfeiting,” says Talwar. “This does not even remotely resemble the market I came to in 1979,” he says.Similarly, Rajat Gupta, who runs Rajiv Book House, set up by his father in 1979, bristles at any reference to the market having been an electronics hub. “It had some of the finest bookshops, attracting book lovers from all over Delhi and outside. But yes, our business is down like never before and we are currently weighing our options,” says Gupta.But for Ravi Thakur, Palika Bazar has turned out to be a perfect place for business. He opened his first tattoo shop here in 2013, and today runs four tattoo parlours in the market, which attract a steady stream of customers in an otherwise deserted market, where dozens of tattoo shops have come up over the few years. “Today, Palika is the biggest hub of tattoo parlours,” says Thakur, who runs Tattoo World.But Kakkar is not amused at the market’s new reputation as a tattoo hub. “We have tolerated these tattoo shops as they have helped bring in footfalls. We are trying to figure out how the market can reinvent itself,” he says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/notorious-another-tryst-with-infamy-for-delhi-s-palika-bazar-101611522444272.html
25-01-2021||Delhi||Garbage piles up as strike continues||Garbage continues to pile on the streets of areas under the North Delhi Municipal Corporation as the strike by sanitation employees of the civic body stretched into more than a fortnight on Sunday.On Sunday, garbage lay piled outside dumping sites and roads across many localities in north Delhi, even as the agitating sanitation workers dumped more on the streets in areas such as Model Town, Timarpur, Daryaganj, Civil Lines, Sadar Bazar, Mukherjee Nagar, Narela, Rohini, Karol Bagh and Keshavpuram.Sanitation workers along with the employees of other departments such as nurses, paramedic staff, teachers, engineers, horticulture department staff, clerical staff started an indefinite strike on January 7 against non-payment of their salaries for the last three months. The strike is being conducted under the aegis of Confederation of the MCD Employees Union — an umbrella body of 45 associations of three civic bodies.“Our strike will continue and we will not return to work until salary of employees of all departments are cleared,” Ram Niwas Solanki, general secretary of the confederation, said.Besides payment of salaries, sanitation workers are also demanding regular jobs.JP Tank, president Delhi Nagar Nigam Shramik Sangh, said, “We will continue our strike and will not remove garbage from any locality. We have not been paid salaries of October, November and December. January is also about to end so one more month will be added when our salary will be due. We want a permanent solution to this problem so we have decided to continue our strike despite the mayor’s announcement of two months salary payment, which is yet to be made.”Residents, meanwhile, complained about stench and garbage not being lifted from across north Delhi areas due to the ongoing strike.“All streets are littered with garbage here. Even as the Covid-19 pandemic sweeps through the country, this garbage menace is further endangering public health, said Anam Khan, a resident of Daryaganj near Golcha Cinema.Manish Bajwa, a resident of Sadar Bazar, said people are bearing the brunt of the face off between the civic authorities and the state administration.“When we go to the sanitation workers, they say they are on strike. Neither the government nor the civic bodies are paying attention to the crisis. Residents are the real sufferer,” he said.Jai Prakash, mayor North Delhi Municipal Corporation, said that arrangements are being made to clear pending salaries of all employees. “We have released two months salaries of sanitation workers. I now appeal them to return to work as garbage is seen strewn across streets. Salaries of other department’s employees will also be released soon,” Prakash said.Responding to this, acting president of Delhi Nagar Nigam Shramik Sangh, Pawan Tank said, “Sanitation workers are yet to get the said salaries. And also it is now not a matter of only sanitation workers but it is concerned to all civic employees. We have supported the call of the strike by the confederation so we will continue the strike until the matter is resolved.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/garbage-piles-up-as-strike-continues-101611522242221.html
25-01-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: The mom-and-pop around the corner||The small stationery shop is noticeable because it also sells magazines, an increasingly endangered sight in these days of online reading. Then, you notice shelves decked with greeting cards, an increasingly endangered sight in these days of social media greetings. Then, you notice a row of DVDs... what’s that?!And then all these sights are trumped by the sight of the owners, sitting by the counter. The elderly couple running the Rachna Book House look totally devoted to each other. Clad in a grey cardigan, with a bindi on her forehead as tiny as a dot, Kanta Oberoi turns towards her husband, Tilak Raj, declaring that the long-time establishment is a consequence of his earnestness and hard work. Mr Oberoi blushes at the compliment, though it’s difficult to confirm because of his face mask.The store has been in South Delhi’s SDA Market since the 1980s, “but he laid its foundation 50 years ago,” the lady says, talking of her husband.Mr Oberoi’s father, a partition refugee from Pakistan, died when Mr Oberoi was seven. Mr Oberoi thus started working as a young newspaper delivery boy to support himself and his mother. “I would pick the papers from Scindia House (in Connaught Place), and deliver them on bicycle in Defence Colony and Kotla.” Those early years were tough “especially because I would get the payment from subscribers only at the month’s end, and then so many people would delay paying up.” For instance, he would knock only to be told that the customer was still asleep or taking a long shower.Regardless, he succeeded enough to open up a pavement stall in Green Park, and later on managed to take up this shop on rent. The couple named it after one of their four daughters.Waving his hand towards the latest edition of Reader’s Digest, Mr Oberoi says, “It costs 100 rupees... at one time, I would sell it for 50 paisa.”The couple concedes that the number of magazine buyers has gone down, “especially with the coronavirus, because the lockdown forced so many magazines to stop publishing their issues on print.” Very few folks are buying magazines, the lady notes, forcing them to sell mineral water bottles and face masks.You ought to visit this shop to hang out with the friendly couple. They live in Sheikh Sarai and commute by auto rickshaw. The shop opens from midday to 8pm. “We are senior citizens, so we arrive late,” says the lady matter-of-factly, as her husband gazes upon her mask-covered face.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-mom-and-pop-around-the-corner-101611522010575.html
25-01-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Minor tweaks lead to major jump in overall Covid-19 vaccinations||The Covid-19 vaccination centres across Delhi have witnessed sharp increase in turnout over the last four days after the government resorted to minor protocol changes, apart from investing on campaigns that contributed to confidence building among beneficiaries.According to senior government officials, the measures introduced include out-of-turn vaccine shots, for not only those beneficiaries who are allotted slots on future dates, but also those who missed their shots for some reason, informally allowing centres to exceed the cap of 100 shots per day on ensuring full compliance, and letting beneficiaries take their shots in any centre that is convenient for them instead of the ones in which they were registered.Delhi has an estimated 300,000 health care workers, of which 240,000 have registered for vaccination, said government records. So far, 25,762 of them – out of a targeted 42,578 – have been inoculated in five days, government data said, reflecting an overall turnout rate of 60.5%.“The walk-in process, or the out-of-turn window for jabs, have been opened for all since Saturday. Now, people who are registered for future dates as well as those who have missed their vaccines can voluntarily approach a centre any day to check availability of slot and get vaccinated,” said a government official in the health department.The official further said, “Several vaccine centres are also taking the liberty of administering more than 100 shots per day, even though there is no official directive in this regard yet. In such cases, the centres have to take permission from the district magistrate’s office and assure 100% compliance along with social distancing .” Delhi has 81 vaccination centres, which are functional between 9 am and 5 pm on Mondays, Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays.“As far as the provision regarding allowing beneficiaries to take shots in any centre is concerned, the centres have to update the master file to ensure there is no double counting. They also have to ensure that a person’s name is enlisted for a reminder for the second dose in 28 days. Several centres have allowed this facility since Saturday,” said another official.On Saturday, the city recorded a turnout of 86% at its centres – the highest for a single day since the drive was launched on January 16. Also, in a first, two (out of 11) revenue districts in logged 100% turnout on Saturday. Delhi recorded vaccination turnout of 53% on January 16, 44.2% on January 18, 48.8% on January 19, and 73.4% on January 21.Dr Suneela Garg, director professor of community medicines department at Maulana Azad Medical College in Delhi and member of the Lancet Covid-19 commission and vaccination task force for India, said “More vaccination centres should be set up. The state government is working on a proposal regarding this. Timely policy tweaks have helped. The provision to allow centres to administer more than 100 shots has been discussed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-minor-tweaks-lead-to-major-jump-in-overall-covid-19-vaccinations-101611519639070.html
25-01-2021||Budget||‘Debt waiver can restore farmer faith in the govt’||Gurdhian Singh, 42, a resident of Seona village in Punjab’s Patiala district, has big expectations from the upcoming Union budget. But he is not sure what the government has in store for the agriculture sector.“The way negligible yearly increase is given in the minimum support price (MSP) on crops, particularly wheat and paddy, it seems not many farmers, especially small and marginal, could continue to earn a livelihood,” said a worried Singh, who owns eight acres of land and has a family of five to support: two sons, a wife and parents.“It is tough to support the entire family and its needs on eight acres, because prices fixed by the government are too low. I operate a harvest combine and have a small dairy of four-five buffaloes to generate additional income for my family,” he said, standing in his wheat field.The Centre allocated ₹1,38,564 crore for the agriculture ministry in the 2020-21 budget, five percent of the outlay. The increase was primarily because of allocation of ₹75,000 crore for the PM Kisan Nidhi Yojana, the federal income support scheme for farmers.The Centre also said it increased MSP for paddy 2.4 times and for wheat 1.5 times in the past six years and implemented the 2004 Swaminathan Commission recommendation of assured price of 50% profit over the production cost.But Singh thinks it is not enough. “We can grow any crop such as wheat, paddy, sugarcane, potato, vegetables and even fruits. Mother earth has not let us down, but successive governments have cheated us,” he rued, giving an example of increase in MSP on paddy from ₹1,835 per quintal in 2019 to ₹1,888 in 2020. “It’s an increase of ₹53 for 100 kilograms of paddy; just 53 paise per kilogram. It’s a cruel joke played on us,” he said.Singh pointed out input costs such as diesel prices, labour and agro-chemicals had increased four or five times, but MSP had not kept pace.Many of Singh’s fellow farmers are currently agitating outside Delhi to press for the repeal of three controversial farm laws passed in September. They argue these laws will threaten the MSP regime, threaten the government-backed procurement system and leave them at the mercy of big firms.The government has offered to put the laws on hold for 1.5 years and assured that MSP will continue, but the stalemate will continue.“The government is trying to take away the rights of the farmers through unjust laws. The three laws should be repealed which intends to make farmer a subject of the corporate. Not only farmers but people in all other avocations have stood united against these laws,” he said.He said in the 2021 budget, the Centre should announce an MSP of ₹3,000 per quintal for wheat and paddy so that recommendations of the Swaminathan Commission of 50% profit on the input cost is truly implemented.He also wants the Centre to waive the debt of farmers and allow them to make a new beginning. As per State Bank of India research, non-performing assets of farm loans was ₹8,79,000 crore at end of the 2018-19 financial year. In the past five years, the annual increase of farm loan NPAs was 10%. “Debt waiver would restore farmer faith in the government,” Singh said, adding that he has an outstanding loan of ₹18 lakh.He hopes that more farmers are covered under the PM-Kisan scheme. He also sought a special corpus fund for crop diversification so that the burden of procuring wheat and paddy could be curtailed. “Farmers will diversify if the government assures a good price,” he said, recalling his experience of making a loss when he grew potatoes, maize and vegetables.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/budget/debt-waiver-can-restore-farmer-faith-in-the-govt-101611518716556.html
25-01-2021||Delhi||No halts allowed during Republic Day tractor rally: Delhi Police||The Delhi Police on Sunday said they will focus on ensuring that the protesting farmers’ tractor rally on Republic Day does not halt anywhere in the Capital, and that there is no “disturbance” during the programme, even as they claimed to have received intelligence inputs concerning groups that would look to disrupt the event on Tuesday.The police said they also chose the three routes for the day keeping in the available medical facilities along the way, to deal with any potential emergencies.The police on Sunday gave protesting farmers an “in-principle” approval for the tractor rallies in the national capital from three of Delhi’s border points — Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur — on Republic Day.The tractor rally has been allowed to set off after Republic Day celebrations end in the afternoon, officers said on Sunday.The police said they received intelligence inputs about terror groups from Pakistan looking to disrupt the rally. Dependra Pathak, special commissioner of the Delhi Police’s intelligence unit, said the team had analysed Twitter posts and identified 308 accounts originating in Pakistan that were tweeting a hashtag supporting the demand for Khalistan while writing about the farmers protest in the city. Those using the hashtag included Pakistani journalists and politicians, the police said.The police will be deployed throughout the route along which the tractor rally is scheduled, said. “There will be a police team accompanying the pilot tractors of the rallies from each of the three border points. They’ll be carrying out anti-sabotage checks on the move,” said Pathak.The police have also made arrangements for evacuation in case of any trouble and the routes were chosen keeping this aspect in mind, he said. “We have identified hospitals along the routes that will help us carry out the evacuation in the event of any emergency,” he said.Farmers said they had made their own preparations for the day. “We are bringing along 50 private ambulances, a host of vehicle mechanics and carrying extra diesel to ensure the vehicles do not stop. We’ll be moving at no more than 20km/hour,” said Kulwant Singh Sandhu, general secretary of Jamhuri Kisan Sabha.The farmers will also bring along cooked food and water so they don’t have to halt at any point.The rally was permitted after the farmers agreed to a host of terms and conditions, said the police. “The tractors will not be accompanied by trolleys, they won’t demonstrate anywhere along the route, they won’t halt anywhere or set up tents, they’ll allow emergency vehicles to pass and in case of an emergency, clear the roads for an evacuation plan,” said a senior police officer, who asked not to be identified.Apart from this, the farmers must have their own teams of traffic marshals, first-aid teams, and fire fighting equipment. “They are also required to keep Covid-19 guidelines in mind, and ensure no more than five farmers are on one tractor. All of them must wear masks,” said the officer.No firearms or swords are allowed during the tractor rally.Most farmers who are coming to the national capital just for the tractor rally are expected to return to their villages at the end of the event.“But those who were at the protest sites previously will continue to stay,” said Sandhu.While police officers said they hoped the number of tractors won’t exceed 30,000, farmer leaders said there will be over 200,000 vehicles at the rally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-halts-allowed-during-republic-day-tractor-rally-delhi-police-101611517911309.html
25-01-2021||Delhi||Minimum temperature in Delhi to fall from today, pollution to rise: IMD||The maximum temperature in Delhi was six degrees below normal on Sunday, as a dense fog enveloped the Capital the early hours of the day. Scientists from the India Meteorological Department (IMD) warned that the city’s minimum temperature would fall from Monday, and a return of cold wave conditions — the third time this season — was likely.According to the IMD, while the minimum temperature at Delhi’s representative Safdarjung observatory was 8.8 degrees Celsius, a notch above the season’s normal, the maximum temperature did not increase much, and was six degrees below normal. The maximum temperature recorded at the observatory was 15°C.IMD scientists said the low maximum temperature could be attributed to the dense fog cover over Delhi in the early hours of Sunday.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said Sunday felt colder because the fog in the morning had risen further above the ground during the day. This means the fog layer that was closer to the surface in the morning rose higher as the day progressed, but did not clear. This blocked sunlight and did not allow the ground to get warm.“On Sunday, the wind direction has also changed to north-westerly. From Monday, the minimum temperature will start falling and there is a possibility of cold wave-like conditions in many parts later in the week,” Srivastava said.Dense to very dense fog reduced visibility over all of the Indo-Gangetic Plains on Sunday, according to IMD. Scientists said this persisted through the day in many north-western states.“During the early morning, the relative humidity was 100% and cold north-westerly winds were blowing. A combination of the two led to the fog,” said Srivastava.The dense fog also caused the pollution levels to rise in Delhi. Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data shows that on Sunday the overall air quality index (AQI) in Delhi was 364, in the ‘very poor’ zone. On Saturday, the AQI was 326.The System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) forecast that pollution levels will continue to rise till January 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/minimum-temperature-in-delhi-to-fall-from-today-pollution-to-rise-imd-101611517559290.html
25-01-2021||Delhi||Avoid areas around Republic Day parade routes on Jan 26: Traffic police||The city traffic police in an advisory issued on Sunday warned that several routes leading to Rajpath and Vijay Chowk near India would be shut from Monday evening, as the agency stepped up security in the area ahead of Republic Day on Tuesday. The police said these closures would impact traffic movement in and on the outer periphery of Lutyens’ Delhi till Tuesday afternoon.Joint commissioner of police (traffic) Manish Kumar Agrawal said the parade will start from Vijay Chowk at 9.50 am and proceed towards National Stadium, while the tableaux will start at Vijay Chowk and proceed to the Red Fort ground.Agrawal said no traffic will be allowed at Vijay Chowk from 6pm on Monday till the parade is over. Rajpath will also remain out of bounds for the period.“No traffic will be allowed at Rajpath intersection from 11pm on Monday at Rafi Marg, Janpath, and Man Singh Road till the parade is over. C-Hexagon at the India Gate will also be shut for traffic from 5 am on Tuesday till the tableaux crosses Tilak Marg. From 4am on Tuesday, traffic at Tilak Marg, Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg and Subhash Marg will not be allowed on either carriageway,” the joint commissioner said.He asked residents to plan their journeys in advance, and avoid the parade and tableaux routes between 4am and 12.30pm on Tuesday.If the journey is unavoidable, Agrawal said commuters are advised to take Ring Road via Ashram Chowk to reach Sarai Kale Khan and I.P. Flyover to Rajghat. From SJ Madarsa, via Lodhi Road T-intersection through Aurobindo Marg, AIIMS chowk one can reach the Ring Road to head towards Dhaula Kuan and reach Mandir Marg via Shankar Road. From Ring Road, the route towards the ISBT, Chandni Ram Akhara, Mall Road to Azadpur will also be available, the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/avoid-areas-around-republic-day-parade-routes-on-jan-26-traffic-police-101611515917514.html
25-01-2021||Chandigarh||Poultry sales pick up again in Chandigarh tricity||Chicken and egg sales, which plunged after avian Influenza was confirmed in Panchkula and Dera bassi, are normalising, with prices increasing too, sellers confirm.“With no case of bird flu transmission to humans, people are less paranoid about contracting the disease. Around 80% of our chicken meat and eggs business has normalised,” says Ashish Kumar, president of the Meat Market Association of Sector 21.With increase in demand, prices of poultry products too are going up, albeit slowly, Kumar added. “Prices of broilers, which had fallen to ₹130 per kg, are now back to anything between ₹150 to ₹160 per kg. Wholesale price for eggs, which had fallen too, is now back to ₹450 to ₹460 per 100 eggs.” Supply was steadying too, he added. Other retailers, however, said sales were increasing slowly.Deepak, owner of Chawlas Chicken at Sector 46, said, “sales have started to improve, but we are still struggling with chicken. People seem to have switched over to mutton and fish, for which sales are high. However, it will take some time for chicken sales to improve. Chicken shops in Panchkula and Mohali also reported a slight improvement in sales. “We are selling about 50% of what we used to sell before we were hit by bird flu. The price of broiler chicken has gone up from ₹130 to ₹150 per kg. Price of a tray of 30 eggs, which had gone down to ₹150, is now up again to ₹170,” said Harsimran Bedi, proprietor of Bedi Chicken in Sector 2, Panchkula.Ricky, proprietor of RK Chicken Shop in Mohali’s Phase 5, said “Sales were not affected much in the city even after bird flu was confirmed in Dera Bassi. After a slight dip it’s business as usual for us.”Assuring people that there was no harm in chicken consumption, Dr Kanwarjit Singh, joint director of the UT animal husbandry and fisheries department, said, “We are keeping a strict vigil on poultry birds in and around Chandigarh. People have nothing to fear, and as long as they cook food over 70 degrees Celsius it is safe for consumption.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/poultry-sales-pick-up-again-in-chandigarh-tricity-101611514928876.html
25-01-2021||Other||Ambala MC’s doorstep delivery of services a hit||The Ambala municipal corporation’s doorstep delivery of services, the first in the state, is being lauded as a change-maker.The service that was officially kicked off on July 28 by city MLA Aseem Goel and commissioner Parth Gupta offers delivery of birth, death and marriage certificates, at the doorstep of the applicants.As per the figures shared by officials, the civic body had received more than 9,500 applications till December 31, out of which nearly 9,100 applicants had received their documents.Rest of the applications were still incomplete due to non-furnishing of required documents by the applicants, an official involved in the process said.In addition to the facility-related fees, an additional ₹100 is to be paid as service charge that can be paid through cash or BHIM app.Services applied through WhatsAppAs per the process, the applicant has to apply for the service through the WhatsApp numbers or a calling number, on which all information related to the facilities is available.The field staff will call the applicant and enquire about the documents, and then they will coordinate on a call, said Sunil, a member of the field staff.“After getting all the required documents, the certificate is issued within 2-3 days, depending upon the availability of applicants,” he said.Dr Rishipal of Sector 7, who had applied for a death certificate of his father, said, “I liked the process where I didn’t have to visit the municipal office even once and I could avoid standing in long queues. I received my certificate a day after the staff came home to take my documents.”City residents Sandeep, who had applied for a birth certificate, and Bharat Jain, who had applied for a marriage certificate, also appreciated the timely service. Commissioner Parth Gupta said, “We were the first in the state to start such a service and we’ve received an overwhelming response. The service charge is also nominal and doesn’t create a financial burden. Earlier, the applicant had to visit the office twice or thrice to get the certificates physically. Also, due to the pandemic, residents still avoid going to crowded places and this service gives them an option to stay at home.”Mayor Shakti Rani Sharma said that she’ll discuss with the officials and consider that other services related to properties be added to this process soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ambala-mc-s-doorstep-delivery-of-services-a-hit-101611514868162.html
25-01-2021||Dehradun||17-year-old Nikita takes charge as DM Champawat for a day, reviews work||Seventeen-year-old Nikita Arya took charge as the district magistrate of Uttarakhand's Champawat district for a day on the occasion national girl child day on Sunday.Arya was nominated by district magistrate (DM) Champawat for symbolically taking over as the DM of the district for a day. She held a meeting with the officers from various departments and reviewed their work.Arya said, “It was a pleasant and memorable experience for me that I was nominated as the district magistrate for one day. I got a chance to take a meeting with the officers and review their work. I learnt many things in the process.”Also read: Uttarakhand CM for a day, 20-year-old Shrishti Goswami takes stand on 3 points Nikita is a class 12 student of Kasturba Gandhi Aawasiya Vidyalaya Tanakpur in Champawat. She hails from Sipty village situated in the interiors of the district. Her father works in a private factory in Sitarganj and her mother is a housewife.“My dream is to become an IAS officer and this opportunity has further strengthened my determination. It was a unique opportunity for me to sit with the officers from various departments, review their work, and learn from them” Arya said.SN Pandey, DM Champawat said, “Nikita was nominated as the DM for one day of our district on Balika Diwas. The objective was to inculcate confidence in her and other girls in the district. She took a meeting of the officers of various department and showed keen interest in their work and how things are done in the government”Prema Thakur, warden at the KGBV, Tanakpur, said, “We are proud that a student of our school was nominated by the district administration as the DM on Balika Diwas. We have 150 girls in our school from remote and interior areas of the district. Nikita’s exposure will motivate other girls also to think big and work hard”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/17yearold-nikita-takes-charge-as-dm-champawat-for-a-day-reviews-work-101611514307447.html
25-01-2021||Other||Tractor ferries tractor as farmers use jugaad to reach Delhi for R-Day||Failure to plan means planning to fail. Farmers from the district going to New Delhi to be part of the much-publicised tractor rally on the Republic Day on Tuesday, have planned their travel. Some tractors are carrying 3-4 tractors on its trolley, after erecting a stable platform. In other tractors, water tankers are being ferried for protesters. In many tractors, indigenous solar mobile charging panels were also being carried. Around 20,000 farmers have left for Delhi. Beant Singh, a farmer from Alamgir village in Ludhiana, said this was the prime example of Punjabi ‘Jugaad’ (innovation). “The fuel cost of a trip to Delhi and back is between ₹6,000 and ₹7,000 for a farmer from Amritsar and Hoshiarpur.”Gurpreet Singh, of Malkapur village, was ferrying five tankers, each containing 2,000 litre of potable water in it. He added that potable water was needed as the water available on the borders was hard and tasted bitter.“We had sent packaged drinking water bottles, but it caused pollution. This time, we are taking tankers of potable water. Some volunteers have provided cans for storing water,” Gurpreet added.Surinder Singh, of Amritsar, said farmers who had visited the Singhu border talked about vehicular pollution and rush. “Affluent farmers have come to the aid of marginal farmers as many of them wished to join the tractor rally, but did not have enough cash for fuel. We decided to take such farmers along and ferry their tractor as well. The protest has led to the crash of walls between the rich and the poor farmer,” Surinder added. Beant added, “Our idea to carry tractors on trolleys also leads to fewer vehicles on road, and lower pollution. From four drivers ferrying four tractors separately to reach the same destination, one driver is ferrying three to four tractors.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tractor-ferries-tractor-as-farmers-use-jugaad-to-reach-delhi-for-rday-101611514810221.html
25-01-2021||Other||Another girl of Gill village govt school ‘ends life’||Another student of the Government Senior Secondary School for Girls in Gill village has allegedly died by suicide. She was a Class-12 student of the Arts stream. The girl allegedly took the extreme step on January 16, just five days after another student of the school had hanged herself in the biology lab of the school.As per information, the family of the second suicide victim had cremated the body without reporting the matter to the police. The Universal Human Rights Organisation (UHRO) has taken up the matter with the police for investigation. UHRO president Satnam Singh Dhaliwal said that suicide by two girls of the same school within a matter of five days is not normal and police should investigate the matter thoroughly.Delhon police station in-charge, inspector Sukhdev Singh Brar saidthat they have come to know about the suicide of the second student, but the family has already cremated the body. When the police called the girl’s parents for investigation, they told them that the girl was tensed over her academic progress. Police have lodged a DDR and started an investigation. School principal Smriti Bhargav said they had tried to contact her parents, but they were reluctant to share any details with the school. The principal stated that the girl was an average student.The first victim, who had killed herself within the school premises, had left behind a suicide note, stating that she was ending her life as her parents were planning to marry her off while she wanted to continue her studies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/another-girl-of-gill-village-govt-school-ends-life-101611514808863.html
25-01-2021||Other||Mumbai civic body to plant 213,000 more Miyawaki trees||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided to plant over 213,000 Miyawaki trees at 40 locations as part of its urban forest project launched on January 26, 2020. The Miyawaki method, pioneered by Japanese botanist Akira Miyawaki, aims at planting dozens of native species in the same area which leads to an increase in growth rate and density of the plantation. BMC officials said last year’s project received a good response, as 162,000 Miyawaki trees were planted across 24 locations in the first phase. Following the success of the pilot project, BMC has decided to plant 47 types of Miyawaki trees in the second phase. In a statement issued on Sunday, BMC said, “Most of the trees have reached a height of four-five feet in one year. We’ll undertake the second phase of planting Miyawaki trees considering the fact that the trees planted in Phase 1 have grown tall in a year.”BMC plans to plant Miyawaki trees by identifying dedicated spots to avoid plantation on roads and footpaths, thereby preventing casualties owing to tree fall incidents. The trees will also be planted on the 70-hectare green cover on the coastal road between Princess Street Flyover and Worli.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbai-civic-body-to-plant-213-000-more-miyawaki-trees-101611514748841.html
25-01-2021||Mumbai||Delay in admissions for professional courses: Students forced to look for options outside Maharashtra||Vaishnavi Chandra, 18, secured 540 out of 720 in her National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) and was sure to secure admission at a private medical institute in Maharashtra. However, with admissions in the state still underway, Chandra was forced to confirm her admission in Karnataka under the all India quota (AIQ) as a backup. Chandra is among a host of students forced to confirm admissions in states outside Maharashtra, despite wanting to study in the state. The reason: an unprecedented delay in admissions to professional courses. Owing to the Covid-19 pandemic and the confusion over the inclusion of a 12% socially and economically backward classes (SEBC) quota, the admissions to professional courses such as medical, law, management, architecture and engineering have been delayed by over three months. In September last year, the Supreme Court (SC) had stayed all recruitment and admissions in education institutes under the SEBC quota for the 2020-21 academic year, with exception to the postgraduate medical admissions. On September 21, the Maharastra government had filed a petition in the Apex court to vacate the stay on admissions, the court, however, had adjourned the hearing by four weeks. On November 24, the state government released a government resolution (GR) clarifying that all admissions, will for the time being be conducted without the inclusion of the SEBC quota, until there’s clarity from SC, on the matter. Although the Common Entrance Test (CET) Cell, which conducts all admissions, has started the process and is releasing merit lists, many students find themselves in a fix after having confirmed their admissions elsewhere. “The AIQ round is conducted by the Central government and once we confirm our seats in the AIQ round, we are also still eligible for admissions under domicile quota in our state institutes. But this time, MBBS admissions in Maharashtra were delayed due to lack of clarity on Maratha quota and I had no choice but to stick to my AIQ seat,” said Chandra. She added that several students are stuck with their AIQ seat in other states, despite having scored well enough to bag a seat in an institute in Maharashtra itself. The CET cell has so far, declared six merit lists. Students, who have confirmed their seats elsewhere, are worried they may have to forego their fees should they choose to cancel their admissions and come back to Maharashtra. Meena S, 19, a resident of Mumbai, who wanted admission in Sir JJ School of Architecture, has now confirmed her admission in an institution in New Delhi, after waiting long enough for admissions in Maharashtra to begin. Two rounds of merit lists have been announced so far and the process is still ongoing. “I wasn’t sure when the admissions in Maharashtra were to begin. I didn’t want to lose a year, so I secured my seat in Delhi under the AIQ. Now I am unsure about the refund from the Delhi institute if I decide to confirm my seat in Maharashtra. Not everyone can afford to forego the fees for an entire semester,” said Meena. For engineering aspirants, so far only two merit lists have been announced. “In other states, colleges have already started their first semesters. I am attending classes online now, but in Maharashtra, the admission process is in its initial leg,” said an engineering aspirant who has confirmed his seat in Rajasthan. CET Cell, however, maintained that the delay in admissions had not affected the students’ decision in the selection of colleges. “I doubt students faced trouble with admissions delay because the response has been better than we expected in certain courses including engineering. We’ve received more applications this year compared to last year,” said C Joshi, commissioner, state CET cell.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/delay-in-admissions-for-professional-courses-students-forced-to-look-for-options-outside-maharashtra-101611514449034.html
25-01-2021||Chandigarh||Guest column: When no one was plagued by FOMO versus JOMO||Change is the only constant in life. Most of us have heard that before and all of us have experienced it for sure. In fact we are forever living it, adapting to it and then just when we think we are in harmony with our environment there it is, challenging us again. “Change alone is eternal, perpetual, immortal…” Lately I am focusing more and more on the changes that have taken place on the written word and expressions that seem to be the ‘in- thing’. One such expression came my way when I was talking to my daughter- in-law about exiting some chat groups. She asked ‘doesn’t FOMO bother you?’ Now what’s that? Apparently it is a new term used for people who have the fear of missing out on activities taking place in their circle of friends, parties, and any event, social or otherwise, that is likely to be talked about in social circles. Social media has created jealous behavior over illusions. Sadly, some are envious of things, relationships and lifestyles that don’t even exist, whereas earlier in my younger days news did not travel that fast and therefore the reactions were somewhat diluted. Nowadays of course the news is transmitted as it is happening. My generation who are walking the golden path of duties fulfilled, freedom from the social pressures, a generous availability of time and choices galore can enjoy these novel, so called problems, from a distance. The youth today spend as much time photographing selfies as they do enjoying the event. Earlier in my heyday, I would look forward to meeting new people, exchanging news and views about their lives, work and hobbies. Now it’s more important to know who is invited to the party and (more juicier) who’s not; what everyone’s wearing; and pictures that have to be taken to be discussed later. Questions abound: As to why someone was not invited. The responses to this are spiced up with all the required embellishments to evoke discomfort. Every new phrase and situation usually has a brighter side too, the antithesis. So when I heard on a Ted Talk someone mentioning JOMO I felt some relief, almost jubilation. JOMO is the joy of missing out, that gratifying feeling one can get when one can break away from the real and virtual activities and do things one wants to. A recent forward I received which was funny but meaningful said, “You never look as bad as your Aadhaar card and driving license photograph and never as good as you appear on Facebook.” Well that seems true of many things in life too. What we see may not be the true picture of the lives of others and what we do not know is how easy or difficult everyone’s life can be. We need to find a way to create that beautiful balance in our life, and then it can be as interesting as we desire it to be. promildada@yahoo.comThe writer is a freelancer and development guide based in Jalandhar||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-when-no-one-was-plagued-by-fomo-versus-jomo-101611514214173.html
25-01-2021||Chandigarh||Guest Column: To my dear students, from a teacher||As an educator, I experience love for my students. What makes my heart go out to them is that at times I feel these are years of ‘turmoil’ for them. Yet, I also want them to know that this time can be blissful too. That they can work hard and yet create memories that’ll last a lifetime. Life is anyway like a jigsaw puzzle, most of the pieces fit in into the total picture with time, that’s how both hard work and memories will fit in, but, with time, and if in balance. Here, I must narrate how balancing time between studies and relaxation helped me understand and score very well in psychology practicals. Thinking about it transports me to the tutorial rooms and lawns of Lady Shri Ram College… Back during my graduation days (I was pursuing bachelor of arts in psychology Honours), we used to find the practicals quite tough. When I was able to understand a particular topic, I would help my friends get a grasp on it. I used to enjoy doing that since my own concepts would get consolidated. Though my favourite subject was counselling, I secured my highest scores in the practical exam. Those sessions came in handy later in life too, especially during my service as a mental health counsellor. Secondly, it counts to stay connected with roots. Your parents and family members back home might not be as happening and tech-savvy as you and your peers; yet spend time and remain engaged with them. Sometimes, and in other cases, often; they will surprise you with their insight into and solutions offered for your student life challenges. They carry the gift of undiluted love for you. Also, whatever you do, give it your cent percent. Wherever you are, be fully present. A life hack to that is to do what you should be doing, any given moment. If you don’t, then a part of the brain will take you on a guilt trip and the flow or output and quality plus productivity will suffer. For instance, once you are done studying for a decided period of time in a day, rejuvenate; and really, do rejuvenate. Once you are done for the day, sleep after having turmeric-milk, and really, do sleep. One’s heartfelt presence and dedication towards things is bound to take one a long way. Dream! Your parents, teachers, mentors and all other well- wishers want you to dream, and to work towards your dreams. Sometimes, your student life itself will start presenting you with opportunities to start realising your dreams, sometimes you’ll have to wait longer. In any case, do have dreams and desires. They are like the fuel that keeps the vehicle of life going. Lastly, you might constantly be in doubt about the application and real-life utility of your syllabus, yet be sincere towards it. Many a times, later while pursuing one’s career, one realises in retrospect that s/he had applied a particular theory in a unique way. That all the labour filled hours of the study years are working their due magic – guiding one’s line of action. Had one not done justice to those subjects during school and college years, one wouldn’t be actually able to apply them. Remember, we see you as building blocks of the nation, and while everyone harbours hopes and aspirations for you, everyone also wants you to take care of your mind, body and soul, because it’s only then that our real ground level dreams for ourselves and the nation begin to get realised. reemaban@gmail.comThe writer works as an assistant professor (psychology) at Rajiv Gandhi Govt College in Saha (Ambala)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-to-my-dear-students-from-a-teacher-101611514212945.html
25-01-2021||Chandigarh||Guest Column: Miracles do happen, that’s how India won the battle against polio||On January 13 this year, India celebrated ten years without polio, the last patient to be diagnosed with the disease on this date in 2011 being two-year-old Rukhsar of Howrah. For her we were too late but after that India was well on its way to achieving the status of a polio free country. In 2012, the government of India and Rotary organised a polio summit at Vigyan Bhawan, New Delhi and just before the inauguration, Bruce Aylward from the World Health Organisation (WHO), Geneva, came to the dais and announced that India had been removed from the active list of polio endemic countries. On March 26, 2014, India was certified by WHO and declared polio-free. That is the reason why January 13 is a memorable day in the public health history calendar. It was estimated that in 1988, 450 children in India were affected by polio every day. Only 1 out of 200 children who contracted the poliovirus got paralysed. The other 199 went undetected. Experts opined that India would be the last country in the world to eradicate polio (even as late as in 2002), because of its huge cohort of 170 million children below the age of 5, the population density, unsanitary conditions, impure drinking water, and enteric diseases, etc. India’s victory over polio was achieved after a long drawn struggle. From 3,50,000 children affected by Polio in 122 countries of the world in the ’80s, the global partnership of Rotary with WHO, UNICEF, Centre for the Control of Diseases and Prevention (CDC), Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, and numerous partners except for Afghanistan and Pakistan, the world as of now is free of polio. Rotary has contributed more than $1.7 billion and countless volunteer hours to immunise more than 2.5 billion children in countries worldwide. Rotary’s advocacy efforts have also played a significant role in decisions by donor governments to add more than $7.2 billion to the effort. It all began in 1977 when Sir Clem Renouf who was nominated as president of Rotary International came across an article in the Reader’s Digest about eradication of small pox. That prompted him to look for another health challenge facing the world. After discussions with numerous health agencies, polio was identified as the biggest threat to the children of the world. In 1979, Rotary initiated the polio immunisation campaign with Philippines by acquiring six million doses of OPV (oral polio vaccine) developed by Dr Albert Sabin and immunised the total population of young children in the country. Encouraged, Rotary took up this programme to free the world of this dreaded disease. Despite World Health Assembly in 1988 persuading all nations to join in this fight, no substantive headway was made in India. Late Sudarshan Agarwal, then secretary general of Rajya Sabha and also a senior leader of Rotary, prompted some members of Parliament to ask questions in both houses about why India was lagging in polio eradication while many countries had gone far ahead. Due credit has to go to Dr Harsh Vardhan, currently the Union minister of health and family welfare, for his contribution in changing the direction of the polio movement. It was one single factor that helped India finally reach its eradication goal. Before 1994 the bureaucracy at the government of India level did not believe in the strategy of National Immunisation Day (NID), observed so successfully by other countries including large population areas such as China and Brazil. Dr Harsh Vardhan took the immunisation initiative in Delhi on October 2, 1994, naming it the pulse polio programme. With D-Day approaching, however, the plague endemic popped up in Surat with an all-too-real threat over Delhi. However, Dr Harsh Vardhan was determined to go forth. All Rotarians and other stakeholders assured active participation. Wearing masks the health workers of the Delhi government with the support of Rotarians, reached out to 12 lakh children in a single day to protect them from polio and also the plague. The then newly appointed Union health minister AR Antulay grabbed the opportunity and convened a meeting of all state health ministers where I could make a presentation to them. The result was the adoption of a plan for observing NID. This was the changemaker in the policy. It was also decided that to ensure the success of the programme the Indian government had to be in the driving seat, which was also done. Rotary took up the responsibility of supplying the entire polio vaccine stock and also funding the activities of WHO and UNICEF in the country. India has been very fortunate that irrespective of the party in power, the immunisation efforts continued year after year. Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, however, had problems with minority communities boycotting immunisation due to false rumours. The government encouraged Rotary to develop a connect with these communities. Through notable work conducting free polio corrective surgeries and befriending Ulemas this hurdle too was crossed In August 2020, Nigeria, and all of Africa as a result, were declared polio-free.The only countries with polio cases now are Pakistan and Afghanistan. All efforts are being focused on them and after three years of nil cases the entire world will then be polio free, the second disease to be vanquished after smallpox. Step by step, overcoming hurdles, never losing determination despite setbacks, the Indian government with Rotary and other partners moved forward. Indeed, the last decade has shown that persistence, perseverance and perspiration can move mountains. Victor Hugo, well known poet and novelist rightly said, “Perseverance, secret of all triumphs”. The writer is a Chandigarh based industrialist-philanthropist, Padma Shri awardee and member and past president of Rotary Club of Chandigarh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-miracles-do-happen-that-s-how-india-won-the-battle-against-polio-101611514150160.html
25-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra rights body did not hear a single case in 2020: RTI response||On January 9, 2021, 10 premature babies died at the neonatal care unit of District General Hospital in Bhandara after a fire broke out in the hospital. On January 18, 2021, five persons, including two teachers, were booked for gang-raping a minor student in Nanded district of Marathwada region in Maharashtra. During the pandemic and the resultant lockdown, a large number of cases of harassment, child abuse and the violation of child rights like those mentioned above were reported across the state of Maharashtra. However, the Maharashtra State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (MSCPCR), which is a body entrusted with the responsibility of taking cognisance of such cases, did not hear a single complaint in 2020, a response to a Right to Information (RTI) query showed. In a response to an RTI query filed by HT, state’s child rights commission has stated that in 2020, a total of 134 cases were filed with the commission. However, not a single hearing took place that year, leading to a 100% pendency rate as far as action against these cases is concerned.MSCPCR is a quasi-judicial body that hears complaints with respect to child abuse, cases of harassment of children and those pertaining to violation of their rights. Between 2018 and 2020, a total of 416 cases came to the commission, of which 164 cases (nearly 40% were disposed of). The RTI response also revealed that six of the 12 or 50% of the permanent posts in the commission were lying vacant as of January 2021. Over the past few years, parents and education activists have been complaining about the lackadaisical approach of the commission in addressing their complaints. The commission consists of a chairperson and six members who are in charge of hearing the complaints. Every hearing requires a quorum of at least two members. The committee has a tenure of three years unless it is extended further. In June 2020, as the tenure of the previous committee was over, the state government did not appoint new members which in turn led to piling up of complaints. Anubha Sahai, president of Indiawide Parents Association, said complaints sent to the commission remained unaddressed due to the government’s apathy. “During the entire lockdown period, several schools harassed students for non-payment of fees by removing them from online classes and not conducting their exams among other things. None of these complaints got a hearing due to the commission’s current state,” she added. Sahai has recently written to the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) urging it to look into the matter. NCPCR recently took cognisance of the Bhandara incident and asked the district collector to send a report within two days of the incident. Queries sent to state women and child developement minister Yashomati Thakur went unanswered. Uday Jadhav, secretary, MSCPCR, said, “We have requested the state to form the committee at the earliest and it shall be done soon. Since there is no committee at the moment, hearings cannot take place in the absence of a quorum.” Pravin Ghuge, former chairperson of the commission whose tenure ended in June 2020, said the commission’s role is relevant especially now when several cases need its attention. “During the initial months of the lockdown, we worked towards three kinds of children — those living in orphanages, runaway children and those not looked after by their biological parents. We conducted workshops and sensitisation programmes wherein a lot of cases of violations were also found and action was taken in these matters. However, since the tenure of the committee ended in June, the government has not appointed a new committee. Hence issues like the Bhandara incident and other such incidents in the state have not been looked into,” he added. In January 2019, Prasad Tulaskar, a city-based parent, had filed an RTI application to get details about the working of the commission after his complaint filed in 2016 had still not progressed. It had revealed that from 2015 to 2018, the commission had disposed of only 33 of the 280 cases it received during these years. As per the commission’s website, it passed only five orders in 2017-18 as opposed to 90 orders in 2015. “The committee has become a toothless body. Every time we enquire, we are told that appointments are pending. The last hearing of my case took place in 2018 and I have not heard about it since,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-rights-body-did-not-hear-a-single-case-in-2020-rti-response-101611514148788.html
25-01-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand on bird flu alert, over 500 bird samples tested from Kumaon region||Over 500 poultry samples from different farms in the Kumaon region have been tested as the state continues to remain on alert over avian influenza.Dr Ravindra Chandra, chief veterinary officer of Almora district, said, “Over 500 samples from different poultry farms from Bageshwar, Pithoragarh and Almora districts have been tested in the past one and half months. There is no case of bird flu in poultry farms across the state so far. We are taking all precautions with regular sanitisation and testing.”Meanwhile, a press release issued by the Press Information Bureau (PIB) through the Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying on Friday mentioned, “Till January 22, 2021, outbreaks of Avian Influenza (Bird flu) have been confirmed in nine states (Kerala, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Uttarakhand, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh and Punjab) for poultry birds…. Avian Influenza has been confirmed in poultry samples from Almora (RK Pura, Hawalbagh) district of Uttarakhand…”However, officials from the state animal husbandry department said that there is some confusion with the results and that no poultry animal in the state has tested positive for bird flu.Also read: Covid vaccine tracker - How many are inoculated in India and the world“As part of regular monitoring, we had sent samples of poultry from RK Puram and Hawal Bagh for testing in mid-December, the results of which have now come out to be positive. This could be a false positive report as none of the poultry have shown any symptoms, neither has there been any mortality. We have sent a report on this to the state animal husbandry department which is in talks with the Centre regarding the matter,” added Dr Chandra.Dr BC Karnatak, additional director of Kumaon division for animal husbandry department, said that regular samples are being collected from different poultry farms across the region and being tested at two centres - Rudrapur in Udham Singh Nagar district and Hawalbagh in Almora.“We are looking into the matter of samples testing positive for Avian influenza from Almora, as the samples were sent around December 15, when there was no case of bird flu. The type of sample which has tested positive is not always a strong indicator of bird flu. As of now, there is no case of bird flu in poultry farms in the state,” said Dr Karnatak.So far, deaths of hens have been reported from poultry farms in Udham Singh Nagar and Tehri Garhwal districts. Seven hens were found dead in a poultry farm in Bajpur area of US Nagar district on Wednesday. On Tuesday, around 150 hens were found dead in a poultry farm in Tehri Garhwal district. Samples from the farms have been sent for testing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-on-bird-flu-alert-over-500-bird-samples-tested-from-kumaon-region-101611513858597.html
25-01-2021||Mumbai||Personal Finance: How to pick the right health insurance||The unprecedented nature of the coronavirus pandemic revealed for many of us just how unprepared we were to pay hospital bills. Post the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic, demand for health insurance policies has gone up. Here’s a guide on what to keep in mind before you pick up one that suits your needs.How’s the health? There are many kinds of health insurance plans in the market. Currently, health insurance companies offer two kinds of plans: indemnity and benefit-based. Those with indemnity plans are reimbursed the amount spent on hospital bills while those with benefit-based plans are compensated with the predetermined lump sum amount irrespective of the actual expenses incurred. Indemnity plans are available as individual health insurance policies or family floater plans while the critical illness covers available are categorised as benefit-based plans. Adhil Shetty, CEO, BankBazaar.com, an online market place for financial products said, “Indemnity plans and fixed benefit plans fulfil two different requirements. Fixed benefit plans are necessary if one wishes to get specific coverage for a defined illness, while indemnity plans are aimed at minimizing the financial burden of hospitalization arising from any kind of medical exigency.” If you have a high risk of specific ailments in the family, it might be better for you to get a fixed benefit plan as well as an indemnity insurance plan for a comprehensive health cover. “Balancing between both indemnity and defined benefit plans also ensures that any expenses towards pre or post-hospitalization are also covered and health insurance does not remain limited to hospitalization expenses alone,” Shetty said.Check for sub-limitsAn essential feature of indemnity health plans is the sub-limits embedded within the plan. This means that you have to foot a portion of the hospital bills on discharge. This is because in plans with sub-limits, the added charges including doctor fees, nursing charges, ICU charges, etc. are linked to the room rent. In most cases, hospital expenses and room rent are limited to 1% of the total coverage. Raj Khosla, founder and managing director, MyMoneyMantra.com, a financial services company said, “The sub-limits on health insurance plans are the capping on the total claim for specific diseases and medical treatments. Before signing up for medical insurance, it is recommended to check applicable sub-limits. Always opt for a comprehensive health insurance plan for max coverage flexibility and convenience in the long term, though it can be a bit costly and will attract additional premium.”Note the waiting periodHealth insurance plans cover the treatment expenses of unforeseen health problems or diseases. This explains why insurance companies do not cover diseases from the first day of buying the policy as existing ailments are not covered. The expenses on treatment of pre-existing diseases will be covered only post completion of the waiting period. The current insurance regulations mandate a waiting period of four years though some companies limit it to two or three years. The concept of waiting period is alike in both indemnity and benefit based health plans.Find out about co-payment clauseSenior citizens often find the co-payment clause embedded in the health plans they buy. This clause mandates the policyholder to bear a part of the hospital expenses while the rest is paid off by the insurance company. In most cases, insurance companies insert co-payment up to 20% of the hospital bills paid. Rakesh Jain, executive director and CEO, Reliance General Insurance, a private insurance company said, “Co-payment in any insurance claims is sharing of risk, higher the co-payment, higher the insurance company will provide a discount on the premium to customer.”Choose coverage amountNo fixed rule determines health insurance coverage. However, depending on your family’s medical history, your residential city, and the hospitals in your proximity, you may decide the coverage amount. Since medical expenses are increasing, it makes sense to seek adequate coverage to pay off the entire medical costs.Elderly people find it difficult to buy health insurance plans of their choice. This is because many policies have an entry age limitation which bars the aged from buying them. However, those paying for health plans before they turn 60 years are relieved from the burden of co-payment for the entire tenure. Though family floaters covering your entire family including parents are relatively inexpensive, it makes sense to buy a separate health insurance cover for parents to ensure increased coverage. However, health insurance premium increases with age, which is why the old have to spend more on health insurance premiums than their younger counterparts.Personal Finance is a weekly feature that aims to provide our readers pertinent and helpful financial information.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/personal-finance-how-to-pick-the-right-health-insurance-101611513908740.html
25-01-2021||Bhopal||2 former underworld gang members arrested for drug supply link in Madhya Pradesh||Indore police on Sunday arrested three people including two, who were once members of an underworld gang, in connection to supply of MDMA (methylenedioxymethamphetamine) pills, commonly known as ecstasy drugs, worth ₹50 crore in Madhya Pradesh, said police."The two main accused were identified as, Ayub Qureshi from Mumbai, who was convicted in a case of Mumbai Bomb Blast 1993, and Waseem Khan from Nasik, who was a member of the Abu Salem gang and was acquitted in the murder case of founder of T–Series Gulshan Kumar. A resident of Indore, Gaurav Puri was also arrested by the police on Sunday said Yogesh Deshmukh, additional director general of police, Indore.Also read: Covid vaccine tracker - How many are inoculated in India and the worldIndore police on January 5 arrested five people with 70 kilograms of MDMA. Accused Dinesh Agrawal and his son Akshay Agrawal, residents of Indore; Ved Prakash Vyas and Mangi Venkatesh, residents of Hyderabad; and Chiman Agrawal, a resident of Mandsaur in Madhya Pradesh were arrested by the crime branch, Indore in connection with supply of the drugs. Later, the police arrested seven more accused in the case.“During the interrogation, Ved Prakash said it was an organized gang with members all across the nation. Khan and Qureshi are part of a syndicate,” said Deshmukh.“Qureshi, who served five years in jail after he was arrested with a pistol and 52 bullets, is presently managing parking at Bandra Railway station. Qureshi was found involved in the supply of drugs. We are interrogating Khan and Qureshi in the matter for further investigation,” said the ADG.As of now, 15 people have been arrested in the case. The police are investigating the matter and more details will be made public in coming days, said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/2-former-underworld-gang-members-arrested-for-drug-supply-link-in-madhya-pradesh-101611513502612.html
25-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra farmers reach Mumbai to protest at Azad Maidan||Travelling for more than 200km over the past two days, thousands of farmers from across Maharashtra reached Mumbai on Sunday evening for an agitation against the contentious three farm laws and in solidarity with farmers protesting at the Delhi borders. The farmers have announced a morcha to Raj Bhavan after a public meeting at Azad Maidan on Monday. Ruling parties – the Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress – and other political parties, including Aam Aadmi Party and communist parties, have announced their support to the agitation. Key leaders namely NCP chief Sharad Pawar, Sena leader Aaditya Thackeray and state Congress chief Balasaheb Thorat are likely to join the sit-in protest at Azad Maidan on Monday. This is a part of agitation being undertaken under the banner of Samyukt Shetkari Kamgar Morcha (SSKM), which aims to intensify the farmers’ struggle in capital cities across all the states. Many social and political outfits and labour unions have joined hands under SSKM to support the protest. The farmers who started their vehicle march from Nashik on Saturday and took a break at Igatpuri at night had to face many traffic jams to reach Azad Maidan in Mumbai. According to the organisers, farmers from as many as 21 districts have joined the march from Nashik. Many even walked down the Eastern Express Highway to reach Azad Maidan. Although the SSKM has announced its morcha from Azad Maidan to Raj Bhavan on Monday, the police department is unlikely to allow them to step them out of Azad Maidan to march towards Raj Bhavan. After the morcha, the organisers have planned to hand over the memorandum demanding the repeal of these laws to Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari. “Our main demand is to completely repeal these farm laws and enact a law guaranteeing Minimum Support Prices (MSP) across the country along with the withdrawal of Electricity amendment bill,” said Ashok Dhawale, convenor, SSKM. He said the agitation will conclude with the hoisting of the national flag on January 26. “We are not giving permissions as it is Covid-19 period,” said senior police official of the Azad Maidan police station who declined to come on record. There are indications that rally will be allowed till Metro Cinema only. The police have stepped up security at Azad Maidan. “We will deploy extra support in the form of 100 officers and 500 police constables who will be present to maintain the law and order situation. Nine platoons of SRPF have been provided and drones will keep a watch,” said Mumbai spokesperson and deputy commissioner of police S Chaitanya. In Thane, the Shiv Sena unit led by state urban development minister and leader Eknath Shinde organised refreshments and medical check-ups for farmers. Sikh community has organised a langar for the farmers for all three days at Azad Maidan. Ajit Nawale, convenor, SSKM, said the proposed morcha was a message to the Central government. “This will be the message to the Central Government that urban population has joined hands with the farmers to oppose the laws and they need to withdraw it,” said Nawale. He said even after January 26, the agitation will continue. “We will decide on the future of the agitation and will agitate till our demands are met.” Rajesh Pinjarkar, who owns three acres in Chandrapur, called it a conspiracy. “We might get good price in the beginning but after that they will take over our land and make us contract workers there,” said Pinjarkar. Leelatai Valvi, who travelled from Nandurbar for 17 hours to come to Mumbai, said the whole aim of these laws was to enslave them. “These are black laws meant to snatch our livelihood and hand over our land to multinational companies,” said Valvi. Recently, labour unions marched in south Mumbai and held a rally in Azad Maidan in favour of the farmers. Prominent farmer leader Raju Shetti and social activist Medha Patkar had addressed the rally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-farmers-reach-mumbai-to-protest-at-azad-maidan-101611513430185.html
25-01-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: BMC aims to give Covid vaccine to 9,500 healthcare workers daily this week||Starting Monday, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) aims to double the number of healthcare workers (HCW) who will be inoculated daily to 9,500 by setting up 65 centres. Also, vaccination will be carried out five days a week, between Monday and Saturday, instead of the current four. However, as an exception, the vaccination drive will not be held on Tuesday, Republic Day. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner of the BMC, said, “We will conduct vaccination five days a week from this week. On Monday, 65 centres will be set up for vaccinating 9,500 HCW.s, we expect the daily vaccination figures to go up. On Monday, fewer HCWs might get vaccinated, as it is a day between weekend and public holiday on Tuesday.” From January 16 to 23, the BMC has vaccinated 13,365 HCWs. The turnout for the first three days was around 50%, however, on Friday and Saturday, the turnout went up to around 90%. This as the BMC allowed walk-in vaccination for HCWs without any prior appointments. Meanwhile, the current maximum capacity of the BMC is to vaccinate around 15,000 citizens daily and it will be augmented to 50,000 daily in few weeks. However, according to BMC officials, the number can go up to 1 lakh citizens being vaccinated daily once private players are allowed to hold vaccination camps.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-bmc-aims-to-give-covid-vaccine-to-9-500-healthcare-workers-daily-this-week-101611513428879.html
25-01-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra ups Covid-19 vaccination centres to 511, drive to be 5 days a week||The Maharashtra government has decided to increase its Covid-19 vaccination centres from 290 to 511 and to hold the drive five days a week, instead of four, In view of its “adequate” stock of vaccine doses to inoculate 800,000 health workers and the improvement in response.After the initial hesitancy, the turnout for vaccination had improved to 83.73% on Saturday, the fifth day of the vaccination drive as nine districts reported more than 100% turnout. The state has now decided to ramp up the number of centres to the number planned initially, with a target of 50,000 vaccinations daily. The state will complete its 100,000 mark of beneficiaries on Monday after having completed inoculation of 99,242 health workers. It has targeted to complete first doses of all health workers in the next four weeks.“We have more than 1.8 million doses ready to cover all enrolled health workers with two shots. We have targeted to operate 511 centres after Centre allowed us to increase the number, and have activated more than 400 centres till Sunday evening. The number of centres is expected to be increased till Monday morning. Except Tuesdays and Sundays, the drive will be undertaken five days a week now on. We have allowed health workers to walk in for vaccination with vaccinators allowed to add beneficiaries out of the turn,” said Dr Archana Patil, director, state health services. On day 1 [January 16] of the drive, there were 285 centres.Dr Patil said that although actual deadline for the completion of the first dose to all health workers is not set, they want to complete it at the earliest.Another official from the department said that the Centre has also allowed increasing the strength of teams by one member each. “To weed out the difficulty in communication to the beneficiaries due to the glitches in CoWin app, the team of vaccinators has been allowed to contact beneficiaries personally to inform them about their turn. The beneficiaries, who did not turn up during their original schedule, are being adjusted in the subsequent session. At the centres with the good response, additional sessions are being held to complete registered health workers at the earliest.The enrolment of the frontline workers for the inoculation is expected to be completed in next two days. Their actual inoculation is, however, expected to begin only after HCWs complete their first dose and an additional stock of vaccine for them is allotted by the Centre.During the first five days of the vaccination, the response from HCWs went on increasing gradually. From 64% on day 1 on January 16, the percentage improved to 83.73% on Saturday. Backward districts with low human development index registered high response to inoculation. Hingoli (104%),Jalana (113%), Beed (111%), Gadchiroli (136%), Gondiya (143%), Wardha (119%) topped in the number of beneficiaries on Saturday. Meanwhile, the state reported 2,752 new infections and 45 deaths, taking the tally to 2,009,106 and toll to 50,785 on Sunday. Mumbai clocked 479 new cases, taking the tally to 306,050 and seven deaths to push the toll to 11,304. State’s case fatality rate (CFR) stands at 2.53%, although the weekly CFR has fallen to 1.89% over last week.Following Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur and Nashik, the other three cities with high number of cases reported 222, 253 and 105 cases on Sunday. The number of active cases in the state stands at 44,831, with highest active cases, 12,002, being in Pune. State’s recovery rate stands at 91.18%.Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) still accounts for high percentage, 33.43%, or 920 cases, of the state’s daily caseload.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-ups-covid-19-vaccination-centres-to-511-drive-to-be-5-days-a-week-101611513309176.html
25-01-2021||Other||Caste-based census inevitable: BJP national secretary Pankaja Munde||Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) national secretary and its Other Backward Class (OBC) face from Maharashtra Pankaja Munde has called for a caste-based census for OBCs during 2021 census. Terming caste-based census inevitable, the BJP leader tweeted a video clip of a 2010 speech in Lok Sabha by her father Gopinath Munde, in which the late Union minister had demanded caste-based survey to provide “equal opportunities” to OBCs. Her tweet raised some eyebrows as the Narendra Modi government in the Centre has already denied the same demand made by the state government. “We are the citizens of the India, and our census should be conducted … OBCs caste-based enumeration is necessary and inevitable… 2021 census should be caste-based. There’s no doubt that the voice raised in villages will reach the Capital without fail,” her tweet in Hindi stated. Last January, Maharashtra legislature had passed a resolution, unanimously demanding caste-based survey for the 2021 census. However, the Registrar General and Census Commissioner of India informed the legislature that caste-based survey was not possible. “As per the central list, the total number of OBCs in India is 6,285, while the numbers go up to 7,200 if the lists prepared by states and union territories are taken into account. As people use their clan, gotra, sub-castes and caste names interchangeably and due to the phonetic similarities in the names, it may lead to misclassification of castes. It, hence, will be difficult to meaningfully tabulate and classify caste returns,” the letter by the commissioner had stated. Chandrakant Bavkar, president, OBC Sangharsh Samanvay Samiti, said the group has been pressing their demand for caste-based census, as it will clear the scenario of backwardness among communities under various categories. “After Marathas were given reservation, there has been a rising dispute between communities. We also contest the state backward class commission’s survey – based on which the Maratha community was given reservation – as no scientific method was adopted for it. There has been no caste-based survey conducted after 1931, leading to the anomalies about the backwardness of the communities given reservation in various categories. If the Centre is not conceding to the demand, the Maharashtra government should go for caste-based census at state level on the lines of the surveys conducted in other states such as Tamil Nadu and Karnataka,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/castebased-census-inevitable-bjp-national-secretary-pankaja-munde-101611513248829.html
25-01-2021||Other||Mumbai civic body yet to receive ₹20-K crore property tax; top 50 defaulters owe ₹1,600cr||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is yet to receive property tax worth Rs20,000 crore from defaulters, of which the top 50 defaulters owe the civic body Rs1,650 crore.After the octroi was repealed, property tax became the biggest source of income for BMC, followed by the premium paid by real estate developers. The highest defaulter is a commercial building at Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC), which is yet to pay Rs164.92 crore. In the ongoing financial year, BMC has been able to collect only a little over Rs1,000 crore against its Rs6,500-crore target, owing to Covid-19 lockdown. Of the top 50 defaulters, 15 others are major real estate developers, while 20 are state and central government agencies, including the lessee appointed by the Maharashtra government. Government agencies such as the Maharashtra Housing Area and Development Authority (Mhada), owes over Rs54 crore to BMC. The chief officer of Mhada’s Mumbai board, Yogesh Mhase, had not replied to queries on the matter till the time of going to press.Mumbai International Airport has an outstanding of Rs25.59 crore. An official from the airport said, “The amount is disputed for genuine reasons, and based on the final outcome of the reconciliation, we will do the needful.” BMC has maintained that it has sent repeated reminders, and also plans to conduct an auction, in case property tax defaulters fail to pay their dues. Joint municipal commissioner Sunil Dhamne said, “We are undertaking the process of property tax collection, and this year we have collected over Rs1,000 crore. Due action will be taken against defaulters who fail to respond despite repeated reminders. However, for cases where the outstanding is disputed or pending in the court, we will wait for the final outcome.” In January 2020, two months before the Covid-19 outbreak, BMC had launched a drive for collection of property tax, in which properties of 3,564 defaulters were attached, while 262 defaulters lost their water connection. Slamming the civic body, Congress corporator and leader of Opposition in BMC Ravi Raja said, “Real estate developers form the majority of defaulters who have been recently given incentives in premiums. Why should they have any outstanding after taking such benefits from BMC? The corporation must take strict action against private players. In the case of government agencies, I am hoping that the tax money will come to BMC.” Meanwhile, from last week, BMC started sending property tax bills to properties smaller than 500 square feet (sq ft). This was done four years after the Shiv Sena, which heads BMC, promised voters in 2017 corporation polls that it would waive property tax of structures up to 500 sq ft on coming to power. BMC said it is sending bills with a partial waiver, citing only general tax components out of the total seven components have been waived off by the state government. Interestingly, the Sena heads the alliance government in the state too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbai-civic-body-yet-to-receive-20-k-crore-property-tax-top-50-defaulters-owe-1600cr-101611512708882.html
25-01-2021||Chandigarh||Fresh trouble for Tribune flyover project as Chandigarh urban planning dept says it didn’t give approval||The controversial Tribune flyover project has run into fresh trouble, with the Chandigarh urban planning department shooting off a letter to the engineering department, categorically stating that the project does not have its requisite “approval/concurrence”.The letter comes in a rebuttal to the claims made by the technical committee, set up by the UT adviser on the directions of the Punjab and Haryana high court to look into project alternatives, in the minutes of its meeting.The committee includes the UT chief engineer and chief architect besides chief engineers from Punjab and Haryana. The minutes were prepared by the engineering department. The meeting was held in compliance with HC directions to deliberate upon various issues raised in a representation against the construction of proposed flyover, rotary and underpass at the busy Tribune Chowk.The letter comes in the backdrop of the technical committee rejecting all the flyover alternatives, and the UT administration deciding to go ahead with the original proposal. The administration is yet to submit the technical committee report in the HC. It is likely to be discussed in the administrator’s advisory council meeting scheduled on February 10.Currently, the ₹183-crore project is in limbo. Even though the contractor was finalised, the construction couldn’t begin. In November 2019, the HC, while staying the removal of trees for the project’s construction, had asked the UT adviser to seek public views on its alternatives. The adviser, thereafter, constituted the technical committee.‘Make necessary corrections’To the committee’s claim that the proposal has been approved with the concurrence of the urban planning department, the letter states: “As per the office record (UT chief architect) no such formal approval/concurrence has been conveyed by the department of urban planning.”Cornering the engineering department on its claims in the minutes of the committee meeting, the urban planning department questions: “However, if any such concurrence is available with you, it may be send to this office (UT chief architect) for information and further necessary action.”Since the inception of the project, the urban planning department has raised several questions over its worthiness. However, in the minutes, the committee contends: “The objection/suggestions of department of urban planning have been duly considered and addressed.” Objecting these claims, the department has asked the engineering department to “make necessary corrections” in the minutes.‘In violation of Master Plan’The urban planning department has also refuted the committee’s claims that the project does not violate the Chandigarh Master Plan (CMP) 2031.Minutes of the committee’s meeting read: “As such there is no violation of Master Plan and also appropriate action will be initiated by the department of urban planning for making necessary amendments in the master plan, if necessary.”Asking the committee to correct it, the department has stated, “As per the notified CMP 2031, overbridges/flyovers are not recommended to be constructed in the entire city due to heritage considerations, since they impact the visual city space and cause inconvenience to non-motorised vehicles and pedestrians. Proposal of flyover in the city is also not as per the original concept of planning of Chandigarh and it will have impact on the entire city.”It also reminded the engineering department about its earlier suggestion: “Proposal of Tribune flyover should also be taken up with the consultant concerned with respect to comprehensive mobility plan of the city.”As per the engineering department, the project has been approved by the ministry of road, transport and highways.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fresh-trouble-for-tribune-flyover-project-as-chandigarh-urban-planning-dept-says-it-didn-t-give-approval-101611512408926.html
25-01-2021||World||'We will change Alphabet': Google workers announce global union alliance||Google employees from across the globe are forming a union alliance, weeks after workers at the search engine giant and other units of parent company Alphabet Inc formed a labor union for US and Canadian offices.UNI Global Union, that represents about 20 million workers globally, said on Monday it helped form Alpha Global, Google's union alliance that includes multiple countries such as the United States, Germany, Switzerland, Sweden and the UK.Alpha Global will fight for the rights of full-time Alphabet employees as well as temporary, vendor and contract workers, UNI Global said."The problems at Alphabet ... are not limited to any one country, and must be addressed on a global level," UNI's General Secretary Christy Hoffman said.Alphabet did not immediately respond to a request for comment.After years of protests over working conditions and business practices, 200 Google workers formed Alphabet Workers Union, a so-called "minority union," in early January.Under US labor law, Alphabet can ignore the union's demands until a majority of employees support it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/we-will-change-alphabet-google-workers-announce-global-union-alliance-101611594165613.html
25-01-2021||World||Joe Biden overturns Trump ban on transgender troops: White House||President Joe Biden on Monday overturned a controversial ban by his predecessor on transgender individuals serving in the U.S. military, a move that fulfills a campaign promise and will be cheered by LGBTQ advocates."President Biden believes that gender identity should not be a bar to military service, and that America’s strength is found in its diversity," the White House said in a statement."Allowing all qualified Americans to serve their country in uniform is better for the military and better for the country because an inclusive force is a more effective force. Simply put, it’s the right thing to do and is in our national interest," it said.Former Democratic President Barack Obama in 2016 allowed trans people to serve openly and receive medical care to transition genders, but Republican President Donald Trump froze their recruitment while allowing serving personnel to remain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-overturns-trump-ban-on-transgender-troops-white-house-101611591225612.html
25-01-2021||World||Republican US senator Rob Portman of Ohio won't seek re-election||Republican Sen. Rob Portman of Ohio said Monday he won’t seek reelection and plans to end a career in federal government spanning more than three decades.Portman's announcement comes the same day the Senate is receiving the House impeachment article against former Republican President Donald Trump. While some Republican senators have criticized going ahead with the trial next month with Trump out of office, Portman said last week he would listen to both sides before making a decision on how to vote.Portman, who turned 65 last month, is among establishment Republicans who clearly struggled with supporting Trump. Once dubbed “The Loyal Soldier” in a front-page profile story in his hometown Cincinnati Enquirer, Portman usually supported Trump in carefully worded statements. After Trump called the presidential election rigged, Portman said Trump had a right to a probe of any irregularities.But in the immediate aftermath of the Jan. 6 insurrection at the US Capitol, Portman said Trump needed to go on national TV to address his supporters and tell them to refrain from violence.“Both in his words before the attack on the Capitol and in his actions afterward, President Trump bears some responsibility for what happened on January 6,” Portman said.Portman was elected handily twice to the US Senate, but was considered likely to face primary opposition in 2022.Portman, who served in the presidential administrations of both Bushes, was under consideration by both John McCain and Mitt Romney to be their running mates in their respective presidential bids. Portman also helped them and other GOP presidential candidates practice for debates by playing their Democratic rival.He was elected to Congress from southern Ohio in a 1993 special election and won six more elections before being tapped by President George W. Bush to serve as US trade representative in 2005. He traveled the globe, negotiating dozens of trade agreements. Bush then nominated him to be his White House budget director in 2006.Portman stepped down in 2007, then returned to politics in 2010 with a successful US Senate run, and won again in 2016, both times by landslide margins in a traditional swing state.Generally voting with his party, Portman broke ranks in 2013 to announce support for same-sex marriage. He said their son Will had earlier come out as gay to him and his wife, Jane. They have three children.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/republican-us-senator-rob-portman-of-ohio-won-t-seek-reelection-101611590272549.html
25-01-2021||World||Supreme Court ends Donald Trump's emoluments lawsuits||The Supreme Court on Monday brought an end to lawsuits over whether Donald Trump illegally profited off his presidency.The justices threw out Trump’s challenge to lower court rulings that had allowed lawsuits to go forward alleging that he violated the Constitution’s emoluments clause by accepting payments from foreign and domestic officials who stay at the Trump International Hotel and patronize other businesses owned by the former president and his family.The high court also ordered the lower court rulings thrown out as well and directed appeals courts in New York and Richmond, Virginia, to dismiss the suits as moot now that Trump is no longer in office.The outcome leaves no judicial opinions on the books in an area of the law that has been rarely explored in US history.The cases involved suits filed by Maryland and the District of Columbia, and high-end restaurants and hotels in New York and Washington, DC, that “found themselves in the unenviable position of having to compete with businesses owned by the President of the United States.”The suits sought financial records showing how much state and foreign governments have paid the Trump Organization to stay and eat at Trump-owned properties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/supreme-court-ends-donald-trump-s-emoluments-lawsuits-101611588101248.html
25-01-2021||World||No record of Sikkim clash in PLA patrol log: Chinese state media||There is no record of last week’s clash between Indian and Chinese border troops in the Naku La area of Sikkim in the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) patrol log, a senior journalist from Chinese official media said on Monday.Hu Xijin, the high-profile editor of the nationalist tabloid Global Times tweeted on Monday that any major clash would have been recorded in the PLA’s patrol log.“This is fake news. Based on what I learned, there is no record of this clash in the patrol log of the Chinese side. Small frictions often occur on China-India border area, but clash that caused multiple injuries will definitely be recorded and reported,” Hu tweeted.The tabloid followed it up with a brief article on the clash, quoting Indian media reports.“Indian media reports on Monday claiming Chinese and Indian troops engaged in a clash three days ago that resulted in injuries on both sides are fake, the Global Times learned from a source.”Hu’s tweet on the contents of the PLA’s patrol log – indicating that he had accessed them – is unusual given the secrecy that shrouds the Chinese army.For one, more than eight months after the Galwan Valley clash between Indian and Chinese soldiers, the PLA is yet to release the casualty statistics.A day after the Galwan Valley clash on June 15 – in which 20 Indian soldiers were killed – Hu had tweeted that China too had suffered casualties.“Based on what I know, Chinese side also suffered casualties in the Galwan Valley physical clash. I want to tell the Indian side, don’t be arrogant and misread China’s restraint as being weak. China doesn’t want to have a clash with India, but we don’t fear it,” Hu tweeted.On the latest clash, the Indian Army has said it was a minor face-off. “It is clarified that there was a minor face-off at Naku La area of North Sikkim on 20 January and the same was resolved by local commanders as per established protocols,” the Indian Army said.The statement called on the media to “refrain from overplaying or exaggerating reports which are factually incorrect”.Some initial media reports claimed up to 20 Chinese soldiers and four Indian Army personnel were injured in the Sikkim clash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/no-record-of-sikkim-clash-in-pla-patrol-log-chinese-state-media-101611588436022.html
25-01-2021||World||China plays down India’s vaccine diplomacy||China on Monday sought to play down the so-called competitive vaccine diplomacy with India, saying there should be no “rivalry” between countries over supplying anti-Covid shots to other nations.It is up to each country to decide which Covid-19 vaccine it wishes to use, and there should not be vicious competition or confrontation, Chinese foreign ministry said on Monday.“On this issue, there should not be vicious competition, and certainly not confrontation,” ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said, responding to a Chinese official media representative’s question on whether India was sending millions of doses of vaccines to south Asian countries to rival “China’s vaccine diplomacy”.“We welcome and hope that more countries can produce safer and more effective vaccines and provide them to more developing countries to benefit more people,” Zhao said.The pressing task for the international community is to work together to fight the pandemic, Zhao said, adding that Covid-19 vaccines are a global public good, and it’s up to each country to decide which vaccine it will use.“We have been cooperating with countries specially developing countries in various means and offered our best support to those in need. We continue to promote equitable distribution and application of the vaccines worldwide to benefit more people,” he said.Chinese state media outlet, Global Times, however, has published stories critical of the vaccines made in India and whether India has the capacity to supply the shots globally.A recent article in the nationalist tabloid not only raised questions about India’s capacity to manufacture vaccines after the fire at the Serum Institute but also claimed that Indians in China were “embracing” Chinese vaccines.“Observers and netizens questioned India’s capacity to manufacture and produce high-quality vaccines after a fire ravaged a plant at India’s biggest vaccine maker and caused five deaths on Thursday,” the article said.“Four days after launching ‘the world’s largest inoculation drive,’ India has already started to export Covid-19 vaccines manufactured in the country to neighbouring countries, triggering concerns over its production capacity, given the pressure of domestic vaccination and global demand,” the tabloid said in an article published last week.“However, some experts suspect that India is not able to meet domestic demand and fulfil its promises to supply vaccines to the rest of the world in a short period of time,” the article said.Several countries in Latin America, West Asia and Asia had signed up for doses from China’s vaccine developers by the beginning of the month; state media says 17 countries have purchased Chinese vaccines.But there have been complaints about slow supply of vaccines from China and not enough information about them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-plays-down-india-s-vaccine-diplomacy-101611586695430.html
25-01-2021||World||Greece, France to sign $2.8 billion fighter jet deal||Greece signed a 2.3 billion-euro ($2.8 billion) deal with France on Monday to purchase 18 Rafale fighter jets, as tensions remain high with neighbor Turkey.Florence Parly, the French defense minister, signed the agreement in Athens to deliver 12 used and six new aircraft built by Dassault Aviation over two years, starting in July.France has sided with Greece in a dispute over boundaries in the Aegean Sea and eastern Mediterranean that has brought NATO members Greece and Turkey to the brink of war several times in recent decades.Tension spiked again last summer when a Turkish exploration mission in disputed waters triggered a dangerous military build-up.Greece and Turkey have agreed to restart talks aimed at resolving the dispute peacefully. Senior diplomats from the two countries met in Istanbul Monday to resume the process that had been interrupted for nearly five years.But Athens says it will continue a multibillion-euro program to upgrade its military following years of cuts due to the country's financial crisis.France and the United States are in competition to provide the Greek navy with new frigates, while Greece's government recently approved plans to cooperate with Israeli defense electronics firm Elbit Systems to create a new military flight academy in southern Greece.“The upgrade in the capabilities of the Hellenic Air Force by means of both the acquisition of new fighter aircraft and the new state-of-the-art training center is critical for Greece to present a credible deterrence,” Michael Tanchum, a senior fellow at the Austrian Institute for European and Security Policy, told The Associated Press.“It also provides Athens an enhanced ability to exercise more strategic autonomy when EU and NATO frameworks are deemed inadequate, making Greece more of a player in its own right.”Starting in May, mandatory national service in the Greek Armed Forces will be increased from nine to 12 months to boost the number of people serving in uniform. While in Athens, Parly will also holding talks with Greek Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis.___https://twitter.com/dgatopoulos||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/greece-france-to-sign-2-8-billion-fighter-jet-deal-101611584696908.html
25-01-2021||World||'Death threats and harassment': Dr Fauci reveals ‘disturbing’ incidents under Trump administration||The presidential years of Donald Trump ended on January 20 amid raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic and people who worked in the administration have started opening up about the handling of the health crisis. Top US infectious disease expert Anthony Fauci and former White House’s coronavirus task force coordinator Dr Deborah Birx, in separate interviews, provided a glimpse of behind-the-scenes in Trump administration.Dr Fauci, the director of the National Institute for Allergy and Infectious Diseases, recalled his experiences as a scientist under the Trump administration, calling the pressure campaigns from president “chilling”. Appearing on MSNBC's 'The Rachel Maddow Show’, Fauci revealed that scientists were pressed into "a situation where science was distorted or rejected.”“I’ve been advising administrations and presidents on both sides of the aisle, Republicans and Democrats, people with different ideologies, and even with differences in ideology, there never was this real affront on science,” the 80-year-old immunologist said.Fauci, who now serves as the chief medical adviser to President Joe Biden, frequently contradicted Trump over the latter’s statements related to virus response, including easing of restrictions and use of hydroxychloroquine on Covid-19 patients. He kept pushing for more coronavirus testing when Trump suggested that the US should slow down the testing.Read | Trump's lack of honesty in handling Covid-19 'very likely' cost lives: FauciIn an interview with the New York Times, Fauci talked about the death threats he started receiving in mid-March last year. He said the harassment of his wife and particularly his children that upset him more than anything else. “They knew where my kids work, where they live. The threats would come directly to my children’s phones, directly to my children’s homes,” he added.Fauci further revealed that one day he received a letter in the mail with a powdered substance in it and he accidentally got it all over his face, which he called “very, very disturbing”. He said that he didn’t know what to do but security personnel asked him to stay in the room and people in hazmat suit sprayed him down to get rid of that substance, which they later found “benign nothing”.“But it was frightening. My wife and my children were more disturbed than I was...It had to be one of three things: a hoax; or anthrax, which meant I’d have to go on cipro for a month; or if it was ricin, I was dead, so bye-bye,” he said.Dr Deborah Birx has also shed light on the disinformation campaign under Trump administration, claiming that someone was creating a parallel set of data and graphics that were shown to the former president. “I saw the president presenting graphs that I never made...I know that someone out there or someone inside was creating a parallel set of data and graphics that were shown to the president,” Birx told moderator Margaret Brennan on CBS’ ‘Face the Nation’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/dr-anthony-fauci-reveals-disturbing-incidents-under-trump-administration-101611583344560.html
25-01-2021||World||Loved by students, scholars and writers for 450 years, Oxford pub shuts down||A historic pub in the centre of Oxford that has served students, scholars and literary greats for over 450 years is to shut down, a cultural casualty of the Covidd pandemic.The Lamb and Flag, once frequented by the likes of "Lord of the Rings" author J.R.R. Tolkien and his friend C.S. Lewis, who wrote "The Chronicles of Narnia", has suffered a disastrous loss of revenues since the start of the pandemic.The pub first opened in 1566 and was moved to its present location on St Giles, a broad thoroughfare in the city centre, in 1613. It is owned by St John's College, one of 45 colleges and private halls that make up the University of Oxford."The Lamb and Flag, like many other businesses in the hospitality industry, has been hard hit by the pandemic," said Steve Elston, deputy bursar of St John's, in a statement announcing the pub would close on Jan. 31."The trading figures of the last 12 months have meant that the pub is not currently financially viable."England was in lockdown for most of March, April, May and June last year, then again in November, and has been in its third national lockdown since January 5. University life has been severely disrupted even outside of official lockdowns.Dave Richardson of the Oxford branch of the Campaign for Real Ale said the Lamb and Flag was one of the city's most traditional pubs and it would be a tragedy to see it disappear."It has no TV, it has no jukebox, it has no music. It's a place where people come to talk to each other, to enjoy the traditional, historic surroundings. Generations of people have done that, students, townspeople, people from afar," he said.Named after symbols traditionally associated with St John the Baptist, the Lamb and Flag is rumoured to have hosted the great writer Thomas Hardy, who set his dark novel "Jude the Obscure" partly in a fictionalised Oxford called Christminster.Since 1997, St John's College has used profits generated by the pub to fund scholarships for graduate students. It said those receiving the scholarships would not be affected by the pub's closure, and it would directly fund future scholarships.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/loved-by-students-scholars-and-writers-for-450-years-oxford-pub-shuts-down-101611583661242.html
25-01-2021||World||Bosnia health workers protest for rights, wages amidst pandemic||Hundreds of health workers took to the streets of the southern Bosnian town of Mostar on Monday in protest over a long-delayed collective bargaining deal, threatening a hunger strike amidst the COVID-19 pandemic.The union of health workers in the Herzegovina-Neretva region also set up a large tent in front of the regional government building and said they would camp there until the government has met their requests.The government has been delaying the signing of a collective bargaining deal with health workers for 18 months and the workers have been on strike since December.The workers, who have been under heavy burden during the coronavirus pandemic which claimed 4,576 lives in Bosnia as of Monday, request better work conditions and higher wages. The government says their requests are not realistic.On Monday, the protesters called on government officials to talk to them and requested the resignation of the regional health minister."I think this is a unique case in Europe of how the health workers have been treated," union president Dalibor Vukovic told N1 television."Nobody has talked to us for the past 18 months... Unless they remain indifferent, we shall start a hunger strike."Hundreds of citizens joined the protest walk in support, donning masks but failing to keep physical distance.(Reporting by Daria Sito-Sucic; Editing by Angus MacSwan)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bosnia-health-workers-protest-for-rights-wages-amidst-pandemic-101611582219924.html
25-01-2021||World||Spain's health minister quits amid pandemic to run for regional Catalan election||Spanish Health Minister Salvador Illa will leave his job on Tuesday to run for elections scheduled in Catalonia on Feb. 14 to try and win the regional government away from pro-independence parties."Salvador Illa starts today his last 24 hours at the helm of the ministry," the office of Socialist Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez said in a statement. "Tomorrow Tuesday will be his last cabinet meeting and his replacement will be disclosed."A source close to the government pointed to Regional Policy Minister Carolina Darias as the most likely candidate to take over the position.In her current role, Darias has worked closely with Illa and overseen weekly summits of regional health chiefs to coordinate the coronavirus response.The new minister's first task will be tackling a rampaging third wave of infection that has sent Spain's 14-day incidence of the virus spiralling to 829 cases per 100,000 people from 263 cases a month ago.Desperate to control the spread, some regional authorities have substantially stepped up their response after months of incremental tightening.Valencia imposed some of the country's toughest measures yet, limiting people to mixing only with members of their household at home and banning groups of more than two from socialising outdoors.Even Madrid, whose regional government has been staunchly opposed to any measures that hurt business, will on Monday bring forward a night curfew to 10 pm and said it would deploy drones and extra police patrols to enforce compliance.Opinion polls have been split on the Catalonia election. But some, including one by the Centre for Sociological Studies (CIS), have shown Illa's Socialists, now the fourth-largest party in the regional parliament, on track to win the biggest share of the vote in the February 14 election.That would be a major change in a region currently led by pro-independence parties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/spains-health-minister-quits-amid-pandemic-to-run-for-regional-catalan-election-101611580270915.html
25-01-2021||World||Pandemic far from over, but winter cannot stop arrival of spring: Xi Jinping||Calling for greater international cooperation, Chinese President Xi Jinping on Monday said the pandemic is far from over despite initial progress made by the world in fighting Covid-19, but asserted that "winter cannot stop the arrival of spring".In a special address at the World Economic Forum's online Davos Agenda Summit, Jinping also said the pandemic should be an excuse for reversing gains from globalisation and promised further opening up of the Chinese economy."Guided by science, reason and humanitarian spirit, the world has achieved initial progress in fighting Covid-19," the president said."That said, the pandemic is far from over... But, winter cannot stop the arrival of spring, and darkness can never shroud the light of dawn," he said.He further said there is a need to balance Covid-19 responses with economic development."We need to shift the driving forces and growth models of the global economy and improve its structure," he said.He also called for abandoning "ideological prejudice" in order to jointly follow a path of peaceful coexistence, mutual benefit, and win-win cooperation."Difference in itself is no cause for alarm. What does ring the alarm is arrogance, prejudice and hatred," he said.President Xi said containing coronavirus is the most important task before the world, and also whatever it takes, all must work together towards reviving the global economy.He called for scaling up global cooperation, including for vaccine distribution in all countries.China will work towards expanding economic cooperation and further opening up its economy and the pandemic should not be an excuse for reversing the gains of globalisation, he said.The Chinese president also called for closing the divide between developed and developing countries."Equal rights, equal opportunities and equal rules should be strengthened so that all countries will benefit from the opportunities and fruits of development," he said.Asserting that China believes in resolving all disputes through mutual dialogue, he said China will further deepen South-South Cooperation and will pursue friendly and cooperative relations with all countries.Urging everyone to work towards "one shared future for humanity", he said, "We need to stand united and work together. We have seen time and again, that together with our neighbours we all prosper and going alone is never beneficial. Let multilateralism light our way."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pandemic-far-from-over-but-winter-cannot-stop-arrival-of-spring-xi-jinping-101611579050094.html
25-01-2021||World||Dubai replaces health authority chief as UAE sees surge in Covid-19 cases||The ruler of Dubai has replaced the head of the emirate's health authority without explanation, in the midst of an immunisation drive and a spike in Covid-19 infections in the United Arab Emirates.Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid al-Maktoum appointed Awad Saghir al-Ketbi as the new director general of the Dubai Health Authority, replacing Humaid al-Qutami, according to a statement issued on Sunday.No reason for the change was given. The Dubai Media Office did not immediately respond to a request for comment.The number of daily coronavirus cases in the UAE, a federation of seven emirates, has tripled in the past month. On Monday authorities registered 3,579 new infections and nine deaths. They do not provide a breakdown per emirate.The country has largely removed coronavirus restrictions with the exception of face masks in public and social distancing.But Dubai, the region's business and tourism hub, has seen an influx of visitors during its peak winter season and in the past week reimposed some measures, including banning live entertainment and further restricting the number of people allowed to gather at social events and restaurants.The UAE has ramped up its immunisation campaign with the aim of vaccinating more than 50% of its roughly 9 million population before the end of March.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/dubai-replaces-health-authority-chief-as-uae-sees-surge-in-covid-19-cases-101611577247327.html
25-01-2021||World||Job losses from virus four times as bad as 2009 financial crisis: UN report||Four times as many jobs were lost last year due to the coronavirus pandemic as during the worst part of the global financial crisis in 2009, a UN report said Monday.The International Labor Organization estimated that the restrictions on businesses and public life destroyed 8.8% of all work hours around the world last year. That is equivalent to 255 million full-time jobs - quadruple the impact of the financial crisis over a decade ago.“This has been the most severe crisis for the world of work since The Great Depression of the 1930s. Its impact is far greater than that of the global financial crisis of 2009,” said ILO Director-General Guy Ryder. The fallout was almost equally split between reduced work hours and “unprecedented” job losses, he said.The United Nations agency noted that most people who lost work stopped looking for a job altogether, likely because of restrictions on businesses that hire in big numbers like restaurants, bars, stores, hotels and other services that depend on face-to-face interactions.The drop in work translates to a loss of $3.7 trillion in income globally — what Ryder called an “extraordinary figure” — with women and young people taking the biggest hits.The ILO report expects a bounce back in jobs in the second half of the year. But that depends on a reduction in coronavirus infections and the rollout of vaccines. Currently, infections are rising or remain stubbornly high in many countries and vaccine distribution is still slow overall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/job-losses-from-virus-four-times-as-bad-as-2009-financial-crisis-un-report-101611576251646.html
25-01-2021||World||How Taiwan figures in US-China ties under Biden||It didn't take long for relations with China to become an issue for new US President Joe Biden. A show of force by the Chinese air force off Taiwan last weekend prompted a US response, even as Biden and his administration focus on the Covid-19 pandemic and other pressing issues at home in what is still their first week in office.WHAT HAPPENED?Taiwan's Defense Ministry reported that China sent a dozen bombers and fighter jets into Taiwan's air defense identification zone on Saturday. Such a sizeable show of force is relatively rare, and the US State Department issued a statement urging China “to cease its military, diplomatic, and economic pressure against Taiwan" and expressing concern about “the pattern of ongoing ... attempts to intimidate its neighbors.” China then sent 16 military aircraft into the same area on Sunday, Taiwan said. China has not commented on the reports.WHAT SPARKED CHINA'S ACTIONS?It's unclear. China may have been responding to Taiwanese military drills last week against a hypothetical Chinese invasion. It also may have been testing Biden, after the de facto Taiwanese ambassador to the US attended his inauguration. The Chinese Foreign Ministry said Monday that China is determined “to defend national sovereignty and territorial integrity” and urged the U.S. to “refrain from sending wrong signals to the Taiwan independence forces.”Tiehlin Yen, the deputy director of the Taiwan Center for Security Studies, said China's moves may give it some bargaining chips as it prepares to deal with a new US president and any adjustments he may make to China policy. But Chinese international relations expert Zhao Kejin at Tsinghua University in Beijing said the actions are not aimed at the US but at Taiwan, and its opposition to unification with the mainland. “China needs to show its determination,” he said.WHAT IS THE UPSHOT?The US response reflects what is expected to be continued US support for Taiwan under Biden. His administration may refrain from the more provocative steps taken under his predecessor, former President Donald Trump, but it will abide by American legal requirements to ensure Taiwan can defend itself. China will no doubt continue to demand the self-governing island come under its control. Given their respective positions, the issue will likely remain a source of friction in US-China relations.WHY THE DIVIDE OVER TAIWAN?Taiwan, an island of 24 million people about 160 kilometers (100 miles) off China’s southeast coast, separated from China in 1949, when the Communist Party took power. For three decades, the US recognized the Nationalist government in Taipei, Taiwan, as the government of China, though it had no actual control over the much larger mainland. The US switched diplomatic recognition to Beijing in 1979, but now-democratic Taiwan still enjoys strong bipartisan support in Washington.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/how-taiwan-figures-in-us-china-ties-under-biden-101611575149175.html
25-01-2021||World||Third of staff may work from home permanently post-virus||The pandemic has probably boosted remote working permanently, according to Deloitte’s annual Readiness Report, which suggests a third of employees will work from home even after restrictions end. The survey of more than 2,000 managers and public-sector business leaders worldwide highlights how investments that allow home-working will be increasingly important. Just 22% of respondents said their organizations had the technologies they needed before the pandemic, 42% said they developed them out of necessity during the crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/third-of-staff-may-work-from-home-permanently-postvirus-101611574326879.html
25-01-2021||World||'Worst President ever' banner flew near Trump's resort in Florida||A banner apparently flew near former US President Donald Trump's Mar-a-Lago resort in Florida on Sunday, calling him the worst President ever.The banner can be seen trailing behind a plane in a video shared Sunday by Twitter user Daniel Uhlfelder that read, "TRUMP WORST PRESIDENT EVER."In a separate tweet by Uhlfelder, a photo also shows a banner reading "TRUMP, YOU PATHETIC LOSER GO BACK TO MOSCOW.""Trump is getting a warm welcome from the skies near Mar-a-Lago today," Uhlfelder tweeted.Enjoy the view Trump pic.twitter.com/7w9oxPoP7dTrump is getting warm welcome from the skies near Mar-a-lago today pic.twitter.com/S6uUFx3t30Social media also jumped in and hailed the move by saying. "Bravo!" and "This gave me a lil joy.""Thanks for posting and a big thanks to this pilot. This just makes my day. Thanks again," another user wrote.A user by the name of Janice wrote that the banner is "A reminder there are a lot of good people in Florida."CNN reported that many members of Mar-a-Lago are leaving because they no longer want to have any connection to former President Trump, according to the author of the definitive book about the resort.Trump's presidency officially ended last week after four years in the Oval Office, he returned to Florida from Washington on Wednesday. He did not attend President Joe Biden's inauguration in the US Capitol that day.On January 6, a group of then-President Donald Trump supporters stormed the US Capitol to protest against lawmakers confirming electoral slates from battleground US states they thought were invalid.Trump had made a speech among thousands of supporters reiterating his claim a massive voter fraud had robbed his election victory and encouraged supporters to maintain support to "stop the steal."Five people died in the riot, including one police officer as well as one Air Force veteran and Trump supporter who was shot dead by police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/worst-president-ever-banner-flew-near-trump-s-resort-in-florida-101611573691686.html
25-01-2021||World||Receipt notice of Form I-90 will extend green card’s validity in US by 12 months||The US Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) has replaced the sticker that extends the validity of the permanent resident card, also known as a green card, with a revised Form I-797 - Notice of Action. In the United States, the lawful permanent residents (LPRs) with green cards are required to submit a Form I-90 when their permanent resident cards expire or are about to expire. The revised Form I-797 will serve as a receipt notice for the Form I-90.The receipt notice will provide evidence of the lawful permanent resident status of the applicants for 12 months from the expiration date of the green card. This means an expired green card along with a receipt notice is equivalent to a valid, unexpired green card. The change has come into effect from January and applicants will receive the revised receipt notice, via mail, within approximately 10 days after USCIS accepts their Form I-90.“This change ensures that LPRs with a recently expired Green Card will have documentation of identity, employment authorization, and authorization to return to the United States following temporary foreign travel,” the USCIS recently said in a statement.Read | US issues final wage rules for H-1B, green card holders to prevent 'abuses'In case the USCIS has already accepted the application to renew the green card and the applicant has not been issued a biometrics appointment notice, the person would get the new receipt notice to use it along with the expired green card as temporary evidence of permanent resident status. If USCIS has issued the biometrics appointment notice, the person would get an extension sticker at his/her biometrics appointment instead of the revised receipt notice.“As a lawful permanent resident, you must have a valid, unexpired Green Card or equivalent documentation with you at all times. Applying for naturalization does not change this requirement,” the USCIS website states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/receipt-notice-of-form-i-90-will-extend-green-card-s-validity-in-us-by-12-months-101611571352322.html
25-01-2021||World||Sexual abuse survivor Grace Tame named Australian of the Year||A 26-year-old woman who pushed for legal changes so she could speak out about being a survivor of sexual abuse has been named Australian of the Year for her advocacy work on behalf of abuse survivors.Grace Tame was presented with the award at a ceremony in Canberra on Monday.Tame became the first woman in Tasmania state to win the right to publicly name herself as a sexual abuse survivor, allowing her to speak about the abuse she went through as a 15-year-old at the hands of a math teacher.Prior to her legal victory, Tame was barred from speaking publicly about the crimes in which she was a victim, while her abuser — who was jailed — was legally able to tell his story. Such laws were often designed to protect victims of assault by keeping their identities secret but didn’t account for those who wanted to speak out.Tame said she was dedicating the award to all survivors of child sexual abuse.“This is for us,” she said.After advocacy from Tame and Nina Funnell, who started the campaign #Let Her Speak, Tasmania’s laws preventing survivors from speaking out were overturned.“I remember him towering over me, blocking the door. I remember him saying ‘Don’t tell anybody.' I remember him saying ‘Don’t make a sound,'" Tame said.“Well hear me now — using my voice against a growing chorus of voices that will not be silenced.”Tame said she wants a greater focus on education and prevention of child sexual assault. She said grooming and psychological manipulation by abusers is a big problem.“They thrive when we fight amongst ourselves and weaponize all our vulnerabilities,” Tame said. “This year and beyond, my focus is on empowering survivors and education as a primary means of prevention.”Other top awards went to three other women.Aboriginal elder Miriam-Rose Ungunmerr-Baumann was named Senior Australian of the Year. The 73-year-old activist, educator and artist became Northern Territory state's first qualified Aboriginal teacher in 1975.Kenyan refugee Rosemary Kariuki was named Australia’s Local Hero for her work helping female migrants combat loneliness and the unknown as they settle into their new communities.And the title of Young Australian of the Year went to Adelaide student and social entrepreneur Isobel Marshall, who co-founded a menstrual product company TABOO in high school, with the goal of reducing stigma around periods and helping women access products.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sexual-abuse-survivor-grace-tame-named-australian-of-the-year-101611572326554.html
25-01-2021||World||China says US military in South China Sea not good for peace||The United States often sends ships and aircraft into the South China Sea to "flex its muscles" and this is not good for peace, China's Foreign Ministry said on Monday, after a U.S. aircraft carrier group sailed into the disputed waterway.The strategic South China Sea, through which trillions of dollars in trade flows each year, has long been a focus of contention between Beijing and Washington, with China particularly angered by U.S. military activity there.The U.S. carrier group led by the USS Theodore Roosevelt and accompanied by three warships, entered the waterway on Saturday to promote "freedom of the seas", the U.S. military said, just days after Joe Biden became U.S. president.."The United States frequently sends aircraft and vessels into the South China Sea to flex its muscles," the foreign ministry spokesman, Zhao Lijian, told reporters, responding to the U.S. mission."This is not conducive to peace and stability in the region."China has repeatedly complained about U.S. Navy ships getting close to islands it occupies in the South China Sea, where Vietnam, Malaysia, the Philippines, Brunei and Taiwan all have competing claims.The carrier group entered the South China Sea at the same time as Chinese-claimed Taiwan reported incursions by Chinese air force jets into the southwestern part of its air defence identification zone, prompting concern from Washington.China has not commented on what its air force was doing, and Zhao referred questions to the defence ministry.He reiterated China's position that Taiwan is an inalienable part of China and that the United States should abide by the "one China" principle.Taiwan President Tsai Ing-wen visited a radar base in the north of the island on Monday, and praised its ability to track Chinese forces, her office said."From last year until now, our radar station has detected nearly 2,000 communist aircraft and more than 400 communist ships, allowing us to quickly monitor and drive them away, and fully guard the sea and airspace," she told officers.Taiwan's defence ministry added that just a single Chinese aircraft flew into its defence zone on Monday, an anti-submarine Y-8 aircraft.Biden's new administration says the U.S. commitment to Taiwan is "rock-solid".The United States, like most countries, has no formal diplomatic ties with Taiwan but is the democratic island's most important international backer and main arms supplier, to China's anger.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-says-us-military-in-south-china-sea-not-good-for-peace-101611570250413.html
25-01-2021||World||Italian PM Conte seeks way out of political mire ahead of Senate vote||Italian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte looked for a solution on Monday to a political crisis that has enveloped his government, leaving him without a reliable majority in the upper house Senate.Several Italian newspapers reported that Conte was set to hand in his resignation to the head of state this week and then try to put together a new, broader coalition, drawing up a policy pact for the remaining two years of the legislature.However, a senior government source denied that this was Conte's plan. He did not immediately signal what the alternative strategy might be.The government was thrown into turmoil earlier this month when a junior partner, the Italia Viva party headed by former premier Matteo Renzi, pulled out of the cabinet in a row over its handling of the coronavirus crisis and economic recession.Although Conte survived a subsequent a confidence vote in parliament last week, he failed to secure an absolute majority in the Senate, meaning he will struggle to enact any policy agenda unless he can draw on new support.The first major test will come this week, when the upper house votes on an annual report on the justice system. Such a motion is a formality for any stable coalition, but a number of centrist politicians who saved Conte last week have said they will not back him over this particular issue.Defeat in the Senate would effectively kill off the government.Resigning ahead of time would give Conte more time to try to stitch together a new administration.Corriere della Sera newspaper said the prime minister wanted to get Renzi back on board and was looking to create a "government of national salvation", that would also have the backing of some moderate centre-right politicians.If he fails to broaden his coalition, he would be forced to step aside, leaving the path for someone else to try to forge a new government, almost certainly built around the main parties currently in power -- the 5-Star Movement and Democratic Party(PD).Ever since his partial victory in the Senate last week, Conte has appealed to centrist and unaligned Senate lawmakers to join government ranks, but few have responded so far.Looking to put pressure on waverers, the main ruling parties have said snap elections, two years ahead of schedule, will be the only way out of the political impasse unless a solution is rapidly found.A recent reform cut by one-third the number of parliamentary seats up for grabs at the next national ballot, meaning that many of the current lawmakers are unlikely to win re-election, whatever the result.This means that there will be no rush in parliament for a vote, putting pressure on party leaders to find a compromise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/italian-pm-conte-seeks-way-out-of-political-mire-ahead-of-senate-vote-101611570907719.html
25-01-2021||World||Biden pushes elusive 'Buy American' goal with new federal contract guidelines||President Joe Biden will take steps on Monday to harness the purchasing power of the United States government, the world's biggest single buyer, to increase domestic manufacturing and create markets for new technologies, a senior administration official said.Biden will sign an executive order aimed at closing loopholes in existing "Buy American" provisions, which structure the $600 billion in goods and services the federal government buys each year, making any waivers more transparent, and creating a senior White House role to oversee the processIncreasing US manufacturing, a central tenet of Biden's presidential campaign, has proven a vexing challenge for previous administrations, including that of former President Donald Trump.Lower wages and weaker environmental standards have triggered the exodus of key manufacturing capabilities to China and other countries in recent decades, including medical equipment, resulting in critical gaps laid bare during the COVID-19 pandemic.China overtook the United States as the world’s top manufacturer in 2010, and was responsible for 28% of global output in 2018, according to United Nations data.Rebuilding critical supply chains and developing new ones is critical to U.S. growth, trade experts say.The U.S. trade deficit surged to $68 billion in November, its highest level in 14 years, as businesses scrambled to fill shelves with foreign goods and supply domestic factories reliant on foreign parts, offsetting a rise in exports."The U.S. spends about $600 billion a year on contracts, and that is money that...can also serve to spur a revitalization of our industrial strength and help to create markets for new technologies," the official said.The order directs federal agencies to reevaluate the threshold used to determine U.S. content, to prevent companies it buys from from importing largely foreign-made goods and selling them as U.S.-made after making just minor tweaks.It sets a deadline of 180 days for regulators to finalize changes once proposed, and orders up a new website to ensure transparency about any waivers granted. The official gave no new percentages for required U.S. content, saying they would be determined as a result of the process being launched on Monday.The move is part of Biden's broader push to drive up wages, create more union jobs and strengthen U.S. supply chains, the official said."He does not accept the defeatist idea that automation, globalization mean that we can't have good-paying union jobs here in America," the official said.The challenge in buying more U.S.-made goods is partly a reflection of the erosion of many basic industries. Major U.S. retailers, including Wal-Mart, have launched high profile "Made in America" campaigns, only to court foreign manufacturers afterward to get the goods consumers wanted. In 2015, the retailer faced a probe by the Federal Trade Commission for labeling products that were only partly made in the country.Business groups blasted the Trump administration's push https://www.reuters.com/article/us-health-coronavirus-usa/u-s-business-groups-warn-buy-america-order-would-harm-pandemic-response-idUSKBN21D1SM to expand "Buy American" mandates to the medical equipment and pharmaceutical sectors, warning they could worsen shortages during the pandemic.Asked if the order would be seen as protectionist, the official said it was fully consistent with U.S. commitments under the World Trade Organization. The White House hopes to work with trade partners to modernize global rules, he said.The process beginning Monday would "make sure that we are using procurement going forward in a way that actually builds domestic capacity, particularly in those areas where we have acute economic or national security needs and vulnerabilities," he said.(Reporting by Andrea Shalal and Timothy Aeppel; Additional reporting by Nandita Bose; Editing by Heather Timmons and Jacqueline Wong)Wal-Mart Stores Inc||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-pushes-elusive-buy-american-goal-with-new-federal-contract-guidelines-101611568921489.html
25-01-2021||World||China tests Biden’s resolve on strategic flash point of Taiwan||China’s decision to fly more than a dozen military aircraft, including strategic bombers, into the Taiwan Strait this weekend sends an early warning to President Joe Biden on one of the most volatile issues between Beijing and Washington.The sortie by eight Xian H-6K bombers and five other planes Saturday was the third-largest such incursion by People Liberation Army aircraft in the past year, according to Taiwanese Defense Ministry data. Moreover, H-6K bombers are believed to be capable of carrying land-attack cruise missiles that give Chinese forces the ability to strike overseas bases from a safe distance.The U.S. State Department responded with a statement affirming Washington’s “rock-solid” commitment to Taipei and urging Beijing “to cease its military, diplomatic and economic pressure.” China should “instead engage in meaningful dialogue with Taiwan’s democratically elected representatives,” State Department spokesman Ned Price said.The incursion sent “a clear signal to the Biden administration that China stands ready to defend its sovereignty over Taiwan and that it is a red line that the U.S. should not dare to cross,” said Yongwook Ryu, assistant professor of East Asian international relations at at the National University of Singapore’s Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy. “We will see quite a bit of jostling between China and the U.S. over Taiwan in the early phase of the Biden administration, as the two giants seek to figure out where they can cooperate and test each other’s resolve.”The 70-year-old dispute over Taiwan has re-emerged since the island elected Tsai Ing-wen, of the pro-independence Democratic Progressive Party president, as its president in 2016. China’s Xi Jinping, who has vowed to work toward unifying the two sides, has cut off communication with Taipei and launched a pressure campaign over Tsai’s refusal to accept that both sides belong to “One China.”Former U.S. President Donald Trump -- propelled by his own battles with China -- dramatically expanded ties with Taipei, approving the first fighter jet sale in 30 years and the most senior visit by a U.S. cabinet official since Washington switched ties from Taipei to Beijing in 1979. China has pushed back by carrying out frequent military exercises near the island and, in August, firing “carrier killer” ballistic missiles into the South China Sea.The Chinese Foreign Ministry on Monday called on the U.S. to “properly and prudently handle Taiwan-related issues.” Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian told a regular briefing that the U.S. should “refrain from sending wrong signals to Taiwan independence forces, to avoid harm to China-U.S relations and peace and stability across the Taiwan Strait.”The Biden administration has signaled plans to maintain many Trump policies on China, while seeking cooperation on issues such as climate change. Xi is set to address Davos later Monday in his first major remarks since Biden took office. The Chinese Embassy in Washington issued a statement on Saturday denying a Wall Street Journal report that Beijing was seeking a high-level meeting to help ease tensions.The State Department statement placed the onus on China to re-engage with Taiwan, while indicating a desire to preserve the longstanding ambiguity about Taiwan’s status. The U.S. pledged to stand by existing agreements with China and spoke of the interests of the “people on Taiwan,” rather than the people “of Taiwan.”“The U.S. wants to prevent China from miscalculating, so it is likely to continue to make clear U.S. interests in peace and stability in the Taiwan Strait and its resolve to oppose China’s intimidation of Taiwan,” said Bonnie Glaser, a senior adviser on Asia at the Center for Strategic and International Studies who has advised both the State and Defense departments.Chinese state media paid little attention to the State Department remarks, an article in the Global Times newspaper cited its reference to upholding existing agreements as evidence the U.S. was returning to a more “mainstream” Taiwan policy. The Communist Party newspaper described the PLA drills as part of existing training plans and not intended as a signal to the U.S.Meanwhile, a U.S. aircraft carrier group entered the disputed South China Sea to “conduct routine operations,” the U.S. Indo-Pacific Command said Saturday. It was unclear whether the USS Theodore Roosevelt’s trip was intended a specific signal, since such voyages are usually planned long in advance.China has repeatedly come up in calls between top Biden aides and their allies in recent days. Newly confirmed U.S. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin agreed in a call Sunday with Japanese counterpart Nobuo Kishi to oppose any attempts to change the status quo in the East or South China seas, according to a Japanese Defense Ministry statement.Alexander Huang, a professor of international strategic relations at Tamkang University, speculated that Xi was trying to test Biden’s limits.“Xi is looking to see how the new Biden administration will respond to Chinese behavior,” Huang said. “Whether they believe that the Biden administration will take a strong stance on Taiwan or a soft and indecisive one, they will take lessons from that as they begin a wide range of dialogues on issues from trade to climate change.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-tests-biden-s-resolve-on-strategic-flash-point-of-taiwan-101611569270243.html
25-01-2021||World||Storm Eloise kills at least 12 in south-eastern Africa with more rain to come||The death toll from storm Eloise rose to at least 12 on Monday, according to figures from authorities across south-eastern Africa, where heavy winds, rain and flooding have also destroyed buildings and crops.A tropical cyclone when it made landfall at Mozambique's central province of Sofala on Saturday, Eloise subsequently weakened to a tropical storm as it moved inland to dump rain on Zimbabwe, eSwatini - formerly known as Swaziland - South Africa and Botswana.Six people were killed in Mozambique, the country's National Institute for Disaster Risk Management and Reduction (INGD) reported, while the number of displaced people rose to more than 8,000. Homes, crops and infrastructure were also damaged, flooded or destroyed.The death toll from flooding in Swatini now stands at two, according to police, while three people had been reported killed in Zimbabwe and one in Madagascar. Ongoing rains, though lightening, threatened further floods."Rainfall is starting to ease off slowly," said Puseletso Mofokeng, senior forecaster at the South African Weather Service."But we are still going to continue with the possibility of flooding (in South Africa)... because of the ground already being oversaturated," he said, adding this meant any amount of rainfall could prompt floods but that these would likely be localised rather than widespread.Zimbabwe's national water authority also warned that dams were spilling over and could cause floods further downstream.In central Mozambique, Eloise exacerbated existing floods, with villages and vast swathes of farmland submerged in brown water after rivers burst their banks.Rainfall in Zimbabwe also runs back down into the country via those rivers, which contributed to the devastating floods following Cyclone Idai in March 2019.Mofokeng said Eloise is expected to move towards south western Botswana tomorrow, where it will cause heavy rain. More downpours are also expected in South Africa in the coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/storm-eloise-kills-at-least-12-in-south-eastern-africa-with-more-rain-to-come-101611569397814.html
25-01-2021||World||Japanese PM faces mounting pressure over pandemic response||Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga faced renewed pressure on Monday over his handling of the coronavirus pandemic, with a new opinion poll showing many believed the government was too slow to respond to the latest wave of infections.Opposition lawmakers were also increasingly frustrated with Suga's taciturn leadership style, demanding he provide detailed answers to questions about the Covid-19 crisis and the Tokyo Olympics set to start in less than six months.Suga is struggling to halt a steady decline in support for his four-month-old government even after launching a raft of measures to contain a third wave of coronavirus infections with the Olympics due to begin on July 23.Support for Suga's cabinet dropped to 33% from 39% last month, with disapproval rising 10 points to 45%, according to a poll published by the Asahi newspaper on Monday.The poll conducted by telephone on the weekend showed 80% of respondents thought the government was too slow to declare a state of emergency in response to the coronavirus outbreak which has swept the country since December.Critics also say Suga took too long to pause a domestic tourism campaign that experts have blamed for contributing to the spread of the virus beyond the initial hotspots in the Tokyo region.Yoshihito Niki, an infectious disease specialist and professor at Showa University Hospital, agreed the government should have halted the campaign earlier."It is clear that was problematic, not just because it may have contributed to rise in case numbers by people travelling around the country, but also by giving young people an impression that they could lower their guard," he said.The government says its decision to stick with the domestic tourism campaign was appropriate based on infection data at the time.CAUTION OVER LIFTING EMERGENCYInfection data released over the weekend indicated that Japan's third, and most deadly, wave of Covid-19 infections was peaking.Tokyo reported 618 new cases on Monday, with daily cases dropping below 700 for the first time since December 28.Suga said that despite the fall in cases in Tokyo the government was in no rush to lift the state of emergency."Experts indicate that it is necessary to look at the situation a little more to determine that it is a decreasing trend," he told parliament.A decision on whether to extend the state of emergency could be made in the first half of next week, five sources from the government and ruling party said.An extension of calls for reduced business hours at restaurants and bars while gradually easing curtailment of other activity is being debated, the sources said.The Asahi poll came after opposition lawmakers criticised the brevity of Suga's answers to questions on the government's response to the Covid-19 crisis and the Olympics during a parliamentary debate on Thursday.An Upper House steering committee petitioned Suga's office to provide more thorough responses during future debates, according to the Mainichi and Asahi newspapers."To get over it with an abstract, really short answer is the same as rejecting to explain it to the people," Mainichi quoted opposition Constitutional Democratic Party of Japan lawmaker Tetsuro Fukuyama as saying last week.Suga is standing by the government's commitment to host the Summer Games despite a report in The Times last week saying officials in Tokyo had abandoned hope of holding the event this year.Opinion polls show the public is strongly against staging the Games amid the pandemic.Nihon University political science professor Tomoaki Iwai said Suga was "not a great communicator" but his leadership was not currently in doubt."There are no strong candidates to replace him. Chances are the current government will drag on despite very weak public support, which would be quite tragic," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/japanese-pm-faces-mounting-pressure-over-pandemic-response-101611568687429.html
25-01-2021||World||EU seeks answers from AstraZeneca on cut to vaccine supplies in Monday meeting||The European Union will meet AstraZeneca executives on Monday to seek further clarification on why they unexpectedly announced a large cut in supplies of COVID-19 vaccine to the bloc for the first quarter of the year, EU officials said.AstraZeneca, which developed its shot with Oxford University, told the EU on Friday that it could not meet the agreed supply targets running up to the end of March, with an EU official telling Reuters that meant a 60% cut to 31 million doses.The Anglo-Swedish drugmaker has received an up-front payment of 336 million euros ($409 million) from the EU, a second EU official told Reuters when the 27-nation bloc sealed a supply deal with AstraZeneca in August for at least 300 million doses - the first signed by the EU to secure COVID-19 shots. .Under advance purchase deals sealed during the pandemic, the EU makes down payments to companies to secure doses, with the money expected to be mostly used to expand production capacity. "Initial volumes will be lower than originally anticipated due to reduced yields at a manufacturing site within our European supply chain," AstraZeneca said on Friday. The site in question is a vaccine factory in Belgium run by the drugmaker's partner Novasep.The EU Commission said a meeting was called with AstraZeneca after Friday's announcement, and is due to start in the early afternoon on Monday. AstraZeneca was not immediately available to comment on Monday.The first EU official, who has been directly involved in talks with AstraZeneca, said there were no high expectations about the meeting in which the company will be asked to better explain the delays, although its outcome is still unclear. The official declined to be named due to the confidential nature of the discussions.Earlier in January, Pfizer, which is currently the largest supplier of COVID-19 vaccines to the EU, announced delays of nearly a month to its shipments, but hours later revised this to say the delays would last only a week.EU contracts with vaccine makers are confidential, but the EU official did not rule out possible penalties for AstraZeneca, given the large revision to its earlier commitments. However the source did not elaborate on what could trigger the penalties. "We are not there yet," the official added.AstraZeneca's vaccine is expected to be approved for use in the EU on Jan. 29, with first deliveries expected from Feb. 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-seeks-answers-from-astrazeneca-on-cut-to-vaccine-supplies-in-monday-meeting-101611568683760.html
25-01-2021||World||Chinese officials say nine more trapped miners confirmed dead, one still missing||WNine more Chinese miners trapped underground for over two weeks have been confirmed dead, local government officials said Monday, leaving one unaccounted for after a blast at the site.A group of 22 were trapped hundreds of metres underground by an explosion at the Hushan mine in eastern Shandong province on January 10, with some relying on food and medicine delivered through long shafts drilled by rescue teams.Eleven survivors were finally brought to the surface on Sunday in a major breakthrough for a rescue operation that has captivated the nation."From Sunday afternoon to this afternoon, rescue workers have not stopped searching, and found a further nine trapped miners who unfortunately all died," the mayor of Yantai city, Chen Fei, said at a briefing Monday."Along with one miner who died on Thursday, the bodies of the nine deceased miners were all lifted out of the mine."Rescue teams will not stop searching until the last remaining miner is found, Chen said, adding that high underground water levels in a section of the mine had complicated rescue operations.The initial explosion occurred in the mine's ventilator shaft, causing a blockage that damaged the cable car.Chen said that all nine miners had been killed by the impact of a secondary explosion in the mine on January 10 as they were trying to escape, judging from their positions.Rescue operations sped up dramatically on Sunday as a blockage in the ventilator shaft was cleared.Contact was first established a week ago with a group of 11 miners trapped in a section of the mine around 580 metres (1,900 feet) below the surface.One of them was seriously injured in the initial explosion and died after falling into a coma.Another miner was found alive by rescuers as they attempted to reach the group.Mining accidents are common in China's dangerous and poorly regulated sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinese-officials-say-nine-more-trapped-miners-confirmed-dead-one-still-missing-101611568433618.html
25-01-2021||World||Turkey, Greece resume talks on maritime disputes after five years||Turkey and Greece resumed talks aimed at addressing long-standing maritime disputes on Monday, diplomatic sources said, after months of tension in the eastern Mediterranean.The neighbouring countries, which are both members of the NATO military alliance, made little progress in 60 rounds of talks from 2002 to 2016.Plans for resuming discussions foundered last year over Turkey's deployment of a survey vessel in contested Mediterranean waters and disagreements over which topics to cover.Ankara and Athens agreed this month to resume talks in Istanbul, in a test of Turkey's hopes of improving its relations with the European Union, which has supported EU-member Greece and threatened sanctions on Turkey.Both sides have voiced guarded optimism before the talks, though Ankara and Athens were still trading barbs in the days leading up to Monday's meetings in Istanbul.Greek Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis said last week Greece would approach the talks with optimism but "zero naivety". Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan said he hoped the resumption of talks would herald a new era.Despite the agreement to resume talks, Athens said on Saturday it would discuss only the demarcation of exclusive economic zones and the continental shelf in the eastern Mediterranean, and not issues of "national sovereignty".Ankara has said it wants the talks to cover the same topics as in the first 60 rounds, including the demilitarisation of islands in the Aegean and disagreements over air space.It was not immediately clear what the agenda of the talks was on Monday.Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu held a series of talks in Brussels last week to discuss possible future steps to maintain what he called the "positive atmosphere" between Ankara and the EU since the bloc postponed imposing sanctions on Turkey until March at a December summit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/turkey-greece-resume-talks-on-maritime-disputes-after-five-years-101611568215226.html
25-01-2021||World||Thailand to begin Covid-19 vaccinations from next month||Thailand said on Monday it would start its coronavirus inoculation programme next month by administering 50,000 doses of AstraZeneca's vaccine to high-risk groups, as it faces accusations of being too slow to secure vaccines."We will start with medical personnel and high-risk individuals and areas," senior health official Sopon Mekton, told reporters.Health workers in Samut Sakhon province, the epicentre of the latest outbreak, would be the first to be inoculated, then elderly and people with chronic diseases.Thailand's food and drug administration last week approved AstraZeneca's vaccine for emergency use but has yet to grant authorisation for that of Sinovac Biotech, of which Thailand has ordered two million doses.Health Minister Anutin Charnvirakul on Monday said AstraZeneca would be supplying 50,000 fewer doses of the vaccine than the 200,000 Thailand had ordered."With the orders they have at hand, they just confirmed to us, they would supply 150,000 doses," Anutin told reporters, without elaborating, adding Thailand had initially requested one million doses.Thailand has so far recorded only 13,687 infections and 75 coronavirus deaths.The government has been criticised for taking too long to procure vaccines while neighbours in Southeast Asia start vaccinations or race to secure supplies from multiple companies. The government has rejected the criticism.Thanathorn Juangroongruangkit, a prominent politician, has said the strategy relied too much on one company, Siam Bioscience, a firm under the holdings of King Maha Vajiralongkorn, which will manufacture the Astrazeneca vaccine locally for regional distribution.Two leaders of an anti-government protest movement held a small demonstration on Monday to protest what they said was preferential treatment for the Siam Bioscience.Siam Bioscience has declined to comment on that allegation. Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha on Monday reiterated the agreement was above board.Siam Bioscience on Monday said it was altering its manufacturing plan to pour all available resources into producing the coronavirus vaccine and meeting AstraZenca's standards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/thailand-to-begin-covid-19-vaccinations-from-next-month-101611567824178.html
25-01-2021||World||Indonesia seizes Iran, Panama-flagged tankers over alleged illegal oil transfer||Indonesia said its coast guard seized the Iranian-flagged MT Horse and the Panamanian-flagged MT Freya vessels over suspected illegal oil transfer in the country's waters on Sunday.Coast guard spokesman Wisnu Pramandita said the tankers, seized in waters off Kalimantan province, will be escorted to Batam island in Riau Island Province for further investigation."The tankers, first detected at 5:30 a.m. local time (2130 GMT on Jan. 23) concealed their identity by not showing their national flags, turning off automatic identification systems and did not respond to a radio call," Wisnu said in a statement on Sunday.Wisnu told Reuters on Monday that the ships were "caught red-handed" transferring oil from MT Horse to MT Freya when they were discovered by the authorities and there was an oil spill around the receiving tanker.He added that 61 crew members from both vessels have been detained.The International Maritime Organization requires vessels to use transponders for safety and transparency. Crews can turn off the devices if there is a danger of piracy or similar hazards. But transponders are often shut down to conceal a ship's location during illicit activities.Both the supertankers, each capable of carrying 2 million barrels of oil, were last spotted earlier this month off Singapore, shipping data on Refinitiv Eikon showed.Very Large Crude Carrier (VLCC) MT Horse, owned by the National Iranian Tanker Company (NITC), was almost fully loaded with oil while VLCC MT Freya, managed by Shanghai Future Ship Management Co, was empty, the data showed.NITC was not immediately available for comment.A search by Reuters on Chinese company directory found that the registered office address of Shanghai Future Ship Management Co came under another firm named Shanghai Chengda Ship Management. Several calls made to the office went unanswered.Iran, which has not commented on the seizure, has been accused of concealing the destination of its oil sales by disabling tracking systems on its tankers, making it difficult to assess how much crude Tehran exports as it seeks to counter US sanctions.In 2018, former President Donald Trump pulled Washington out of Iran's 2015 nuclear deal with six major powers and reimposed sanctions aimed at cutting Tehran's oil exports to zero.Iran sent the MT Horse vessel to Venezuela last year to deliver 2.1 million barrels of Iranian condensate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indonesia-seizes-iran-panama-flagged-tankers-over-alleged-illegal-oil-transfer-101611566931088.html
25-01-2021||World||Pfizer urges South Korea to approve Covid-19 vaccines ahead of February rollout||Drugmaker Pfizer Inc has filed an application seeking approval of its coronavirus vaccines to be used in South Korea as the country gears up to begin inoculations next month, authorities said on Monday.The Ministry of Food and Drug Safety said it aims to reach a decision within 40 days after cutting its previous deliberation period of up to 180 days to fast-track the approval and speed up the vaccination process."Pfizer submitted the request today for its vaccines produced in Belgium," the ministry said in a statement."We will thoroughly review their safety and effectiveness in cooperation with professional examiners and outside experts so that our people can access safe and effective COVID-19 vaccines."South Korea has said its first batch of vaccines consisting of 100,000 doses of Pfizer products for 50,000 people could arrive before the Lunar New Year holidays, which begin on Feb. 11, via global distribution scheme COVAX.Authorities have started setting up vaccination centres, designating some 250 indoor gyms and theatres nationwide, with the goal of vaccinating up to 70% of its 52 million population until September.The country has secured 106 million doses of coronavirus vaccines from COVAX, Pfizer, Moderna, AstraZeneca and Johnson & Johnson, and is also in talks to buy 40 million doses of products from Novavax.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pfizer-urges-south-korea-to-approve-covid-19-vaccines-ahead-of-february-rollout-101611566930100.html
25-01-2021||World||Suu Kyi in line to get vaccine early as Myanmar readies rollout||Myanmar’s de facto leader Aung San Suu Kyi alongside health workers will be among the first to receive Covid-19 vaccine this week as the Southeast Asian nation seeks to stem the coronavirus outbreak and further relax containment measures.Frontline healthcare workers will get the shots from Wednesday, according to Khin Khin Gyi, director of emerging infectious disease at Myanmar’s Ministry of Health and Sports. Suu Kyi, President Win Myint and cabinet members will be inoculated the following day in capital Naypyidaw.Myanmar, which received 1.5 million doses of vaccine from India last week, will expand the inoculation program to those older than 65 years in 74 townships under stay-at-home orders once healthcare workers are covered, Khin Khin Gyi said.Myanmar’s stay-at-home orders have covered more than one-fourth of its population of almost 55 million from early September to control a second wave of infections that’s seen the nation’s total caseload surge to 137,574 with more than 3,000 fatalities. A vaccine rollout may allow authorities to further ease restrictions in areas including its commercial hub Yangon and in Rakhine state.Myanmar has signed a contract with Serum Institute of India to buy 30 million doses of Covishield vaccine developed by AstraZeneca Plc and Oxford University and is in talks with Chinese manufacturers including Sinovac Biotech Ltd. and Sinopharm for additional supplies. The nation aims to inoculate more than 40% of its population by the end of this year, according to the health ministry.Suu Kyi’s administration also expects supplies from the global Covax facility before April 7 and the government plans to allow the private sector to import vaccines approved by the World Health Organization later this year, Khin Khin Gyi said.Over the past week, cases in Myanmar have declined to an average of less than 500 per day, from about 1,300 last month, allowing authorities to ease some of the curbs. Yet, the International Monetary Fund warned the country against easing the virus restrictions too quickly, saying some restrictions need to be still maintained to prevent the outbreak from worsening.For more articles like this, please visit us at bloomberg.com©2021 Bloomberg L.P.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/suu-kyi-in-line-to-get-vaccine-early-as-myanmar-readies-rollout-101611566635630.html
25-01-2021||World||Biden admin appoints Indian-Americans to key posts in US energy department||The Biden Administration has appointed four Indian-Americans to senior positions in the crucial Department of Energy.The administration appointed Tarak Shah as the Chief of Staff, making him first Indian-American to serve in that position.Tanya Das has been named as the Chief of Staff to the Office of Science, Narayan Subramanian will occupy the position of Legal Adviser in the Office of General Counsel, and Shuchi Talati has been appointed as Chief of Staff in the Office of Fossil Energy.“These talented and diverse public servants will deliver on President Biden’s goal to tackle the climate crisis and build an equitable clean energy future,” said Shah as the Department of Energy announced 19 senior-level appointments.“Guided by their expertise, breadth of experience and following the science, these Department of Energy appointees will contribute to creating a clean energy economy that produces millions of good-paying American jobs and safeguards the planet for future generations,” Shah said.In addition to the Biden-Harris appointees, David G Huizenga will serve as the Acting Secretary of Energy. He was most recently Associate Principal Deputy Administrator for the National Nuclear Security Administration and has been a career employee at the department since 1987.Tarak Shah is an energy policy expert who has spent the last decade working on combating climate change. At the Biden-Harris transition, Shah was the personnel lead for the climate and science team.From 2014-2017, he served as Chief of Staff to the Under Secretary for Science and Energy at the department. Shah has also worked on political campaigns, including President Obama's senate and presidential campaigns.He had received his undergraduate degree from the University of Illinois and his MBA from Cornell University.Tanya Das was most recently a professional staff member on the US House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, where she worked on a range of issues in clean energy and manufacturing policy.She earned her PhD in electrical engineering from the University of California, Santa Barbara, and her BS in electrical engineering from the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor.Narayan Subramanian was a visiting research fellow at the Center for Law, Energy, and the Environment at Berkeley Law, leading a project tracking regulatory rollbacks, and served as a fellow at the Initiative for Sustainable Energy Policy at Johns Hopkins University and Data for Progress.Subramanian holds a JD from Columbia Law School, an MPA from the School of Public and International Affairs at Princeton University, and a BS in earth and environmental engineering from Columbia University.Shuchi Talati was most recently a Senior Policy Adviser at Carbon180, where she focused on policies to build sustainable and equitable technological carbon removal. She also served as a policy volunteer on the Biden-Harris campaign.Dr Talati earned a BS from Northwestern University, an MA from Columbia University and a PhD from Carnegie Mellon University.The Department of Energy said the new leaders will direct policy at the DOE, coordinate across the Administration and enact President Joe Biden’s vision for bold action on the climate crisis and on safeguarding the Americans most affected by it.These experienced professionals reflect President Biden’s pledge to equip his Administration with a team that represents America’s diversity, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-admin-appoints-indian-americans-to-key-posts-in-us-energy-department-101611565714243.html
25-01-2021||World||China uses mass construction once again to control virus spread||A sprawling quarantine center is more than 4,000 rooms is being thrown up in northern China in response to a Covid-19 outbreak in Shijiazhuang, a city of more than 10 million people in Hebei province.Satellite images from the European Space Agency show dramatic changes over 10 days in an area where there had been only flat land before construction started on January 13.Rows of prefabricated houses can be seen. The official People's Daily newspaper said more than 600 rooms were ready by Jan. 19. Another 3,600 are to be added by the time of completion.Construction workers and materials have been sent from all over the country to help build the center, state media reported. It’s common practice for China to mobilize resources nationwide to tackle natural disasters and other crises.Last year, two hospitals, Huoshenshan and Leishenshan, were built within days to treat Covid-19 patients in the city of Wuhan, where the coronavirus was first detected.China has largely curbed the domestic spread of the virus, but is battling outbreaks this winter in its frigid north. The National Health Commission on Monday reported 145 new cases in the latest 24-hour period, including 11 in Hubei province.The quarantine center is designed to house people who have been in contact with Covid-19 patients. Each room, for one person only, is 18 square meters (190 square feet) and comes with bedding, a desk, an air conditioner, a television and Wi-Fi, the China News Service reported.It is in Zhengding county, a suburban area in north Shijiazhuang. The city, the capital of Hebei, is about 260 kilometers (160 miles) southwest of Beijing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-uses-mass-construction-once-again-to-control-virus-spread-101611565231228.html
25-01-2021||World||Pakistani dissident Karima Baloch buried amid high security, say activists||A Pakistani dissident and woman rights activist who died in exile in Canada last month was brought home and laid to rest in her home village in the southwestern Baluchistan province under tight security, activists said Monday.Only the immediate family of 37-year-old Karima Baloch were allowed to attend her funeral on Sunday in the village of Tump in Baluchistan.Her supporters claim that Pakistani troops had sealed off the village and prevented them from attending her burial. Her remains were brought to Pakistan from Canada earlier on Sunday.Baloch’s body was found on Dec. 22 near Toronto’s downtown waterfront, a place that she liked and often visited, a day after she was reported missing. Toronto police have not treated her death as suspicious though there were allegations by her supporters that she was killed.A fierce critic of Pakistani spy agencies that are often accused of abducting activists in Baluchistan and elsewhere in Pakistan, she was granted asylum in Canada in 2016. Her death has raised suspicions among rights activists, who on Monday denounced authorities for holding the funeral in near secrecy.“It is appalling to see how Karima Baloch’s dead body was treated," said Mohsin Dawar, a lawmaker from Pakistan's former tribal regions who campaigns for Pashtun minority right but like Baloch, has also criticized Pakistani spy agencies.“It is not difficult to understand how this will deepen the divide and fuel separatism," he tweeted. "Is this the strategy to deal with the Baloch insurgency, to sprinkle salt on the wounds of Baloch?"Watch | Protest held outside Washington’s Canadian Embassy over death of Karima BalochThere was no immediate comment from the government, but a video that surfaced on social media shows soldiers turning back several mourners who are heard in the footage saying they wanted to pay their last respects to Baloch.Angered over the situation, a Baloch nationalist group — the Baloch Solidarity Committee — issued a call for a daylong strike and complete shutdown in Baluchistan on Monday. Its statement said Pakistani troops spirited Baloch's coffin on its arrival from Canada and foiled a move by her supporters to hold her funeral in Karachi, instead taking her remains to her home village.Later on Sunday, hundreds of Baluch activists rallied in Karachi, denouncing the government for not allowing that Baloch's funeral be held in the city.They chanted antigovernment slogans and demanded justice for Baloch, who they say was a “voice of the Baloch people” that was “silenced.” The activists insisted she did not die a natural death though they offered no evidence to support their allegation.Baluchistan has for years been the scene of a low-level insurgency by small separatist groups and nationalists who complain of discrimination and demand a fairer share of their province’s resources and wealth.Although there are also militant groups in Baluchistan that stage attacks on soldiers, separatists also often attack troops in the province, prompting authorities to detain suspects. Human rights activists often blame security forces of illegally holding people. Such detainees are usually not charged and do not appear in court, which draws protests from their families and rights activists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistani-dissident-karima-baloch-buried-amid-high-security-say-activists-101611564972457.html
25-01-2021||World||EU to debate sanctions after Russia arrests thousands in pro Navalny protests||The European Union will consider fresh sanctions on Russian individuals on Monday after more than 3,000 people were arrested across Russia on Saturday to demand the release of Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny.Lithuania's foreign minister, arriving in Brussels for a meeting of the bloc's 27 top diplomats, said "a change is in the air in Russia" that the bloc must support, especially after Navalny's detention as he returned to Russia from Germany."The EU needs to send a very clear and decisive message that this is not acceptable," Gabrielius Landsbergis said in a video statement, calling for more sanctions on Russian individuals.The EU already has economic sanctions on the Russian energy, financial and arms sectors over its 2014 annexation of the Crimea peninsula and has imposed sanctions on Russian officials close to President Vladimir Putin in response to Navalny's poisoning in August.Fellow Baltic countries Latvia and Estonia support more EU sanctions on Russian individuals, and Italy's foreign minister said on Sunday that Rome was ready to support more travel bans and asset freezes. Romania publicly backed sanctions on Monday.German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas demanded the immediate release of protesters who braved extreme cold to call for Navalny's release, but did not make further comment.In central Moscow on Saturday, where Reuters reporters estimated up to 40,000 people had gathered in one of the biggest unauthorised rallies for years, police were seen roughly detaining people, bundling them into nearby vans.Germany and France, the EU's main powers, will be central to deciding if the bloc goes ahead with punitive measures on Russia, a big oil and gas exporter to the bloc, although no detailed list of names is expected to be decided on Monday.Navalny says Putin was behind his poisoning last August, a version that the Kremlin rejects. The Kremlin says it has seen no evidence that Navalny was poisoned and that it will not heed calls by some Western countries for sanctions over Navalny's detention because his case is a domestic matter.Finnish Foreign Minister Pekka Haavisto said he wanted a "proper legal investigation" in the poisoning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-to-debate-sanctions-after-russia-arrests-thousands-in-pro-navalny-protests-101611564801105.html
25-01-2021||World||Israel extradites woman wanted for sex crimes to Australia||Israeli authorities on Monday extradited a former teacher accused of sexually abusing her former students in Australia, capping a six-year legal battle that had strained relations between the two governments and antagonized Australia's Jewish community.Malka Leifer, who is wanted on 74 charges of child sex abuse in Australia, was placed on a flight early in the day, several hours before Israel was to close its international airport to nearly all air traffic due to a raging coronavirus outbreak. Israeli media photographed Leifer boarding a plane at Ben Gurion Airport, her ankles and wrists shackled. Her lawyer, Nick Kaufman, confirmed the extradition.Leifer, a former teacher accused of sexually abusing several former students at a Jewish school in Melbourne, had been fighting extradition since 2014. Leifer maintains her innocence and the protracted court case and repeated delays over her extradition had drawn criticism from Australian officials as well as the country’s Jewish leaders.The Hebrew-language news site Ynet reported that Leifer boarded a flight to Frankfurt, where she was to transfer to another flight bound for Australia.Three sisters — Dassi Erlich, Nicole Meyer and Elly Sapper — have accused Leifer of abusing them while they were students at a Melbourne ultra-Orthodox school. There are said to be other victims. The Associated Press does not usually identify alleged victims of sexual abuse, but the sisters have spoken publicly about their allegations against Leifer.“This is an incredible day for justice!” said Manny Waks, head of Voice against Child Sex Abuse, an organization representing Leifer’s victims. “We can now truly look forward to Leifer facing justice in Australia on the 74 charges she is facing,” he said.Erlich simply wrote on her Facebook page: “Leifer is on the plane to Australia.”As accusations against her began surfacing in 2008, Israeli-born Leifer left the school and returned to Israel, where she has lived since. Critics, including Leifer’s alleged victims, had accused Israeli authorities of dragging out the case for far too long, while Leifer claimed she was mentally unfit to stand trial.Israeli police also have recommended charges of fraud and breach of trust against former Health Minister Yaakov Litzman for suspicions he pressured ministry employees to skew Leifer’s psychiatric evaluations in her favor. Litzman, a powerful ultra-Orthodox politician, denies wrongdoing.Last year, an Israeli psychiatric panel determined Leifer was lying about her mental condition, setting in motion the extradition. In December, the Supreme Court rejected a final appeal against her extradition, and Israel’s justice minister signed the order to send her to Australia.Details of Leifer's connecting flight to Australia were not immediately available.Late Sunday, the Israeli Cabinet approved a tight closure on nearly all incoming and outgoing air traffic starting at midnight Monday through Jan. 31. The government said it would make exceptions for a small number of humanitarian cases — such as funerals and medical patients — and cargo flights. Israel’s health ministry has recorded over 600,000 cases of the coronavirus and 4,419 deaths since the start of the pandemic last year.Avi Nissenkorn, Israel’s former justice minister who had signed the extradition order, wrote on Twitter: “I promised that I would not hinder the extradition order, and that’s what I have done. Malka Leifer’s victims will finally earn an act of justice.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/israel-extradites-woman-wanted-for-sex-crimes-to-australia-101611563631538.html
25-01-2021||World||Borders tightened as coronavirus curfew fury spills over||Border restrictions were being tightened around the world Monday in the face of an unrelenting coronavirus threat, after a weekend in which anger at social distancing rules bubbled over into fiery clashes in the Netherlands.The United States was set to join France, Israel and Sweden in pulling up the drawbridge to certain arrivals, with special concern about new strains of the pathogen that originated in Britain and South Africa."When I arrive in a country, the idea is not to contaminate it," Antoine, an 18-year-old Belgian, told AFP at Paris's main international airport after new rules on tests for EU arrivals came into force."It's up to us to show that we are civic-minded," said Spaniard Claudio Barraza.The stipulations came as Mexico's President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador became the latest public figure to test positive for the disease, and New Zealand reported its first community case for more than two months.In Washington, President Joe Biden will on Monday reimpose a ban on most non-US citizens who have been in Britain, Brazil, Ireland and much on Europe, as well as adding South Africa to the list, a senior White House official said.Biden last week tightened mask-wearing rules and ordered quarantine for people flying into the country, which on Sunday topped 25 million cases.Since it emerged in late 2019, Covid-19 has killed more than 2.1 million people, with almost 99 million cases registered, according to an AFP tally from official figures.On Sunday, France started demanding a negative PCR test for arrivals by sea and air from European Union neighbours.Sweden said it would prohibit entry from neighbouring Norway for three weeks, after cases of the more infectious British strain were detected in Oslo.And in Israel, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said the country was "closing the skies hermetically, except for rare exceptions" to both arrivals and departures for a week.Fury in the NetherlandsProtests against a coronavirus curfew in the Netherlands degenerated into clashes with police and looting in cities across the country Sunday, a day after a Covid-19 testing centre was set on fire in the northern village of Urk.Police used water cannon and dogs in Amsterdam, public television NOS reported, after hundreds gathered to protest the 9 pm-4:30 am curfew, set to last until February 10.At least 30 people were arrested in Eindhoven, where mayor John Jorritsma told reporters that if the country continued "down this path, then I think we are heading for civil war".In New Zealand, officials confirmed the first case of Covid-19 in the community for more than two months, in a 56-year-old woman who recently returned from Europe.- Vaccination challenges -Scientists say the only way out of the pandemic is large scale vaccinations, but the roll-out has stuttered in may places.Egypt began its programme, with a doctor and a nurse getting the Chinese-made Sinopharm jab.Health Minister Hala Zayed said Cairo had inked deals for vaccine shipments from British, Chinese and Russian firms, for a total of around 100 million doses -- enough for about half Egypt's population.In India, around one-third of people are not turning up for vaccine appointments, with fear of side effects high after reports of a few cases of severe reactions spread widely through the media and messaging services.Australia's medical regulator formally approved the Pfizer vaccine, with the first doses expected to be administered in late February, Prime Minister Scott Morrison said Monday.On the long-term economic impacts of the pandemic, anti-poverty group Oxfam said Monday the emergency was aggravating inequality."The 1,000 richest people on the planet recouped their Covid-19 losses within just nine months, but it could take more than a decade for the world's poorest to recover," the group said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/borders-tightened-as-coronavirus-curfew-fury-spills-over-101611553261218.html
25-01-2021||World||Biden to drop Trump's military transgender ban||President Joe Biden is set to issue an executive order to reverse a Pentagon policy that largely bars transgender individuals from joining the military, dumping a ban ordered by President Donald Trump in a tweet during his first year in office, a person briefed on the decision tells The Associated Press.Biden has been widely expected to overturn the Trump policy in his early days in office. The White House could announce the move as early as Monday, according to the person briefed on the decision who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss the order.The move to reverse the policy has the support of Biden's newly confirmed defense secretary, retired Army Gen. Lloyd Austin, who spoke of the need to overturn it during his Senate confirmation hearing last week.“I support the president’s plan or plan to overturn the ban,” Austin said. “If you’re fit and you’re qualified to serve and you can maintain the standards, you should be allowed to serve.”The decision comes as Biden plans to turn his attention to equity issues that he believes continue to shadow nearly all aspects of American life. Ahead of his inauguration, Biden's transition team circulated a memo from Ron Klain, now the White House chief of staff, that sketched out Biden's plan to use his first full week as president “to advance equity and support communities of color and other underserved communities."The move to overturn the transgender ban is also the latest example of Biden using executive authority in his first days as president to dismantle Trump's legacy. His early actions include orders to overturn a Trump administration ban on travelers from several predominantly Muslim countries, stop construction of the wall at the U.S.-Mexico border, and launch an initiative to advance racial equity.Biden is also scheduled to hold a ceremonial swearing-in ceremony on Monday at the White House for Austin, who became the nation's first Black defense secretary.It was unclear how quickly the Pentagon can put a new policy in effect, and whether it will take some time to work out details.Until a few years ago service members could be discharged from the military for being transgender, but that changed during the Obama administration. In 2016, Defense Secretary Ash Carter announced that transgender people already serving in the military would be allowed to serve openly. And the military set July 1, 2017, as the date when transgender individuals would be allowed to enlist.After Trump took office, however, his administration delayed the enlistment date and called for additional study to determine if allowing transgender individuals to serve would affect military readiness or effectiveness.A few weeks later, Trump caught military leaders by surprise, tweeting that the government wouldn't accept or allow transgender individuals to serve “in any capacity” in the military. “Our military must be focused on decisive and overwhelming victory and cannot be burdened with the tremendous medical costs and disruption that transgender in the military would entail,” he wrote.It took nearly two years, but after a lengthy and complicated legal battle and additional reviews, the Defense Department in April 2019 approved the new policy that fell short of an all-out ban but barred transgender troops and military recruits from transitioning to another sex and required most individuals to serve in their birth gender.Under that policy, currently serving transgender troops and anyone who had signed an enlistment contract before the effective date could continue with plans for hormone treatments and gender transition if they had been diagnosed with gender dysphoria.But after that date, no one with gender dysphoria who was taking hormones or has transitioned to another gender was allowed to enlist. Troops that were already serving and were diagnosed with gender dysphoria were required to serve in their birth gender and were barred from taking hormones or getting transition surgery.Under the Trump policy, a service member can be discharged based on a diagnosis of gender dysphoria if he or she is “unable or unwilling to adhere to all applicable standards, including the standards associated with his or her biological sex, or seeks transition to another gender.” And it said troops must be formally counseled and given a chance to change their decision before the discharge is finalized.As of 2019, an estimated 14,700 troops on active duty and in the Reserves identify as transgender, but not all seek treatment. Since July 2016, more than 1,500 service members were diagnosed with gender dysphoria; as of Feb. 1, 2019, there were 1,071 currently serving. According to the Pentagon, the department spent about $8 million on transgender care between 2016 and 2019. The military’s annual health care budget tops $50 billion.All four service chiefs told Congress in 2018 that they had seen no discipline, morale or unit readiness problems with transgender troops serving openly in the military. But they also acknowledged that some commanders were spending a lot of time with transgender individuals who were working through medical requirements and other transition issues.Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lifestyle/relationships/biden-to-drop-trump-s-military-transgender-ban-101611547669816.html
25-01-2021||World||Australia approves Pfizer Covid shot, warns of limited global AstraZeneca supply||Australia on Monday approved the Pfizer-BioNTech Covid-19 vaccine for use but warned AstraZeneca's international production problems mean the country would need to distribute a locally manufactured shot earlier than planned.The country's medical regulator was one of the first in the world to complete a comprehensive approval of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine, Prime Minister Scott Morrison said on Monday, noting it was a year since the first local coronavirus case was detected.Vaccination of priority groups with the Pfizer vaccine is expected to begin in late February at 80,000 doses per week, Health Minister Greg Hunt told reporters.Pfizer had told the Australian government it anticipated continuous supply but would provide global production guidance "in mid-February for March and beyond on a weekly basis," he said.The Australian rollout update comes after AstraZeneca Plc told European Union officials on Friday it would cut deliveries of its vaccine to the bloc by 60% in the first quarter due to production problems.Hunt said AstraZeneca had advised Australia the company has "had a significant supply shock and so that means we won't have as much of that AstraZeneca international in March as they had previously promised".The AstraZeneca vaccine is yet to be approved by Australia, which expects to start CSL's domestic supply of the AstraZeneca vaccine in March, earlier than planned, at 1 million doses a week, he said."The decision to pay a premium for an onshore, secure, sovereign vaccine manufacturing capacity via CSL, that puts Australia in a vastly more secure position than almost any other country in the world," Hunt said.Australia has set a target of 4 million vaccine doses by April. It has also committed to supplying vaccines to Pacific Island nations on a later timetable.The Pfizer vaccine has been provisionally approved by the Therapeutic Goods Administration's (TGA) for Australians aged 16 years and over.Australia will administer the two doses of the vaccine to each recipient at the recommended time."You don't start what you can't finish, and finishing the job involves two doses," said Morrison, adding a digital system would ensure people get two doses each.However, he cautioned there are limits to what a vaccine rollout would mean for the country, with current border restrictions expected to remain in place.Quarantine and border personnel, frontline health workers and aged care and disability staff and residents will be the first group to receive vaccines.There have been no new cases of community transmission in Australia in the past seven days, and there are no Australians with coronavirus in hospital intensive care units. Hunt contrasted this with 6 million cases globally in the last 10 days and 125,000 lives lost."That comparison is almost unbelievable, the difference between where we are in Australia and overseas," he said.Australia has had just under 28,800 cases in the past year, the overwhelming majority in Victoria state, and 909 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/australia-approves-pfizer-covid-shot-warns-of-limited-global-astrazeneca-supply-101611551028122.html
25-01-2021||World||Mexico’s President, who downplayed virus, tests positive for Covid-19||Mexican President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador said he tested positive for Covid-19 Sunday, after a weekend trip that took him to two states amid a record climb in the nation’s cases and deaths in the past week.The 67-year-old president announced his diagnosis in a tweet late Sunday, saying his symptoms were mild and that he’s receiving treatment. He’s also expected to stay on top of the country’s affairs, and will take a scheduled call with Russian leader Vladimir Putin on Monday. The peso was little changed against the dollar in Asia trading.“As always, I am optimistic,” he said. “We will all move forward.”Lopez Obrador, known as AMLO, has generally held a lax approach to the virus, refusing to impose mandatory lockdowns and pressing hard to keep the economy open for business. With the increase in deaths in the past week, the nation now has the fourth-highest number of fatalities globally, after the U.S., Brazil and India.Mexico doesn’t have a vice president. The interior minister would assume power for up to 60 days if a president dies, until lawmakers appoint an interim leader. Interior Minister Olga Sanchez Cordero will serve as AMLO’s deputy at his daily press conferences while he recovers, the president tweeted.AMLO suffered a heart attack in 2013, which he has said was caused by arterial hypertension. He first exhibited mild Covid symptoms on Sunday and is now in the care of Health Minister Jorge Alcocer, according to Jose Luis Alomia, a ministry official.Lopez Obrador has largely refused to wear a mask during the pandemic. When asked by reporters why he was contradicting Mexico City’s guidance on mask-wearing, he replied “everyone is free” at a press conference last month. “If using a mask makes a person feel safer, then go ahead,” he said.Biden CallThe president held a telephone conversation Friday with U.S. President Joe Biden in Monterrey, and also attended events in the state of San Luis Potosi over the weekend. AMLO was pictured during the call at a table next to his Foreign Affairs Minister Marcelo Ebrard and former Chief of Staff Alfonso Romo, all three without masks.This past week, Mexico reported two days of record increases in deaths due to the virus, registering a high on Thursday of 1,803 fatalities. The country reported 1.76 million cases and 149,614 deaths as of Sunday evening. Mexico City hospitals have been almost at full capacity for weeks now, with 89% of beds occupied as of Sunday night.Christmas celebrations are believed to have contributed to the recent surge, while the nation’s vaccination campaign has suffered delays. Meanwhile, the president has pledged government austerity, declining to inject any significant stimulus amid the outbreak.The nationalist leader has kept up a heavy travel schedule during the pandemic and flies economy class. AMLO is known to remain standing for up to three hours daily, as he answers questions at his morning press briefings.AMLO has declined to get vaccinated against Covid-19 until late February, when others in his age group are scheduled for the shots.The president is fighting to keep his working majority in Congress during midterm elections to be held in June. His approval rating has held above 60% during the crisis, even with the virus raging and the economy estimated to have shrunk around 9% in 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mexicos-president-who-downplayed-virus-tests-positive-for-covid19-101611550539630.html
25-01-2021||World||US won’t relax travel restrictions as Donald Trump had planned||President Joe Biden will continue to restrict travel to the US from the UK, Ireland and 26 countries in Europe, and will extend the ban to South Africa, to slow transmission of Covid-19, said a White House official familiar with the plan.The latest ban would prevent most non-US citizens from entry if they have recently been in South Africa, where a new strain of the virus has been identified. It’s unclear how long the restrictions will continue.The Trump administration on Jan. 18, two days before Biden’s inauguration, announced a plan to wind down restrictions on travelers from a number of countries starting Jan. 26, when arrivals to the US would need to have tested negative for the virus.At the time, White House press secretary Jen Psaki said the incoming administration planned to block the move, saying on Twitter that “this is not the time to be lifting restrictions on international travel.”“In fact, we plan to strengthen public health measures around international travel in order to further mitigate the spread of COVID-19,” Psaki tweeted.The US is warily viewing new coronavirus strains that have originated in South Africa and Brazil, as well as one recently identified in the UK that’s more transmissible and potentially more harmful.Reuters first reported the US plan to ban travel from South Africa for most non-US citizens, citing officials with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.Starting Monday, all passengers arriving in the US, including citizens, will be required to get a viral test for the coronavirus within three days of their departure, and to provide written documentation of a negative result.The CDC, in an order issued on Sunday, eliminated an option for airlines or other aircraft operators with flights from countries that lack testing capacity for Covid-19 to apply for two-week waivers from the order.“With the U.S. already in surge status, the testing requirement for all air passengers will help slow the spread of the virus as we work to vaccinate the American public,” the CDC said in its order.The U.K. warned this weekend that coronavirus vaccines may be less effective against new variants of the disease, such as those now being found in South Africa and Brazil, making stricter border controls justified.Scott Gottlieb, the former head of the US Food and Drug Administration, said Sunday that it’s highly likely the South African variant is already in the country.“I feel fairly confident that it is here and we’re just not detecting it yet,” Gottlieb said on “Face the Nation Extra” on CBS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-won-t-relax-travel-restrictions-as-donald-trump-had-planned-101611537025181.html
25-01-2021||World||5, including pregnant woman, fatally shot in Indianapolis||Five people, including a pregnant woman, were shot to death early Sunday inside an Indianapolis home in an apparent targeted attack, the city's police chief said, decrying the “mass murder” killings as a “different kind of evil.”The fatal shootings were discovered by police who had been called about 4 am to investigate reports of a person shot on the city's near northeast side but first discovered a juvenile male with gunshot wounds, said Sgt. Shane Foley with the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department.No suspects were in custody as of Sunday evening.As officers were investigating that juvenile's shooting, Foley said police received information about 4.40 am, that led them to a nearby home, where they found five adults dead inside from apparent gunshot wounds. One of the five victims was a pregnant woman who was taken to an area hospital, where both she and the unborn child died despite life-saving efforts, Foley said.He said the juvenile initially found with gunshot wounds is expected to survive and police believe he was wounded in the shootings that left the five others dead, along with the unborn child.IMPD Chief Randal Taylor said police believe the deadly shootings were not random, but were a targeted attack carried out by an assailant or assailants.He said the shooting came days after police department officials had announced their latest efforts to combat violent, drug-related crimes and “violence driven by poverty or desperation.”“But what we saw this morning was a different kind of evil. What happened this morning, based on the evidence that's been gathered so far, was mass murder," Taylor said at a news conference. “More than that, we believe it was not random."Taylor said it was largest mass casualty shooting in the city in more than a decade, and urged the public to contact police and pass along any information they might have on the killings.Mayor Joe Hogsett called the shootings “mass murder," and said that an individual or individuals had brought “terror to our community.”He said he had contacted officials with the FBI's Indianapolis field office, the local US Attorneys office and other law enforcement agencies for assistance in the shooting investigation.“I want those responsible to know that the full might of local, state and federal law enforcement are coming for them as I speak,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/5-including-pregnant-woman-fatally-shot-in-indianapolis-101611536826385.html
25-01-2021||World||Farmers in Pakistan's Sindh protest against Imran Khan government over tomato import||Farmers in Hyderabad city of Sindh province staged a demonstration on Sunday against Prime Minister Imran Khan's government for continuing the import of tomatoes.The protesting farmers destroyed their ready-to-reap harvest as the import of tomatoes has downgraded the prices of locally-grown ones in Hyderabad, Geo News reported.According to the Sindh Abadgar Board (SAB), the federal government was informed about the situation one-and-a-half months ago but it did not stop the import process.As imported tomatoes continued to be supplied to the markets, the rates of local tomatoes drastically went down.According to SAB, farmers are selling tomatoes for prices ranging from Pakistani ₹11 to Pakistani ₹15 per kilogramme at the moment, and prices are predicted to be further downgraded to Pakistani ₹5 per kg.Last week, the government of Sindh requested the Centre to ban import of tomato and encourage export of onion to facilitate local growers and farmers of Sindh in particular.Sindh ranked first in the production of onion and tomatoes among all provinces of Pakistan.This year, the province managed to produce a bumper crop of onion and tomato and at present, harvesting is taking place in full swing.Due to the ongoing import of tomato and massive local production of onion, prices of both commodities in the local market have dropped drastically due to which farmers are not receiving proper revenue for their produce.Owing to low revenues, farmers have started protesting for the imposition of a ban on the import of tomatoes, according to the provincial government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/farmers-in-pakistan-s-sindh-protest-against-imran-khan-government-over-tomato-import-101611536436303.html
25-01-2021||World||Billionaires thriving as poor suffer in widening Covid-19 divide: Report||Billionaires including Amazon's Jeff Bezos and Tesla founder Elon Musk have seen their wealth soar during the Covid-19 pandemic while the world's poor face years of hardship, charity Oxfam said on Monday as it demanded steps to tackle inequality.Nations have a "shrinking window of opportunity" to build a fair, green recovery, according to "The Inequality Virus" report, published as global leaders tune in for the World Economic Forum's virtual "Davos Dialogue" meeting."We stand to witness the greatest rise in inequality since records began," Gabriela Bucher, executive director of Oxfam International, said in a statement as the charity called for higher wealth taxes and stronger protections for workers."Rigged economies are funnelling wealth to a rich elite who are riding out the pandemic in luxury, while those on the frontline of the pandemic — shop assistants, healthcare workers, and market vendors — are struggling to pay the bills."Covid-19 has unleashed an economic storm that hit the poor and vulnerable hardest, with women and marginalised workers facing the worst of job losses and the World Bank warning more than 100 million people could be pushed into extreme poverty.It could take more than a decade to reduce the number of people living in poverty back to pre-crisis levels, Oxfam said.Meanwhile, the collective wealth of the world's billionaires rose $3.9 trillion between March and December 2020 to reach $11.95 trillion, the report calculated.The 10 richest men - a list led by Bezos and Musk which also includes LVMH luxury group's CEO Bernard Arnault, Microsoft's Bill Gates and Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg - saw their net worth increase by $540 billion in the same period, Oxfam said.That sum would be enough to prevent anyone from falling into poverty as a result of the pandemic and pay for a vaccine for everyone on earth, researchers calculated.The pandemic marks a "pivotal" point which has exposed economic disparities and built support for "transformative" policies, Oxfam said, calling for higher taxes on wealth and corporations alongside stronger protections for workers.A temporary tax on excess profits made by the 32 global corporations that have profited the most during the pandemic could have raised $104 billion in 2020, Oxfam said.International cooperation would be key to implementing many changes, said Jayati Ghosh, an economics professor at the University of Massachusetts Amherst who was among the economists polled by Oxfam for the report.The administration of new US President Joe Biden will spur "more willingness" for joint action on issues including a crackdown on tax havens and a bailout for developing nations, she told the Thomson Reuters Foundation by phone."There are some very, very big hurdles, but there are many things that can be done very quickly," she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/billionaires-thriving-as-poor-suffer-in-widening-covid-19-divide-report-101611535860235.html
25-01-2021||World||Israel's struggling Labor party chooses new leader||Israel's Labor Party on Sunday chose Merav Michaeli, a veteran lawmaker and former journalist, as its new leader ahead of March elections.Michaeli, 54, faces a difficult task as she tries to revive the fortunes of the iconic party. Labor guided Israel to independence in 1948 and led the country for its first three decades.But it has struggled to remain relevant over the past two decades as peacemaking with the Palestinians ground to a halt and the electorate appears to have embraced Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's hard-line ideology.Opinion polls have forecast Labor will not receive the minimum number of votes needed to enter the next parliament.Michaeli has been a leading progressive voice in the Knesset, or parliament, supporting women's rights, LGBT causes and the rights of workers in addition to seeking peace with the Palestinians.In a message to supporters posted on Facebook, Michaeli urged people to “come home.” “I call on people who feel that politics doesn't represent them, to those who feel that politics doesn't hear their voice, come home,” she said."Even if the Labor Party wasn't your home in the past, I promise to represent all of you.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/israels-struggling-labor-party-chooses-new-leader-101611535291893.html
25-01-2021||World||Joe Biden to reinstate Covid-19 travel rules, add South Africa||President Joe Biden on Monday will formally reinstate Covid-19 travel restrictions on non-US travelers from Brazil, Ireland, the United Kingdom and 26 other European countries that allow travel across open borders, according to two White House officials.The officials, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss the order, also confirmed Sunday that South Africa would be added to the restricted list because of concerns about a variant of the virus that has spread beyond that nation.Biden is reversing an order from President Donald Trump in his final days in office that called for the relaxation of the travel restrictions as of Tuesday.Also Read | We can't wait: Joe Biden pushes US Congress for $1.9 trillion in Covid-19 reliefThe decision to reverse the order is not surprising, but the addition of South Africa to the restricted travel list highlights the new administration's concern about mutations in the virus.The South Africa variant has not been discovered in the United States, but another variant — originating in the United Kingdom — has been detected in several states. Reuters was first to report Biden's decision to add South Africa to the list.Biden last week issued an executive order directing federal agencies to require international air travelers to quarantine upon US arrival. The order also requires that all US-bound passengers ages 2 and above get negative Covid-19 test results within three days before traveling.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-to-reinstate-covid-19-travel-rules-add-south-africa-101611534867400.html
25-01-2021||World||Grim milestone: Covid-19 count set to touch 100 million||AgenciesEngland’s deputy chief medical officer Jonathan Van-Tam has warned that people vaccinated against Covid-19 can still spread the deadly virus. The warning came as the global number of coronavirus infections was on the verge of crossing the 100 million mark.Also on Sunday, the United States, the nation worst hit by the pandemic, saw its tally of Covid-19 cases cross 25 million, according to the Johns Hopkins University tracker. The number of Covid-19 deaths in the country has already topped 417,000.Van-Tam, one of England’s leading medical officers, urged the public to continue to follow the strict lockdown rules because any vaccine-related immunity from Covid-19 takes at least three weeks to kick in.“Regardless of whether someone has had their vaccination or not, it is vital that everyone follows the national restrictions and public health advice, as protection takes up to three weeks to kick in and we don’t yet know the impact of vaccines on transmission,” said Van-Tam.Britain is expanding its coronavirus vaccination programme that has seen almost 6 million people get the first of two doses - even as the country’s death toll in the pandemic approaches 100,000. Almost 5.9 million doses of vaccine had been administered by Saturday.The UK is inoculating people with two vaccines - one made by US pharma firm Pfizer and German company BioNTech, the other by UK-Swedish drugmaker AstraZeneca and Oxford University. It has authorised a third one, developed by Moderna.Britain’s vaccination campaign is so far a rare success in a country with Europe’s worst confirmed coronavirus outbreak. The UK has recorded 97,329 deaths among people who tested positive, including 1,348 new deaths reported on Saturday.British health secretary Matt Hancock said on Sunday the country was still a long way from being able to relax a national lockdown despite evidence that the restrictions were bringing down the rate of Covid-19 infections.Border controls come into force in FranceNew border controls came into force in France on Sunday as part of a massive effort to contain the spread of Covid-19 and avoid another nationwide lockdown. After a slow start to vaccinations, French health authorities reported that a million people had received coronavirus inoculations by Saturday.But high new rates for infections, hospitalisations and Covid deaths fuelled fears France may need another full lockdown, which would be the third, inflicting yet more devastation on businesses and daily lives.Starting on Sunday, arrivals to France from EU countries by air or sea must be able to produce a negative PCR test result obtained in the previous 72 hours.The requirement had already applied to non-EU arrivals since mid-January. EU travellers entering France by land, including cross-border workers, will not need a negative test.Germany will become the first EU country to start using the same experimental antibody treatment credited with helping former US President Donald Trump recover from Covid-19, health minister Jens Spahn said on Sunday.Germany has purchased doses of US firm Regeneron’s Casirivimab-Imdevimab antibody cocktail, as well US company Eli Lilly’s Bamlanivimab antibody drug.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/grim-milestone-covid-19-count-set-to-touch-100-million-101611534510314.html
25-01-2021||World||Some saw Covid-19 as 'hoax', says Trump's virus adviser||Dr. Deborah Birx says when she was coordinator of President Donald Trump's coronavirus task force, she had to grapple with Covid-19 deniers in the White House and that someone gave the president “parallel” streams of data that conflicted with hers.Defending her tenure, Birx told CBS' “Face the Nation” on Sunday that she was at times censored by the Trump administration but denied ever withholding information.Birx said she would see Trump “presenting graphs that I never made” and that “someone out there or someone inside was creating a parallel set of data and graphics that were shown to the president.”She added that in the White House, “There were people who definitely believed that this was a hoax.”Birx did not identify the Covid-19 deniers and said she did not know who was presenting the parallel data to Trump, but said she realizes now that Trump coronavirus adviser Dr. Scott Atlas was providing some of it.Birx said in December that she would retire but was willing to first help President Joe Biden's team with its coronavirus response as needed. More than 25 million people have been infected with the coronavirus and at least 418,000 people have died in the US since the pandemic began.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/some-saw-covid-19-as-hoax-says-trump-s-virus-adviser-101611534524917.html
25-01-2021||World||Pakistan in 'grave danger', Imran Khan govt likely to make 'huge blunder': Former President Zardari||Asserting that Pakistan is in a "grave danger", the country's former President Asif Zardari on Sunday claimed that Prime Minister Imran Khan-led government is likely to make a "huge blunder" in coming months.Speaking to the secretary-general of the Pakistan Peoples Party's (PPP) Punjab chapter, Chaudhry Manzoor, during a phone call, PPP's co-chairperson Asif Zardari said that Opposition parties' coalition under the Pakistan Democratic Movement (PDM) banner "is united and will strike the government from all directions", Geo News reported."The PDM will use all options, in turn, to get rid of the PTI government," Zardari said.His remarks come amid reports of rifts between the member parties of the PDM. Reports of rifts between the parties emerged on Saturday after PML-N's Ahsan Iqbal disagreed with PPP Chairman Bilawal Bhutto Zardari's recommendation of tabling a no-confidence motion in parliament, instead of organising protest rallies across the country to remove the ruling party from power.During the phone call, Asif Zardari said: "The country is in grave danger and the [incumbent] rulers are likely to make a huge blunder. It is crucial to send the government packing"."The incompetence of these inept rulers may lead to a major accident in the country [and therefore] the next few months are crucial for the future of national politics," he added.Slamming the "incompetent" PTI government, he said that the rulers had "turned all indicators negative"."I said in the past that these elected rulers will fall under their own weight. Now that they have crashed, only one last shove is needed. Together with the PDM, the PPP will send this failed and incompetent lot home," he vowed.Meanwhile, The 11-party opposition alliance-- Pakistan Democratic Movement (PDM)-- had recently announced its new round of anti-government rallies across the country.After a meeting of the PDM steering committee in Islamabad on January 18, PDM chief Maulana Fazlur Rehman said that they will hold its first rally of the new phase in Rawalpindi's Liaquat Bagh on February 5, SAMAA TV reported.According to the PDM chief, the next rally will be held in Hyderabad on February 9 and it will be followed by another public gathering in Sialkot on February 13.PML-N Vice President Maryam Nawaz and Bilawal are among major leaders who have said that they will send the Imran-led government packing and have organised several PDM rallies including those in Peshawar, Gujranwala, Karachi, Quetta, Multan and Lahore since October 16.The PDM has demanded the resignation of Imran Khan by January 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-in-grave-danger-imran-khan-govt-likely-to-make-huge-blunder-former-president-zardari-101611534286785.html
25-01-2021||World||Afghan govt to Pak: ask Taliban to reduce violence||Afghanistan on Sunday called on Pakistan to compel the Taliban to fulfil their commitments to reduce violence and to agree to a ceasefire, a day after the US said it would review its agreement with the militants.The Afghan foreign ministry called on Pakistan and other international partners to press the Taliban to end violence in response to comments by Pakistan’s foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi that the US should “not reverse things” in Afghanistan.The Afghan foreign ministry said in a statement, “We expect the government of Pakistan and all our international partners to compel the Taliban to fulfil their commitments to reduce violence, to secure a nationwide ceasefire, and to sever ties with terrorist groups.”Most of the Taliban’s top commanders are based in Pakistan, especially in Quetta and the country’s northwest. Taliban negotiator Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar recently said all decisions regarding the peace process are made after consulting the leadership based in Pakistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/afghan-govt-to-pak-ask-taliban-to-reduce-violence-101611534201857.html
25-01-2021||World||Covid-19 condemns billions to poverty for a decade: Report||The Covid-19 crisis is aggravating inequality, with the richest quickly getting richer while it will likely take years for the world's poorest to recover, anti-poverty group Oxfam said Monday.In a report entitled "The inequality virus", the group warned that the pandemic is the first time since records began that inequality is rising in virtually every country at the same time."The 1,000 richest people on the planet recouped their Covid-19 losses within just nine months, but it could take more than a decade for the world's poorest to recover," said the Oxfam report.Oxfam also highlighted the fact that the impact of the virus is also being felt unevenly, with ethnic minorities in certain countries dying at higher rates and women being overrepresented in the sectors of the economy that are hardest hit by the pandemic.The report is timed to coincide with the start of the World Economic Forum's virtual Davos event: an entire week of global programming will be dedicated to helping leaders choose innovative and bold solutions to stem the pandemic and drive a robust recovery over the next year.Oxfam argued in its report that fairer economies are the key to a rapid economic recovery from Covid-19.It calculated that a temporary tax on excess profits made by the 32 global corporations that have gained the most during the pandemic could have raised $104 billion in 2020, an amount it said was enough to have provided unemployment benefits for all workers and financial support for all children and elderly people in low- and middle-income countries."Extreme inequality is not inevitable, but a policy choice," said Gabriela Bucher, executive director of Oxfam International."The fight against inequality must be at the heart of economic rescue and recovery efforts" with investments in public services financed by a tax system where the richest individuals and corporations pay their fair share.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-condemns-billions-to-poverty-for-a-decade-report-101611534078368.html
25-01-2021||World||We can't wait: Joe Biden pushes US Congress for $1.9 trillion in Covid-19 relief||The Biden administration and Democratic and Republican lawmakers discussing a new $1.9 trillion in coronavirus relief agreed on Sunday that the most important priority should be producing and efficiently distributing a vaccine.An aide to a Democrat who was on the call with Brian Deese, one of President Joe Biden's top economic aides, said the discussion had been "robust" and that the two sides would continue to work together.Deese, director of the National Economic Council, had said he would have a call with the senators as part of a push by the Biden administration to make the case for a large rescue plan."We can't wait," White House Principal Deputy Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre told reporters before the call. "Just because Washington has been gridlocked before doesn't mean it needs to continue to be gridlocked."The Covid-19 pandemic has killed more than 417,000 Americans, thrown millions out of work and is infecting more than 175,000 Americans a day, posing an immediate crisis to the Biden administration.Biden, who took office on Wednesday, campaigned on a promise to take aggressive action on the pandemic, which his predecessor, President Donald Trump, often downplayed.The Trump administration lagged far behind its target of 20 million Americans inoculated by the end of 2020. There was no plan in place for how to distribute the vaccine to millions of Americans when Biden took over, White House Chief of Staff Ron Klain said on Sunday.While Congress has already authorized $4 trillion to respond, the White House says an additional $1.9 trillion is needed to cover the costs of responding to the virus and provide enhanced jobless benefits and payments to households.The Democratic aide said "everyone agreed" on the call, which included some House of Representatives members as well as senators, that the No. 1 need was quickly producing and efficiently distributing the vaccine nationally.'NATIONAL EMERGENCY'"The bottom line is this: We're in a national emergency, and we need to act like we're in a national emergency," Biden said on Friday before signing executive orders on economic relief.Although Biden’s Democratic Party narrowly controls the House and Senate, the legislation will likely need bipartisan support to become law."There was a robust discussion and this bipartisan group will continue to work together, discussing a pathway forward on another relief package," the Democratic aide said.Some Republicans have balked at the price.Republican Senator Mitt Romney said he would listen to the White House, but told "Fox News Sunday" before the call that the $1.9 trillion figure was "shocking.""Spending and borrowing trillions of dollars from the Chinese among others is not necessarily the best thing we can do to get our economy to be strong long term," Romney said.Democratic Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer acknowledged remarks from some Republicans had not been positive.He hoped they would see the need after Sunday's call."But if they don't, there are tools we can use to move forward on our own. And we will," Schumer told reporters in New York. He said those included a process that allows major legislation to pass the Senate on a simple majority.Democratic Senator Dick Durbin said he hoped for bipartisanship. "The object is trying to see if there's an area of agreement we can launch when it comes to this rescue package," he said on NBC's "Meet the Press."Biden has said a top priority would be unifying a divided country. Trump's tenure drew to a close with his second impeachment by the House after supporters stormed the US Capitol on Jan. 6 in a deadly bid to overturn his election loss.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/we-can-t-wait-joe-biden-pushes-us-congress-for-1-9-trillion-in-covid-19-relief-101611533951357.html
25-01-2021||World||Dutch police detain 240 nationwide as anti-lockdown protests turn violent||Rioters looted stores, set fires and clashed with police in several Dutch cities on Sunday, resulting in more than 240 arrests, police and Dutch media reported.The unrest came on the second day of new, tougher coronavirus restrictions, including a night curfew, which had prompted demonstrations.Police used water cannon, dogs and mounted officers to disperse a protest in central Amsterdam on Sunday afternoon, witnesses said. Nearly 200 people, some of them throwing stones and fireworks, were detained in the city, police said.National broadcaster NOS said riot police had been deployed in at least 10 cities and towns after a curfew went into effect at 9 p.m. (2000 GMT). Vehicles were set alight, police were pelted with stones and public property was destroyed, it reported.Military police said on Twitter on Sunday night that they were supporting local police in at least two cities in the south.Images on Dutch television showed bands of youths looting shops, throwing bicycles and setting fires in the southern city of Eindhoven. At least 55 people were arrested in Eindhoven, the city said in a statement.The demonstration in the city's Museum Square, which violated a ban on public gatherings, came the day after the government introduced a nightly curfew for the first time since World War Two.Police cleared the square after people ignored instructions to leave and detained those who attacked them with stones and fireworks in nearby streets, the mayor's office said.Parliament voted narrowly last week to approve the curfew, swayed by assertions that a variant of COVID-19 first identified in Britain was about to cause a new surge in cases. New infections in the country have generally been declining for a month, and fell again on Sunday, to 4,924 new cases.There have been 13,540 deaths in the Netherlands from COVID-19 and 944,000 infections.On Saturday night, police had arrested 25 people across the country and handed out 3,600 fines for curfew violations.Schools and non-essential shops in the Netherlands have been shut since mid-December, following the closure of bars and restaurants two months earlier.(Reporting by Toby Sterling; Editing by Nick Macfie and Philippa Fletcher)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/dutch-police-detain-240-nationwide-as-anti-lockdown-protests-turn-violent-101611533308339.html
25-01-2021||World||Joe Biden speaks with Emmanuel Macron, seeks to cement US-France ties||US President Joe Biden on Sunday spoke with his French counterpart Emmanuel Macron, expressing his desire to strengthen bilateral ties, the White House said.In a phone call, Biden also stressed his commitment to bolstering the transatlantic relationship, including through NATO and the United States’ partnership with the European Union, the White House said in a statement.“The leaders agreed on the need for close coordination, including through multilateral organisations, in tackling common challenges such as climate change, COVID-19 and the global economic recovery,” it said.Biden and Macron also agreed to work together on shared foreign policy priorities, including China, the Middle East, Russia, and the Africa's Sahel region, the White House said.This was Biden’s fourth phone call with a foreign leader after being sworn in as the US President on January 20.Biden’s first two phone calls have been, as per tradition, with the leaders of its two neighbours--Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada and President Andrés Manuel López Obrador of Mexico.Biden spoke with UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Saturday.After taking over the reins of the country, the Biden Administration has started reaching out to its traditional allies.The defense secretary has so far spoken over the phone with the NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg and his counterparts from Britain, Japan and South Korea.National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan has spoken with his counterparts from France, Germany, Britain, Japan, Afghanistan, South Korea and Israel. PTI LKJ RDK RDK||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-speaks-with-emmanuel-macron-seeks-to-cement-us-france-ties-101611532809791.html
25-01-2021||World||Republicans signal deep resistance to Donald Trump Senate trial||Republican lawmakers signaled Sunday that Democrats will have a fight on their hands to secure the conviction of Donald Trump when the Senate next month opens its first-ever impeachment trial of a former president.Speaker Nancy Pelosi is expected on Monday to send senators a single article of impeachment passed in the House of Representatives that blames Trump for inciting the chaotic Capitol invasion of January 6, which left five people dead.But as both sides prepared for what is expected to be a quick trial, Republicans pushed back with political and constitutional arguments -- raising doubts that Democrats, who control 50 seats in the 100-seat chamber, can secure 17 Republican votes to reach the two-thirds majority needed to convict."I think the trial is stupid. I think it's counterproductive. We already have a flaming fire in this country and it's like taking a bunch of gasoline and pouring it on top," Marco Rubio, the top Republican on the Senate Intelligence Committee, told "Fox News Sunday."He acknowledged that Trump -- who had urged thousands of his supporters to flock to Washington and protest the congressional certification of Biden's victory -- "bears some responsibility for what happened."But to "stir it up again" could only hurt the country, said Rubio, a presidential candidate beaten by Trump in the 2016 primary.Constitutional questionOther Republicans argued that the Senate has no authority to put a private citizen -- as Trump now is -- on trial.Senator Mike Rounds told NBC's "Meet the Press" that the constitution does not allow for the impeachment of a former president.But Senator Mitt Romney, the Republicans' 2012 presidential candidate and a frequent Trump critic, told CNN that "the preponderance of legal opinion is that an impeachment trial after a president has left office is constitutional. I believe that's the case."The Utah Republican -- the only member of his party to vote to convict Trump in his first impeachment trial -- hinted that he may be leaning the same way now.He said he believed "that what is being alleged and what we saw, which is incitement to insurrection, is an impeachable offense. If not, what is?"The Capitol riots were documented on videos seen around the world -- as were Trump's earlier exhortations to the crowd to "fight" for his presidency -- complicating his defense.His case may have suffered further after the New York Times reported Friday that Trump had considered ousting the US acting attorney general in favor of a low-ranking official receptive to his efforts to overturn the election result.Hands-off approachBiden has publicly taken a hands-off approach to the impeachment, eager to put Trump in the rear-view mirror and seek progress on fighting the coronavirus pandemic and reviving a devastated economy.Biden spokeswoman Jen Psaki said Friday that the president "believes that it's up to the Senate and Congress to determine how they will hold the former president accountable."As Democrats worked to prepare the case against Trump, one of those who will present it in the Senate -- Representative Madeleine Dean -- said she hoped it would move quickly."I would expect it would go faster" than the 2020 impeachment trial, which lasted 21 days, she told CNN.But the trial, scheduled to open February 9, will be a grueling test for senators. Democrats hope to devote part of each day to regular business, but the furies always surrounding Trump seem sure to undercut any bid for bipartisan cooperation.Dean said she was in the House chamber during the "terrifying moment" when the invading mob began pounding on its doors, chanting: "Hang Vice President Pence."She said Democrats would demand accountability of Trump for "an extraordinarily heinous presidential crime."And Daniel Goldman, who was lead counsel for the House's first impeachment inquiry, tweeted Sunday that "the only way to ensure this lawless, authoritarian, anti-democratic conduct never happens again is to hold him accountable."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/republicans-signal-deep-resistance-to-donald-trump-senate-trial-101611529927673.html
25-01-2021||World||Dutch police clash with anti-lockdown protesters in 2 cities||Rioters set fires in the center of the southern Dutch city of Eindhoven and pelted police with rocks Sunday at a banned demonstration against coronavirus lockdown measures, while officers responded with tear gas and water cannons, arresting at least 55 people.Police in the capital of Amsterdam also used a water cannon to disperse an outlawed anti-lockdown demonstration on a major square ringed by museums. Video showed police spraying people grouped against a wall of the Van Gogh Museum.It was the worst violence to hit the Netherlands since the pandemic began and the second straight Sunday that police clashed with protesters in Amsterdam. The country has been in a tough lockdown since mid-December that is due to continue at least until Feb. 9. The government beefed up the lockdown with a 9 p.m. to 4:30 a.m. curfew that went into force on Saturday.Justice Minister Ferd Grapperhaus condemned the violence.“This has nothing to do with demonstrating against corona measures,” Grapperhaus said in a statement. “This is simply criminal behavior; people who deliberately target police, riot police, journalists and other aid workers.”In Eindhoven, 125 kilometers (78 miles) south of Amsterdam, a central square near the main railway station was littered with rocks, bicycles and shattered glass. The crowd of hundreds of demonstrators also was believed to include supporters of the anti-immigrant group PEGIDA, which had sought to demonstrate in the city.Eindhoven police said they made at least 55 arrests and warned people to stay away from the city center amid the clashes. Trains to and from the station were halted and local media reported plundering at the station.A woman not involved in the protests was hospitalized after being injured by a police horse, police said.Police said more than 100 people were arrested in Amsterdam.Dutch media reported unrest in other Dutch towns Sunday night caused by people protesting against the curfew.The violence came a day after anti-curfew rioters torched a coronavirus testing facility in the Dutch fishing village of Urk.Video from Urk, 80 kilometers (50 miles) northeast of Amsterdam, showed youths breaking into the coronavirus testing facility near the village’s harbor before it was set ablaze Saturday night.The lockdown was imposed by the Dutch government to rein in the spread of the more transmissible variant of the coronavirus.Police said they fined more than 3,600 people nationwide for breaching the curfew that ran from 9 p.m. Saturday until 4:30 a.m. Sunday and arrested 25 people for breaching the curfew or for violence.The police and municipal officials issued a statement Sunday expressing their anger at rioting, “from throwing fireworks and stones to destroying police cars and with the torching of the test location as a deep point.”“This is not only unacceptable, but also a slap in the face, especially for the local health authority staff who do all they can at the test center to help people from Urk,” the local authorities said, adding that the curfew would be strictly enforced for the rest of the week.On Sunday, all that remained of the portable testing building was a burned-out shell.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/dutch-police-clash-with-anti-lockdown-protesters-in-2-cities-101611528383597.html
25-01-2021||World||Israel opens embassy in UAE, expanding new relations||Israel on Sunday said it has opened its embassy in the United Arab Emirates, following through on last year’s U.S.-brokered agreement to establish full diplomatic ties with the Gulf country.Israel’s Foreign Ministry said the embassy would be in a temporary office while a permanent location is prepared. Eitan Na’eh, a veteran Israeli diplomat, will serve as the head of mission.Foreign Minister Gabi Ashkenazi said the opening of the new embassy would allow the broadening of what already are warm ties between Israel and the UAE.The UAE cabinet on Sunday approved the establishment of an embassy in Tel Aviv in Israel, state-run WAM news agency reported.Since formally establishing ties in September, the two countries have already established direct flights and exchanged numerous trade delegations, while thousands of Israeli tourists have visited the UAE.The UAE was the first of four Arab countries to establish or renew ties with Israel under a series of agreements brokered by the Trump administration.The Foreign Ministry said Israel would soon open an interest section in Morocco and a consulate in Dubai. It also said an embassy in Bahrain has been operating for several weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/israel-opens-embassy-in-uae-expanding-new-relations-101611515569272.html
25-01-2021||World||Joe Biden attends Mass at DC church where he worshipped as Vice Prez||President Joe Biden attended Mass for the first time since taking office, worshipping Sunday at the church he frequented when he was vice president.Biden, the nation’s second Catholic president, picked Holy Trinity Catholic Church in Washington's Georgetown neighborhood, a few miles from the White House. It's where the nation’s only other Catholic president, John F. Kennedy, often went to Mass.Biden entered through the front entrance, where a Black Lives Matter banner was hanging on one side and a banner with a quote from Pope Francis was on the other: “We cannot tolerate or turn a blind eye to racism and exclusion in any form and yet claim to defend the sacredness of every human life.”The president, in a brief exchange with reporters, said the service was “lovely." Biden was accompanied to church by his son, Hunter, and two of his grandchildren, Finnegan and Maisy.His motorcade made a brief stop on the way back to the White House for carryout from Call Your Mother, a popular deli near the church. The president remained in his armored vehicle, while his son picked up the order.White House press secretary Jen Psaki told reporters on Friday that Biden had not yet settled on a home church in the nation’s capital, but said that she expected Biden will continue to regularly attend services during his presidency.At home in Delaware, Biden and his wife, Jill, were regulars at St. Joseph on the Brandywine in Greenville. They alternated between the Saturday and Sunday services depending on their travel schedules throughout the 2020 campaign. Catholic faithful have an obligation to attend Sunday services, but church teaching allows for the commitment to be fulfilled by attending a service on the evening of the preceding day.The newly-sworn in Democrat certainly has plenty of parish choices in Washington: Four Catholic churches sit within 2 miles (3.2 kilometers) of the White House; Holy Trinity is a bit farther.On the morning of his inauguration Wednesday, Biden and his family, along with Democratic and Republican leaders of Congress, attended a service at one of those churches, the Cathedral of St. Matthew the Apostle. The church hosted Kennedy’s funeral service in 1963.With the coronavirus still surging in the capital city, Biden is bound to see small crowds wherever he goes. For the time being, rules in the District of Columbia limit gatherings at houses of worship to 25% of capacity or 250 people, whichever is less.Previous presidents have made a wide variety of worship choices — or none. Not far from the White House is New York Avenue Presbyterian, which maintains the pew where Abraham Lincoln once worshipped. Even closer is St. John’s Episcopal Church, walkable across Lafayette Square from the White House for the presidents who have made a historic practice of worshipping there at least once.St. John’s was thrust into the headlines this summer when police forcibly dispersed protesters so President Donald Trump could pose with a Bible outside its butter-yellow front doors. But its status as the “Church of Presidents” dates to James Madison, and it’s accustomed to the special scrutiny that comes with hosting commanders in chief. Trump, who frequently spent Sundays at his namesake golf club in northern Virginia, was not a regular churchgoer.President Bill Clinton and his wife, Hillary, became members of Foundry United Methodist Church, a short drive from the White House that also counted the 19th president, Rutherford. B. Hayes, as a member.President Jimmy Carter, who in post presidency life taught Sunday school, worshipped dozens of times at Washington’s First Baptist Church during his time in the White House.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-attends-mass-at-dc-church-where-he-worshipped-as-vice-prez-101611513833316.html
25-01-2021||World||Fauci says coronavirus vaccine goal would cover 67 million Americans||Dr. Anthony Fauci said on Sunday that President Joe Biden's goal of administering 100 million vaccinations in the first 100 days actually means about 67 million Americans should be protected from COVID-19 during that time.Fauci, the government's top infectious diseases expert, said the president's goal refers to 100 million shots, not people. Current vaccines require two shots.Fauci maintained that goal could be difficult to meet even though the U.S. recently has been able to administer shots to about a million people a day. He explained that it will be harder to reach people once shots are given outside hospital and nursing home settings.Fauci also told CBS' “Face the Nation” that he supports a national commission to understand some of the problems in coordinating a COVID-19 response on the state and local level because states shouldn't just be told, “You're on your own.”Ron Klain, Biden's chief of staff, called the 100 million shots in 100 days “a very bold and ambitious goal.” He told NBC's “Meet the Press” that it won't stop the administration from aiming higher if doable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/fauci-says-coronavirus-vaccine-goal-would-cover-67-million-americans-101611512586680.html
25-01-2021||India||'Change lifestyle to adapt to climate change': PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi called for a change in lifestyles globally as a means to adapt to the disastrous impacts of climate change. Speaking at the Climate Adaptation Summit 2021 being virtually hosted by the Netherlands, PM Modi said, “to adapt to climate change, our lifestyles must also adapt…”“India’s civilizational values teach us that importance of living in harmony with nature. Our ancient scripture Yajurveda teaches us that our relationship with planet earth is that of a mother and her child. If we take care of mother earth, she will continue to nurture us. To adapt to climate change, our lifestyles must also adapt to this ideal,” he said adding that one of the other important measures to adapt to climate change is disaster resilient infrastructure.“I call upon the Global Commission on Adaptation to work with Coalition of Disaster Resilient Infrastructure (CDRI) to enhance infrastructure resilience globally. And, I invite all of you to the Third International Conference on Disaster Resilient Infrastructure later this year in India,” he said. The Global Adaptation Commission was launched in 2018 to focus on adaptation measures globally. It is overseen by former UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation co-chair Bill Gates and World Bank CEO Kristalina Georgieva.“Climate adaptation is more significant today than ever before. And, it is a key element of India’s developmental efforts. We have promised ourselves that we will not just meet our Paris Agreement targets but exceed them; we will not just arrest environmental degradation but reverse it, and we will not just create new capacities but make them an agent for global good,” PM Modi added.Also read: Karnataka HC bars Centre from sharing Aarogya Setu app data without user consentIndia is targeting 450 gigawatts of renewable energy capacity by 2030; promoting LED lights and saving 38 million tons of carbon dioxide emissions annually. New Delhi is also committed to restoring 26 million hectares of degraded land by 2030, among other measures.UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres called for an urgent increase in funds for climate change adaptation. He said 50 per cent of the total share of climate finance provided by all donors to be allocated solely to adaptation and resilience building of developing countries.“We are already witnessing unprecedented climate extremes and volatility affecting lives and livelihoods on all continents. According to the World Meteorological Organization, there have been more than 11,000 disasters due to weather, climate and water-related hazards over the past 50 years at a cost of some 3.6 trillion dollars. Extreme weather and climate-related hazards have also killed more than 410,000 people in the past decade, the vast majority in low and lower-middle-income countries. That is why I have called for a breakthrough on adaptation and resilience,” he said.“The recent United Nations Environment Programme Adaptation Gap Report calculates annual adaptation costs in developing countries alone to be in the range of $70 billion. These figures are likely to reach $140-300 billion in 2030 and $280-500 billion in 2050. But huge gaps remain on financing for adaptation in developing countries. That is why I have called for 50 per cent of the total share of climate finance provided by all donors and multilateral development banks to be allocated to adaptation and resilience,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/change-lifestyle-to-adapt-to-climate-change-pm-modi-101611599069878.html
25-01-2021||India||Willing to resign, Nagaland Lokayukta tells SC, seeks protection from state||Nagaland Lokayukta Uma Nath Singh has expressed his willingness to resign as the state’s anti-corruption ombudsman following complaints of impropriety and unjustified personal demands leveled against him by the state government.The suggestion came on a note of paper submitted in the court by senior advocate Vikas Singh who represented the Lokayukta. But the three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde did not receive the note. Even the Advocate General KN Balagopal appearing for Nagaland was served a soft copy of the note during the hearing. The bench decided to post the matter for hearing next week.The note by Lokayukta suggests “unpleasant circumstances” and “hostile environment” as the reason to quit forthwith but “upon dismissal of writ petition (by Nagaland government)”. He further wants no action or proceeding to be initiated against him by the state that could defame him or cause any stigma to his privileges and status as Lokayukta.The state ombudsman even cited a pending criminal case lodged by him against his personal security officer (PSO) and demanded closure of the case. The case related to assault or use of criminal force to stop a public servant from executing his duty, punishable under Indian Penal Code (IPC) Sections 353 and 506 (criminal intimidation). Since the accused was poor and had since apologized, the Lokayukta had agreed for a compromise. Finally, the Lokayukta demanded a graceful exit from the state after submitting his resignation to the Governor.The Nagaland government had come to the apex court in exceptional circumstances for orders to restrain the sitting Lokayukta from hearing any case or exercising his powers or functions under the Nagaland Lokayukta Act, 2017. Justice (Retd) Uma Nath Singh, a former Chief Justice of the Meghalaya High Court, was appointed Lokayukta of Nagaland on March 13, 2019.The petition pointed out numerous instances to show the “crippling” state of affairs with the Lokayukta engineering documents to show that the Chief Secretary gave him approval to function online from Delhi when no such consent was granted. The counsel for Lokayukta pointed out that he worked online from Delhi due to “meager work” and the extraordinary situation due to Covid-19.On the previous date of hearing, the bench, also comprising Justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian had observed, “When there is no dignity in continuing why go through all this and insist to continue at any cost.”The state even told the apex court that the Lokayukta was taking up commercial arbitration work despite a clear prohibition provided under the Lokayukta Act.“In another case he has ordered the Chief Minister to conduct a preliminary enquiry against Deputy Chief Minister which is not permissible under the Act,” the senior advocate added, pointing out that these orders were the result of state denying his demand to occupy the old bungalow used by the state’s Chief Minister.His other demands include exemption from frisking at airports, deployment of army personnel for his protection, presence of Commissioner of Police at his arrival and departure from airport, his photograph to be displayed next to that of the Governor and Chief Minister on the state’s official website among others.The petition said, “The Respondent 1 (Lokayukta) is behaving in a manner that suggests he has become a law unto himself and has no respect for the rule of law and in particular the legislature….this type of maverick decision-making indicates that Respondent 1 is unfit to an office that requires him to lead by example.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/willing-to-resign-nagaland-lokayukta-tells-sc-seeks-protection-from-state-101611598715563.html
25-01-2021||India||He deserved top medal: Col Santosh Babu's kin disappointed with Maha Vir Chakra||The announcement of Maha Vir Chakra, India's second-highest military award, being awarded to late Colonel Bikumalla Santosh Babu as part of Republic Day honours, has come as a major disappointment to his family.“We are thoroughly disappointed. I was expecting my son would be conferred the Param Vir Chakra, the highest military award of the country, for the kind of sacrifice he made for the nation,” Santosh Babu’s father Bikumalla Upender, a retired employee of State Bank of India, said.He reminded that Santosh Babu’s sacrifice was not an ordinary one. “He was leading the 16th Bihar battalion under peculiar climatic conditions. In fact, climate was his first enemy at Galwan valley. Yet, he had been stationed there for 13 months, keeping himself physically fit while combating the enemy forces,” he said.Santosh Babu fought the enemy with bare hands, without using any weapons and inflicted heavy casualties and injuries to the enemy. “My son displayed tremendous courage to encounter the Chinese forces, which were in larger numbers. It was because of his bravery that Chinese forces had to beat a retreat,” he said.Also read: Karnataka HC bars Centre from sharing Aarogya Setu app data without user consentHe claimed that the cunningness of China got exposed internationally only after Colonel Babu’s death. “Defence minister Rajnath Singh said Chinese forces could not occupy even an inch in Galwan valley, thanks to the valiant fight by the Indian armed forces. Who should be credited with it? Was it not my son?” Upender asked and regretted that the Centre chose to honour Santosh Babu only with Maha Vir Chakra, instead of Param Vir Chakra.The late Colonel’s mother Manjula said she was not at all happy to receive the news that her son was conferred Maha Vir Chakra. “I expected the top medal, not this,” she said.She reminded that her son had inspired millions of youth across the country with his brave fight with the enemy on the Indo-China border and stood as a role model for them. “His sacrifice triggered patriotism in every Indian. He deserved the highest military honours,” Manjula said.Asked whether he would write any letter to the Central government in protest, Upender replied in the negative. “No, we don’t want to make it a controversy. We just wanted to express our opinions on the announcement of the award,” he said.Santosh Babu’s wife Santoshi, who was appointed as trainee deputy collector in Yadadri Bhongir district and is presently staying in Hyderabad, could not be reached for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/he-deserved-top-medal-col-santosh-babu-s-kin-disappointed-with-maha-vir-chakra-101611597765436.html
25-01-2021||India||Republic Day 2021: Govt announces gallantry award winners. Full list here||The Union home ministry announced a list of gallantry awards on Monday, the eve of India's 72nd Republic Day. Prominent among those who received the awards is Col Santosh Babu, who was killed in a skirmish with Chinese soldiers in Ladakh's Galwan Valley in une last year. He was awarded the Mahavir Chakra, the second-highest wartime gallantry medal.Col Babu was given the award posthumously.The other awardees include those conferred with Paramvir, Mahavir, Ashok and other Chakras. The wartime Chakra series awards include highest Paramvir Chakra, Mahavir Chakra and Vir Chakra. The peacetime highest gallantry awards include Ashok Chakra, Kirti Chakra and Shaurya Chakra.Here's the list of awardees who received these gallantry medals:Mahavir ChakraCol Bikumalla Santosh Babu, 16 Bihar (Posthumous)Vir Chakra1. NB Sub Nuduram Soren, 16 Bihar (Posthumous)2. Hav K Palani, 81 FD Regt (Posthumous)3. Hav Tejinder Singh, 3 Med REGT4. NK Deepak Singh, AMC, 16 Bihar (Posthumous)5. Sep Gurtej Singh, 3 Punjab (Posthumous)Kirti ChakraSub Sanjiv Kumar, 4 Para (SF) (Posthumous)Shaurya Chakra1. Maj Anuj Sood, Guards, 21 RR (Posthumous)2. RFN Pranab Jyoti Das, 6 Assam RIF3. PTR Sonam Tshering Tamang, 4 PARA (SF)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/republic-day-2021-govt-announces-gallantry-award-winners-full-list-here-101611596050257.html
25-01-2021||India||'India foiled expansionist move in Ladakh': President's veiled dig at China||In a veiled dig at China over the border standoff in Ladakh, President Ram Nath Kovind said on Monday that India faced "an expansionist move" on its borders which was foiled by the country's valiant soldiers and said 20 of them laid their lives in the violent clash in Galwan Valley.In his address to the nation on the eve of 72nd Republic Day, the President said India is committed to peace but its forces are adequately mobilised in a well-coordinated move to thwart any attempt to undermine security and national interest will be protected at all costs.Also Read: Galwan braveheart Col Santosh Babu named for Mahavir Chakra in R-Day honours"The past year was a time of adversity, and it came from many fronts. We faced an expansionist move on our borders, but our valiant soldiers foiled it. To achieve this objective, 20 of them had to lay down their lives," he said."The nation shall remain grateful to those brave soldiers. Though we reiterate our commitment to peace, our defence forces - Army, Air Force and Navy - are adequately mobilised in a well-coordinated move to thwart any attempt to undermine our security. Our national interest will be protected at all costs. We have also ensured a widespread understanding in the international community of India's firm and principled stand," he added.India and China are in a standoff in eastern Ladakh along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) following actions by the Chinese army. Twenty Indian soldiers laid down their lives and an unspecified number of Chinese soldiers were killed in a clash in Galwan Valley in June last year.The President said that soldiers of the armed forces ensure security of our national boundaries amid severest conditions including in Galwan Valley and Siachen.Also Read | Republic Day 2021: Shinzo Abe, SP Balasubramaniam among Padma Vibhushan awardees"Just as our hardworking farmers ensure food security for the country, the brave soldiers of the armed forces ensure security of our national boundaries amid severest conditions. From the freezing cold at Siachen and Galwan valley in Ladakh with temperatures as low as minus 50 to 60 degree Celsius to the scorching heat in Jaisalmer with temperatures as high as 50 degree Celsius - on land, in the skies and at the vast coastal areas - our warriors are vigilant every moment," he said."Every citizen feels proud about the bravery, patriotism and the spirit of sacrifice among our soldiers," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-foiled-expansionist-move-in-ladakh-president-s-veiled-dig-at-china-101611595444135.html
25-01-2021||India||President Kovind says Indian armed forces 'adequately mobilised' to thwart any bid to undermine national security||President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday asserted that the country's armed forces are "adequately mobilised" in a "well-coordinated" move to thwart any attempt to undermine national security, and recalled how its valiant soldiers foiled the "expansionist" plans by China in Ladakh last year."Our national interest will be protected at all costs," the President declared in his address to the nation on the eve of the 72nd Republic Day during which he also said every Indian saluted the farmers and sought to allay their fears over the three contentious farm laws.Kovind's remarks came amid the nearly nine-month-long military standoff with China in eastern Ladakh and the deadlock between the Centre and the farmer unions over the farm laws enacted in September."The path of reform at the initial stages may cause misapprehensions but the government is singularly devoted to the farmers' welfare," he said, as the protests by the farmer unions demanding repeal of the three laws continues at border points in Delhi.On the country's efforts to fight Covid-19, the President said an effective response to the pandemic would not have been possible without the Constitutional value of 'Fraternity' among the people of the country. He also took pride in the fact that India was called as "pharmacy of the world" for supplying medicines to several countries to alleviate the sufferings across the globe.He felt that after about a year of this "unforeseen ordeal", India today stands "not despondent but confident."Also, he said the slowdown has turned out to be transitory as the economy has regained its dynamism.Kovind urged people to utilise the "lifeline" provided by the Covid-19 vaccine and get inoculated as per guidelines. "Your health opens the way for your advancement."Paying tributes to the 20 Indian soldiers who laid down their lives at Galwan valley in eastern Ladakh last June during clashes with the Chinese troops, the President said the past year "was a time of adversity, and it came from many fronts.""We faced an expansionist move on our borders, but our valiant soldiers foiled it. To achieve this objective, 20 of them had to lay down their lives."Kovind said the nation shall remain grateful to those brave soldiers."Though we reiterate our commitment to peace, our defence forces - Army, Air Force and Navy - are adequately mobilised in a well-coordinated move to thwart any attempt to undermine our security. Our national interest will be protected at all costs. We have also ensured a widespread understanding in the international community of India's firm and principled stand," the President said.He said adversity often plays the role of a great teacher and makes people stronger and more confident. With that confidence, India has taken great strides in several sectors."Economic reforms have continued apace and have been supplemented by long-pending reforms in the areas of labour and agriculture through legislation," he added.Paying tributes to the farmers, the President said every Indian salutes our farmers who have made our vast and populous country self-reliant in food-grains and dairy products.He said that despite adversities of nature, numerous other challenges and the Covid-19 pandemic the farmers sustained the agricultural production."A grateful nation is fully committed to the welfare of our farmers."The President said that like hardworking farmers ensure food security for the country, the brave soldiers of the armed forces ensure security of our national boundaries amid severest conditions."From the freezing cold at Siachen and Galwan valley in Ladakh with temperatures as low as minus 50 to 60 degree Celsius to the scorching heat in Jaisalmer with temperatures as high as 50 degree Celsius - on land, in the skies and at the vast coastal areas - our warriors are vigilant every moment. Every citizen feels proud about the bravery, patriotism and the spirit of sacrifice among our soldiers," he said.He also spoke about the scientist community saying that by their contribution to food security, national security, protection against disease and disasters and to different areas of development they have strengthened the national endeavours."From space to the farms, from educational institutions to hospitals, the community of scientists has enriched our life and work. Our scientists have been working day and night for decoding the Coronavirus and they have succeeded in developing the vaccine in record time. With this accomplishment, our scientists have added a glorious chapter of contribution to the well-being of humanity."He said that the scientists, along with doctors, administrators and people from other walks of life, have made major contribution in containing the virus and keeping the fatality rate lower in our country, compared to that in developed countries."The net outcome of all these efforts is before us."The President said a self-reliant India has manufactured its own vaccine for Covid-19, and is now undertaking a mass vaccination drive, which will be the largest exercise of its kind in history.He said the administration and health services are working with full readiness to make this exercise a success."I am sure that this love for humanity and the spirit of sacrifice will take us to great heights. He said let us look at 2020 as a year of learning."Kovind also said India is moving ahead and taking its rightful place in the world."During the recent years, its arc of influence has been expanding and encompassing the larger part of the world. The manner in which India got overwhelming support of the international community for its entry as non-permanent member in the Security Council this year is indicative of that influence."He said the engagement with world leaders has enhanced manifold and India, with its vibrant democracy, has rightfully earned its respect as a responsible and trustworthy nation.He said the call of ‘Atma-Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan’, or ‘Self-reliant India Mission’ given by Prime Minister Narendra Modi was for converting a crisis into an opportunity and is in line with the aspiration to shape a new India by the year 2022 when our country turns 75."This will be a significant milestone in the journey of the nation as we are determined to achieve major goals: from providing pucca houses with basic facilities for every family to doubling the income of farmers. In order to build an inclusive society of new India, we are giving special emphasis on education, health, nutrition, upliftment of the under-privileged and welfare of women," he added.Recalling the thoughts of Mahatma Gandhi for making all efforts to wipe tears from every eye, the President asked people to remember Constitutional mantras -- Justice, Liberty, Equality, and Fraternity -- and added that equality is the watchword for the great project of the Republic."Social equality warrants dignity for each one of us, villagers, women, weaker sections of our society, namely, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, Divyang-jan and the elderly people. Economic equality entails equal opportunity for all and handholding for the downtrodden."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-kovind-says-indian-armed-forces-adequately-mobilised-101611595436325.html
25-01-2021||India||Attending Republic Day ceremony in Delhi compulsory, Govt tells officers||The Centre has mandated that all officers in government ministries and departments invited for the Republic Day Ceremony at Rajpath in the national capital on Tuesday must attend the function.In a letter sent to all government ministries and departments dated January 22 Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba also warned "that serious view would be taken against those who fail to do so." HT has reviewed a copy of the letter."The Republic Day Ceremony at Rajpath is an important national function held every year on the 26th of January. Considering the importance of this national function, it is expected that all the officers who are invited, attend the Ceremony," the letter said."In view of social distancing requirements imposed due to COVID - 19, the seating capacity this year has been decreased to 25% of the original capacity. It is all the more important, therefore, that the officers who are invited attend the Ceremony as part of their duty. You may suitably advise all officers of your Ministry / Department, who are invited to the Republic Day Ceremony at Rajpath to attend the function You may also like to caution them that a serious view would be taken of their absence on this occasion," it added.Officials aware of the development said all officers above the rank of Under Secretary and above had been invited to attend the ceremony on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/attending-republic-day-ceremony-in-delhi-compulsory-govt-tells-officers-101611595199251.html
25-01-2021||India||Odisha meets over 92% of Covid-19 vaccination target, leads among all states||A little more than a week after the rollout of Covid-19 vaccines, Odisha may have the highest vaccine coverage among the bigger states. The state has achieved over 92 per cent of its vaccination target.Of the 1.92 lakh beneficiaries that were to be vaccinated till January 25, the state has covered 1.77 lakh – 92 per cent of the planned beneficiaries have received the vaccine in the state. While states like Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka are leading in absolute numbers of vaccination of healthcare workers, Odisha is the leader as far as percentage of targeted beneficiaries is concerned."We managed to cover 92 per cent of the targetted beneficiaries through a smart strategy of targetting more health workers as we realised on January 16 that not all who are being targetted every day would report to the vaccination centre. While we expected some districts to underperform, we made up the deficit by pushing up the target in other districts like Nabrangpur, Mayurbhanj and Puri," said additional chief secretary, health department, Pradipta Kumar Mohapatra.Mohapatra said the state also worked around the glitches in the Co-Win app by sending Google sheets to individuals districts for district-wise uploading of vaccination statistics and then updating the same on the app.Also read: 'Constructive talks': India, China to push for early disengagement in Ladakh"We also sent SMSes on our own to individual beneficiaries. This helped us in tackling the problem in achieving the target. Unlike other states, where vaccination happened for about 3 days a week, in Odisha it did not stop except on Sunday,” said Mohapatra.Director of Family Welfare, Dr Bijay Kumar Panigrahy, who is in charge of Covid-19 vaccination, said, Odisha's achievement was creditable as its frontline health workers did not halt their other routine activities such as pulse polio and deworming."We could do higher vaccination as private nursing homes were also roped in," he said.Officials said 1.73 lakh of the total 3.5 lakh healthcare workers who are yet to be vaccinated would be given the Covid-19 vaccine shots by February 10. From January 28, the state would speed up daily vaccination so as to complete the target before the deadline."The multipurpose health workers who had initially announced a boycott of the vaccination have now agreed to take the shot. We would start the second dose of the vaccine from February 15, exactly 28 days after the first dose of vaccination was given on January 16," said Panigrahy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-meets-over-92-of-covid-19-vaccination-target-leads-among-all-states-101611594955242.html
25-01-2021||India||Republic Day 2021: Tarun Gogoi, Ram Vilas Paswan among 10 Padma Bhushan awardees||Former chief minister of Assam Tarun Gogoi and former Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan were among the 10 people conferred one of the highest civilian awards of India, Padma Bhushan.Prominent Shia preacher and scholar Shri Kalbe Sadiq was the third person to have received the award posthumously this year. He was also the vice-president of the All India Muslim Personal Law Board before he passed away in November last year. Sadiq was known to be one of the most reputable Shia cleric in Uttar Pradesh.Former chief minister of Gujarat and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Keshubhai Patel also got the award posthumously. He served as the CM in 1995 and from 1998 to 2001 and was a six-time member of Gujarat Legislative Assembly.Former Lok Sabha speaker Sumitra Mahajan was also conferred the award. Mahajan, a BJP leader, served as the speaker of Lok Sabha from 2014 to 2019. She was also the longest serving woman Member of Parliament before her retirement from electoral politics.Krishnan Nair Shantakumari Chithra (for Art), Chandrashekhar Kambara (for Literature and Education), Nripendra Misra (for Civil Service), Rajnikant Devidas Shroff (for Trade and Industry) and Tarlochan Singh (for Public Affairs) were the other five awardees.All three Padma awards- the Padma Vibhushan, Padma Bhushan and Padma Shri - are conferred on the eve of Republic Day every year by the President.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/republic-day-2021-tarun-gogoi-ram-vilas-paswan-among-10-padma-bhushan-awardees-101611592214946.html
25-01-2021||India||Senior officers must attend R-Day event at Rajpath or face action: Govt||The government has conveyed to all officers, who have been invited to attend the Republic Day ceremony at Rajpath, to compulsorily attend the event and warned that a serious view would be taken against those who fail to do so.In a communication to all secretary rank officers of the central government, Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba said due to the coronavirus pandemic, the seating capacity at the official function at Rajpath has been decreased to just 25 per cent of the original capacity.In his letter, Gauba said the Republic Day ceremony at Rajpath is an important national function held every year on January 26 and considering the importance of the ceremony, it is expected that all the officers, who are invited, attend the event."In view of social distancing requirements imposed due to Covid-19, the seating capacity this year has been decreased to 25 per cent of the original capacity. It is all the more important, therefore, that the officers who are invited attend the ceremony as part of their duty."You may suitably advise all officers of your ministry/ department, who are invited to the Republic day ceremony at Rajpath, to attend the function. You may also like to caution them that a serious view would be taken of their absence on this occasion," the letter said.President Ram Nath Kovind will take the salutes from the armed forces, police, paramilitary forces and others at the Republic day function.The armed forces will display various tanks, missiles and other equipment which will be followed by a vibrant parade comprising tableaux from different states and cultural dances.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, his ministerial colleagues, MPs and other dignitaries will attend the event.There will be no chief guest in this year's function as British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, who was invited to attend it, had cancelled his visit due to the growing health crisis in the UK.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/senior-officers-must-attend-r-day-event-at-rajpath-or-face-action-govt-101611594943422.html
25-01-2021||India||Full text: President Ram Nath Kovind’s speech on eve of 72nd Republic Day||President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday addressed the nation on the eve of 72nd Republic Day. In his address to the nation, President Kovind thanked the farmers, soldiers, and healthcare workers for their contributions. He also lauded the scientists for their work during the pandemic and urged people to take part in the Covid-19 vaccination programm.Here’s the full text of President Kovind’s speechDear Fellow Citizens,Namaskar!Greetings to all of you on the eve of the 72nd Republic Day of the world’s largest and most vibrant democracy. In this land of ours, enriched by diversity, with many festivals, our national festivals are celebrated by everyone with great patriotic fervour. We celebrate the national festival of the Republic Day with enthusiasm and express our respect for the national flag, and our faith in the Constitution.This day has come to mean a lot to all Indians living within the country and abroad. Seventy-one years ago, on this very day, we the people of India adopted, enacted and gave to ourselves a unique Constitution. For all of us, then, this is the day to also pause and ponder over the core values that the Constitution propounds. These values – Justice, Liberty, Equality, and Fraternity – outlined in the Preamble of our Constitution are sacred to all of us. Its abiding adherence is meant not only for those who are mandated to govern but for the people at large.It is not without reason that the wise men and women who framed the Constitution chose to place these four terms at the very beginning of the Constitution to build the foundation on which the edifice of our democracy rests. In fact, these were the values that guided our freedom struggle. A galaxy of great leaders and thinkers like Bal Gangadhar ‘Tilak’, Lala Lajpat Rai, Mahatma Gandhi and Subhas Chandra Bose inspired our freedom struggle. They had diverse dreams of a magnificent future of the motherland, but common to their aspirations were these values: Justice, Liberty, Equality, and Fraternity.I would like that we go further back into history and inquire why precisely these values guided our nation-builders. And the answer is obvious: This land and its inhabitants have cherished these ideals from the time immemorial. Justice, Liberty, Equality, and Fraternity are perennial principles of our philosophy of life. They come to us from the dawn of this civilisation through an unbroken chain. It is, of course, the task of every generation to seek out the meaning of these values for its times. As the freedom fighters did in their day, so should we in our time. These key principles should light our path to development.Dear fellow citizens,Every Indian salutes our farmers, who have made our vast and populous country self-reliant in food-grains and dairy products. Despite adversities of nature, numerous other challenges and the COVID-19 pandemic, our farmers sustained the agricultural production. A grateful nation is fully committed to the welfare of our farmers.Just as our hardworking farmers ensure food security for the country, the brave soldiers of the armed forces ensure security of our national boundaries amid severest conditions. From the freezing cold at Siachen and Galwan valley in Ladakh with temperatures as low as minus 50 to 60 degree Celsius to the scorching heat in Jaisalmer with temperatures as high as 50 degree Celsius – on land, in the skies and at the vast coastal areas – our warriors are vigilant every moment. Every citizen feels proud about the bravery, patriotism and the spirit of sacrifice among our soldiers.By their contribution to food security, national security, protection against disease and disasters and to different areas of development, our scientists have strengthened our national endeavours. From space to the farms, from educational institutions to hospitals, the community of scientists has enriched our life and work. Our scientists have been working day and night for decoding the Coronavirus and they have succeeded in developing the vaccine in record time. With this accomplishment, our scientists have added a glorious chapter of contribution to the well-being of humanity. Our scientists, along with doctors, administrators and people from other walks of life, have made major contribution in containing the virus and keeping the fatality rate lower in our country, compared to that in developed countries. Thus, all our farmers, soldiers and scientists deserve special appreciation and a grateful nation greets them on this auspicious occasion of the Republic Day.Dear fellow citizens,Last year, as humanity almost came to a halt in the face of a calamity of gigantic proportions, I often found myself reflecting on the central message of the Constitution. Our effective response to the pandemic would not have been possible without our Constitutional value of ‘Fraternity’. Indians have been like a close-knit family, making exemplary sacrifices to protect each other in the face of the common enemy of Coronavirus. I am thinking here of doctors, nurses, paramedics, healthcare administrators and sanitation workers who put their own lives at risk to care for Covid-19 patients. Some of them even lost their lives. Along with them, about 1.5 lakh people became victims of this pandemic. I convey my condolences to the bereaved families. Our frontline Corona-warriors were ordinary citizens who turned out to be extraordinary. When the history of this tragic chapter, which is not yet over, is written, I am confident that the future generations will behold you all for the heroic response to the crisis for which no one could have truly prepared.Given our country’s population density, diversity of cultural traditions, natural and geographical challenges, taking precautionary measures against Covid-19 was far more difficult for us. Yet, we have managed to check the spread of the virus to a large extent.Despite the serious calamity, we have succeeded in taking forward our activities in many spheres. The pandemic threatened to derail the young generation’s learning process, but institutions and teachers quickly adopted new technology and ensured that there was no break in education. By conducting not only free and fair but also safe elections in Bihar which has high population density and in union territories of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh with difficulties of access and other challenges, our democracy and the Election Commission have accomplished remarkable feats. The Judiciary found help in technology and continued to function and dispense Justice. The list is long.In order to open up the economy without risking the lives of the people, the process of unlocking was carefully calibrated. This has proved effective and the economy has started showing indications of recovery faster than anticipated. The latest unprecedented collection of GST and India’s emergence as a most favoured destination for the foreign investment are indicative of our faster economic recovery. The government has encouraged small and medium industries to unleash entrepreneurial spirit by providing easy loans to them and helped them to come up with innovative business ideas.Dear fellow citizens,The adversities of the previous year have only reminded us of what we have always known deep in our hearts - that care and concern for humanity and the feeling of fraternity is what kept us together for millennia. In every sphere, Indians rose to the occasion, and put others before themselves. We Indians live and die for humanity. This Indian ideal has been expressed by the great poet Maithili Sharan Gupt in these words:उसी उदार की सदा, सजीव कीर्ति कूजती;तथा उसी उदार को, समस्त सृष्टि पूजती।अखण्ड आत्मभाव जो, असीम विश्व में भरे¸वही मनुष्य है कि जो, मनुष्य के लिये मरे।In English, these sentiments can be broadly conveyed in the following words:It is the benevolent whose glory lives on in songs eternal,It is the generous whom the world reveres forever,Whose spirit of oneness fills the boundless universe,They truly are human who die for fellow beings.I am sure that this love for humanity and the spirit of sacrifice will take us to great heights.Let us look at 2020 as a year of learning. There were miracles of a revitalising Mother Nature which taught humanity a hard lesson that the Small is not expedient but complementary to the Big. I am sure that with a view to reducing the risk of such pandemics, the issue of climate change will be accorded top priority at the global level.Dear Fellow Citizens,Converting a crisis into an opportunity, the Prime Minister gave a call of ‘Atma-Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan’, or ‘Self-reliant India Mission’. Our vibrant democracy, our enterprising and talented fellow citizens – specially the youth – energise our efforts in shaping a self-reliant India. The demand for goods and services in the country, the domestic efforts to meet them, and the use of modern technology in such efforts are strengthening ‘Atma-Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan’. Under this Mission, steps have been taken for economic growth as well as employment generation by promoting micro, small and medium enterprises and making the start-up eco-system more robust. It has become a movement being taken forward by the people themselves.‘Atma-Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan’ is in line with the aspiration to shape a new India by the year 2022 when our country turns 75. This will be a significant milestone in the journey of the nation as we are determined to achieve major goals: from providing pucca houses with basic facilities for every family to doubling the income of farmers. In order to build an inclusive society of new India, we are giving special emphasis on education, health, nutrition, upliftment of the under-privileged and welfare of women.Adversity often plays the role of a great teacher. It makes us stronger and more confident. With that confidence, India has taken great strides in several sectors. Economic reforms have continued apace and have been supplemented by long-pending reforms in the areas of labour and agriculture through legislation. The path to reform at the initial stages may cause misapprehensions. However, it is beyond doubt that the Government remains singularly devoted to farmers’ welfare.Equally salient but touching more lives directly is the comprehensive reform in education which was long overdue. The ‘National Education Policy 2020’, with its stress on tradition as well as technology, will lay the foundation of a New India which aspires to emerge as a knowledge hub on the international stage. This reform promises to incubate innate talent of students and ignite their minds to take up the challenges of life.The net outcome of all these efforts is before us. After about a year of this unforeseen ordeal, India today stands not despondent but confident. The slowdown has turned out to be transitory as the economy has regained its dynamism. A self-reliant India has manufactured its own vaccine for Covid-19, and is now undertaking a mass vaccination drive, which will be the largest exercise of its kind in history. The administration and health services are working with full readiness to make this exercise a success. I urge upon the countrymen to utilise this lifeline and get vaccinated as per guidelines. Your health opens the way for your advancement.Today, India is being rightly called “pharmacy of the world” as we are supplying medicines and other healthcare items to several countries to alleviate people’s suffering and contain the pandemic across the globe. Now we also provide vaccines to other countries.Dear Fellow Citizens,The past year was a time of adversity, and it came from many fronts. We faced an expansionist move on our borders, but our valiant soldiers foiled it. To achieve this objective, 20 of them had to lay down their lives. The nation shall remain grateful to those brave soldiers. Though we reiterate our commitment to peace, our defence forces – Army, Air Force and Navy – are adequately mobilised in a well-coordinated move to thwart any attempt to undermine our security. Our national interest will be protected at all costs. We have also ensured a widespread understanding in the international community of India’s firm and principled stand.India is moving forward and taking its rightful place in the world. During the recent years, its arc of influence has been expanding and encompassing the larger part of the world. The manner in which India got overwhelming support of the international community for its entry as non-permanent member in the Security Council this year is indicative of that influence. The quality of our engagement with leaders across the world has enhanced manifold. India with its vibrant democracy has rightfully earned its respect as a responsible and trustworthy nation.We would do well to keep reminding ourselves of our Constitutional mantras. I have said this before, but I will repeat that we should make it a part of our daily routine to meditate upon the life and thought of our Father of the Nation. We must make all efforts to wipe tears from every eye. Equality is the watchword for the great project of our Republic. Social equality warrants dignity for each one of us, villagers, women, weaker sections of our society, namely, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, Divyang-jan and the elderly people. Economic equality entails equal opportunity for all and handholding for the downtrodden. Acts of helping fellow human beings expand our capacity for empathy. In our collective path ahead, Fraternity is our moral compass. Let us all continue on the path of ‘constitutional morality’ which Babasaheb Dr. Bhimrao Ambedkar mentioned in his speech to the Constituent Assembly on November 4, 1948 while presenting the draft of the Constitution. He clarified that 'Constitutional morality' means supremacy of the values enshrined in the Constitution.Dear Fellow Citizens,As we are set to celebrate the anniversary of our Republic, I am thinking of our brothers and sisters abroad. Our diaspora is our pride. Indians abroad have succeeded in different walks of life, some rising to high levels of political leadership, some contributing to science, arts, academics, civil society and business, each bringing laurels to their new homelands and also to India. Republic Day greetings to you from the land of your ancestors! My greetings to the members of the armed forces, paramilitary forces and the police who usually celebrate festivals staying away from their families. My special greetings to all those jawans.I once again congratulate you all, for the Republic Day.Thank You,Jai Hind!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/full-text-president-ram-nath-kovind-s-speech-on-eve-of-72nd-republic-day-101611594533624.html
25-01-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi wraps up Tamil Nadu campaign; attacks AIADMK, BJP||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi wrapped his three-day campaign tour of poll-bound Tamil Nadu’s western region capitalising on the ongoing farmers' protest and the state’s view that the ruling AIADMK’s ally, the BJP, is attempting to impose its ideology.In his aggressive campaign, Gandhi on Monday targeted chief minister Edapaddi Palaniswami and launched attacks on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the BJP-RSS combine.“The chief minister is corrupt so he’s being controlled by the prime minister,” said Gandhi during his roadshow in Karur district. “Why is the CBI, the enforcement directorate not investigating the chief minister of Tamil Nadu like it's happening in other states? What is he giving in exchange to Modi? Did the chief minister have the guts to raise questions against demonetisation and GST? The BJP- RSS is controlling Tamil Nadu. The RSS ideology is anti-Tamil,” he said.Later in the day, Gandhi went on a bullock cart and interacted with farmers in a coconut farm in Karur and listened to their grievances. “We are stopping these laws and protecting your interests because these are criminal laws,” the former Congress chief said on the three new farm bills. Gandhi reiterated the NYAY scheme as a "revolutionary idea" promised by the Congress in its 2019 election manifesto to protect the poor.Also read: 5 Galwan heroes get gallantry awards, Col Santosh Babu named for Mahavir ChakraSpeaking to reporters regarding Arnab Goswami's leaked Whatsapp chats on the Balakot strike, Gandhi said that it was a breach of Official Secrets Act, 1923. He said that he had spoken on this issue to AK Antony, former defence minister during the UPA regime.“The PM, defence minister, home minister, NSA and the air force chief - those are the five people (who know of a top-secret operation of this nature) according to our UPA defence minister. Now the question is, who of the five people has told this journalist about the Balakot mission,” Gandhi said. “If it is not the prime minister, why has he not ordered an enquiry and said ‘treason has taken place…’ The only reason he’s not done anything is because he is involved in this type of information leak,” he said.Besides farmers, Gandhi met weavers, industrial labourers and MSME representatives and spoke at roadshows to large gatherings in the districts including Coimbatore, Tiruppur and Erode. These are western regions of the state and the AIADMK's stronghold. Congress’ longstanding ally, the DMK, is working to breach these bastions.The BJP in Tamil Nadu has been countering Gandhi’s comments stating that PM Modi hosted Chinese premier Xi Jinping in Mahabalipuram and often quotes Thirukural. In a bid to connect with Tamil voters, the party went on a ‘vetrivel yatra’ (victorious spear march) across the state where popular Tamil deity Lord Murugan carries the vel (spear).Gandhi will make a series of visits covering across Tamil Nadu ahead of the assembly polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-wraps-up-tamil-nadu-campaign-attacks-aiadmk-bjp-101611593603292.html
25-01-2021||India||Wrestler Virender Singh, Zoho founder, Bombay Jayashri among Padma Shri awardees||The Union home ministry on the eve of Republic Day announced the recipients for Padma awards. Padmi Shri has been awarded to 102 people from the fields of medicine, social work, sports, literature and education, trade, sports, public affairs and art.Prominent names in the award list include wrestler Virender Singh who won a bronze medal in the World Wrestling Championship in 1992 at Cali. He also won a silver medal in Commonwealth Championship in 1995 and a Gold Medal in the South Asian Championship (SAF Games).Jitender Singh 'Shunty' who was elected as the Member of Legislative Assembly from Shahdara from Bhartiya Janta Party in 2013 is also in the list of awardees. He is the founder of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Seva Dal, an NGO that helps to cremate unclaimed bodies and immerse the ashes as guided by the Hindu and Sikh religion.Check full list of Padma Shri awardees hereIndustrialists conferred with Padma Shri include Rajnikant Devidas Shroff (UPL Ltd); Rajni Bector (Mrs Bector’s Food Company); P Subramanian (Shanthi Gears) and Sridhar Vembu (Zoho).Sridhar Vembu is an Indian billionaire business magnate and the founder and CEO of Zoho Corporation. According to Forbes, he is the 59th richest Indian in the world with a net worth of US$2.5 billion as of 2020.Rajni Bector of Mrs Bector Food Specialities, transformed a small ice cream shop she had opened in her backyard into one of the most well-known bakery brands in India. Mrs Bector Food Specialties on December 17 garnered 198 subscriptions to its initial public offering (IPO), generating bids worth ₹40,000 crore and a market value of ₹540 crore. Not just biscuits, Mrs Bector is also the supplier for fast food chains like Burger King and McDonald's."Bombay" Jayashri Ramnath is also in the list of Padma Shri awardees. She is an Indian musician who has sung in multiple languages including Tamil, Telugu, Kannada, Malayalam and Hindi movies. Born into a family of musicians, Jayashri represents the fourth generation of music practitioners in her family. Trained by Lalgudi Jayaraman and T R Balamani, she is one of the most sought after Carnatic musicians today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wrestler-virender-singh-zoho-founder-bombay-jayashri-among-padma-shri-awardees-101611592371379.html
25-01-2021||India||Man attacks 16-year-old girl with knife, held at Varanasi airport||A 16-year-old girl suffered serious injuries in her hand when a 32-year-old man allegedly attacked her with a knife after she turned down his marriage proposal on the outskirts of a village under Sadat police in Ghazipur district on Saturday, police said Monday.A senior police officer said the incident took place when the girl along with a female cousin went out of the village in the morning where Nand Kishore Tiwari attacked the minor causing serious injuries on her hand and head. The accused fled after the girl's cousin raised an alarm and locals rushed to the spot, a police officer said.The officer said the girl's kin informed police and rushed her to a hospital. Thereafter, Ghazipur’s superintendent of police Dr Omprakash Singh reached the spot where locals informed him that the accused was planning to flee to Dubai.The SP then ordered a lookout notice for the accused and sent a team to Lal Bahadur Shastri International Airport, Varanasi. The team arrested the accused from the airport when he was about to catch a flight to Dubai on Saturday evening itself."The accused was caught before he could catch a Dubai-bound flight," the SP said.A case was registered under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code against Tiwari following a complaint by the girl's father.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-attacks-16-year-old-girl-with-knife-held-at-varanasi-airport-101611592349761.html
25-01-2021||India||Government says ban on Chinese mobile apps, including Tiktok, would continue||The government has sent notices to Chinese apps, including Tiktok, that the order to block them will be continued. The notice has been issued by the Ministry of Electronics and IT after reviewing replies of blocked apps, according to a source who did not wish to be identified. When contacted, Tiktok confirmed to have received a reply from the government. "We are evaluating the notice and will respond to it as appropriate. TikTok was among the first companies to comply with the Government of India directive issued on June 29, 2020. We continually strive to comply with local laws and regulations and do our best to address any concerns the government may have. Ensuring the privacy and security of all our users remains to be our topmost priority," a TikTok spokesperson said. The government had blocked 59 Chinese apps in June and 118 more apps, including PUBG mobile game, in September. The Ministry of Information Technology had blocked the apps under section 69A of the Information Technology Act after learning that the apps are engaged in activities which are prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of state and public order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/government-says-ban-on-chinese-mobile-apps-including-tiktok-would-continue-101611592589801.html
25-01-2021||India||All you need to know about Padma Vibhushan awardee Maulana Wahiduddin Khan||The Centre on Monday released the list of Padma awards on the eve of India's 72nd Republic Day in which it has honoured 119 people for their achievements and contributions to their respective fields of work.One of the names that is sure to pique interest is that of renowned Islamic scholar Maulana Wahiduddin Khan. He has been given Padma Vibhushan, India's second-highest civilian award, for his exceptional contribution in the field of spiritualism.Khan first shot to limelight when he gave a clarion call to Muslims to relinquish claims over the disputed Babri Masjid site, one the first community leaders to do so.He then floated, along with others, the "Vajpayee Himayat (support) Committee", which had extensively campaigned for the former BJP prime minister in the Lucknow constituency in the 2004 Lok Sabha elections.Khan is known for his association with Vajpayee and his senior colleague in the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) L K Advani.Khan has contributed articles to the RSS mouthpiece Organiser which presents him "as an enlightened alternative to Islamic fanaticism" for "reportedly counselling Muslims to abandon their claim on Ayodhya".His verified Facebook page describes the Islamic scholar as, "Maulana Wahiduddin Khan is an Islamic spiritual scholar who has adopted peace as the mission of his life. Known for his Gandhian views, he considers non-violence as the only method to achieve success."He established Centre for Peace and Spirituality (CPS) in 2001 to promote and reinforce the culture of peace. The website of the organisation says the Khan was born in Uttar Pradesh's Azamgarh in 1925.Padma awards - conferred in Padma Vibhushan, Padma Bhushan and Padma Shri categories - are among the highest civilian awards given in various disciplines/fields like art, social work, public affairs, science and engineering, trade and industry, medicine, literature and education, sports, and civil service.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-you-need-to-know-about-padma-vibhushan-awardee-maulana-wahiduddin-khan-101611591256620.html
25-01-2021||India||Centre asks states to act against those spreading rumours about Covid vaccines||The Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has written to states asking them to take penal action against those who are found to be involved in spreading wrong and ill-informed news about the Covid-19 vaccinesIn a letter to chief secretaries of all states on January 19, Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla said that states “must check the spread of such ill-informed rumours, and direct all the concerned authorities under the State Government to take appropriate measures to counter false information about Covid-19 vaccines.”The letter comes in the backdrop of a degree of hesitancy among health workers during the initial phase of vaccination. The letter emphasises the safety of both vaccines ‘‘The National Regulatory Authority in the country has found that the two vaccines, Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute of India, and Covaxin, developed and manufactured by the Bharat Biotech Limited were safe and immunogenic,” it said.“It has been reported that unfounded and misleading rumours are circulating on social and other media, creating doubt about the safety and efficacy of these vaccines. Such kind of rumour mongering, particularly by vested interests, can create unwarranted doubts among people at large, and there is, therefore, a need to check all such kinds of unfounded scare mongering relating to the safety and immunogenicity of the vaccines,” wrote Bhalla.Bhalla asked the chief secretaries to direct all the authorities to disseminate factual messages, adding that “penal action may be taken against the person/s or organisation/s who is/are found to have indulged in such activities, under the relevant provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005 and the Indian Penal Code, 1860.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-asks-states-to-act-against-those-spreading-rumours-about-covid-vaccines-101611591154200.html
25-01-2021||India||Maha Vir Chakra for Galwan braveheart Col Santosh Babu, Vir Chakra for 5 others||Colonel B Santosh Babu, the commanding officer of 16 Bihar regiment, who was killed during a clash with Chinese soldiers in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley last year, will be posthumously awarded with Maha Vir Chakra on Republic Day.Five other soldiers who displayed outstanding courage during the Galwan Valley skirmish with the Chinese People’s Liberation Army have been awarded war-time gallantry awards. While a Maha Vir Chakra was announced for Col Babu on the eve of Republic Day, the other five soldiers have been awarded Vir Chakra. The MVC is India’s second-highest wartime gallantry award followed by the VrC. Four of the VrC have been awarded posthumously.The VrC awardees are Naib Subedar Nuduram Soren (16 Bihar) (posthumous), Havildar K Palani (81 Field) (P), Havildar Tejinder Singh (3 Medium), Naik Deepak Singh (16 Bihar) (P) and Sepoy Gurtej Singh (3 Punjab) (P).Babu’s citation said: “Undaunted by the violent and aggressive action by overwhelming strength of enemy soldiers, the officer in true spirit of service before self, continued to resist the enemy’s attempt to pushback Indian troops. Despite being grievously injured, Colonel Babu led from the front with absolute command and control despite hostile conditions to deter the vicious enemy attack at his position.”The soldiers involved in the skirmish had fought off numerically superior Chinese troops at the cost of their own lives in the remote Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh on June 15, 2020. The infantry battalion’s 37-year-old commanding officer, Colonel Babu, was among the 20 Indian soldiers killed in the seven-hour deadly conflict near Patrolling Point 14 in Galwan Valley, where outnumbered Indian troops inflicted heavy casualties on the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA).Beijing has not disclosed the number of fatalities it suffered.Apart from 16 Bihar, soldiers from 3 Punjab, 3 Medium Regiment and 81 Field Regiment were involved in the first deadly conflict between Indian and Chinese troops along the LAC in more than five decades.The first wave of fighting in Galwan Valley erupted around 6 pm on June 15 after Colonel Babu led a squad of 30 soldiers to a location near PP-14 to verify if the PLA had removed some structures erected in the area despite an understanding reached on June 6 by top Indian and Chinese military commanders on a disengagement plan to reduce rising border tensions.The squad, however, found that a few tents and an observation post were still intact and the Chinese soldiers had not retreated from PP-14. The Indian soldiers confronted the Chinese troops, who refused to remove their installations and vacate the area, triggering a violent clash that involved more than 600 rival soldiers at its peak.Brigadier Sanal Kumar (retd), who has served in 16 Bihar and later commanded 12 Bihar, “Colonel Babu enjoyed the reputation of being a sane and balanced officer even as a youngster. It reflected in the way he handled the situation in Galwan Valley last year. As the CO of the unit, he could have sent someone else to PP-14. But he went there himself to ensure that things stayed under control. The gallantry awards are a well-deserved recognition of the bravery of Babu and the men who fought under his command.”Brigadier Kumar said Col. Babu and his men were taken by surprise because the PLA had pre-planned the attack. “The PLA only achieved initial surprise. Indian soldiers turned the tide with their courageous actions,” said the Brigadier who retired in 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maha-vir-chakra-for-galwan-braveheart-col-santosh-babu-vir-chakra-for-5-others-101611590632853.html
25-01-2021||India||Kamal Haasan’s MNM promises Singapore-like standards to tackle Chennai floods||Kamal Haasan's Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) on Monday released a seven-point agenda each for rural and urban governance ahead of the upcoming assembly elections in Tamil Nadu.In urban areas, it includes bringing in Singapore-like standards to mitigate flooding, especially in Chennai, and international standards of traffic management. If elected, the party’s government would support any panchayat or corporation which "adopts international standards in ecological sensitivity to become clean and green with the participation of citizens and NGOs,” the party said in a statement.In rural areas, the MNM has promised salary to panchayat presidents and councillors along with the right to recall elected members in grama sabhas. The functions of the panchayat body will be available online and accessible through apps for the public and an ombudsman at the state and district levels to address issues raised by rural local bodies.The agenda was prepared by the MNM along with a Chennai-based social organisation Satta Panchayat Iyakkam, said actor-politician Kamal Haasan at the video press conference.Also read: 'Constructive talks' India, China to push for early disengagement in Ladakh“There are several possibilities of corruption and we believe those on a payroll will be answerable and accountable,” said Haasan on their scheme to provide salaries to panchayat working heads.In November, the MNM promised a computer with high-speed internet for every home and a pay for women homemakers for their household work in its seven-point governance and economic agenda.Haasan is campaigning on an anti-corruption poll plank and positioning his fledgeling party as a third front where the ruling AIADMK and opposition DMK are the principal contenders.The MNM was formed in 2018 and contested the 2019 Lok Sabha elections with a 3.7 per cent vote share. Several former bureaucrats and social activists have joined hands with Haasan’s party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kamal-haasan-s-mnm-promises-singapore-like-standards-to-tackle-chennai-floods-101611588221266.html
25-01-2021||India||Wrestler Virender Singh among 102 Padma Shri awardees. Check full list here||As many as --- people were conferred with the Padma Shri awards on the eve of Republic Day on Monday. Awardees were recognised for their distinguished service in the fields of arts, sports, social work, public affairs and literature etc.One of the highest civilian awards, the Padma awards are conferred every year by the President since 1954. President Ram Nath Kovind honoured --- people this year with the Padma Vibhushan award and --- were conferred the Padma Bhushan award.The Padma awards, unlike the gallantry awards, are not normally conferred posthumously. However, in highly deserving cases, the Government could consider giving an award posthumously.Here is the full list of people conferred Padma Shri award:﻿Shri Gulfam AhmedArtUttar PradeshMs. P. AnithaSportsTamil NaduShri Rama Swamy AnnavarapuArtAndhra PradeshShri Subbu ArumugamArtTamil NaduShri Prakasarao AsavadiLiterature and EducationAndhra PradeshMs. Bhuri BaiArtMadhya PradeshShri Radhe Shyam BarleArtChhattisgarhShri Dharma Narayan BarmaLiterature and EducationWest BengalMs. Lakhimi BaruahSocial WorkAssamShri Biren Kumar BasakArtWest BengalMs. Rajni BectorTrade and IndustryPunjabShri Peter BrookArtUnited KingdomMs. Sangkhumi BualchhuakSocial WorkMizoramShri Gopiram Bargayn BurabhakatArtAssamMs. Bijoya ChakravartyPublic AffairsAssamShri Sujit ChattopadhyayLiterature and EducationWest BengalShri Jagdish Chaudhary (Posthumous)Social WorkUttar PradeshShri Tsultrim ChonjorSocial WorkLadakhMs. Mouma DasSportsWest BengalShri Srikant DatarLiterature and EducationUnited States of AmericaShri Narayan DebnathArtWest BengalMs. Chutni DeviSocial WorkJharkhandMs. Dulari DeviArtBiharMs. Radhe DeviArtManipurMs. Shanti DeviSocial WorkOdishaShri Wayan DibiaArtIndonesiaShri Dadudan GadhaviLiterature & EducationGujaratShri Parshuram Atmaram GangavaneArtMaharashtraShri Jai Bhagwan GoyalLiterature and EducationHaryanaShri Jagadish Chandra HalderLiterature and EducationWest BengalShri Mangal Singh HazowaryLiterature and EducationAssamMs. Anshu JamsenpaSportsArunachal PradeshMs. Purnamasi JaniArtOdishaMatha B. Manjamma JogatiArtKarnatakaShri Damodaran KaithapramArtKeralaShri Namdeo C KambleLiterature and EducationMaharashtraShri Maheshbhai & Shri Nareshbhai Kanodia (Duo) *(Posthumous)ArtGujaratShri Rajat Kumar KarLiterature and EducationOdishaShri Rangasami Lakshminarayana KashyapLiterature and EducationKarnatakaMs. Prakash KaurSocial WorkPunjabShri Nicholas KazanasLiterature and EducationGreeceShri K KesavasamyArtPuducherryShri Ghulam Rasool KhanArtJammu and KashmirShri Lakha KhanArtRajasthanMs. Sanjida KhatunArtBangladeshShri Vinayak Vishnu KhedekarArtGoaMs. Niru KumarSocial WorkDelhiMs. LajwantiArtPunjabShri Rattan LalScience and EngineeringUnited States of AmericaShri Ali ManikfanOthers-Grassroots InnovationLakshadweepShri Ramachandra ManjhiArtBiharShri Dulal MankiArtAssamShri Nanadro B MarakOthers- AgricultureMeghalayaShri Rewben MashangvaArtManipurShri Chandrakant MehtaLiterature and EducationGujaratDr. Rattan Lal MittalMedicinePunjabShri Madhavan NambiarSportsKeralaShri Shyam Sundar PaliwalSocial WorkRajasthanDr. Chandrakant Sambhaji PandavMedicineDelhiDr. J N Pande(Posthumous)MedicineDelhiShri Solomon PappaiahLiterature and Education- JournalismTamil NaduMs. PappammalOthers- AgricultureTamil NaduDr. Krishna Mohan PathiMedicineOdishaMs. Jaswantiben Jamnadas PopatTrade and IndustryMaharashtraShri Girish PrabhuneSocial WorkMaharashtraShri Nanda PrustyLiterature and EducationOdishaShri K K Ramachandra PulavarArtKeralaShri Balan PutheriLiterature and EducationKeralaMs. Birubala RabhaSocial WorkAssamShri Kanaka RajuArtTelanganaMs. Bombay Jayashri RamnathArtTamil NaduShri Satyaram ReangArtTripuraDr. Dhananjay DiwakarSagdeoMedicineKeralaShri Ashok Kumar SahuMedicineUttar PradeshDr. Bhupendra Kumar Singh SanjayMedicineUttarakhandMs. Sindhutai SapkalSocial WorkMaharashtraShri Chaman Lal Sapru(Posthumous)Literature and EducationJammu and KashmirShri Roman SarmahLiterature and Education- JournalismAssamShri Imran ShahLiterature and EducationAssamShri Prem Chand SharmaOthers- AgricultureUttarakhandShri Arjun Singh ShekhawatLiterature and EducationRajasthanShri Ram Yatna ShuklaLiterature and EducationUttar PradeshShri Jitender Singh ShuntySocial WorkDelhiShri Kartar Paras Ram SinghArtHimachal PradeshShri Kartar SinghArtPunjabDr. Dilip Kumar SinghMedicineBiharShri Chandra Shekhar SinghOthers-AgricultureUttar PradeshMs. Sudha Hari Narayan SinghSportsUttar PradeshShri Virender SinghSportsHaryanaMs. Mridula Sinha(Posthumous)Literature and EducationBiharShri K C Sivasankar(Posthumous)ArtTamil NaduGuru Maa Kamali SorenSocial WorkWest BengalShri Marachi SubburamanSocial WorkTamil NaduShri P Subramanian(Posthumous)Trade and IndustryTamil NaduMs. Nidumolu SumathiArtAndhra PradeshShri Kapil TiwariLiterature and EducationMadhya PradeshFather Vallés(Posthumous)Literature and EducationSpainDr. Thiruvengadam Veeraraghavan(Posthumous)MedicineTamil NaduShri Sridhar VembuTrade and IndustryTamil NaduShri K Y VenkateshSportsKarnatakaMs. Usha YadavLiterature and EducationUttar PradeshCol Quazi Sajjad Ali ZahirPublic AffairsBangladesh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/republic-day-2021-virendra-singh-among-102-padma-shri-awardees-check-full-list-101611573811611.html
25-01-2021||India||Republic Day 2021: Shinzo Abe, SP Balasubramaniam among Padma Vibhushan awardees||The government announced the list of Padma awards on Monday, on the eve of India's 72nd Republic Day. This year, the government has chosen seven people for Padma Vibhushan, India's second-highest civilian award.Among these seven is former prime minister of Japan, Shinzo Abe, who has been given the award for his achievements in Public Affairs.The other recipients are noted singer S P Balasubramaniam, who passed away last year. He was 74. The singer was admitted to hospital after he contracted Covid-19, but later tested negative. Balasubramaniam suffered a cardio- respiratory arrest which led to his death in September last year.Dr Belle Monappa Hegde has been given Padma Bhushan in Medicine, Narinder Singh Kapany (Posthumously) in Science and Engineering, Maulana Wahiduddin Khan in spiritualism, B B Lal in Archaeology and Sudarshan Sahoo in Art.All these people have made exceptional contributions in their respective fields.The Padma awards are conferred by the President on the eve of Republic Day every year.These awards were instituted in the year 1954 and are conferred in three categories - Padma Vibhushan, Padma Bhushan and Padma Shri.Even though these awards do not amount to a title and cannot be used as a suffix or prefix to the awardees’ name, the recipients are given a small replica of the medallion, which they can wear during any ceremonial or state functions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/republic-day-2021-shinzo-abe-sp-balasumramaniam-among-padma-vibhushan-awardees-101611589791724.html
25-01-2021||India||Ram Vilas Paswan among 10 Padma Bhushan awardees. See full list here||The government has announced the list of awardees for Padma Bhushan, conferred every year by the President on the eve of Republic Day.The winners of this award are recognised for their distinguished service of a high order and it is one of the highest civilian awards being conferred since 1954.The other two Padma awards - Padma Vibhushan and Padma Shri - have also been conferred by the President.The recipients of these awards are given a small replica of the medallion, which they can wear during any state functions etc. The names of the awardees are published in the Gazette of India on the day of the presentation ceremony.Here is the full list of Padma Bhushan awardees for 2021:Ms. Krishnan Nair Shantakumari Chithra- Art- KeralaShri Tarun Gogoi (Posthumous)- Public Affairs- AssamShri Chandrashekhar Kambara- Literature and Education- KarnatakaMs. Sumitra Mahajan- Public Affairs- Madhya PradeshShri Nripendra Misra- Civil Service- Uttar PradeshShri Ram Vilas Paswan (Posthumous)- Public Affairs- BiharShri Keshubhai Patel (Posthumous)- Public Affairs- GujaratShri Kalbe Sadiq (Posthumous)- Others-Spiritualism- Uttar PradeshShri Rajnikant Devidas Shroff- Trade and Industry- MaharashtraShri Tarlochan Singh- Public Affairs- Haryana||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ram-vilas-paswan-among-10-padma-bhushan-awardees-see-full-list-here-101611573503471.html
25-01-2021||India||India successfully tests new gen Akash missile||India on Monday announced that it successfully test-fired the Akash-NG (new generation) surface-to-air missile for the first time off the Odisha coast.Akash-NG missile has been designed to strike low radar cross-section aerial targets. It weighs only half of the existing Akash missile and requires fewer ground systems, officials familiar with the project said.The existing Akash missile has a range of 25 km, while the upgraded variant (NG) can strike targets at a distance of 30 km, officials said.“Akash-NG is a new generation surface-to-air missile meant for use by Indian Air Force with an aim of intercepting high maneuvering low radar cross-section aerial threats,” the defence ministry said in a statement.The weapon was tested by the Defence Research and Development Organisation.The missile intercepted the target with precision, officials said. “The launch met all the test objectives by performing high maneuvers during the trajectory. The performance of the command and control systems, onboard avionics and aerodynamic configuration of the missile was successfully validated during the trial,” statement said.The Akash-NG system has been developed with better deployability compared to other similar systems with canisterised launcher and much smaller ground system footprint, it added.The Union Cabinet, chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on December 30 gave its go-ahead to the sale of Akash surface-to-air missile systems to friendly foreign countries and created a high-powered panel for swifter approval to export of military hardware at a time India has set a target of clocking defence exports worth $5 billion by 2024.The missile --- already in service in the Indian military --- has an indigenous content of 96%. The missile was inducted into the Indian Air Force in 2014 and in the army a year later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-successfully-tests-new-gen-akash-missile-101611587766511.html
25-01-2021||India||‘Let us look at 2020 as year of learning’: President Kovind’s top 10 quotes||President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday addressed the nation on the eve of 72nd Republic Day. In his address to the nation, he thanked the farmers, soldiers, and healthcare workers for their contributions during the difficult year. He also said the government is completely committed to the betterment of farmers. He lauded the scientists for decoding the coronavirus and bringing the vaccine out in such short time. He also urged people to take the Covid-19 vaccine. Here are the top 10 quotes from President Kovind's address: On Constitution“Seventy-one years ago, on this very day, we the people of India adopted, enacted and gave to ourselves a unique Constitution. For all of us, then, this is the day to also pause and ponder over the core values that the Constitution propounds. These values – Justice, Liberty, Equality, and Fraternity – outlined in the Preamble of our Constitution are sacred to all of us. Its abiding adherence is meant not only for those who are mandated to govern but for the people at large.”On farmers“Every Indian salutes our farmers, who have made our vast and populous country self-reliant in food-grains and dairy products. Despite adversities of nature, numerous other challenges and the Covid-19 pandemic, our farmers sustained the agricultural production. A grateful nation is fully committed to the welfare of our farmers.”On soldiers“The brave soldiers of the armed forces ensure security of our national boundaries amid severest conditions. From the freezing cold at Siachen and Galwan valley in Ladakh with temperatures as low as minus 50 to 60 degree Celsius to the scorching heat in Jaisalmer with temperatures as high as 50 degree Celsius – on land, in the skies and at the vast coastal areas – our warriors are vigilant every moment. Every citizen feels proud about the bravery, patriotism and the spirit of sacrifice among our soldiers.”On scientists“Our scientists have been working day and night for decoding the Coronavirus and they have succeeded in developing the vaccine in record time. With this accomplishment, our scientists have added a glorious chapter of contribution to the well-being of humanity. Our scientists, along with doctors, administrators and people from other walks of life, have made major contribution in containing the virus and keeping the fatality rate lower in our country, compared to that in developed countries.”On frontline workers“Our frontline Corona-warriors were ordinary citizens who turned out to be extraordinary. When the history of this tragic chapter, which is not yet over, is written, I am confident that the future generations will behold you all for the heroic response to the crisis for which no one could have truly prepared.”On Coronavirus pandemic“Despite the serious calamity, we have succeeded in taking forward our activities in many spheres. The pandemic threatened to derail the young generation’s learning process, but institutions and teachers quickly adopted new technology and ensured that there was no break in education.”On economy“The latest unprecedented collection of GST and India’s emergence as a most favoured destination for the foreign investment are indicative of our faster economic recovery. The government has encouraged small and medium industries to unleash entrepreneurial spirit by providing easy loans to them and helped them to come up with innovative business ideas.”On self reliant India“Converting a crisis into an opportunity, the Prime Minister gave a call of ‘Atma-Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan’, or ‘Self-reliant India Mission’. Our vibrant democracy, our enterprising and talented fellow citizens – specially the youth – energise our efforts in shaping a self-reliant India. The demand for goods and services in the country, the domestic efforts to meet them, and the use of modern technology in such efforts are strengthening ‘Atma-Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan’. Under this Mission, steps have been taken for economic growth as well as employment generation by promoting micro, small and medium enterprises and making the start-up eco-system more robust. It has become a movement being taken forward by the people themselves.”On coronavirus vaccination programme“A self-reliant India has manufactured its own vaccine for Covid-19, and is now undertaking a mass vaccination drive, which will be the largest exercise of its kind in history. The administration and health services are working with full readiness to make this exercise a success. I urge upon the countrymen to utilise this lifeline and get vaccinated as per guidelines. Your health opens the way for your advancement.”On Indian disapora“As we are set to celebrate the anniversary of our Republic, I am thinking of our brothers and sisters abroad. Our diaspora is our pride. Indians abroad have succeeded in different walks of life, some rising to high levels of political leadership, some contributing to science, arts, academics, civil society and business, each bringing laurels to their new homelands and also to India. Republic Day greetings to you from the land of your ancestors!”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/let-us-look-at-2020-as-year-of-learning-president-kovind-s-top-10-quotes-101611587930965.html
25-01-2021||India||News updates from HT: Bose's grand nephew tweets original photo amid portrait row and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Subhas Chandra Bose's grand nephew tweets original photoThe grandnephew of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, Chandra Kumar Bose, on Monday took to Twitter to clarify the claims on the portrait unveiled by the President Ram Nath Kovind on Saturday that said the portrait is that of Prosenjit Chatterjee, the actor who played the role of Netaji in his biopic "Gumnami". Read moreBJP has insulted Bengal and Netaji, says Mamata BanerjeeSharpening her attack against the Bharaitya Janata Party over the Victoria Memorial controversy of January 23, Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee said on Monday that it was an insult to Bengal and Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose. Read more'Constructive talks': India, China to push for early disengagement in LadakhThe Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) agreed to push for an early disengagement of their frontline troops at frictions areas on the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh during the ninth round of military talks held on Sunday. Read moreDr Anthony Fauci reveals ‘disturbing’ incidents under Trump administrationThe presidential years of Donald Trump ended on January 20 amid raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic and people who worked in the administration have started opening up about the handling of the health crisis. Read moreChelsea sack manager Frank LampardChelsea FC on Monday announced the sacking of manager Frank Lampard despite the club advancing to FA Cup 5th round following a 3-1 win over Luton on Sunday. Chelsea have won only one out their last five Premier League games and are currently placed at the 9th position with 29 points in 19 games. Read moreVarun Dhawan's 'chilled out bride' Natasha Dalal got her wedding makeup done in 35 mins, says artist Namrata SoniHair and makeup artist Namrata Soni has shared a video of Varun Dhawan's bride, Natasha Dalal, getting ready for her wedding. The couple tied the knot on Sunday in Alibaug. Read moreLet it snow: English zoo turns into winter wonderland due to snowfall. Pictures are ‘winterful’Snowfall in parts of England transformed ZSL Whipsnade Zoo, in Dunstable, into a winter wonderland. The zoo shared pictures of this unique occurrence on its official Instagram account on January 24. To say that images are 'winterful’ to look at would be an understatement. Read moreWatch: Routes to avoid as farmers gear up for tractor rally on Republic DayFarmers are all set to hold their tractor rally in the capital on Republic Day. Preparations have been made by the authorities who are keeping a tight vigil to avoid any untoward incident. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-bose-s-grand-nephew-tweets-original-photo-amid-row-101611586192123.html
25-01-2021||India||Galwan braveheart Col Santosh Babu named for Mahavir Chakra in R-Day honours||Colonel B Santosh Babu, the commanding officer of 16 Bihar battalion, who led soldiers to evict Chinese soldiers from East Ladakh’s Galwan Valley last June, has been posthumously named for Mahavir Chakra, India’s second-highest military award for acts of conspicuous gallantry in the presence of the enemy, an official announcement by the Defence Ministry said on Monday.The government also named four other soldiers who made the supreme sacrifice in the Galwan operation for the gallantry awards announced on the eve of the Republic Day parade. The four Vir Chakra awardees, also posthumous, are Naib Subedar Nuduram Soren (16 Bihar), Havildar K Palani (81 Field), Havildar Tejinder Singh (3 Medium), Naik Deepak Singh (16 Bihar) and Sepoy Gurtej Singh (3 Punjab).The bloody Galwan clash was the first deadly conflict between India and China in at least 45 years and was seen to underline the risk of the border standoff escalating into a full-scale confrontation. The news of the Republic Day honours for the Galwan bravehearts came hours after a fourth clash between Indian and Chinese troops in the last year was reported from north Sikkim.Twenty Indian soldiers including Col Santosh Babu were killed in the seven-hour-long clash that at its peak involved more than 600 rival soldiers. China acknowledged the PLA suffered casualties in the violent scrap but didn’t give any figures.Also Read: Naku La face-off and Taiwan show of force are part of Beijing expansionist plansThe Indian Army, based on intelligence inputs and communication intercepts, believes the PLA lost at least 50 soldiers including the commanding officer of the battalion concerned.India’s national security planners believe PLA soldiers, who had come prepared with clubs wrapped with barbed-wire and spears, had hoped to wrest control of Galwan Valley from India. But they were evicted by the Indian soldiers in the operation listed in army records as Operation Snow Leopard.A majority of the casualties on both sides were caused by hypothermia when soldiers were pushed off the cliff into the freezing Galwan river.Also Read: How the Galwan Valley tragedy can transform Himalayan geopoliticsPrime Minister Narendra Modi who had travelled to Ladakh soon after the Galwan clash had lauded the courage of soldiers who repelled the Chinese aggression. “Bharat Mata’s enemies have seen your fire and fury,” PM Modi had said.A memorial was also built for the soldiers who laid down their lives. According to the inscription at the memorial: “The (Indian Army’s) column successfully evicted the PLA OP from Y Nala and reached Patrolling Point 14 where a fierce skirmish broke out between the Indian Army and PLA troops. Col B Santosh Babu led from the front and his troops fought gallantly in hand-to-hand combat, causing heavy casualties to the PLA”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/galwan-braveheart-col-santosh-babu-named-for-mahavir-chakra-in-r-day-honours-101611569683269.html
25-01-2021||India||1 pilot killed, another seriously injured as Army helicopter crash lands in J-K||A pilot of the Indian Army was killed and another was critically injured after an Advanced Light Helicopter (ALH)--Dhruv crash landed in Lakhanpur—the gateway to Jammu and Kashmir Monday evening, A Defence spokesman said.The co-pilot, who has been put on ventilator, is critical.Earlier Kathua district police chief, SSP Shailendra Kumar Mishra said, “A Dhruv helicopter of the Army crash landed near Lakhanpur. Two Army pilots have been injured in the incident. They have been evacuated to military base hospital in Pathankot.”The incident occurred around 7.15 pm.In October 2019 a Dhruv helicopter of the Indian Army carrying the then chief of the force’s Northern Command Lieutenant General Ranbir Singh and other officers had made an emergency landing following a technical glitch in Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch.The army’s Dhruv Advanced Light Helicopter (ALH) with Lt Gen Ranbir Singh and six other officers on board was on a sortie from Udhampur to Poonch when it developed a technical snag.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-army-helicopter-crash-lands-in-j-k-both-pilots-injured-101611585328788.html
25-01-2021||India||'Constructive talks': India, China to push for early disengagement in Ladakh||The Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) agreed to push for an early disengagement of their frontline troops at frictions areas on the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh during the ninth round of military talks held on Sunday.“They also agreed to follow the important consensus of their state leaders, maintain the good momentum of dialogue and negotiation, and hold the 10th round of the corps commander-level meeting at an early date to jointly advance de-escalation,” a joint statement stated.Indian and Chinese military commanders held the ninth round of talks to defuse LAC tensions at Moldo on the Chinese side of the LAC at a time when frontline soldiers are deployed eyeball to eyeball at friction points on the LAC.“The two sides agreed to continue their effective efforts in ensuring the restraint of the frontline troops, stabilize and control the situation along the LAC in the western sector of the China-India border, and jointly maintain peace and tranquillity,” the joint statement said.Also read: Rahul Gandhi accuses PM Modi of 'leaking information' about Balakot air strikeThe statement added that the two sides had a “candid and in-depth exchange of views” on disengagement along the LAC in the western sector of India-China border areas. “The two sides agreed that this round of meeting was positive, practical and constructive, which further enhanced mutual trust and understanding,” it added. The ninth round of talks went on for 16 hours. Senior Indian and Chinese commanders had met on November 6 for the eighth round of military talks.India has consistently pushed for comprehensive disengagement at all flashpoints and restoration of status quo ante of early April 2020 during the ongoing military talks. Until now, the Chinese side was insisting that the Indian Army first pull back troops deployed on strategic heights on the southern bank of Pangong Tso.India has made all preparations to hold ground in Ladakh for an extended duration. On January 12, Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane said that the Indian Army was prepared to hold its ground in eastern Ladakh “for as long as it takes” to achieve national objectives in case the ongoing military and diplomatic talks with China are prolonged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-agree-to-push-for-early-disengagement-in-ladakh-101611584277273.html
25-01-2021||India||BJP has insulted Bengal and Netaji, says Mamata Banerjee||Sharpening her attack against the Bharaitya Janata Party over the Victoria Memorial controversy of January 23, Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee said on Monday that it was an insult to Bengal and Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose.“If you (BJP) had raised slogans on Netaji I would have saluted you. But what you did was an insult to Bengal and Netaji,” she said at a public rally in Hooghly district.This was Banerjee’s first rally after Saturday’s controversy when she refused to speak at an official event attended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi at Victoria Memorial to mark the beginning of the celebrations of Netaji’s 125th birth anniversary after Jai Shri Ram slogans were raised just before the chief minister was to start her address.“They were taunting me in front of the Prime Minister. But they don’t know me. If a motherly woman requests me to wash the utensils at her home I would do that because I love to do homely chores. But if you show me a gun, I would show you a safe full of guns,”The BJP hit back saying that Banerjee simply cannot stand the slogan Jai Shri Ram.“Chanting Jai Shri Ram is not a crime. What she did reflects her mindset. And what more replies she wants to give. She is replying every day,” said Samik Bhattacharya, BJP spokesperson in the state.While Banerjee was taking on the BJP in Hooghly, the city’s intellectuals held a protest rally in Kolkata against the BJP for Saturday’s incident.“You can insult me. I won’t get blisters but don’t insult Bengal. Bengali film actresses are being threatened that would be raped if they go out of Bengal,” the chief minister said at the rallyWith the crucial assembly elections just round the corner, the BJP and the TMC are engaged in a tug-of-war over Bengal’s icons. The Bharatiya Janata Party, which is hoping to unseat the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) government in the state, and the latter have both laid claim to Bengali icons Rabindranath Tagore, Swami Vivekananda and Bose.Banerjee also sent a strong signal to rebels within the party and said that some people were leaving the party as the TMC had decided not to field them as candidates in the elections.“Those of you who have lined up (to quit the party) leave at the earliest. Else you will miss the train. Bengal doesn’t need you. TMC doesn’t need you. I don’t care. TMC wouldn’t have given you tickets to contest the elections and so you are leaving in fear,” she said while adding that those who are leaving the TMC had amassed huge wealth and are joining the BJP to hide thoseAt least three ministers and a few legislators have resigned recently while a few others have expressed their disgruntlement against the party’s leadership. Some have already joined the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-has-insulted-bengal-and-netaji-says-mamata-banerjee-101611584294266.html
25-01-2021||India||Amid row over portrait, grand nephew tweets Subhas Chandra Bose's original photo||The grandnephew of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, Chandra Kumar Bose, on Monday took to Twitter to clarify the claims on the portrait unveiled by the President Ram Nath Kovind on Saturday that said the portrait is that of Prosenjit Chatterjee, the actor who played the role of Netaji in his biopic "Gumnami".This is the original photograph of #NetajiSubhasChandraBose, based on which renowned artist Shri #PareshMaity has drawn the portrait which was unveiled at Rashtrapati Bhavan on 23 Jan 2021, by Hon’ble President of India-Shri Ram Nath Kovind ji. @rashtrapatibhvn @narendramodi pic.twitter.com/WTOHqtgs3p"This is the original photograph of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, based on which renowned artist Shri Paresh Maity has drawn the portrait which was unveiled at Rashtrapati Bhavan on 23 Jan 2021, by Hon’ble President of India-Shri Ram Nath Kovind ji," the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader said along with a picture of the freedom fighter.Also Read | In poll-bound Bengal, politics overshadows Netaji’s birth anniversaryAmong those who had questioned the portrait, which was recently unveiled at Rashtrapati Bhawan, was Trinamool Congress leader Mahua Moitra. "After donating ₹5 lakhs to the Ram temple the President honors Netaji by unveiling a portrait of Prasenjit, the actor who played him in biopic God Save India (because this government certainly can't)," she said in the tweet which has now been deleted.Social media was abuzz with the tweets and memes on the resemblance of the portrait with the actor.Storm in a tea cup. 1. Portrait of Netaji by Paresh Maity based on his original photo. 2. Prosenjit as Netaji. 1. , 2. pic.twitter.com/cJTIGpZmeqProsenjit Chatterjee had also tweeted congratulating the artist Paresh Maity for the making the wonderful piece of art.Would like to congratulate Paresh Maity for the wonderful piece of art in remembrance of our National hero Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose. As an Actor,I’m elated that people thought,that the painting resembles my character in Gumnami,dir. by @srijitspeaketh and prosthetics by Somnath pic.twitter.com/HBkXvwFFSwSome people asked for Ajay Devgan's portrait as Bhagat Singh, Vivek Oberoi for Narendra Modi and Ben Kingsley for Mahatama Gandhi.All these actors had played the role of the respective leaders in the biopics dedicated to them.The President of India unveiled the portrait at the Rashtrapati Bhavan on the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji on January 23. Prime Minister Narendra Modi said, Netaji's birth anniversary will be observed as 'Parakram Diwas' every year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-row-over-portrait-grand-nephew-tweets-subhas-chandra-bose-s-original-photo-101611581134216.html
25-01-2021||India||'Salute farmers, committed to their welfare': President Kovind in address to nation on eve of Republic Day||President Ram Nath Kovind highlighted the challenges faced by the country in the year gone by, and hailed the steps taken by the government to mitigate the effects of the coronavirus crisis in his speech on the eve of 72nd Republic Day.He said that India is enriched by diversity where many festivals are celebrated across the country."This is the day to also pause and ponder over the core values that Constitution propounds. These values - Justice, Liberty, Equality and Fraternity - outlined in the Preamble of our Constitution are sacred to all of us," said President Kovind.He took the opportunity to "salute" the farmers of the country who have made India self-reliant in foodgrain and dairy products."Every Indian salutes our farmers, who have made our vast and populous country self-reliant in foodgrain and dairy products. Despite adversities of nature, numerous other challenges and Covid-19 pandemic, our farmers sustained agricultural production," the President said in his annual address.He said that the government and entire nation is fully committed to the welfare of our farmers.He also made a special mention about the healthcare and frontline workers who took the coronavirus disease head on, and hailed the contribution made by the scientists of the country in developing a vaccine."Our scientists created history by decoding the coronavirus and developing a vaccine in such a short time," said the President, adding, "Our scientists, along with doctors, administrators & people from other walks of life, have made major contribution in containing the virus and keeping the fatality rate lower in our country, compared to that in developed countries."He then talked about the standoff along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) between Indian nd Chinese soldiers in Ladakh in which 20 Indian soldiers lost their lives. The skirmish on June 15 also causes casualties on the Chinese side."Past year was a time of adversity and it came from many fronts. We faced an expansionist move on our borders, but our valiant soldiers foiled it. To achieve this objective, 20 of them had to lay down their lives. The nation shall remain grateful to those brave soldiers," President Kovind said.He then highlighted the steps taken by the central government to revive the econokmy battered by the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/salute-farmers-committed-to-their-welfare-president-ram-nath-kovind-101611583242625.html
25-01-2021||India||SC gives green signal to local elections in AP, poll panel revises schedule||In a setback to the Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy government in Andhra Pradesh, the Supreme Court on Monday gave the green signal to state election commissioner Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar to conduct gram panchayat elections in the state in February.A two-member division bench of the Supreme Court comprising Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Justice Hrishikesh Roy dismissed the special leave petition filed by the Jagan government seeking to stall the process initiated by the SEC for the gram panchayat elections in the state.The apex court ordered that the elections for the gram panchayats in the state be held as scheduled and there was no need for postponing the elections indefinitely on the pretext of Covid-19 vaccination drive.“Vaccination is no hurdle for the conduct of elections. The SEC is empowered to conduct the local body elections and the court cannot interfere in its powers,” the Supreme Court bench said.The bench asserted that it would not allow the Constitutional breakdown in the state, as the conduct of elections was part of the Constitutional process. The bench wondered whether elections were not held anywhere in the country.“When there was a coronavirus situation, you wanted elections. Why are you opposing it? You cannot attribute motives to the SEC,” the court asked the government.The court also dismissed a batch of petitions filed by the various employees’ associations seeking to implead themselves in the case, opposing the election process. “This is against the law. In what way are the government employees concerned with the decision? They have no business to intervene in the dispute between two constitutional systems,” the bench said.On January 8, Kumar released the schedule of elections to gram panchayats in four phases – February 5, 9, 13 and 17. The notification was issued on January 23 and the nomination process was to commence on Monday.The state government had challenged the schedule in the state high court and on January 11, a single judge bench of the high court cancelled the election process. When the SEC filed a review petition before the high court, a division bench headed by chief justice A K Goswami on January 21 ordered that the elections be held as per the schedule. This was challenged by the Jagan government in the Supreme Court, which gave its verdict on Monday.The nomination process for the phase-1 of gram panchayat elections which was scheduled to begin at 10.30 am on Monday, could not take place, as the district collectors and district panchayat officers refused to start the process as there were no instructions from the state government.The SEC in a statement said no arrangements were made to receive nominations. “The district administrators did not commence the process for phase-1 elections, stating that they were awaiting instructions from the government, thereby vitiating the election process,” he said.Soon after the Supreme Court gave the green signal for the panchayat elections, Kumar announced reschedule of the gram panchayat elections. The phase-I elections will now become phase-IV elections, to be held on February 21, nominations for which would begin from February 10.“As a result, the Phase-II, Phase-III and Phase-IV Gram Panchayat elections will now be rescheduled as Phase-I, Phase-II and Phase-III respectively. The nomination process for the revised phase-I elections will begin on January 29,” he said.The SEC also wrote to the state government to use the services of the Central government employees and also those of Central public sector undertakings for election related responsibilities, if necessary, in case there is non-cooperation from the state government employees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-gives-green-signal-to-local-elections-in-ap-poll-panel-revises-schedule-101611582600543.html
25-01-2021||India||Soon, Centre to impose 'green tax' on older vehicles||Union minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari on Monday approved a proposal to levy a “Green Tax” on vehicles older than eight years at the time of renewal of fitness certificate. The proposal will be sent to states and Union territories for their comments before being formally notified.The revenue collected through the tax will be used for tackling pollution, the transport ministry said in a statement.Gadkari also approved the policy of deregistration and scrapping of vehicles owned by government department and PSU above 15 years. It will be notified and come into effect from April 1, 2022.The main principles to be followed while levying the 'green tax' includes; transport vehicles older than eight years could be charged at the time of renewal of fitness certificate at the rate of 10 to 25 per cent of the road tax, personal vehicles to be charged 'green tax' at the time of renewal of Registration Certification (RC) after 15 years while public transport vehicles, such as city buses, to be charged lower.Also read: China tries to open new front with Naku La clash, test India’s defence - ExpertsThe government has also proposed higher tax (50 per cent of the road tax) for vehicles registered in highly polluted cities.“Differential tax, depending on fuel (petrol/diesel) and type of vehicle; vehicles like strong hybrids, electric vehicles and alternate fuels like CNG, ethanol, LPG etc to be exempted,” the ministry noted.Vehicles used in farming, such as tractor, harvester, tiller etc., will also be exempted. The revenue collected from the 'green tax' will be kept in a separate account and used for tackling pollution, and for states to set up state-of-art facilities for emission monitoring, the ministry stated.The ministry of road transport and highways, in its long-pending draft vehicle scrappage policy, also stated it will include a waiver in registration fee and reduced road tax by states for vehicles purchased against scrapping certificates by scrapping old vehicles in an environment friendly and scientific manner.The features of the draft policy were listed and discussed by the ministry at the 40th meeting of the transport development council, chaired by Gadkari on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/soon-centre-to-impose-green-tax-on-older-vehicles-101611581909359.html
25-01-2021||India||No senior Shiv Sena leader at farmers’ rally in Mumbai||Even as senior leaders of prominent political parties joined the gathering of farmers' in Mumbai's Azad Maidan on Monday, the Shiv Sena sent a youth wing functionary as the party's representative.While senior leaders of the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Agahdi (MVA) including Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar, Maharashtra Congress president Balasaheb Thorat, the Sena sent Rahul Londhe, its youth wing functionary to the farmers’ rallyThe Sena has backed the farmers' protests in New Delhi for the past two months. The ruling party in Maharashtra also supported the farmer's march from Nashik and other parts of the State to Mumbai to protest against the Centre’s three contentious farm laws. However, when it came to showing physical presence on Monday, it failed do so.According to Ajit Nawale, Maharashtra general secretary of All India Kisan Sabha, Maharashtra minister Aaditya Thackeray was expected to be present at the public meeting. Instead, he was in Kalyan, about 60 km from Mumbai's Azad Maidan, to inaugurate a railway over bridge. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray inaugurated the over bridge via video conferencing from Matoshree, his private residence in Bandra east.Following the inauguration, Aaditya Thackeray clarified that the Shiv Sena stands fully in support of the farmers. He said that the media should question Centre on why it was not agreeing to the demands of the farmers who have been protesting for the past 60 days."Instead of seeing who went (to the protest site), I think one should look at if the Centre has paid heed to the demands From the Maharasthra Vikas Aghadi, Pawar saheb is indeed leading it, chief minister is speaking on it, I appeal to all the people that masking is important at such protests and rallies. These are Covid times. Shiv Sena is fully supporting the farmers. But the important thing is that even after 60 days the Union government has not yielded to the demands of the farmers. You (media) should ask these questions," Thackeray told reporters when questioned why no party leader was present at the public meeting.Sena leader Sanjay Raut was unavailable for comment despite several attempts. Sena MP and spokesperson Arvind Sawant said that he was out of Mumbai and unaware of the happenings in the city.The Sena's stand was inconsistent when the three farm bills were passed in the Parliament The party which has 18 MPs in Lok Sabha, had backed the bills but it walked out of the Rajya Sabha during voting in the Upper House The Congress and NCP, its allies in Maharashtra, had opposed the Bills in both the Houses."Shiv Sena doesn't have any cohesive thinking on economic policy or on agriculture or industries. They only make general statements and this has been since the times of Bal Thackeray. I do not think they understand the seriousness of the issue. It must be embarrassing for the party naturally, but it will not create any fissures in the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi," said political analyst Prakash Bal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-senior-shiv-sena-leaders-at-farmers-rally-in-mumbai-101611580218126.html
25-01-2021||NA||President Kovind hails Covid-19 vaccination programme, urges people to take part||President Ram Nath Kovind addressed the nation on the eve of India’s 72nd Republic Day. The address was broadcast on the entire national network of All India Radio (AIR) and over all channels of Doordarshan in Hindi followed by the English version. AIR will also broadcast regional language versions of the address from 9:30pm onwards on its respective regional networks, the President's Secretariat said in a statement. In his address Monday evening, President Kovind commended farmers, soldiers, and scientists and said that they deserve special appreciation. He thanked doctors, scientists, and people from other walks of life who contributed to containing the coronavirus. He also urged the people of the country to participate in the ongoing Covid-19 vaccination programme.Follow all the updates here:"Justice, Liberty, Equality, and Fraternity are perennial principles of our philosophy of life," tweets President KovindJustice, Liberty, Equality, and Fraternity are perennial principles of our philosophy of life. They come to us from the dawn of this civilisation through an unbroken chain.Indians living outside the country have made incredible contributions to the world: President KovindWe must follow the ideals of Dr. BR Ambedkar: President KovindEconomic equality must be ensured as it makes the nation better: President KovindWe must follow the ideals laid in the constitution: President KovindIndia is fast becoming a force to reckon with in the world: President KovindUrge the nation to take coronavirus vaccine: President KovindOur economy is recovering again after the coronavirus pandemic: President KovindGovernment's self-reliant scheme turning into people's movement, leading to employment generation: President KovindThe phase-wise unlocking proved to be beneficial to our economy which has been recovering quickly: President KovindOur economic recovery is happening at a fast rate: President KovindWe have been able to tackle the coronavirus pandemic well: President KovindThe frontline and healthcare workers who took on the coronavirus disease heads on deserves a special mention, it's an extraordinary contribution: President KovindOur scientists created history by decoding coronavirus and developing a vaccine in such a short time: President Kovind"Our scientists, along with doctors, administrators & people from other walks of life, have made major contribution in containing the virus & keeping the fatality rate lower in our country, compared to that in developed countries," President said.'Scientists have made our lives easier' : President Ram Nath Kovind'Thankful to the farmers for their contribution to the country': President Kovind"Our farmers, soldiers and scientists deserve special appreciation and a grateful nation greets them on this auspicious occasion of the Republic Day," President Kovind said. Read more'Every generation must ensure constitutional values': President KovindPresident Ram Nath Kovind to address the nation shortlyPresident Ram Nath Kovind will address the nation today on the eve of the 72nd Republic Day from 7pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-ram-nath-kovind-live-address-updates-101611578930221.html
25-01-2021||India||Delhi could be heading towards attaining 'herd immunity' against Covid-19, indicates latest sero-survey||The outcome of the fifth round of sero-prevalence survey in the national capital has indicated that Delhi population could be heading towards attaining herd immunity against coronavirus infection, sources said on Monday.The survey has found that in one district, 50-60 per cent of the sampled population has developed antibodies to Covid-19, they said.For the survey, which ended a few days ago, samples of over 25,000 people from various districts across the city were collected, the officials said.Delhi's population is over two crore, spread across 11 districts."In one district, the sero-prevalence rate is between 50-60 per cent, indicating a large number of people have developed antibodies, so we can say the city is moving towards attaining herd immunity," a source said without disclosing the name of the district.Experts say herd immunity is said to have been developed in a population segment if 50-60 per cent of those are found to have the presence of antibodies in a sero-prevalence survey.Herd immunity implies that in any set of people in a community, after becoming affected by the virus, a lot many of them become immune to it, on account of antibodies developed in response to it. And, hence, such people become a protective layer between the infected person and unaffected people, thereby breaking the chain of viral transmission.This is the fifth such exercise that was conducted here, but the Delhi government has not given any official version on it.The first sero-prevalence, done from June 27-July 10 by the Delhi government in association with the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), had used 21,387 samples and found that around 23 per cent of the people surveyed had an exposure to the novel coronavirus.The exercise in August showed 29.1 per cent people had antibodies. Also, 79 of 257 people who had tested Covid-19 positive and then recovered, and were part of the sero-prevalence survey done in the first week of August, however, did not have the antibodies against the virus, according to a report released later.In the survey in September and October, the figures stood at 25.1 per cent and 25.5 per cent in October.The exercises were undertaken for a comprehensive assessment of the Covid-19 situation in Delhi and to formulate strategies based on its findings.Delhi recorded 185 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday, the third time the daily incidence count stood below the 200-mark in January, even as the positivity was recorded at 0.30 per cent.Health Minister Satyendar Jain recently said the pandemic situation in the city is now under control.The infection tally in the city stood at over 6.33 lakh and the death toll mounted to 10,808 with nine new fatalities on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-could-be-heading-towards-attaining-herd-immunity-against-covid-19-indicates-latest-serosurvey-101611579960623.html
25-01-2021||India||Day before tractor rally, farmers announce plan to march towards Parliament on Feb 1||A day before taking out a tractor rally, the farmers protesting against the Centre's three farm laws on Monday announced their plans to intensify their agitation."On February 1, we will march on foot towards Parliament in Delhi from different locations," said Darshan Pal from the Krantikari Kisan Union, one of the nearly 40 groups protesting near Delhi. The stir has been going on for two months now.To put pressure on the government to withdraw these laws, the farmers have adopted different techniques since their protest launched on November 26. In December, they had organised a nationwide strike, blocking key roads in cities across the country.The protesters have been engaged in talks with the government, and so far 11 rounds have been held but the deadlock is still continuing.Tuesday's tractor rally is also the farmers' plan to intensify their agitation. The police in Delhi have made elaborate arragements for the rally, which the farmers have assured will be peaceful.The farmers are camping along three border points near Delhi - Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur - and have said they won’t leave until the government rolls back what they call the “black laws”. The Centre has categorically said that the laws won't be repealed; it has, however, agreed to suspend its impelentation for one-and-a-half years.Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said on Monday that this is the best offer and the farmers should reconsider.The government has said that the three laws pased in September are meant to overhaul procurement procedures and grant them more options to sell their produce. But the farmers say that these laws will hurt farm incomes and leave them vulnerable to big corporations.The three farm laws are: Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-to-march-towards-parliament-on-budget-day-101611579496493.html
25-01-2021||India||Best offer given to farmers, says minister Tomar, adds stir will end soon||Union Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Monday said that the farmers' agitation would end soon, adding that the government's proposal to suspend the farm laws for 1 to 1.5 years is the “best offer” and the farmers should reconsider it, reported news agency PTI."The government has given the best offer to farmers' unions. I am hopeful that they will convey their decision to us after discussing it among themselves. Once they communicate, we will take it forward," he said.Also Read | 'Sanctity lost': 5 things Narendra Singh Tomar said on farmers' protest"Anyone can express dissent if they disagree. When we saw that some farmers, although their number isn't very high, were protesting against the farm laws, we thought that we must find a solution via dialogue and we still hope that issue will be resolved," he said.Eleven rounds of talks between the protesting farmers and the government have been inconclusive. In the 10th round, the government had offered a proposal to keep the new laws on hold for 1 to 1.5 years. After it was rejected by the farmers, the government asked them to reconsider it in the 11th round.Also Read: Sure farmers’ leaders will ‘actively arrive’ at a solution: Union minister TomarWhile the minister didn't comment on whether there would be a next round of talks, he said he would be ready to meet the farmers to hear out their final decision on the government's offer.Commenting on the Kisan Tractor Rally that the farmers are planning to organise on Republic Day, Tomar said, "They (farmers) could have chosen any other day instead of January 26 but they have announced it now. Farmers would have to ensure that the rally is conducted peacefully, without accidents. This is a concern for the police administration as well."Meanwhile, the Supreme Court-appointed committee on farm laws is scheduled to hold its second round of consultations with farmers and agricultural organisations on January 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/best-offer-given-to-farmers-says-minister-tomar-adds-stir-will-end-soon-101611577394581.html
25-01-2021||India||Apni Party seeks PM Modi’s intervention to restore J-K's statehood, 4G links||Apni Party president Syed Mohammad Altaf Bukhari on Sunday evening met Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi and presented a memorandum highlighting the pressing demands of the people of Jammu and Kashmir, especially restoration of statehood and 4G internet facilities.According to Apni Party spokesman, the meeting which lasted almost for an hour, was held in a very cordial atmosphere in which Bukhari expressed gratitude to the Prime Minister for tackling the Covid-19 pandemic and initiating a comprehensive vaccination drive in the country."He also thanked the Prime Minister for sanctioning a special package for the revival of the industrial sector in Jammu and Kashmir. During the course of the meeting, Bukhari reiterated his demand for the restoration of Statehood to J&K,” the spokesman said in a statement.At the meeting, Bukhari expressed serious concern at the rising unemployment rate in Jammu and Kashmir and urged the PM for formulation of a comprehensive employment package for the youth of the union territory for a dignified livelihood."He emphasized on the need for exploration of viable options including roping in of multinational companies across the country and in the Gulf countries so as to address the unemployment problem of J&K’s qualified and skilled youth."Bukhari also sought the intervention of the Prime Minister for restoration of age relaxation for J&K’s UPSC aspirants that was in force before January 2020. He said that scrapping the UPSC age relaxation clause to the Domicile of J&K has extremely disappointed the youth of J&K.Bukhari also urged the Prime Minister to lift the ban on 4G mobile internet services across Jammu and Kashmir. He termed the ban on 4G in J&K unjustifiable and a discrimination with the people especially the student and business community.Referring to the return of Kashmiri Pandits to Kashmir valley, Bukhari pleaded for an honorable return of the community and sought their rehabilitation with the majority community in the Valley. He said any ghettoization of this inseparable part of Kashmiri society will not be acceptable to the people.The dilapidated condition of Jammu-Srinagar National Highway and developing other alternative inter regional road connections like Mughal Road and Kishtwar-Sinthan routes into all weather roads also figured in the talks.Bukhari also pressed for the construction of individual and community bunkers for residents along the Line of Control in J&K so as to prevent the loss of life and damages to the properties due to recurring skirmishes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/apni-party-seeks-pm-modi-s-intervention-to-restore-j-k-s-statehood-4g-links-101611577046291.html
25-01-2021||India||Nitin Gadkari calls for research to explore cheaper alternatives to cement, steel to reduce prices||Amid rising steel prices in the country, Union Minister Nitin Gadkari on Monday highlighted the need to explore alternatives to steel as well as cement, for bringing down their prices.The Minister for Road Transport and Highways and Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) said he has asked some people from Indian Institutes of Technology to carry out research on alternatives to cement and steel."Steel prices have increased by 65 per cent in the last six months," Gadkari said adding that the steel and cement rates will reduce once cheaper alternatives are available.Addressing an event to launch products prepared under the Deen Dayal Upadhayay Vigyan Gram Sankul Pariyojana, the minister also cited the example of soyabean cakes. He said when used for mass consumption, they can be served as cheaper alternatives to mutton while alleviating the problem of malnutrition, due to their high protein content of 49 per cent."I believe that chicken and mutton are spoiling our mindset," the minister said. He, however, added that this should not become a controversial matter, as even though he is a vegetarian, a lot of people in the country are non-vegetarian.Gadkari also said lakhs of jobs could be created by empowering the village industry, which has the potential of achieving the annual turnover of ₹5 lakh crore.He added that by exploring new marketing avenues and export potential, the contribution of India's MSMEs could further be increased from 30 per cent at present to 40 per cent in the next 5 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nitin-gadkari-calls-for-research-to-explore-cheaper-options-to-cement-steel-101611576775136.html
25-01-2021||India||14 Haryana Police officers to receive Police medals on R-Day||Two police officers of the Haryana Police have been selected for the President's Police Medal for distinguished service this Republic Day, while 12 others will get Police Medal for their meritorious service.As per a Haryana Police spokesperson, Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order) Haryana, Navdeep Singh Virk and ADGP Rohtak Range, Sandeep Khirwar have been selected to be awarded.Those who have been selected to be decorated with Police Medal for Meritorious Service include Angrej Singh DSP Headquarter Narnaul, Arun Deswal Sub-Inspector 5th Battalion HAP Madhuban, Suresh Kumar SI Rohtak, Kulwinder Kaur Lady SI State Crime Branch, Hardev Singh ESI Police Headquarter, Joginder Singh ASI Haryana Power Utility, Amit Kumar ASI State Vigilance Bureau, Parveen Kumar ASI Charkhi Dadri, Deepak Kumar, ASI Karnal, Didar Singh ASI Panchkula, Harish Kumar SI Panchkula and Joginder Singh ESI Ambala.The Police officers were congratulated by the Director-General of Police (DGP) Haryana, Manoj Yadava."It is a great honour for the entire police force. The recognition of outstanding services at the national level would further boost their morale as well as of others in the state police force," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/14-haryana-police-officers-to-receive-police-medals-on-rday-101611576493738.html
25-01-2021||India||Negative RT-PCR report must for devotees coming for Kumbh in Haridwar||Dehradun, Jan 25 (PTI) Devotees who wish to attend the forthcoming Kumbh mela must bring a COVID-19 negative RT-PCR test report, according to a standard operating procedure (SOP) issued by the Centre for holding the religious congregation.The RT-PCR test must be conducted within 72 hrs of the date of the visit, stated the document by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.The Uttarakhand government shall ensure that healthcare and other frontline workers engaged during Kumbh Mela medical and public health operations are vaccinated on priority.Only vaccinated healthcare and other frontline workers be deputed for Kumbh Mela duties, it said.As far as possible, people must maintain a six-feet distance in public places and wear masks, the SOP stated, while the authorities have been directed to ensure the devotees adhere to COVID-appropriate behaviour during the Kumbh.Mask dispensing kiosks at government-approved rates may be set up at entry points and parking lots. Provision should be kept for distribution of free masks to those who cannot afford them, it said.Enforcement agencies should levy penalties on defaulters for not wearing masks or face covers or for not following physical distancing norms, the SOP stated.Those aged more than 65 years, pregnant women, children below the age of 10, those with underlying comorbid conditions such should be discouraged to attend the Kumbh Mela, it said.Devotees visiting the Kumbh Mela must register with the Uttarakhand government and obtain a compulsory medical certificate from the nearest community Health centre district hospital and medical college in their state.The Kumbh Mela administration should identify spatial boundaries of the fair ground keeping in view the physical distancing requirements and prepare a detailed site plan which would facilitate compliance with thermal screening, physical distancing and sanitization.Kumbh Mela administration should make arrangements for adequate ambulances and build a temporary hospital with 1,000 beds which can be being expanded to 2,000 beds.The likely dates for the event are from February 27 to April 30. It is expected that about 10 lakh people will attend the fair on a normal day and about 50 lakh people will attend the mela on auspicious days. PTI ALM NSD NSD||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/negative-rt-pcr-report-must-for-devotees-coming-for-kumbh-in-haridwar-101611574837542.html
25-01-2021||India||17 ITBP officials get Police Medals on eve of Republic Day||Seventeen Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) personnel have been awarded police service medals of various categories on the eve of Republic Day on Monday.Two officers have been decorated with the police medal for gallantry, three with the President's police medal for distinguished service and 12 with police medals for meritorious service.Officials said Deputy Commandant Rajesh Kumar Luthra has been decorated for displaying courage and presence of mind to defuse a faceoff with Chinese troops in Ladakh in July, 2019, while Assistant Commandant Anurag Kumar Singh has been given a gallantry medal for the second time for undertaking a counter-terrorist operation in Jammu and Kashmir in 2017.The other recipients include Inspector General (IG) Deepam Seth, awarded the meritorious service medal, and Deputy IG (veterinary) Sudhakar Natarajan who has been bestowed the distinguished service medal.Seth, a 1995-batch Indian Police Service officer of Uttarakhand cadre, is heading the ITBP northwest frontier formation based in Ladakh since mid-2019.He has been part of the various rounds of military talks being held at the Line of Actual Control with the Chinese over the long-negotiated disengagement process in eastern Ladakh as thousands of troops from both the sides remain deployed at friction points under freezing conditions.DIG Natarajan, who joined the ITBP in 1992, has served in high-altitude frontiers of Ladakh, Uttarakhand, Arunachal Pradesh and the anti-Naxal operations grid in Chhattisgarh.The officer is credited for bettering the training standards of the ITBP canine wing, implementing new methodologies to dove-tail dog teams during operations and improving logistics for the ponies, mules and yaks that help transport rations and other paraphernalia to its border posts.The about 90,000-personnel strong force is primarily tasked with guarding the 3,488-km long Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China that runs from the Karakoram Pass in the Himalayas to Jachep La in Arunachal Pradesh apart from rendering a variety of internal security duties like conducting anti-Naxal operations. PTI NES NSD NSD||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/17-itbp-officials-get-police-medals-on-eve-of-republic-day-101611575447604.html
25-01-2021||India||'Maharashtra Governor has time for Kangana, but not farmers': Sharad Pawar at Mumbai rally||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Monday lashed out at Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshiyari for not meeting the farmers who are protesting in Mumbai in solidarity with their counterparts in Delhi. These farmers are against the three central farm laws passed by Parliament in September last year."You are going to Raj Bhavan to meet the Governor. Maharashtra has never seen such a Governor before. He has the time to meet Kangana (Ranaut) but not the farmers. It was the moral responsibility of the Governor to come here and meet you," Pawar said at Azad Maidan in south Mumbai where he attended the gathering of the farmers, according to news agency A.Koshiyari, who also holds the additional charge of Goa, is currently in Panaji.Training his guns at the Centre, Pawar further said, "Braving cold weather, farmers from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh are agitating for the last 60 days. Has the PM enquired about them? Do these farmers belong to Pakistan?"The NCP patriarch also said that the farm laws were passed without detailed discussion in Parliament despite opposition parties demanding deliberations on the bills concerned.Maharashtra revenue minister and state Congress chief Balasaheb Thorat, All India Kisan Sabha general secretary Hannan Mollah and others also addressed the rally in Mumbai where thousands of farmers have gathered.The farmers from various parts of Maharashtra gathered at Azad Maidan in Mumbai and also started a march towards the Governor's House (Raj Bhavan) but were stopped by the police.The three farm laws, enacted in September last year, have been touted by the central government as the biggest reform in the agriculture sector. They seek to encourage private trade, contract farming and remove stock limit on foodgrains.But the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price (MSP) and do away with the mandis, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-governor-has-time-for-kangana-but-not-farmers-sharad-pawar-101611574817567.html
25-01-2021||India||DRDO conducts maiden launch of Akash missile at integrated test range in Odisha||The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) on Monday successfully conducted the maiden launch of the new generation of surface-to-air Akash missile from integrated test range off the coast of Odisha. The new generation missile is designed for use by the Indian Air Force (IAF) in order to intercept high maneuvering aerial threats, the agency said.Defence minister Rajnath Singh congratulated the team of scientists for the successful launch of the missile.The test launch at Odisha was carried off in presence of DRDO, BDL (Bharat Dynamics Ltd), the ammunition and missile system manufacturer and BEL (Bharat Electronics Ltd.), the public aerospace company. Representatives from the IAF were also present at the test launch site.Also Read | From Pinaka to Bhishma Tank: India to showcase its weapons on R-DayThe DRDO said that the missile was successful in intercepting the target with textbook precision. The performance of the command and control system, onboard avionics and aerodynamic configuration of the missile was successfully validated during the trial, as per the information provided by the government agency.Several range instruments including radar, EOTS and telemetry systems were used while monitoring the entire path of the missile during the test launch. The multi-function radar was also tested to verify its capability of integration with the system.The variant of Akash which was launched today is unique in a way that it has been built with better deployability in comparison to other similar systems that have canisterised launcher and smaller ground system footprint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drdo-conducts-maiden-launch-of-akash-missile-at-integrated-test-range-in-odisha-101611575096941.html
25-01-2021||India||CRPF man killed in Pulwama attack gets President's police medal for gallantry||CRPF Assistant Sub Inspector (ASI) Mohan Lal who "chased and fired" at an explosives-laden car that rammed into a force bus in Pulwama killing him and 39 troops onboard in 2019 has been decorated with the highest police medal for gallantry on the eve of the Republic Day on Monday.A total of 207 police bravery medals were declared by the Union government apart from 89 President's police medals for distinguished service and 650 police medals for meritorious service, as per a list published by the Union Home Ministry.Only two police personnel have been decorated with the top category President's Police Medal for Gallantry (PPMG) this time, CRPF's Lal and late Jharkhand Police ASI Banua Oraon. As many as 205 personnel have been decorated with the second-highest police medal for gallantry or the PMG.50-year-old ASI Lal was the picket commander of the CRPF road opening party deployed on February 14, 2019 at milestone number 272 near the BSNL Tower in Lethpora, Pulwama on the Jammu-Srinagar highway when the dastardly terror attack was carried out by the Jaish-e-Mohammad terrorist outfit.The attack car was being driven by suicide bomber Adil Ahmed Dar with about 200 kgs of explosives inside.The CRPF said Lal, after passing of few vehicles of the cavalcade, noticed this car "running alongside the convoy and trying to enter between the convoy vehicles."The brave official "signalled and chased the car to stop but could not match its speed"."Ultimately, finding no other option, he fired towards the suspicious car to stop but the car rammed into a nearby running CRPF bus and a huge blast took place," the force said.The massive blast killed a total of 40 CRPF personnel, 39 on the bus and Lal, it said.The sub-officer who belonged to the 110th battalion of the force has been decorated with the PPMG for displaying gallantry during this incident, the force said.The Central Reserve Police Force, the lead force for anti-Naxal operations and counter-terrorist operations in Jammu and Kashmir, also led the gallantry medals tally with a total 69 medals (1 PPMG and 68 PMG) followed by 52 earned by the JK Police, 20 by the Border Security Force, 17 by the Delhi Police and 13 by Maharashtra Police and others.Two personnel of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) force, tasked to guard the Line of Actual Control with China, have also been given the police medal for gallantry.Deputy Commandant Rajesh Kumar Luthra has been decorated for displaying courage and presence of mind to defuse a faceoff with Chinese troops at Ladakh in July, 2019 while another officer of the border guarding force, Assistant Commandant Anurag Kumar Singh, has been given a gallantry medal for the second time for undertaking a counter-terrorist operation in Jammu and Kashmir in 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/crpf-man-killed-in-pulwama-attack-gets-president-s-police-medal-for-gallantry-101611573807868.html
25-01-2021||India||Delhi High Court adopts QR code-based digital entry pass system||Delhi High Court has initiated the QR code-based digital entry pass system for lawyers who are entering the courtroom premises and attending physical hearings from Monday.In an office order, Delhi High Court "informed to all concerned that, in addition to the present system of entry into the Court Blocks, Delhi High Court, QR code-based digital entry pass system is also going to be made operational, on an experimental basis, with effect from January 25."The Court has issued various 'Standard of Procedure' on the QR code-based digital entry pass, among which it clarified that QR pass shall be generated and issued digitally by the High Court Registry one day in advance on the basis of listing of cases before the benches holding physical hearings.The High Court also clarified that the QR Pass will be received by all the advocates concerned and parties-in-person, who have got their mobile number and email IDs registered in the 'Case Information System' of the court."The QR pass shall be sent as an attachment (PDF file) through email and SMS. The concerned advocate and party-in-person shall be required to download the attached digital entry pass (PDF file) on her or his Mobile/Laptop/Tablet/iPad from the email or SMS link, and show such downloaded QR Pass to the security personnel at the Entry Gate(s) of respective court building(s) while entering and while making exit," the official order said.However, the court clarified "generally, there shall not be any requirement of generating any printout of such QR Pass" and it will be "valid for the day for which it is issued and can be used only once that day".The court further said the security personnel deployed at entry gate(s) and exit gates(s) will use the QR code reader to get the details of the visiting advocate/ and party-in-person.It also added that the advocate concerned and party-in-person will need to carry any original ID proof along with the QR Pass at the time of entry into the court blocks.The High Court order further added that the advocates concerned will have to ensure that the QR Pass is not misused by anyone."Such QR Pass is non-transferrable. However, in case the concerned advocate is not in a position to attend the court proceedings and wants some other advocate to represent her or him before the court, then she or he shall issue necessary authorization in writing," it stated.The court said in case of such authorisation, the advocate who was issued the QR Pass will have to provide the printout of their pass along with a copy of their ID to the authorised advocate, to be shown at the time of entry."Such authorized advocate shall be permitted entry after due verification. The written authorization shall be retained for the record at the time of entry," the order added further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-high-court-adopts-qr-code-based-digital-entry-pass-system-101611574427917.html
25-01-2021||India||40-year-old woman killed by leopard in Uttarakhand's Pithoragarh||A 40-year-old woman died after being attacked by a leopard in Uttarakhand’s Pithoragarh district on Monday morning, forest officials said. She became the second woman to be killed by a leopard in the state in a week.Navin Pant, sub-divisional officer of Pithoragarh forest division said, "Seema Devi (40) wife of Shankar Ram from Harali Agar village in the district was attacked by a leopard on Monday morning when she had gone to the forests to collect grass. The woman later succumbed to her injuries."Pant further said that this is the third incident of death due to leopard attack in the area in the past two months. Two more women from the same area have died after being attacked by leopards"We had installed cages in sensitive villages but the animal could not be trapped. We are again intensifying measures to capture the leopard," said the forest officer.Attacks by leopards have been increasing in UttarakhandOn January 20, a 50-year-woman was killed by a leopard in Almora district. On January 9, this leopard had been declared as a ‘man-eater’ by the state forest department. On December 1, a 65-year-old man was killed by a leopard in Chamoli district.In the first week of November, a 21-year-old woman was killed in a leopard attack in Champawat district. Three women including a teen lost their lives in a week in October in the districts of Nainital, US Nagar and Pithoragarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/40yearold-woman-killed-by-leopard-in-uttarakhand-s-pithoragarh-101611574239241.html
25-01-2021||India||Goa nearing complete normalcy after Covid-19 outbreak: Governor Koshyari||A five-day session of the Goa Assembly began here on Monday during which Governor B S Koshyari said the state is "nearing complete normalcy" after the Covid-19 outbreak, and that the pandemic is an eye-opener which has taught people to be self-reliant.On the first day of the session, members of the House paid tributes to some prominent personalities who died recently and those who succumbed to Covid-19 in the state.So far, 761 people have died due to the coronavirus infection in Goa, as per official figures.The session began with Governor Koshyari's address to the House, following which members of the opposition parties protested against the state government's decision to hold a curtailed session.In his address, the governor said the state has suffered a lot in terms of socio-economic and infrastructure development taking a backseat in the Covid-19 times."But due to systematic planning, regular monitoring and instantaneous corrective measures by the state administration, the state is now gaining momentum in its activities from micro to macro level and is nearing complete normalcy," Koshyari said.He said the Covid-19 (pandemic) is an eye-opener, which has taught people and states to be self-reliant.The governor further said though there was the effect of demonetisation as well as slowdown during 2017-18, the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) for 2017-18 at current prices stood at ₹69,352.05 crore, registering a growth rate of 9.29 per cent compared to 2016-17."The provisional estimate of GSDP at current prices for the year 2018-19 is ₹73,170.33 crore, with an estimated growth rate of 5.51 per cent as compared to 2017-18," he said."Goa has highest per capita income (at current prices) in the country which stood at ₹4.54 lakh for the year 2017- 18, and for the year 2018-19 it stood at ₹4.76 lakh," the governor told the House.He said mining is an important sector in the state's economy, which had been contributing about 16 per cent of the GSDP in 2011-12, and in 2019-20 is contributing only about 0.2 per cent."The Goa government has conducted 24 e-auctions and sold 14.68 million tons of the mineral iron ore lying at various stack yards," he said."My government is continuously making efforts to resume mining in a systematic manner by rejuvenating the state's economy, preserving the environment, natural resources, health status of people in the mining sector with the main vision to ensure sustainable mining in Goa," he said.After the governor's address, Speaker Rajesh Patnekar mentioned obituary references for several eminent personalities who died recently. He also mentioned about the death of several people in Goa due to Covid-19.The House members then observed a one-minute silence to pay homage to all the departed souls.After the governor's address, the opposition members, without making any noise, got up and displayed hoardings to protest against the curtailed session.Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat said the opposition had demanded a lengthier session of the Assembly."We met only for five days last year, and this time, the session has been called only for four (working) days," he said, adding that there are lot of issues that need to be raised on the floor of the House.Notably, January 26 would be a holiday for the session on occasion of the Republic Day.Goa Forward Party MLA Vijai Sardesai and NCP legislator Churchill Alemao said a crucial issue like "turning Goa into a coal handling hub" should have been discussed in the House.Sardesai said the governor's address had no mention of the apprehensions about coal handling, which he claimed as one of the burning issues in the state.Congress MLA and former chief minister Luizinho Faleiro said he had written to the governor, urging him to call a special Assembly session to discuss the coal issue.Mahrashtrawadi Gomantak Party MLA Sudin Dhavalikar said he had submitted that the opposition, during the Business Advisory Committee, demanded five Calling Attention motions, but only three of them feature on the record.Later, BJP MLA Glenn Ticlo moved a Motion of Thanks on the governor's address. It was seconded by BJP legislator Dayanand Sopte.The House was then adjourned for the day.Earlier, Speaker Patnekar on Sunday said 751 questions, comprising 195 'starred' and 556 'unstarred' ones, had been received for the session.Five private members' resolution, four private members' bills and six government bills would be tabled during the session, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-nearing-complete-normalcy-after-covid-19-outbreak-governor-koshyari-101611572255574.html
25-01-2021||India||Maintain peace during tractor rally, appeals Punjab CM Amarinder Singh||Ahead of the farmers' tractor rally on Republic Day, Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Monday appealed to the farmers to ensure that the event remains peaceful while urging the Centre once again to heed the troubled voice of the farming community in the true spirit of the Indian Republic."Peace has been the hallmark of farmers' democratic protests all these months, and should remain integral to your agitation in the days ahead, including the R-Day Tractor Rally into the national capital," said the Chief Minister, in his Republic Day eve message.The sight of farmers' tractors on Delhi roads tomorrow will underline the fact that the ethos of the Indian Constitution and the essence of our Republic is inalienable and uncompromisable, he said.Chief Minister said that the brazen manner in which the three Farm Laws were pushed through, without debate or discussion, cannot, and should not be accepted in the world's largest democracy.The Centre had absolutely no power to legislate on a state subject, which Agriculture is, and the implementation of the farm legislation violates every principle of our Constitution and the federal structure it stands for, he added.The Chief Minister said in their collective fight, in which his government was standing shoulder to shoulder with the farmers, was aimed at protecting the federal core of the Indian Constitution."We stand by every farmer whose sweat and blood has nurtured Punjab's soil for decades, and without whom India today would not stand tall as a self-reliant nation. Besides compensation and job for one family member of each of the deceased farmers, we shall extend any other help their families may need. We shall continue also to reach out to the families of those still camping at the Delhi border to make their voice heard by the Government of India," said Captain Amarinder, reaching out to every farmer and their families in Punjab.He also extended his respects to all those farmers who had lost their lives in the prolonged agitation, which could have been avoided in the first place or could have been brought to an end long back had the "insensitive" Government of India, led by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) not chosen to stand on unwarranted ego.There was no justification, said the Chief Minister, for the Central Government's adamant refusal to repeal the Farm Laws, which, in any case, have been implemented arbitrarily without consultation or discussion with the farmers and other stakeholders.Recalling the contribution of Punjab's farmers to India's self-reliance and progress, the Chief Minister said they did not toil with their sweat and blood to see a nation whoseConstitutional ideals of justice, liberty, equality and dignity, were being systemically trampled over the past 6 years, most notably over the past 2 months of their struggle."The voice of the farmers, and in fact every section of our populace, is being subjugated, and we have to ensure that their voice is not only heard but also heeded," he asserted, adding that the celebration of the Indian Republic would not be complete without the acknowledgement of this contribution of Punjab and its farmers to India's progress.Farmers from all across the country are marching towards Delhi to take part in the scheduled rally. Tractors from Punjab, Haryana, and Rajasthan have reached on Tikri border as the farmers sit in for protest for nearly two months.Farmers have been protesting on the different borders of the national capital since November 26 against the three newly enacted farm laws - Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maintain-peace-during-tractor-rally-appeals-punjab-cm-amarinder-singh-101611573664646.html
25-01-2021||India||News updates from HT: Farmers gather for Mumbai rally; Sharad Pawar present and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Farmers gather for Mumbai rally; Sharad Pawar present, Shiv Sena sends youth wing leaderLeaders of the prominent parties in Maharashtra joined a gathering of farmers at Mumbai's Azad Maidan on Monday. Read moreDelhi HC reiterates ‘voluntary to download WhatsApp on mobile, not mandatory’The Delhi High Court on Monday reiterated that it was not a compulsion to download the WhatsApp mobile application but voluntary." Read moreSikkim goes back to non-partisan polls after more than a decadeTiny Himalayan state of Sikkim is all set to return to non-partisan form of elections after more than a decade. Read moreNaku La clash: China trying to open new front, test India’s defence, say expertsThe latest face-off involving Chinese troops at Naku La in Sikkim appears to be part of a larger effort to both test India’s defences and open a new front. Read moreIndia vs Australia: 'He really enjoys a battle,' Andy Flower lauds 'outstanding' Rishabh PantFormer Zimbabwe captain Andy Flower praised Rishabh Pant for his fighting spirit in Australia to help India win the Test series 2-1. Read moreNeena Gupta asks fans if it's okay to need people in life, here's what they saidKnown for breaking the stereotypes and asking important questions, Neena Gupta is making headlines once again. Read moreSkoda Kushaq SUV, rival to Creta, will get two engine and three gearbox optionsSkoda Kushaq SUV, rival to Creta, will get two engine and three gearbox options. Underlining how the mid-size SUV will be made in India but made for the world, Skoda recently released more images. Read moreCustomer leaves $200 tip for each employee in Colorado café, garners praiseNotchtop Bakery & Café in Estes Park, Colorado shared a post on their Facebook page that has warmed netizens' hearts. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-farmers-gather-for-mumbai-rally-sharad-pawar-present-shiv-sena-sends-youth-wing-leader-and-all-the-latest-news-101611571919620.html
25-01-2021||India||Covid-19: Karnataka becomes first state in India to inoculate over 2 lakh people||Karnataka has become the first state in the country to vaccinate more than two lakh healthcare workers as part of a nationwide vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The drive was kicked off by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on January 16.According to state health department, 2,06,577 healthcare workers had been vaccinated against Covid-19 by 2 pm on Monday.The state has been leading in getting its frontline workers vaccinated in the first phase of the inoculation programme.After PM Modi launched the vaccination drive nationally through video conferencing, Nagaratna K (28), a ward attendant at Victoria Hospital received the vaccine in the presence of chief minister B S Yediyurappa, Union minister Pralhad Joshi and health minister K Sudhakar among others at the Bangalore Medical College.Meanwhile, the cumulative number of healthcare workers vaccinated crossed 16 lakh (16,13,667) in the country till 7.30 pm on Sunday through 28,613 sessions, according to Union health ministry.About 30 crore people will be inoculated in the first phase. Healthcare workers from both government and private sectors are the first to receive the vaccine followed by frontline workers including civil defence and disaster management volunteers.The Centre is bearing the cost of vaccination in the first phase.The government will then turn its attention to people above 50 years of age and those below 50 with comorbidities.The government is using two vaccines - Covishield made by Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech's Covaxin - to inoculate people against the deadly Sars-CoV-2 virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-karnataka-becomes-first-state-in-india-to-inoculate-over-2-lakh-people-101611573001747.html
25-01-2021||India||Goa govt trying resume mining in systematic manner, says Governor Koshyari||The contribution of the Goa’s mining sector to the state’s GDP has reduced from 16% at its peak in 2011-12 to a mere 0.2% presently owing to shutdown of the industry in the state, the Governor said in his maiden speech in the legislative assembly, but assured that his government is continuously making efforts to resume mining in a systematic mannerIn his first address to the Goa legislative assembly since he was given charge of the state, Bhagat Singh Koshyari who is also the Governor of Maharashtra, said, “You are all aware that the state is endowed with mineral resources. Mining is an important sector in the State economy, which had been contributing about 16% of Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) in 2011-12 and in 2019-20 is contributing only about 0.2%. Mining sector is a major revenue earner, creator of employment and caters to the demand for construction material,” he said.“My government is continuously making efforts to resume mining in a systematic manner by rejuvenating the state's economy, preserving the environment, the natural resources, the health status of the people in the mining sector with the main vision to ensure "sustainable mining" in the state of Goa,” Koshyari said. The Governor also praised the police for improving its effectiveness.The overall crime situation in the State has remained under control due implementation and monitoring of law and order. The effective overall crime detection rate of 92% for the year 2020 as against 84% during the year 2019 shows the commitment of the police force for providing a safe and secure environment to the citizens as well as tourists visiting the state.The Governor’s speech was met with silent protests by the opposition who wore black armbands and held up placards as he concluded his speech The opposition was protesting what they said was the Government’s assault on Goa’s identity, environmental destruction and other ‘burning issues’.“There has been no mention of the coal issue and the issue of the three infrastructure projects passing through the Mollem Wildlife sanctuary. The government is least bothered about the issues facing Goans and is only indulging in tokenism,” Vijai Sardesai of the Goa Forward Party, said.In the assembly, leader of opposition Digambar Kamat raised the issue of the lack of enough time to discuss pressing issues facing the state.“Across the whole of last year there was an assembly session for only seven days. This year when we have asked for a longer session only four days has been given,” Kamat said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-govt-trying-resume-mining-in-systematic-manner-says-governor-koshyari-101611571178202.html
25-01-2021||India||Sikkim goes back to non-partisan polls after more than a decade||Tiny Himalayan state of Sikkim is all set to return to non-partisan form of elections after more than a decade.While political parties contested the municipal polls in the eastern state for the first time in 2010, they contested the panchayat polls for the first time in 1997. Before that, Sikkim used to hold non-partisan elections.“The election for the municipalities on non-partisan lines would be held either by end of March or early April this year. The required amendments have already been made through the state assembly,” said Arun Upreti, Sikkim’s urban and housing development minister.Two senior officers in the state’s panchayat department and state election commission said that the rural polls would be held in November next year. Last time Sikkim went to the municipal polls was in 2015 while the panchayat polls in the state were held in 2017.Also read: Committed to peace, says China after PLA’s aggressive moves at Sikkim’s Naku LaThe Prem Singh Tamang (Golay)-government has already amended the Sikkim Municipalities Act and Panchayat Act to hold elections, sans political parties.“No person shall contest the election to any panchayat and municipality with the support, direct or indirect, of any political party,” the amendments noted.It was after the Sikkim Democratic Front (SDF) came to power in 1994 that amendments were made in both the panchayat act and municipalities act and the system of political party-based elections were introduced.But, keeping its election promises to hold party-less panchayat and municipality elections, the Sikkim Krantikari Morcha ( SKM), which formed the government in 2019, amended the Sikkim Municipalities Act 2007 on September 21, 2019, while the Panchayat Act was amended on March 4, 2020.“The latest amendments would usher in true democracy in grassroots governance,” said Tamang, CM of Sikkim.Justifying the decisions to hold apolitical elections, SKM spokesperson Jacob Khaling, who is also the political secretary to the chief minister, said, “People now can choose their representatives independently without getting influenced by the ruling party’s pressure. In the past, voters were compelled to vote to the ruling party’s candidates whether they like them or not.”The opposition, however, said that the non-partisan system is against the panchayat and municipal system.JB Darnal, spokesperson of the opposition SDF said, “The decision to hold non-partisan elections goes against the very tenet of the panchayati system and municipal system. This will deprive good, committed and honest people affiliated with political parties.”Sikkim has seven municipal bodies - Gangtok Municipal Corporation, Namchi Municipal Council, Jorethang Municipal Council, Gyalshing Municipal Council, Singtam Nagar Panchayat, Rangpo Nagar Panchayat and Mangan Nagar Panchayat.In the last elections, the Sikkim Democratic Front (SDF) had made a clean sweep, winning all 53 wards in the seven civic bodies. The SKM, which was then in the opposition, had drawn a blank.In 2017, the then ruling party, the SDF, had won 536 village panchayat seats and 27 zilla panchayat seats, unopposed. The SDF had swept the election.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sikkim-goes-back-to-non-partisan-polls-after-more-than-a-decade-101611571016976.html
25-01-2021||India||China tries to open new front with Naku La clash, test India’s defence: Experts||The latest face-off involving Chinese troops at Naku La in Sikkim appears to be part of a larger effort to both test India’s defences and open a new front amid the stalemate in Ladakh sector of the Line of Actual Control (LAC), experts said on Monday.The January 20 incident at Naku La, described by the Indian Army as a “minor face-off”, came close on the heels of aggressive Chinese action related to Japan’s Senkaku Islands and a large incursion into Taiwan’s airspace by Chinese warplanes – which experts said appeared to be signalling towards the new US administration.The Indian Army confirmed Indian and People’s Liberation Army troops had faced off at Naku La, a pass located at a height of more than 5,000 metres in Sikkim sector, and that the incident was resolved by local commanders. Officials familiar with the development said soldiers from both armies sustained injuries in the brawl that was triggered when Chinese soldiers attempted to intrude into Indian territory.Also read | Committed to peace, says China after PLA’s aggressive moves at Sikkim’s Naku LaThe efforts to intrude into the Indian side went against understandings reached during several rounds of military and diplomatic talks over the past few months, the officials cited above said. An Indian statement issued after talks between Indian and Chinese commanders on November 6 had said that both sides agreed to ensure their frontline troops exercise restraint and “avoid misunderstanding and miscalculation”.Sameer Patil, fellow for international security studies at Gateway House, said China had sought to open a new front amid the stalemate in Ladakh sector, where tens of thousands of troops have dug in for the harsh winter. “There is nothing the Chinese can now do in Ladakh which they can portray to their advantage,” he said.“Unlike previous standoffs, where the Chinese stepped back after intruding, there has been a fundamental change in the attitude of the Chinese. They aren’t stepping back this time after they were repelled and faced resistance,” Patil added.Also read | Naku La face-off and Taiwan show of force are part of Beijing expansionist plansFormer ambassador Vishnu Prakash said China’s latest moves appeared to probing India’s defences by attempting to intrude into Indian space. “I thought the use of the word ‘minor’ was best avoided. A clash is a clash. Just as we were awaiting the outcome of the ninth round of talks between military commanders, an intrusion into Naku La represents an attitude that is anything but minor,” he said.The Chinese side appears to be expanding its efforts across the spectrum and looking for openings where it can “gain some strategic advantage”, Prakash said.The face-off in Sikkim came days after China passed a bill on January 22 that allows its coast guard to use weapons when foreign ships involved in alleged illegal activities in waters claimed by Beijing fail to obey orders. The legislation can be used to target Japanese vessels around the Senkaku Islands, which are administered by Japan but claimed by China.Japan also lodged a diplomatic protest with China last week over Beijing’s repeated intrusions into waters surrounding the uninhabited islands in the East China Sea.On January 24, Taiwan reported an unusually large incursion into its air defence identification zone by eight nuclear-capable Chinese bomber planes and four combats jets. China has conducted almost daily flights over waters between southern Taiwan and Taiwan-controlled islands in the South China Sea in recent months but most of these involved reconnaissance aircraft.New US defence secretary Lloyd Austin on Sunday reaffirmed his country’s commitment to defending the Senkaku Islands during his first phone call with his Japanese counterpart Nobuo Kishi. A US aircraft carrier group led by the USS Theodore Roosevelt is currently in the South China Sea to promote “freedom of the seas” amid the spiralling tensions between China and Taiwan.Patil said all of these moves by China appeared to have been made with an eye on the new Biden administration in the US. “The world has pushed back against China on Covid-19, the situation in the South China Sea and on Japan. They are testing the waters with the new US administration to see how far they can go,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/naku-la-clash-china-trying-to-open-new-front-test-india-s-defence-say-experts-101611571454105.html
25-01-2021||India||Marching style of Indian, Bangladeshi contingents 'similar', says Col Chaudhary||Col Mohatsim Hyder Chaudhary, chief of the Bangladesh contingent taking part in the Republic Day parade said that the marching style of the Indian contingent is similar to that of the Bangladeshi contingent.Speaking exclusively to ANI, Chaudhary said the Bangladeshi contingent has a bigger responsibility of putting on a great show on Tuesday's parade, adding that the forces are excited as well."It is a great responsibility that has been assigned to us. The men with me are very excited to participate in this parade... If you ask about the feelings, participating in a foreign land, with a foreign army and with the same tempo is very much exciting," he said.Chaudhary added, "It is a very good experience. Fortunately, the way we march and the marching of the Indian contingent are quite similar. From that point of view, we didn't have to change our pattern much."For the first time ever, a 122 member strong contingent of the Bangladesh Armed Forces will participate at the historic Republic Day celebrations.According to sources, the majority of the soldiers in this contingent hail from the most distinguished units of the Bangladesh Army comprising of 1, 2, 3, 4, 8, 9, 10 & 11 East Bengal Regiment and 1, 2 and 3 Field Artillery Regiment. These units have the distinct honour of fighting and winning the 1971 Liberation War.This Bangladesh contingent carries with them the legacy of legendary Muktijoddhas of Bangladesh, their fore-fathers who fought against oppression, mass atrocities by tyrannical forces and for the freedom of Bangladesh. The contingent also has members of the Bangladesh Navy and Air Force who had contributed to the liberation of Bangladesh, Operation Jackpot and Kilo flight of the Bangladesh Navy and Air-force respectively.The valiant Mukti Bahini and the Indian forces fought side by side against the enemy and secured victory for Bangladesh in 1971.Bangladesh Armed Forces are considered a disciplined and professional force. Growing numbers of women are joining the forces to serve the country, and like Indian Armed Forces, the Bangladesh Armed Forces has also contributed to the UN peacekeeping operations across the world, sources added.This year, India and Bangladesh celebrate 50 years of the establishment their ties and Bangladesh celebrates 50 years of its independence. Both sides have agreed to hold commemorative events in several other countries and also jointly organise events throughout the year. It is these fraternal ties that exist between the two countries that make the relations transcend even a strategic partnership.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/marching-style-of-indian-bangladeshi-contingents-similar-says-col-chaudhary-101611564270184.html
25-01-2021||India||Bihar to spend over ₹20 crore on security of temples, walls at burial grounds||The Bihar government has decided to tighten security and set up boundaries around the temples and burial grounds in the state and will spend over ₹23 crore on the same.Under the project, over two dozen temples of 19 districts will be covered and 17 burial grounds across 15 districts have been identified. While the burial grounds will be developed at ₹13.50 crore, the government will be spending over ₹10 crore over boundary walls around the temples. Last week, the state home department also approved the funds for the same.Home department deputy secretary Vimalesh Kumar Jha said the department has approved the amount for the financial year of 2020-21. “It was to be handled earlier, but it got delayed due to Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown,” he said.The move is aimed to address the issue of encroachment and illegal constructions over the burial grounds and near temples. Besides, there also has been a rise in incidents of thefts of idols from temples.On December 29, 2020, two idols of Shiva and Parvati were stolen from Radha Krishna Thakurbari at Patna Sahib area in the state capital.In March 2020 also three Ashtadhatu idols of Ram, Sita and Lakshman were stolen from a temple in Purnia while in January 2019 five Ashtadhatu idols disappeared from a temple in Samastipur.“These are only a few incidents and many might not have got reported. Most of the temples in rural areas are without boundary walls and have been targeted by miscreants who sell them to antique dealers,” claimed Dr Kishore Kunal, former chairman of Bihar Religious Trust Board.A former official of Bihar Shia Waqf Board, Irshad Ali, said, “Encroachment has been a big issue at burial grounds. At many such places locals have encroached upon the land. Such areas are in a dire need of boundary walls to demarcate the area.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-to-spend-over-rs-20-crore-on-security-of-temples-walls-at-burial-grounds-101611570625062.html
25-01-2021||India||Farmers complain tractors not allowed to enter Bengaluru for R-Day rally||Farmer groups in Karnataka on Monday alleged that the state government is trying to restrict and impede movement of vehicles, like tractors and others, from leaving district borders towards Bengaluru to take part in a rally to support the Republic Day tractor parade scheduled on Tuesday.Samyukta Horata (united struggle or movement), Karnataka - an umbrella organisation that is coordinating efforts between several farmer, Dalit and worker groups - said that there were cases where law enforcement personnel and others were trying to stop people from moving towards Bengaluru.“The government is using district police to stop farmers from moving towards Bengaluru. This is a matter of shame and Karnataka is the only state that seems to be doing this. This is not a good development. There is nothing that can stop farmers from coming to Bengaluru,” Gopal, an office bearer of the Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha (KRRS), a farmer group said.Multiple organisations in Karnataka have extended support to farmers agitating against the farm laws just outside of Delhi.Thousands of farmers, especially from Haryana and Punjab among other places, have been braving the biting cold and camping out in the harsh winter chill at Delhi borders since November 28. Farmers have repeatedly sought repeal of the newly introduced laws. The farmers allege that they benefit large corporations and take away income security like minimum support price (MSP) for growers.“If the government does stop people from coming into Bengaluru, then we will start similar protests in every district and Taluka of the state. If there is a law and order problem after this, then it is the government's responsibility,” Chamarasa Malipatil, honorary president of KRRS said.Another farmer union member said that petrol bunks were denying diesel to tractors.Farmer unions have stated that they will carry out the rally with or without permission from the police.The forum has identified assembly points just outside of Bengaluru and are planning to move en masse towards the city through all major highways.Bengaluru police commissioner Kamal Pant is scheduled to meet senior officials to discuss the issue later on Monday. He had earlier said that there was no permission sought for any tractor rally. He said that a conditional approval was given only for a protest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-complain-tractors-not-allowed-to-enter-bengaluru-for-r-day-rally-101611570030852.html
25-01-2021||India||Delhi HC reiterates ‘voluntary to download WhatsApp on mobile, not mandatory’||The Delhi High Court on Monday reiterated that it was not a compulsion to download the WhatsApp mobile application but voluntary. "It is not mandatory to download WhatsApp on your mobile and it is voluntary. If you want to choose not to download WhatsApp, you can," the court told the petitioner seeking direction for an injunction against the messaging app’s updated privacy policy, according to news agency ANI.The court also said that not only WhatsApp but every other application has similar terms and conditions and asked the petitioner how does this application prejudice him. A single bench of Justice Sanjeev Sachdeva was hearing a plea filed by Chaitanya Rohilla through advocate Manohar Lal.The plea also alleges that the new norms also jeopardise national security by sharing, transmitting and storing the users’ data in some other country.Appearing for the Centre, additional solicitor general Chetan Sharma told the court that the data protection bill is being discussed and WhatsApp's response has been sought by the Central government.The high court has asked the Centre to put on record the explanation offered by WhatsApp to the notice and questionnaires sent by the government seeking clarification on its new privacy policy.During the hearing, Sharma told the court that the Centre has taken strong note of the new WhatsApp policy which is meting out a “differential” treatment to Indian users. He said that notices and questionnaires have been sent to WhatsApp seeking their response on various aspects concerning the privacy of an individual.The ASG also told the court that an opt-out option to not share data with Facebook has been provided to European users of WhatsApp, but not Indian, who are being treated with an “all or nothing approach”. He added that a Joint Parliamentary committee is already discussing the Personal Data Collection Bill.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-reiterates-voluntary-to-download-whatsapp-on-mobile-not-mandatory-101611569878400.html
25-01-2021||India||Man with 155 deskinned birds, involvement in smuggling arrested in Bihar||A person was arrested for his alleged involvement in a wildlife smuggling syndicate in Bihar’s Motihari on Sunday morning. The man was also caught with 155 deskinned birds.According to officials, the arrest was made near Dhanauti river at Raghunathpur near Motihari, headquarters of East Champaran district Sunday around 5 am."We laid a trap after we were being frequently tipped off about a man called Muslim Miyan who indulged in illegal smuggling of migratory birds. Decoying as a buyer, one of our team members approached him and the accused was later caught with 155 deskinned birds," said Prabhakar Jha, divisional forest officer (DFO), East Champaran.The accused, a resident of Belwa village under Turakauliya police station of East Champaran, was involved in supply of Siberian and other local birds to West Champaran, Muzaffarpur, Gopalganj, Samastipur and Sitamarhi, among other districts of Bihar, said officials. The other seizures included a motorcycle and ₹10,000."He is used to selling some of the species for ₹5,000 as well. The further interrogation is on," said Jha, describing him as an interdistrict smuggler of birds."Right after he was arrested, our men received a call on his mobile from Sitamarhi where prices for Siberian and other migratory birds were asked," said an official who was part of team that laid the trap for his arrest.Forest officials have booked him under section 49 B, 52 and 55 of the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-with-155-deskinned-birds-involvement-in-smuggling-arrested-in-bihar-101611569735574.html
25-01-2021||India||Highlights: Ram Vilas Paswan, Keshubhai Patel, Tarun Gogoi awarded Padma Bhushan||Ahead of the Republic Day, the Union home ministry released a list naming police officers, defence personnel, and children who have been chosen for awards for their exceptional achievement in a particular field/discipline, gallantry and bravery. These awards include the Padma awards, gallantry awards, president’s police medals, correctional services awards, Pradhan mantri rashtriya bal puraskar, president’s fire medals, home guard and civil defence honours and Jeevan Raksha Padak.The Padma Vibhushan awards were conferred to 7 awardees, the Padma Bhushan to 10 and the Padma Shri awards were conferred to 102 awardees.The Gallantry Awards are given to honour the acts of bravery and sacrifice of the officers/personnel of the Armed Forces and other lawfully constituted forces and civilians. President Ram Nath Kovind also approved the conferment of Correctional Service Medals on prison personnel on the Republic Day to 52 officials.The government also confers the Bal Shakti Puraskar under Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar to the children with exceptional abilities and outstanding achievement in the fields of innovation, scholastic achievements, sports, arts and culture, social service, and bravery.The President’s fire medals are awarded to fire personnel with two medals - one for gallantry, and another for distinguished service. Home Guard and Civil Defence personnel are honoured with the President's Home Guards and Civil Defence Gallantry Medal and the Home Guards and Civil Defence Medal for Meritorious Service.President Ram Nath Kovind approved the conferment of the Jeevan Raksha Padak series of awards to 40 people.Read live updates here:Maha Vir Chakra for Galwan braveheart Col Santosh Babu, Vir Chakra for 5 othersColonel B Santosh Babu, the commanding officer of 16 Bihar regiment, who was killed during a clash with Chinese soldiers in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley last year, will be posthumously awarded with Maha Vir Chakra on Republic Day. Read morePadma Shri awards list2. Ms. P. Anitha 3. Shri Rama Swamy Annavarapu4. Shri Subbu Arumugam5. Shri Prakasarao Asavadi6. Ms. Bhuri Bai7. Shri Radhe Shyam Barle8. Shri Dharma Narayan Barma9. Ms. Lakhimi Baruah10. Shri Biren Kumar Basak11. Ms. Rajni Bector12. Shri Peter Brook13. Ms. Sangkhumi Bualchhuak14. Shri Gopiram Bargayn Burabhakat15. Ms. Bijoya Chakravarty16. Shri Sujit Chattopadhyay17. Shri Jagdish Chaudhary (Posthumous)18. Shri Tsultrim Chonjo19. Ms. Mouma Das20. Shri Srikant Datar21. Shri Narayan Debnath22. Ms. Chutni Devi23. Ms. Dulari Devi24. Ms. Radhe Devi25. Ms. Shanti Devi26. Shri Wayan Dibia27. Shri Dadudan Gadhavi28. Shri Parshuram Atmaram Gangavane29. Shri Jai Bhagwan Goyal30. Shri Jagadish Chandra Halder31. Shri Mangal Singh Hazowary32. Ms. Anshu Jamsenpa33. Ms. Purnamasi Jani34. Matha B. Manjamma Jogati35. Shri Damodaran Kaithapram36. Shri Namdeo C Kamble37. Shri Maheshbhai & Shri Nareshbhai Kanodia (Duo) (Posthumous)38. Shri Rajat Kumar Kar39. Shri Rangasami Lakshminarayana Kashyap40. Ms. Prakash Kaur41. Shri Nicholas Kazanas42. Shri K Kesavasamy Art43. Shri Ghulam Rasool Khan44. Shri Lakha Khan45. Ms. Sanjida Khatun46. Shri Vinayak Vishnu47. Ms. Niru Kumar48. Ms. Lajwanti49. Shri Rattan Lal50. Shri Ali Manikfan51. Shri Ramachandra Manjhi52. Shri Dulal Manki53. Shri Nanadro B Marak54. Shri Rewben Mashangva55. Shri Chandrakant Mehta56. Dr. Rattan Lal Mittal57. Shri Madhavan Nambiar58. Shri Shyam Sundar Paliwal59. Dr. Chandrakant Sambhaji Pandav60. Dr. J N Pande (Posthumous)61. Shri Solomon Pappaiah62. Ms. Pappammal62. Dr. Krishna Mohan Pathi64. Ms. Jaswantiben Jamnadas Popat65. Shri Girish Prabhune66. Shri Nanda Prusty67. Shri K K Ramachandra68. Shri Balan Putheri69. Ms. Birubala Rabha70. Shri Kanaka Raju71. Ms. Bombay Jayashri72. Shri Satyaram Reang Art Tripura73. Dr. Dhananjay Diwakar Sagdeo74. Shri Ashok Kumar Sahu75. Dr. Bhupendra Kumar Singh76. Ms. Sindhutai Sapkal77. Shri Chaman Lal Sapru (Posthumous)78. Shri Roman Sarmah79. Shri Imran Shah80. Shri Prem Chand Sharma81. Shri Arjun Singh Shekhawat82. Shri Ram Yatna Shukla83. Shri Jitender Singh Shunty84. Shri Kartar Paras Ram Singh85. Shri Kartar Singh86. Dr. Dilip Kumar Singh87. Shri Chandra Shekhar Singh88. Ms. Sudha Hari Narayan Singh89. Shri Virender Singh90. Ms. Mridula Sinha (Posthumous)91. Shri K C Sivasankar (Posthumous)92. Guru Maa Kamali Soren93. Shri Marachi Subburaman94. Shri P Subramanian(Posthumous)95. Ms. Nidumolu Sumathi96. Shri Kapil Tiwari97. Father Vallés98. Dr. Thiruvengadam Veeraraghavan99. Shri Sridhar Vembu100. Shri K Y Venkatesh101. Ms. Usha Yadav102. Col Quazi Sajjad Ali ZahirPadma Bhushan awards list2. Shri Tarun Gogoi (Posthumous)3. Shri Chandrashekhar Kambara4. Ms. Sumitra Mahajan5. Shri Nripendra Misra6. Shri Ram Vilas Paswan (Posthumous)7. Shri Keshubhai Patel (Posthumous)8. Shri Kalbe Sadiq (Posthumous)9. Shri Rajnikant Devidas Shroff10. Shri Tarlochan SinghPadma Vibhushan awards list2. Shri S P Balasubramaniam (Posthumous)3. Dr. Belle Monappa Hegde Medicine4. Shri Narinder Singh Kapany (Posthumous)5. Maulana Wahiduddin Khan6. Shri B. B. Lal7. Shri Sudarshan SahooGalwan braveheart Col Santosh Babu named for Mahavir Chakra in R-Day honoursColonel B Santosh Babu, the commanding officer of 16 Bihar battalion, who led soldiers to evict Chinese soldiers from East Ladakh’s Galwan Valley last June, has been posthumously named for Mahavir Chakra, India’s second-highest military award for acts of conspicuous gallantry in the presence of the enemy, an official announcement by the Defence Ministry said on Monday. Read moreTatrakshak MedalsPresident Ram Nath Kovind awarded Tatrakshak medals for Distinguished Service to two Indian Coast Guard personnel, Gallantry to four personnel and Meritorious Service to two personnel on Republic Day.Jeevan Raksha AwardsPresident Ram Nath Kovind approved the conferment of the Jeevan Raksha Padak awards, an offshoot of the Ashoka Chakra series of Gallantry awards. The Sarvottam Jeevan Raksha Padak awarded for conspicuous courage in saving life under circumstances of very great danger to the life of the rescuer has been conferred posthumously to Shri Muhammed Mohsin from Kerala. The Uttam Jeevan Raksha Padak which is awarded for courage and promptitude in saving life under circumstances of great danger to the life of the rescuer has been awarded to 8 people. The Jeevan Raksha Padak which is awarded for courage and promptitude in saving life under circumstances of grave bodily injury to the rescuer has been awarded to 31 people. See list here14 Haryana Police officers to receive Police medals on R-DayTwo police officers of the Haryana Police have been selected for the President's Police Medal for distinguished service this Republic Day, while 12 others will get Police Medal for their meritorious service. See full list hereCRPF ASI Mohan Lal killed in Pulwama attack gets President's police medal for gallantryCRPF Assistant Sub Inspector (ASI) Mohan Lal who "chased and fired" at an explosives-laden car that rammed into a force bus in Pulwama killing him and 39 troops onboard in 2019 has been decorated with the highest police medal for gallantry on the eve of the Republic Day on Monday. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/republic-day-awards-2021-live-updates-101611567932534.html
25-01-2021||India||Police case filed against Rajasthan MLA for alleged attempt to murder||Baljeet Yadav, an independent member of legislative assembly (MLA) from Behror constituency of Alwar district, along with six others, was booked by the police on charges of attempt to murder and criminal conspiracy for allegedly attacking son of former minister and senior BJP leader Jaswant Yadav.“The investigation in the case has been transferred to the crime branch,” said Ram Moorty Joshi, superintendent of police (SP), Bhiwadi.Mohit Yadav, 39, son of a BJP leader Jaswant Yadav, was beaten up by miscreants on Alwar Road at around 10.45 am on Sunday.Later in the evening, Jaswant accused Behror MLA for the attack on his son and sat on a sit-in along with his supporters at the Behror police station.“The former minister had warned of self-immolation and demanded immediate arrest of the accused. Tents were also set up outside the police station for dharna at night, but the protest ended after getting assurance from Bhiwadi SP at around 9 pm,” said a police official.Jaswant Yadav said that his son left Alwar in his car on Sunday morning to attend meetings in the Behror region. “Near Belapur Dhani, some un-identified accused riding in two SUVs stopped the car of Mohit, pulled him out of the car and hit him badly with sticks. Somehow, Mohit escaped and saved himself,” said his father Jaswant Yadav.“When the nearby shopkeepers and villagers came, the crooks ran away. Three stitches had to be placed on the leg of the mother. There are more than a dozen injuries,” said the former minister.On the other hand, MLA Baljeet said that the former minister is calling the accident an attack for political gains.“Just to gain political mileage the allegations of attack have been made, but people can very easily recognise the fraud people. Police have filed a case of assault and attempt to kill on the basis of Mohit's statement. The investigation will be carried out by CID-CB which will reveal the truth,” the Behror MLA said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-case-filed-against-rajasthan-mla-for-alleged-attempt-to-murder-101611569441575.html
25-01-2021||India||Deputy sarpanch in Chhattisgarh's Bastar killed by Maoists: Cops||A deputy sarpanch was killed allegedly by Maoists in the Kondagaon district of Bastar region, officials said on Monday.Officials said that the man died by strangulation and that the Maoists then fled into the jungle.“This incident took place in village Kermapal, about 55 km from the Kondagaon district headquarters bordering Narayanpur district. On the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday, around a dozen Maoists reached the village and killed vice-sarpanch Bajaram Korram,” said Sidhharth Tiwari, Superintendent of Police of Kondagaon district.The SP further said the Maoists alleged that Korram was engaged in anti-people activity in the area since 2001. Police have launched a hunt for the Maoists, the SP added.On January 6, a sarpanch of a village in Chhattisgarh’s Bastar district was killed by Maoists at his home.The sarpanch of Chhindgur village, identified as Pandru (45), was killed after a group of Maoists stormed his house and slit his throat.Senior police officers believe that Maoists want to create an environment of fear among villagers which can help them increase recruitment.“There has been a decrease in recruitment of sentries in 2017-18. The other very important factor behind recent killings is that there is total indiscipline in ranks of Maoists, with local cadres now killing people without even taking approval of senior cadres. And lastly, there is total ideological disarray with movement becoming an armed war with no ethics,” an officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deputy-sarpanch-in-chhattisgarh-s-bastar-killed-by-maoists-cops-101611569271527.html
25-01-2021||India||`Vaccine Maitri' helps strengthen bilateral ties with Myanmar, says Indian envoy||India's gift of 1.5 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines to neighbouring Myanmar as part of its "Vaccine Maitri" drive will strengthen bilateral ties between the two neighbours, said Indian ambassador to Myanmar, Saurabh Kumar.While speaking to local journalist Ravinder Jain, the ambassador said, "Prime Minister Narendra Modi has always said that India's capacities in the vaccine sector would be shared with partners and neighbours, so this is a part of that. As you know, Myanmar is a close neighbour, a good friend of India and there were discussions at high political level in this connection and what we are seeing is a consequence of that understanding which was reached between our two sides".Last year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi in a telephone conversation with Myanmar's State Counsellor Daw Aung San Suu Kyi had conveyed India's readiness to provide all possible support for mitigating the health and economic impact of Covid-19.Myanmar has signed a contract with the Serum Institute of India to purchase 30 million doses of Covishield vaccine.Indian Army chief, General M M Naravane and Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla on their visit to Myanmar in October last year had handed over 3,000 vials of Remdesivir to State Counsellor Suu Kyi as part of India's contribution to help its neighbour in the fight against Covid-19.Ambassador Kumar added, "The visit of the foreign secretary and Army chief was a very important visit. The foreign secretary, of course, as you know had foreign office consultations with his counterpart through video conferencing before he came out here, and during the visit out here, he met the State Counsellor and along with the army chief, he also met Senior General Min Aung Hlaing and the visit of course provided opportunity to have discussions on the entire gamut of our relationship and what we do in the area of fighting against Covid pandemic was also one of the issues"Myanmar is one of India's strategic neighbours and shares a 1,640-km-long border with a number of north-eastern states including Nagaland and Manipur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccine-maitri-helps-strengthen-bilateral-ties-with-myanmar-says-indian-envoy-101611568337355.html
25-01-2021||India||Committed to peace, says China after PLA’s aggressive moves at Sikkim’s Naku La||China on Monday said its troops were committed to maintaining peace along the disputed border with India hours after reports in Indian media said soldiers from both sides had clashed near the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the Naku La area of Sikkim.Several Chinese and Indian soldiers were reportedly injured in a clash last week after the Indian troops stopped a People’s Liberation Army (PLA) patrol team from entering Indian territory at Naku La in Sikkim.The physical brawl between border troops took place ahead of the ninth round of military talks, held on Sunday on the disengagement of Indian and Chinese soldiers from friction points along the LAC.The Chinese foreign ministry declined to confirm or deny the latest clash between the border troops during the regular ministry briefing on Monday.“On the specific (incident) you mentioned, I don’t have any information to offer. I would like to stress though the Chinese border troops are committed to upholding peace and tranquility along the border with India,” Zhao Lijian, ministry spokesperson, said.“We urge the Indian side to work in the same direction with us and refrain from actions that might escalate or complicate the situation along the border. We hope both will take proper actions to manage the differences and take concrete actions to safeguard the peace and stability along the border,” he added.Zhao said information on the latest round of talks will be released later.“I can confirm that a new round of talks has been held. The two sides upon agreement will release information in due course,” he said.A joint statement issued after the eighth round of military talks held at Chushul on November 6 had said both sides would continue dialogue on the disengagement,“The two sides had a candid, in-depth and constructive exchange of views on disengagement along the Line of Actual Control in the Western Sector of China-India border areas,” the statement said.“Both sides agreed to earnestly implement the important consensus reached by the leaders of the two countries, ensure their frontline troops to exercise restraint and avoid misunderstanding and miscalculation.”“Both sides agreed to maintain dialogue and communication through military and diplomatic channels, and, taking forward the discussions at this meeting, push for the settlement of other outstanding issues, so as to jointly maintain peace and tranquility in the border areas. They also agreed to have another round of meeting soon,” the statement added.Diplomatic talks have also failed to resolve the ongoing border friction between the two neighbours.Separate statements issued by the two sides after a virtual meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs on December 18 had given no indication of forward movement in the disengagement and de-escalation process at friction points in the western sector of the LAC.Both sides said they would maintain consultations through diplomatic and military channels, and the Indian side said the disengagement should be in line with existing bilateral agreements and protocols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/committed-to-peace-at-border-says-china-after-last-week-face-off-in-sikkim-101611567650616.html
25-01-2021||India||Obnoxious, unacceptable, outrageous: activists on Bombay HC judgement||Activists and child rights bodies have slammed the recent judgement of the Bombay High Court that there is no sexual assault if there is no 'skin-to-skin' contact.In a judgement passed on January 19, the Bombay High Court has said groping a minor's breast without 'skin-to-skin contact' cannot be termed sexual assault as defined under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Justice Pushpa Ganediwala of the Nagpur bench held that there must be "skin to skin contact with sexual intent" for an act to be considered sexual assault.It has drawn the ire of child rights bodies and activists, who have termed it "absolutely unacceptable, outrageous and obnoxious", and called for challenging the judgement.Dhananjay Tingal, executive director of child rights NGO Bachpan Bachao Andolan, said their legal team was looking into the matter and all the data related to this is being collected."We shall be appealing the Supreme court on the basis of their inputs," Tingal told PTI.Activist Kavita Krishnan, secretary of All India Progressive Women's Association, called it an "outrageous judgement" that goes against the letter of the law."The POCSO law defines sexual assault very clearly and it has a provision for sexual touch. This notion that you will circumvent the law by saying touch with or without clothes makes no sense at all," Krishnan said."That is absolute rubbish and it fails the test of common sense also. For me, it's a larger question of who qualifies to be a judge in cases related to gender," she said.Yogita Bhayana, an activist who heads the People Against Rape in India (PARI), said it was disappointing to hear from a judge and such statements "motivate the criminals"."I really think it's very regressive of her to say this," Bhayana said.After the Nirbhaya case, Bhayana said they were trying to push that even verbal gestures are included as assault, adding that they wanted to be more progressive and move to issues of cyber bullying. "On other hand, they are talking about this!" she said.Prabhat Kumar, deputy director of Save the Children, said nowhere in the POCSO Act itself there is talk about skin-to-skin contact."The act talks about physical (abuse), which is largely the use of force to sexually assault. So we feel that this interpretation is not right," Kumar said."If there are inconsistencies in interpretation of this law, then we must choose the law with the stricter punishment for the person accused of the offence. So even that has not been complied with," he said.Women's rights activist Shamina Shafiq called it very unfortunate that a lady judge had come out with this judgement."As a woman, you must understand that groping while you are wearing clothes is very usual and unfortunately normal in this country and this is something that keeps on happening to women and girls. And to say such a thing will give ideas to men also and it will not act as a deterrent," Shafiq said."It's shocking and the judge is a woman. I absolutely fail to understand how a woman judge can pass this kind of judgement," social activist Shabnam Hashmi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/obnoxious-unacceptable-outrageous-activists-on-bombay-hc-judgement-101611567233935.html
25-01-2021||India||Republic Day: Haryana CM’s programme changed, to hoist flag in Panchkula||A day before Republic Day, the Haryana government on Monday changed the chief guests of several district headquarters celebrations.As per the new schedule issued by the government, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar will now hoist the national flag in Panchkula instead of Panipat. Shifting of Khattar’s programme has necessitated shifting of state Governor Satyadeo Narain Arya’s programme from Panchkula to Haryana Raj Bhawan at Chandigarh.Panipat SP Shashank Kumar Sawan confirmed the change. “Yes, we have got the information that now the state chief secretary will be the chief guest in Panipat as the CM’s programme has been shifted,” he said.Also read | Haryana issues travel advisory ahead of farmer’s tractor parade on Republic DayHowever, there has been no change in deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala’s schedule and he will unfurl the tricolour at Ambala. In other changes, minister of state Anoop Dhanak will now be in Faridabad for the celebrations instead of minister of state for sports and youth affairs Sandeep Singh.Similarly, minister of state for woman and child development, Kamlesh Dhanda, will unfurl the national flag at Nuh instead of Fatehabad.While no reason was given for shifting of the chief minister’s programme, officials monitoring the security arrangements for Republic Day said the venue for Khattar’s programme had to be changed following massive movement of farmers from Haryana and Punjab to Delhi.“Earlier, the chief minister was scheduled to unfurl the national flag at Shivaji ground in Panipat but the decision to shift his programme was taken on the recommendations of a team of top level officials reviewing security arrangements in Panipat on Sunday,” said an official requesting anonymity.Another reason could be that Panipat’s venue is only 16 km from Kaimla village of Karnal district where agitated farmers had ransacked the venue of Khattar’s Kisan Mahapanchayat programme, forcing the chief minister to cancel his visit at the last moment on January 10.Moreover, farmers’ protests were on at Panipat and Karnal toll plazas and this could have created a law and order situation, said an official of Panipat Police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/republic-day-haryana-cm-s-programme-changed-to-hoist-flag-in-panchkula-101611567673748.html
25-01-2021||India||Republic Day 2021: Check full list of Fire Service, Home Guards and Civil Defence medals awardees||The Union ministry of home affairs on Monday, on the eve of the Republic Day, announced the names of the fire service, home guards and civil defence personnel who will be awarded by President Ram Nath Kovind. On the 72nd Republic day, the President's Fire Service Medal for Gallantry is being awarded to eight personnel and the Fire Service Medal for Gallantry is being awarded to two personnel for their acts of valour and gallantry. The President’s Fire Service Medal for Distinguished Service is being awarded to 13 personnel and the Fire Service Medal for Meritorious Service is being given to 50 personnel for their distinguished and meritorious records of services.In addition, as many as 54 personnel are also being awarded Home Guard and Civil Defence Medals. Of them, the President's Home Guards and Civil Defence Medal for Gallantry is awarded to three personnel and the President’s Home Guards and Civil Defence Medal for Distinguished Service and Home Guards and Civil Defence Medal for Meritorious Service will be awarded to four personnel and 47 personnel respectively.Here’s the full list of awardees:President’s Fire Service Medal for GallantryDelhi1. Satyavan - station officer2. Mahabir Singh - leading fireman3. Late Amit Kumar - fire operator4. Manjeet Rana - fire operatorJammu and Kashmir1. Late Rattan Chand - leading fireman2. Late Mohmad Aslam - SG fireman3. Late Vimal Raina - firemanTamil Nadu1. Late Rajkumar Rajenderan - firemanFire Service Medal for GallantryKarnataka1. Suganagouda- fireman driverOdisha1. Kasyap Kumar Pattanaik - leading firemanPresident’s Fire Service Medal for Distinguished ServiceDaman & Diu1. Amratlal Carsane - assistant directorDelhi1. Rajesh Panwar - chief fire officer2. Sanjay Kumar Tomar - deputy chief fire officerKarnataka1. Basavanna Chikka Basavaiah - deputy director2. Praveen - assistant fire station officerKerala1. George TA - assistant station officerMaharashtra1. Devendra Prabhakar Potphode - chief fire officerOdisha1. Kamala Kanta Puhan - leading firemanSikkim1. Indra Kumar Rai- deputy chief fire officerCISF, MHA1. Pratap Singh Rawat - assistant sub-inspector (fire)2. Harisha Srinivasa - assistant sub-inspector (fire)3. Hambir Singh - assistant sub-inspector (fire)NFSC, MHA1. Jagdish Faqirchand Bathav - junior demonstratorFire Service Medal for Meritorious ServiceAndaman & Nicobar1. Moti Lal Paul - sub-inspector (station officer)Arunachal Pradesh1. Mali Buru - station officerAssam1. Gakul Chandra Das - sub-officer2. Bipul Kumar Das - leading firemanBihar1. Krishna Prasad Singh - fire station officer2. Sudama Ram - leading driverDaman & Diu1. Tulcidas Mangari - assistant station fire officerDelhi1. Rajesh Kumar - assistant divisional officer2. Yashwant Singh Meena - station officer3. Ram Pal - leading fireman4. Subhash Chander Barthwal - assistant wireless officerHimachal Pradesh1. Ashok Kumar - sub fire officerJammu & Kashmir1. Puran Singh - leading fireman2. Satpal Khajuria - leading firemanKarnataka1. G Krishnoji - fire station officer2. Bangera Yogesh Padmayya - Leading Fireman3. M Tulasairamappa - fireman driver4. Bedrala Ravindranath Rajesh - firemanKerala1. Abdul Rasheed K - regional fire officer2. Nasar P - senior fire and rescue officerMaharashtra1. Sanjay Dadaji Pawar - in charge chief fire officer2. Dharmaraj Narayanrao Nakod - assistant station officer3. Rajaram Kalu Kedari - leading firemanMeghalaya1. Wanlambok Lapang- leading firemanMizoram1. Vanlalruala - leading firemanNagaland1. AW Jamir - inspector(fire)Odisha1. Sarat Chandra Mallick - assistant fire officer2. Pradeep Kumar Pattanaik - station officer3. Prakash Kumar Behera - leading fireman4. Balabhadra Dehury - driver havildarSikkim1. Vishal Kumar Gurung - chief fire officerTamil Nadu1. Rathakrishnan Alagirisamy Raju - station officer2. Angamuthu Muthusamy - driver mechanic3. Muralidharan Naamath Cottatta - fireman driver4. Chellapandi Pitchai - firemanTelangana1. Yagna Narayana Annapareddy - district fire officer2. Jagadishwar Katta - leading firemanUttar Pradesh1. Santosh Kumar Rai - chief fire officerUttarakhand1. Daya Kishan - fire station second officer2. Kunwar Singh Rana - leading firemanWest Bengal1. Satyabrata Roy - station officer2. Sk.Emamul Hossain - sub-officer3. Rabin Kundu - leader4. Milan Kumar Dutta - fire operatorCISF, MHA1. Shiv Pratap - assistant commandant (fire)2. Manjunatha R - assistant sub-inspector (fire)NFSC, MHA1. Ramesh Ramaji Dharne - fire and rescue operatorM/o Petroleum & Natural Gas1. Dansingh Madavsingh Chaudhary - chief fireman2. Naizu Ambatt Varkey - deputy general manager (fire and safety)3. Deba Kanta Baruah - supervisor (fire service)President’s Home Guards & Civil Defence Medal for GallantryOdisha1. Late Banawasi Moharana - home guardRajasthan1. Late Kewal Singh - border home guard volunteer2. Late Bhawani Singh - border home guard volunteerPresident’s Home Guards & Civil Defence Medal for Distinguished ServiceDelhi1. Baljit Singh Solanki - addl. chief wardenHimachal Pradesh1. Priya Brat Sharma - company commanderOdisha1. Pradip Kumar Pattanaik - HG company commander2. Sudam Charan Pattanaik - HG platoon commanderHome Guards & Civil Defence Medal for Meritorious ServiceAndaman & Nicobar1. Annakutty Thomas - HG(R)/1542. G NeelaVeni - HG(R)/186Assam1. Hemanga Talukdar - junior staff officer2. Paresh Chandra Pathak - Subedar3. Atul Chandra Barman - platoon commander4. Mahadev Sharmah - platoon commander5. Gopal Chandra Das - post wardenBihar1. Abhay Kumar Sinha - home guard2. Laliteshwar Prasad - home guardChandigarh1. Sukhvir Singh - HG Platoon SergeantChhattisgarh1. Sanjay Kumar Mishra - district commandant2. Narsingh Netam - district commandant3. Jitendra Kumar Mishra - company quarter master4. Jeevan Lal Kannoje - Naik5. Gulab Singh Rajput - Lance Naik6. Govind Prakash Tawar - HG SainikDelhi1. Jeetendar Kumar Mahto - junior instructor2. Hirdesh Kumar Chauhan - field messenger3. Iqbal Singh Jagdeva - senior chief wardenGoa1. Minaxi Anant Kubal - Hon platoon commander2. Nayan Dipu Velingkar - HG volunteerGujarat1. Rajesh Kumar Keshavlal Bhoi - Sr instructor2. Kantibhai Ambalal Patel - junior staff officer3. Lalitchandra Harishankar Vyas - sub-inspector instructor4. Tejabhai Ramjibhai Solanki - Havaldar5. Karansinh Shivsinh Kumpavat (retd) - second in command6. Ashoksinh Laxmansinh Jadeja - subedar company commander7. Arvindbhai Ganpatbhai Benkar - naib subedar platoon commanderHaryana1. Mohit Sharma - chief wardenHimachal Pradesh1. Virender Singh Mehta - platoon commander2. Nageshwar Kumar- platoon commanderMadhya Pradesh1. Manish Singh Chauhan- Sr staff officer2. Mahesh Kumar Pandre - divisional commandant3. Priti Bala Singh - divisional commandantMeghalaya1. Thioris Sulein - havildar2. Pherson Ranee - lance naik3. Md Faruq Hussain - firemanOdisha1. Rajkumar Pal - platoon commander2. Bhawani Sankar Kanhar - home guard3. Sisirakant Sahu - home guard4. Akshaya Kumar Nayak - home guardRajasthan1. Ravindra Singh Chauhan - company commander2. Shashi Shekhar Sharma - platoon commanderTripura1. Akhil Debbarma - HG volunteerUttarakhand1. Lalit Mohan Joshi - divisional commandant2. Chandrakishore - InspectorMinistry of railway1. B Baskar - Sr CD inspector||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/republic-day-2021-check-full-list-of-fire-service-home-guards-and-civil-defence-medals-awardees-101611566958429.html
25-01-2021||India||Kerala Gold Smuggling Case: Court grants bail to M Sivasankar||Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate's (Economic Offences) Court on Monday granted bail to M Sivasankar, former principal secretary at the Kerala Chief Minister's Office in the Kerala Gold Smuggling Case.This is in the case registered by the Customs Department. The court granted him bail because the customs didn't file the charge sheet in the case.But Sivasankar will remain in the prison because the case registered against him by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) still exists.The Kerala gold smuggling case pertains to the smuggling of gold in the state through diplomatic channels. It had come to light after 30 kg gold worth ₹14.82 crore smuggled in a consignment camouflaged as diplomatic baggage was busted by the Customs in Thiruvananthapuram on July 5, 2019.It is being probed by the Enforcement Directorate (ED), National Investigative Agency (NIA) and Customs department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-gold-smuggling-case-court-grants-bail-to-m-sivasankar-101611566705701.html
25-01-2021||India||Supreme Court issues notice to Centre, others on plea against electronic media||The Supreme Court on Monday issued notice to the Central government and others on Public Interest Litigation (PIL) for setting up an independent, regulatory tribunal or judicial-body, that can hear and expeditiously adjudicate upon a complaint against the electronic media filed by the viewers for hate speech, fake news, paid news, communal propaganda.A bench, headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde, agreed to hear the PIL and sought the responses of the government and others.The petition filed by film-maker Nilesh Navalakha and a civil engineer Nitin Memane sought direction for an independent high-powered committee headed by former CJI or Supreme Court judge to review the entire legal framework related to media business regulations and suggest guidelines for it.The tribunal can bring about consequences for acting in a fashion that is contrary to constitutional goals and morality, the petition said.The plea further stated that it is not seeking to curb the fundamental rights of the media-business. It added that the plea only wants to bring about some accountability for misinformation, inflammatory coverage, fake news, breach of privacy.The PIL urged the top court to set up a media tribunal to adjudicate upon complaints against media, channels, and networks, saying media, particularly the electronic one, has become like an "unruly horse, which needs to be tamed"."The restrictions on the electronic media must be placed at a higher footing as over the last few years, media trials have become the order of the day. These trials not only have a prejudicial effect on the rights of the accused but also its very concept is an anathema to the administration of justice," PIL added.It further sought guidelines outlining the broad regulatory paradigm within which media houses, broadcasters, and electronic media, can exercise their rights under Article 19(1) of the Constitution, so as to judicially regulate them.The PIL said, "the whole self-regulatory process makes the electronic media broadcaster a judge in his own case. Since its role has changed, from service to business, and from mission to the profession, in such circumstances, it cannot mechanically be referred to as the fourth pillar, to avert all judicial attempts at regulating it."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-issues-notice-to-centre-others-on-plea-against-electronic-media-101611566802588.html
25-01-2021||India||NSO releases employment outlook report, new registrations show recovery began June 2020||The National Statistical Office (NSO) under the ministry of statistics and programme has released the payroll report from September 2017 to November 2020. The report shows that around 38 million new subscribers joined the Employees’ Provident Fund (EPF) scheme with around 45 million subscribing to the Employees’ State Insurance (ESI) scheme and over 2 million contributed to the National Pension Scheme (NPS) of the Centre, state governments and corporate schemes during the same period.The ministry brings out the employment-related statistics in the formal sector covering the period September 2017 onwards, using the information on the number of subscribers who have subscribed under the three major schemes. The next report is scheduled to come on February 25, 2021.Here are the key points:1. From September 2017 to November 2020, there has been an increase of over a million in new female subscribers to the EPF scheme with the same increase in new male subscribers.2. The new subscription in EPF scheme saw a major decline for both men and women from April 2018 to March 2020. While around 13.9 million new workforces joined the EPF scheme during the period of 2018 to 2019, the new subscriptions fell to around 10.5 million from 2019 to 2020.3. April 2020 saw the least number of new subscriptions to the EPF scheme with around 150,000 men entering the scheme, while only 40,000 women joined the scheme.4. While there has been an increase in the number of women registering for the ESI scheme from 2017 to 2020 the gap between the two genders enrolling in the ESI scheme remains huge.5. As of March 2020, around 12.4 million men joined the ESI scheme and paid a contribution towards while only 2.7 million women registered for the scheme and are paying for it.6. The least registration in the ESI scheme for both men and women in the formal sector came in the month of April 2020 post the coronavirus-induced lockdown at the end of March.Also Read | EPFO settles 56.79 lakh Covid-19 advance claims﻿7. As per the report maximum number of new contributors for NPS were the non-government corporate sector employees.8. As of March 2020, over 757,000 new subscribers contributed to the NPS scheme from the corporate sector in comparison to 496,000 state government employees and the least contribution from the central government with 118,000 new subscribers contributing to the scheme.9. However, the gap between the male employees and female employees contributing to the NPS scheme is huge in all three sectors. Less than 50 per cent of the new subscribers to the NPS scheme were women.10. The central government saw maximum new subscribers to the NPS scheme in April 2020, after that the contributions from the sector declined.11. For the state government and corporate sector, minimum contributions came in the month of April 2020 and June 2020 respectively.12. In all the three schemes, the number of new registrations increased after June 2020, the time when the coronavirus restrictions started easing out in the country.12. The total number of registrations in the EPF scheme and ESI scheme was maximum in September 2020, giving signs of recovery.14. The new subscriptions in all the three schemes from the other gender have shown an increase from 2017 to 2020 the report showed their representation in the formal workforce is still very low.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nso-releases-employment-outlook-report-new-registrations-show-recovery-began-june-2020-101611561955457.html
25-01-2021||India||Farmers gather for Mumbai rally; Sharad Pawar present, Shiv Sena sends youth wing leader||Leaders of the prominent parties in Maharashtra joined a gathering of farmers at Mumbai's Azad Maidan on Monday. These farmers will march towards the Raj Bhavan to protest against the contentious farm laws and in solidarity with those protesting at the Delhi borders for about two months now.Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar, Maharashtra Congress president Balasaheb Thorat, Mumbai Congress president Bhai Jagtap, Jitendra Awhad, Jayant Patil from Peasants and Workers Party of India and president of the Maharashtra unit of Samajwadi Party, Abu Azmi, are present at the venue.No Shiv Sena leader is present at the venue of the public meeting. The Sena's youth wing leader Rahul Londhe has been sent as party's representative. The Sena, along with NCP and Congress, is running the government in Maharashtra.Attacking the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government at the Centre, Pawar said that those holding power do not care for farmers and labourers of this country."The discussion over the farm laws began when I was the Union agriculture minister in 2003-04. We discussed them with the agriculture ministers of all the states. The deliberations remained inconclusive. The BJP government passed these laws without any debate and in a single day in Parliament," said Pawar."Mumbai had played an important role in freedom fight, unified Maharashtra movement and now will play a key role in this fight against the farm laws too," the NCP chief added. He also said that there won't be any compromise on the Minimum Support Price (MSP).Thorat, meanwhile, said that the three contentious laws were passed without any debate to facilitate a few industrialists."We extend support to all farmers protesting for the past two months against the three farm laws passed by the Modi government. The government subjected farmers to water cannons in freezing winters," he said."The laws have been made for businessmen. These laws will not only affect farmers but everyone, as you will have to pay more to buy farm produce," the Congress leader said, calling the January 26 tractor rally a "massive uprising".All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS), one of the constituents of the farmers' protest, claimed "tremendous support" from other organisations."In the past 13 days, thousands of farmers have gathered to support this struggle. We have received tremendous support from sister organisations and other labour organisations. All the political and social organisations standing up to the BJP are gathered in a show of strength here," said AIKS president Ashok Dhawale.Narendra Modi and Amit Shah's government will be left shaken, he added."The farmers from Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Uttaranchal have been protesting at Delhi for past two months, against all odds, tear gas and water cannons used by the government. 150 farmers have laid their lives. I condemn the government for how it has handled this situation," said Dhawale.The leaders from Peasants and Workers Party said that the Minimum Support Price (MSP) should be applicable for all farm produce."MSP should be applicable for all farm produce. The government should purchase all produce. If anyone tries to bargain on MSP, action should be taken against them," said party leader Jayant Patil.The contract employees of the solid waste management department of BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) also present at Azad Maidan to show their support to farmers' protest.The protest march is a part of agitation being undertaken under the banner of Samyukt Shetkari Kamgar Morcha (SSKM), which aims to intensify the farmers’ struggle in capital cities across all states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-govt-will-be-left-shaken-say-farmer-leaders-at-mumbai-rally-101611566159964.html
25-01-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi slams PM Modi for being tight-lipped on Chinese intrusion||In a fresh jibe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday slammed the PM for being tight-lipped on the issue of Chinese intrusion into the Indian territory.This comes as several Indian soldiers were injured in a physical brawl with the Chinese soldiers along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) last week near Naku La area in Sikkim. The Indian Army on Monday clarified that it was "minor face-off" between the troops on January 20.The face-off was resolved by local commanders as per established protocols, the Army said in a statement.In his latest tweet, Gandhi said, "China is expanding its occupation into Indian territory. Mr 56" hasn't said the word 'China' for months. Maybe he can start by saying the word 'China'."Gandhi had on Sunday blamed the central government for Chinese intrusion into India.If India's labourers, farmers and weavers were strong, protected and given opportunities, China would never dare to come inside India, the Congress leader had said on Sunday.Gandhi had further alleged that China has understood that Indian economy is on its knees, and every action of the government is designed to strengthen five-six big business people.The former Congress president is on a three-day visit to the western belt in Tamil Nadu. He is interacting with farmers, weavers, and the general public over there.Gandhi is in the state till today and is also scheduled to visit the Dindigul district.Assembly elections are due in Tamil Nadu in April-May 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-slams-pm-modi-for-being-tight-lipped-on-chinese-intrusion-101611565212088.html
25-01-2021||India||UP withdraws transfer petition on unlawful conversion ordinance from SC||The Uttar Pradesh government on Monday withdrew its transfer petition on the contentious law prohibiting conversion from one religion to another by marriage from the Supreme Court. The state government had filed this petition asking for the transfer of those challenging the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020, from Allahabad High Court to the top court.The state wanted these petitions to be heard along with two petitions pending in SC on which notice has already been issued. "By issuing notice we have not said that no HC can hear the matter. People these days are taking high courts lightly," a three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde said.Senior advocate PS Narasimha, who appeared for the state government, told the top court that the petitions in SC are coming up on February 2 while those in the high court will come up on February 6. "If Allahabad HC is seized of the case we will not hear it before that on February 2... We have issued notice not to trigger this transfer petition," the bench said.As the bench was not inclined, UP sought permission to withdraw its plea.The Uttar Pradesh ordinance titled “Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020”, which was promulgated on November 24, outlaws religious conversions by marriage, coercion, deceit or enticement.The law prescribes a jail term varying between one to five years, in addition to fines of up to ₹15,000 for those convicted under it. The jail term goes up to 10 years and fine up to ₹25,000 for conversions of women belonging to scheduled caste or scheduled tribe communities or who are minors.The law was promulgated about a month after Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath vowed to end “love jihad”, a term used by right-wing activists to describe marital relationships between Muslim men and Hindu women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-withdraws-transfer-petition-on-unlawful-conversion-ordinance-from-sc-101611564127453.html
25-01-2021||India||President Kovind, PM Modi hail ECI’s contribution on National Voters’ Day||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Ram Nath Kovind hailed the immense contribution made by the Election Commission of India in ensuring free and fair elections, even during the seemingly insurmountable Covid-19 crisis, on Monday, celebrated as National Voters’ Day. The voters’ day event was inaugurated by President Kovind, who virtually graced the occasion. He conferred the National Awards for the year 2020-21 and also launched the Election Commission of India’s web radio: ‘Hello Voters’ – an online digital radio service.“I would like to remind the people that we should always respect the valuable right to vote,” Kovind said. “The right to vote is not a simple right; people around the world have struggled a lot for this. Since independence, our Constitution has given equal voting rights to all citizens without any discrimination on the basis of merit, religion, race, caste. For this, we are indebted to the makers of our Constitution.”Also Read: SC refuses to entertain plea seeking ‘free and fair’ polls in West BengalHe also highlighted the contributed of Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar, the architect of the Indian Constitution, in ensuring that every citizen has access to universal adult franchise. He also praised the ECI for conducting successful and safe elections in Bihar, Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh, during the Covid-19 pandemic in 2020.Prime Minister Narendra Modi also highlighted the contribution of the Commission in strengthening democracy by ensuring the smooth conduct of elections. “National Voters’ Day is an occasion to appreciate the remarkable contribution of the EC to strengthen our democratic fabric and ensure smooth conduct of elections. This is also a day to spread awareness on the need of ensuring voter registration, particularly among the youth,” tweeted PM Modi on Monday.Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad unveiled the new digital voter ID card, which can be downloaded by any voter remotely after a basic KYC process. The Election Commission of India on Monday, 25 January, rolled out a host of initiatives to mark the 11th National Voters’ Day celebrations. These include the digital voter id card or e-EPIC, the EC’s web radio and special booklet on National Voters’ Day.Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora said that the “great experiment”, the first general election held after independence, which subsequently earned the epithet of being “an act of faith”, had not only succeeded but has sustained itself. “Even when the architecture of elections was being debated in the Constituent Assembly, the concern for inscribing institutional safeguards for ensuring that no voter was excluded from the Electoral Rolls prompted Dr BR Ambedkar to move a ‘radical amendment on June 15,1949 to set up an integrated centralised Election Commission for the country,” he said. “What prompted Dr Ambedkar to propose this change was the concept of inclusion and the focus on the voter as central to the act of conducting elections.”Arora added that 2021 marks a new beginning with the launch of the digital voter card facility. “Also, Hello Voters, ECI’s own web radio and a first of its kind initiative will help us connect with our voters, listen to their stories and experiences of voting, and share our initiatives and information,” he said. The outgoing CEC said that the Commission would leverage its experience from Bihar to conduct and prepare for the upcoming elections in four states of Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Kerala and Assam, and the Union Territory of Puducherry, due in the next few months. “We will leverage the experience gained in the Bihar election and ensure that these elections are free, fair, transparent, participative, ethical and safe,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-kovind-pm-modi-hail-eci-s-contribution-on-national-voters-day-101611563473453.html
25-01-2021||India||Man arrested for rape of 6-year-old girl in MP’s Bhind district||A man has been arrested in Bhind district of Madhya Pradesh for raping a six-year-old girl on Sunday, said police.The man was booked under section 376 (rape) of Indian Penal Code and other relevant sections of Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (POCSO) Act on Sunday night.Lahar police station in-charge Upendra Chhari said, “The girl was playing with her brother outside her house when the accused took her with him.”“When the girl didn’t return home till late, the brother told the family that she had gone with the accused. The girl was found crying at the house of the accused,” said the police. Also read | 50-year-old widow raped in UP’s Mahoba, accused abscondingThe family then informed the police. The girl was rushed to a hospital where her condition is said to be stable. Her mother said, “The accused, who lives in the neighbourhood, used to play with my daughter and she called him uncle. We want him punished.” Police arrested the accused and he will be produced in court on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-arrested-for-rape-of-6-year-old-girl-in-mp-s-bhind-district-101611563414360.html
25-01-2021||India||Surat woman to travel 10,000 km on truck to provide essentials to needy on R-Day||To promote Prime Minister Narendra Modi's vision of 'Sashakt Nari, Sashakt Bharat' (Strong Women, Strong India), a woman from Surat district will commence a truck drive on Republic Day, covering a journey of 10,000 km to provide essential commodities to the needy.Durriya Mustafa Tapia, the founder of Movers Charity Trust, will drive a truck, covering 13 states in 35 days across the country including 4,500 underprivileged villages."I will drive the truck completing a journey of 10,000 km by covering 13 states including 4,500 underprivileged villages," Tapia told ANI.Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, Tapia's Trust provided food to over 2,500 people in Surat and now it is planning to expand the initiative nationwide."Our trust provided food to 2,500 to 3,000 people in Surat amid the pandemic. I feel that we should expand this initiative nationwide and provide food, reusable mask, sanitary pads, dustbins, and sanitizers to the needy," she said.Under Sashakt Nari, Sashakt Bharat, the central government is focusing on women empowerment. Several initiatives like 'Beti Padhao Beti Bachao' to better education facilities for women are being undertaken by the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/surat-woman-to-travel-10-000-on-truck-on-r-day-to-provide-essentials-to-needy-101611561835248.html
25-01-2021||India||Correctional Service Medals on prison personnel conferred to 52. Full list here||President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday approved the conferment of Correctional Service Medals on prison personnel on the Republic Day to 52 officials. Here’s the full list of the awardees:President’s Correctional Service Medals for Distinguished Service1. Saji Kumar J., assistant superintendent Gr.II - Kerala2. MV Thomas, deputy superintendent- Kerala3. Gopal Prasad Tamrakar, superintendent- Madhya Pradesh4. Ramesh Chandra Arya, superintendent - Madhya Pradesh5. Mahavir Singh Rawat, deputy superintendent- Madhya Pradesh6. Sujata Das, district probation officer- Odisha7. Debaraj Pradhan, chief warder- Odisha8. Maheswar Behera, warder- Odisha9. Arvind Kumar Singh, senior superintendent, Uttar Pradesh10. Mohd. Akram Khan, superintendent - Uttar Pradesh11. Ved Prakash, assistant superintendent- Delhi12. Shivli Ram Meena, head warder- DelhiCorrectional Service Medal for Meritorious Service1. Arun Kumar, chief head warder- Andhra Pradesh2. Arigela Ratna Raju, head warder- Andhra Pradesh3. Brajen Das, superintendent- Assam4. Deendayal Dhruw, head warder, Chhattisgarh5. Pushplata Bhagat, warder- Chhattisgarh6. Ajit Singh, sub assistant superintendent jail- Haryana7. Dilip Kumar Bhan, section officer- Jammu & Kashmir8. Iqbal Ahmed, warder (SG)- Jammu & Kashmir9. B Suresha, assistant superintendent- Karnataka10. MS Kumar, assistant jailor- Karnataka11. Antony K, assistant superintendent Gr.II- Kerala12. Sam Thankayyan, DIG of prisons- Kerala13. TK Janardhanan Nambiar, deputy superintendent- Kerala14. Ajay Bahadur Singh, head warder- Madhya Pradesh15. Rampal Singh, warder- Madhya Pradesh16. Iqbal Ahmed, head warder- Madhya Pradesh17. Uttam Vishwanath Gawde, havildar- Maharashtra18. Santosh Babla Manchekar, havildar- Maharashtra19. Baban Namdev Khandare, havildar- Maharashtra20. Thamsel Lamkang, chief head warder- Manipur21. W Chaoba Singh, head warder- Manipur22. D Ramesh, warder- Odisha23. Bhagaban Pradhan, warder- Odisha24. Govind Singh, superintendent Gr.II- Rajasthan25. Ajeet Singh, deputy jailor- Rajasthan26. Chotu Singh, warder, Rajasthan27. Nim Tshering Bhutia, sub jailor- Sikkim28. M Sakthivel, deputy jailor, Tamil Nadu29. R Joseph Antony, grade I warder- Tamil Nadu30. V Chandraiah, chief head warder-Telangana31. Gaddam Somasekhar Reddy, chief head warder- Telangana32. G Dynamma, chief head warder- Telangana33. Bidhu Dutt Pandey, superintendent- Uttar Pradesh34. Anand Kumar, head jail warder- Uttar Pradesh35. Amal Karmakar, head warder-West Bengal36. Ramesh Paswan, head warder-West Bengal37. Uttam Saha, warder-West Bengal38. Hari Prasad, head warder-Delhi39. Dharamvir, head warder-DelhiCorrectional Service Medal for Gallantry1. Late Sukhdas Swami, warder- Rajasthan||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/correctional-service-medals-on-prison-personnel-conferred-to-52-full-list-here-101611560812813.html
25-01-2021||India||Parliament: New chambers to provide better ‘line of sight’ for MPs||The Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha chambers in the new Parliament building will be designed not just to accommodate more lawmakers and additional comfort, but also provide a better “line of sight” for them. In the existing Lok Sabha chamber, the key sections of the treasury bench and the Opposition rows—where the top leaders of each side sit—face each other but the table of the secretariat, that is placed between them, blocks the view from both sides. The secretariat’s table is an integral part of the chamber. It’s where the secretary general, other senior officials and the Parliamentary reporters sit to assist the Speaker. According to Bimal Patel, the chief architect tasked to design the building complex, the seating arrangement for MPs would be such that each parliamentarian would get 60cm by 60cm space to sit on the new benches under the new arrangement. The MPs will sit comfortably in broad two-seater benches, accessible from either side so that no one will have to squeeze through — and which can, when a joint session is held, accommodate three persons, HT had reported in January. Patel had also pointed desks will be arranged for all MPs to be accommodated as opposed to the current setting where desks are limited only for the first few rows. For joint sessions the desks will accommodate three MPs instead of two. In the new,horseshoe-shaped chambers, the secretariat’s table will be again placed between the two sides but 1.5 feet lower than the current height. “This has been planned to give an uninterrupted view of the treasury bench and the Opposition bench,” said an official. Also Read: Hardeep Puri Interview: On Central Vista, Adani airports row, vaccine exportsIf it’s done, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah, defence minister Rajnath Singh and other top government leaders as well as Opposition leaders such as Sonia Gandhi or Mulayam Singh Yadav or Adhir Chowdhury can have a full view of the Lok Sabha. This was discussed and approved during a recent briefing meeting with Speaker Om Birla. Central Public Works Department (CPWD) and Parliament officials were present at the meeting to discuss the plans. Another proposal of CPWD, to put some barriers along the front row that would effectively stop Opposition MPs from rushing into the Well of the House, was promptly rejected by Birla. According to officials present in the meeting, “Birla said such things (barriers) don’t go with the democratic spirit of Lok Sabha. The Opposition will do its job and the government will do its work.” Both the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha chambers will be spacious with lobbies to accommodate a larger number of MPs, keeping in mind the current delimitation of Parliament seats will end in 2026 and any new arrangement as per the 1991 census might see more MPs in the House. The proposed new Parliament building will have a seating capacity for 888 members in the Lok Sabha chamber, with an option to increase it to 1,224 members during joint sessions. Similarly, the Rajya Sabha chamber would have a seating capacity for 384 members, according to its latest plan. The proposed building, spread over four floors, will also use motifs and murals of India’s national flower lotus and national bird peacock for a dash of distinctive identity. A banyan tree—the country’s national tree—will be planted at a prominent place inside the new complex, officials involved in the planning said on Friday. India’s national emblem will also sit atop the new Parliament building, HT had reported on September 16, 2020. Work on the new Parliament building began on Friday and is scheduled to be completed by next year. The building will by Tata Projects Ltd. at cost of ₹971 crore and would have a built-up area of 64,500 square metres. The existing circular building, completed in 1927, is most famous for its 144 columns but it too has some recognisable Indian touches. The use of fountains both inside and outside the building, desi-style balconies and different forms of marble ‘jali’ bear symbols of Indian heritage. The new building, to be constructed right in front of the existing one, will use the motifs or visual reliefs in a more contemporary way, as per the plan. These symbols of India’s national bird, flower and tree are also expected to contribute to the visuals of the new-era building. “One House will have lotus motifs while the other House will see peacock-inspired relief. There will be no Central Hall, but a central lounge will be available for MPs to socialise in,” said an official. The central foyer has been renamed the Constitution Hall as it is expected to display the Constitution for public viewing. A library will also come up near the central foyer. It will have sculptures of parliamentarians and images representing the diversity of India. At one side of the Constitution Hall will be the Constitution gallery, where the Constitution will be displayed. The triangular complex is also designed to include 120 offices with six separate entrances for member of the public, MPs and VIPs, including the Speaker and the vice-president. The current plan, according to Patel, comprises “the Lok Sabha, Rajya Sabha and an open-to-sky courtyard around which there would be a lounge and in the middle there will be a foyer.” CPWD will also build an office complex for MPs in place of the Shram Shakti Bhawan that would connect the Parliament complex through an underground pathway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-new-chambers-to-provide-better-line-of-sight-for-mps-101611562333479.html
25-01-2021||India||India offers Covid-19 vaccination to diplomats of foreign missions, families||The Indian government has offered Covid-19 vaccination to diplomats of foreign missions and their family members as a “gesture of goodwill and solidarity”, people familiar with developments said on Monday. A letter sent to foreign missions by the protocol division of the external affairs ministry last week sought names and details of diplomats and family members who want to be vaccinated “on a voluntary basis”, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity. The letter didn’t specify any dates for the vaccination of the diplomats or give other details, such as the vaccine to be used, two diplomats based in New Delhi said on condition of anonymity. “The Government of India, as a gesture of goodwill and solidarity, is considering to offer Covid-19 vaccination to eligible foreign diplomats and their family members accredited to all Diplomatic Missions, including Consulates, United Nations and its specialised agencies and other international organisations, based in India,” the letter said. “The vaccination would be on a voluntary basis, and in accordance with the phased plan of domestic roll-out,” it added. The letter further said modalities, including a timeframe and venues, are being worked out. The diplomats were asked to provide certain details, such as co-morbidities. Also read | India adds 13,203 Covid-19 cases, 131 deaths; tally over 10.66 millionIndia has so far donated nearly five million doses of Covishield, the AstraZeneca vaccine made by the Serum Institute of India, to seven countries in the neighbourhood, including Bangladesh and Myanmar. It also plans to provide more doses as grant assistance to Afghanistan and Sri Lanka. Commercial supplies of vaccines began with the rolling out of two million doses each to Brazil and Morocco and more supplies are expected to be sent in the coming days to South Africa, Saudi Arabia and Bangladesh. India has inoculated more than 1.6 million frontline and health workers so far under the vaccination drive launched on January 16. A decision by foreign missions on availing of India’s vaccination offer will depend on whether their countries have approved one of the two vaccines being made in India, Covishield and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin. A growing number of countries have approved the AstraZeneca vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-offers-covid-vaccination-to-diplomats-of-foreign-missions-families-101611562033286.html
25-01-2021||India||SC seeks Centre's reply on PIL seeking setting up of media tribunal||The Supreme Court Monday sought responses from the Centre, Press Council of India (PCI) and the News Broadcasters Association (NBA) on a PIL seeking setting up of a media tribunal to adjudicate on complaints against media, channels and networks.A bench comprising Chief Justice SA Bobde and Justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian took note of the plea which also sought setting up of an independent committee headed by either by a former Chief Justice of India or an apex court judge to review the entire legal framework related to media business regulations and suggest guidelines.Besides the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, PCI and NBA, the bench also issued notices to News Broadcasters Federation (NBF) and News Broadcasting Standards Authority (NBSA) on the PIL filed jointly by film maker, Nilesh Navalakha and civil engineer Nitin Memane in the proceedings conducted through video conferencing.The plea said media, particularly the electronic, has become like an unruly horse which needs to be tamed.The top court tagged the PIL with a pending plea on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-seeks-centre-s-reply-on-pil-seeking-setting-up-of-media-tribunal-101611558859956.html
25-01-2021||India||Naku La face-off and Taiwan show of force are part of Beijing expansionist plans||The People’s Liberation Army (PLA) aggression in Naku La area of north Sikkim on January 20 and the intrusion of 13 Chinese warplanes into Taiwan’s southwest air defence identification zone, mere three days after the swearing-in of Joe Biden as US President, are a grim reminder that Beijing is on a warpath and has no interest in compromising with what it unilaterally defines as its core interests.While the Indian Army official statement to Naku La said that it was a minor face-off, reports from the ground indicate that the PLA is in an aggressive mode on the border with India in Sikkim as well as Bhutan. This is a repeat of a skirmish between two armies on May 10, 2020, after the PLA aggression on the north banks of Pangong Tso. The Sikkim brawl virtually coincides with the violation of Taiwan airspace by the PLA Air Force (PLAAF).Also read | Indian, Chinese troops clashed in north Sikkim last week: OfficialsWhile the US navy responded simultaneously by sending in Nimitz class Theodore Roosevelt carrier group into the South China Sea, the Indian Army troopers have also responded to the PLA aggression by inflicting injuries on the intruding adversary. However, the Chinese moves are indicative of a dangerous trend that could destabilise the entire region.The latest actions indicate the following:1. The new PLA western theatre commander Zhang Xudong is as aggressive towards India as was the previous commander Zhao Zongqi. This means that instructions to put pressure on India and Bhutan are coming from the Central Military Commission (CMC), which is headed by paramount leader Xi Jinping.2. While the situation is stable in north Sikkim, the latest face-off will have a spill-over effect on the disengagement and de-escalation dialogue with the PLA in east Ladakh. To top it all, there is pressure building up in the eastern sector in Arunachal Pradesh with the PLA rapidly strengthening its border infrastructure.3. Just like China absorbed Hong Kong with new security law, its military aggression against Taiwan is designed to expand and consolidate what it claims as its own territory. This is a test of Joe Biden’s Indo-Pacific policy as the so-called Asia pivot of his Democratic predecessor Barack Obama never fructified.4. In spite of the previous Trump administration passing a law on naming the successor to the 14th Dalai Lama, Beijing will continue towards its Fortress Tibet policy and will not allow any outside interference in the Sinchisation of Tibet.5. The PLA will try to portray disengagement and disengagement from east Ladakh in such a way that its sanctity of its 1959 Green Line is not violated to its domestic audience.Although the Indian Army has classified the Naku La incident as a minor face-off, the PLA will continue to project dominance in 2021—the 100th year of Chinese Communist Party rule.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/naku-la-face-off-and-taiwan-show-of-force-are-part-of-beijing-expansionist-plans-101611557834231.html
25-01-2021||India||News updates from HT: Defence Min launches gallantry awards portal on R-Day eve and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Defence Min launches gallantry awards portal on R-Day eveDefence minister Rajnath Singh launched the revamped online portal for gallantry awards on Monday, a day before India observes its 72nd Republic Day. Addressing the event virtually, which was preceded by cultural performances from students of various Sainik Schools across the country, Singh said the youth of the country will play “a significant role in shaping the future of the nation.”Defence minister Rajnath Singh launched the revamped online portal for gallantry awards on Monday, a day before India observes its 72nd Republic Day. Addressing the event virtually, which was preceded by cultural performances from students of various Sainik Schools across the country, Singh said the youth of the country will play “a significant role in shaping the future of the nation.” Read moreIndian, Chinese troops clashed in north Sikkim last week: OfficialsIndian and Chinese soldiers were involved in a brawl in north Sikkim last week, with soldiers from both armies suffering injuries, officials familiar with the development said on Monday. Read more‘From maritime strikes to armed helicopters’: How India conducted Kavach drillIndian armed forces conducted a large-scale joint military training exercise ‘Kavach’ along with “AMPHEX-21” in the Andaman Sea and Bay of Bengal on Monday. Performed under the Andaman and Nicobar Command (ANC), the drill saw the participation of the Eastern Naval Command and Army Southern Command involving the Indian Army, Navy, Indian Air Force and the Coast Guard. Read moreBorders tightened as coronavirus curfew fury spills overBorder restrictions were being tightened around the world Monday in the face of an unrelenting coronavirus threat, after a weekend in which anger at social distancing rules bubbled over into fiery clashes in the Netherlands. Read moreHere's what Varun Dhawan and Natasha Dalal wore for their close-knit weddingLongtime sweethearts Varun Dhawan and Natasha Dalal tied the knot last night. Celebrities including Karan Johar and Manish Malhotra were present at the venue to give the newlyweds their blessings. Read more'This is MS Dhoni's specialty': Gautam Gambhir explains why CSK had the 'right strategy' in retaining key playersFormer India cricketer Gautam Gambhir believes that Chennai Super Kings had the right strategy in retaining most of their senior players. Read moreElectric vehicles to dominate in India by 2030: MahindraElectric-vehicle sales should overtake gas guzzlers in India by the end of the decade as prices become more aligned and infrastructure and technology improves, hopefully with help from the government, according to Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. Read moreWatch: 'Won't need Army, Navy, Air Force if...': Rahul Gandhi slams PM Modi over ChinaRahul Gandhi invoked China face-off during Tamil Nadu campaign. The congress leader linked China's aggression to economy. Gandhi said Chinese president should be wearing made in India shirt. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-defence-min-launches-gallantry-awards-portal-on-r-day-eve-101611557645563.html
25-01-2021||India||India records lowest Covid-19 deaths in 8 months, active cases continue to fall||India on Monday reported the lowest number of daily deaths caused by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in eight months as 131 people succumbed across the country, the Union ministry of health and family welfare said. Seven states, including Maharashtra, Kerala, Delhi, West Bengal, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu, have contributed 80.15 per cent of the 131 fatalities logged in the last 24 hours.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19The country also clocked 13,203 new Covid-19 cases and 13,298 recoveries in the last 24 hours. As per the health ministry, there has been a net decline of 226 active cases in the last 24 hours too. India's active Covid-19 cases are on a continuous decline as the caseload further fell to 184,182 on Monday. The share of active cases in the total positive cases recorded in the country has plummeted to 1.73 per cent, data by the Union health ministry showed.The health ministry said two states in the country contribute 65 per cent to the active coronavirus caseload. Kerala and Maharashtra are responsible for more than 64.71 per cent of the active Covid-19 cases in the country with Kerala's share at 39.7 per cent and Maharashtra contributing 25 per cent.India caseload has mounted over 10.66 million with more than 10.33 million recoveries and over 153,000 deaths. The recovery rate of the country is 96.83 per cent. According to the health ministry, more than 1.6 million healthcare workers have been as of Monday morning during the country's mammoth vaccination. And, 33,303 people were vaccinated against the deadly coronavirus disease across 694 sessions in the last 24 hours, according to the ministry. The maximum number of people who have been vaccinated is in Karnataka at around 191,000, followed by Odisha at 152,000 and Andhra Pradesh at 147,000, the ministry said.The country began the world's largest immunisation programme on January 16 and has also started to export the vaccines to countries across the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-lowest-covid-19-deaths-in-8-months-active-cases-continue-to-fall-101611558191616.html
25-01-2021||India||On R-Day eve, Rajnath Singh launches revamped gallantry awards portal||Defence minister Rajnath Singh launched the revamped online portal for gallantry awards on Monday, a day before India observes its 72nd Republic Day. Addressing the event virtually, which was preceded by cultural performances from students of various Sainik Schools across the country, Singh said the youth of the country will play “a significant role in shaping the future of the nation.”“I am extremely happy to be launching the revamped version of the gallantry awards portal,” Singh said, adding that it was a solemn tribute from the nation to the bravehearts and their families. Singh also mentioned how the country had faced numerous challenges since Independence, including the various wars it has fought with its neighbouring countries. “All these front wars, proxy wars or counter-terror operations, our soldiers faced these challenges and have protected the country’s sovereignty,” he said.He also mentioned several defence-related promises the central government has fulfilled, including the One Rank One Pension (OROP) and the National Defence Memorial. Singh also spoke about the ‘Bharat Ke Veer’ portal launched by the ministry of home affairs (MHA) in April 2017, during his tenure as the Union home minister.Speaking on the new gallantry awards portal, the defence minister said it would give information, 24x7, on martyrs who have sacrificed their lives for India. The portal, Singh said, would instill patriotism among the youth of the nation. He also made mention of initiatives like e-magazine ‘Shauryavan,’ launched alongside the portal, as well as the month-long “Gallantry Awards for India” quiz and the “Selfie with bravehearts.” The portal also has a section for “Tributes” and “Pledges.”According to the portal, there have been 4,296 gallantry awardee till date. Of these, 21 have won the Param Vir Chakra, the country’s highest military decoration which is awarded for “most conspicuous bravery in the presence of the enemy.” And, 20 of them have been from the Indian Army and one from the Indian Air Force (IAF).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-r-day-eve-rajnath-singh-launches-revamped-gallantry-awards-portal-101611558189368.html
25-01-2021||India||Richest Indian's wealth rose 35% during pandemic, lakhs lost jobs, lives: Oxfam||India's 100 top billionaires have seen their fortunes increase by ₹12,97,822 crore since March last year when the Covid-19 pandemic hit the country and this amount is enough to give 13.8 crore poorest Indians a cheque for ₹94,045 each.The latest India supplement of the Oxfam report 'The Inequality Virus' said it would take an unskilled worker 10,000 years to make what businessman Mukesh Ambani made in an hour during the pandemic and three years to make what he made in a second.The report has been released on the opening day of the World Economic Forum's 'Davos Dialogues'.Calling the coronavirus pandemic the world's worst public health crisis in a hundred years, the report said it triggered an economic crisis comparable in scale only with the Great Depression of the 1930s."India's 100 billionaires have seen their fortunes increase by ₹12,97,822 crores since March last year which is enough to give every one of the 138 million poorest Indians a cheque for ₹94,045 each," the report said.The new global survey of 295 economists from 79 countries, commissioned by Oxfam, reveals that 87 per cent of respondents, including Jeffrey Sachs, Jayati Ghosh and Gabriel Zucman, expect an "increase" or a "major increase" in income inequality in their country as a result of the pandemic."India has the world's fourth lowest health budget in terms of its share of government expenditure," it said. "If India's top 11 billionaires are taxed at just 1 per cent on the increase in their wealth during the pandemic, it will be enough to increase the allocation of Jan Aushadi Scheme by 140 times, which provides affordable medicines to the poor and marginalized."India introduced one of the earliest and most stringent lockdowns in the face of the pandemic and its enforcement brought the economy to a standstill, triggering unemployment, hunger, distress migration and untold hardship in its wake, the report said."The rich were able to escape the pandemic's worst impact; and while the white-collar workers isolated themselves and worked from home, a majority of the not-so-fortunate Indians lost their livelihood," it said.The report noted that billionaires like Gautam Adani, Shiv Nadar, Cyrus Poonawalla, Uday Kotak, Azim Premji, Sunil Mittal, Radhakrishan Damani, Kumar Manglam Birla and Laxmi Mittal working in sectors like coal, oil, telecom, medicines, pharmaceutical, education and retail increased their wealth exponentially since March 2020 when India announced world's biggest Covid-19 lockdown and economy came to standstill.On the other hand, data has shown that 170,000 people lost their jobs every hour in the month of April 2020, the report said.Findings of the report showed that rich got richer during the pandemic."Data shows what Ambani earned during the pandemic would keep the 40 crore informal workers that are at risk of falling into poverty due to Covid-19 above the poverty line for at least 5 months," the report said.The wealth of Indian billionaires increased by 35 per cent during the lockdown and by 90 per cent since 2009 to USD 422.9 billion, ranking India sixth in the world after the US, China, Germany, Russia and France, it said.In fact, the report said the increase in wealth of the top 11 billionaires of India during the pandemic could sustain the rural job scheme MGNREGA for 10 years or the Health Ministry for 10 years.Noting that the informal sector had been the worst hit, the report said out of a total 12.2 crore people who lost their jobs, 75 per cent, which accounts for 9.2 crore jobs, were lost in the informal sector."The mass exodus on foot triggered by the sudden lockdown and the inhuman beating, disinfection and quarantine conditions the informal workers were subjected to turned a health emergency into a humanitarian crisis," it said."Over 300 informal workers died due to the lockdown, with reasons ranging from starvation, suicides, exhaustion, road and rail accidents, police brutality and denial of timely medical care. The National Human Rights Commission recorded over 2,582 cases of human rights violation as early as in the month of April 2020," the report added.It noted that the long disruption of schooling risked doubling the rate of out of school, especially among the poor."Only 4 per cent of rural households had a computer and less than 15 per cent rural households had an internet connection," it said.On health inequalities, the report said only 6 per cent of the poorest 20 per cent has access to non-shared sources of improved sanitation, compared to 93.4 per cent of the top 20 per cent. It added that 59.6 per cent of India's population lives in a room or less.The report said 1.7 crore women lost their job in April 2020 and unemployment for women rose by 15 per cent from a pre-lockdown level.Oxfam India CEO Amitabh Behar said if not addressed immediately, the crisis could worsen."Extreme inequality is not inevitable, but a policy choice. The fight against inequality must be at the heart of economic rescue and recovery efforts now," Behar said."Newer and creative ways of catering to the needs of the masses is possible if governments are committed to the needs of its people. It is time for the government of India to take specific and concrete actions that will build a better future, more equal and just a future for everyone," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/richest-indian-s-wealth-rose-35-during-pandemic-lakhs-lost-jobs-lives-oxfam-101611556123588.html
25-01-2021||India||PM Modi has weakened India, attacked farmers: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday once again launched a sharp attack on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Centre over several issues, including the three contentious farm laws, while addressing people in Tamil Nadu's Karur. Gandhi, who is on a three-day visit to the poll-bound state, has repeatedly criticised the Centre for overlooking people of Tamil Nadu and undermining them."If we look at the nation and we see what the PM has done over the last six years, we see a weakened India, a divided India, an India where BJP-RSS ideology keeps spreading hatred throughout the country. Our biggest strength, our economy has been demolished," Gandhi said on Monday, according to news agency ANI. "Our youngsters are no longer capable of getting jobs and it is not their fault. It is the fault of the actions taken by our Prime Minister," Gandhi added.Also read | Tremendous growth of ‘GDP’: Rahul Gandhi jabs PM Modi over fuel price hikeThe three laws brought in by the Centre, which have triggered protests by farmers, will destroy the agriculture sector, he said. "The PM is attacking our farmers. He has brought three new laws which are going to destroy Indian agriculture and hand it over to two to three big industrialists. Imagine that one of the laws clearly states that farmers can't go to court to protect themselves," he said.The Congress lawmaker had said on Sunday that his party will not allow PM Modi to "destroy the foundation of India" and had also slammed the Centre over farmers' protest. He said the lakhs of farmers are not 'celebrating' the laws and protesting at Delhi borders because "they understand you (PM) are robbing their future". Before that, he had taken a dig at Prime Minister Modi, saying he does not understand the spirit, language, culture or history of Tamil Nadu.Gandhi is on a three-day visit to the western belt in Tamil Nadu, which is scheduled to hold assembly elections later this year, and has interacted with farmers, weavers, and representatives of MSME. He has visited Coimbatore and Tiruppur of the southern state among other places. This the second visit of the Congress leader to the state this month. On January 14, Gandhi visited Madurai to attend the Jallikattu, traditional sport of Tamil Nadu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-has-weakened-india-attacked-farmers-rahul-gandhi-101611556124931.html
25-01-2021||India||Indian, Chinese troops clashed in north Sikkim last week: Officials||Indian and Chinese soldiers were involved in a brawl in north Sikkim last week, with soldiers from both armies suffering injuries, officials familiar with the development said on Monday. The aggressive confrontation between rival troops took place in Naku La, a pass at a height of more than 5,000 metres, the officials said. The army is expected to issue a statement on the skirmish soon. The clash took place after Chinese soldiers attempted to intrude into Indian territory, they said. This is the second such incident in the eastern sector in less than a year. Scores of Indian and Chinese soldiers were involved in a tense face-off along the India-China boundary in Naku La last May. Four Indian soldiers and seven Chinese troops suffered injuries during the May 9, 2020 confrontation that involved around 150 soldiers. Also Read: ‘From maritime strikes to armed helicopters’: How India conducted Kavach drillThe Naku La area is traditionally not prone to face-offs. Rival soldiers have clashed at least four times since the India-China border row erupted in the Ladakh sector in early May. The situation in the Ladakh sector remains tense and the ongoing military and diplomatic dialogue has not had any positive outcome. India and China on Sunday held yet another round of military talks in their latest attempt to ease tensions in eastern Ladakh, where the two sides have been locked in a lingering border standoff that has hit bilateral, at a time when frontline soldiers are deployed eyeball to eyeball at friction points on the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC), officials familiar with the development said. The corps commander-level talks between the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) were held at Moldo on the Chinese side of the LAC. On January 12, army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane said that the Indian Army was prepared to hold its ground in eastern Ladakh “for as long as it takes” to achieve national objectives in case the ongoing military and diplomatic talks with China are prolonged. Experts said talks are deadlocked because of serious differences between the two sides on the conditions of disengagement, as previously reported by Hindustan Times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-chinese-troops-clashed-in-north-sikkim-last-week-officials-101611556633254.html
25-01-2021||India||Canada joins Quad joint naval exercise in Pacific Ocean||For the first time, Canada is participating in a joint exercise in the Pacific Ocean with the nations that comprise the Quad: the US, India, Japan and Australia.The fortnight-long anti-submarine warfare exercise Sea Dragon 2021 is being organised by the United States as its Andersen Air Force Base in Guam, an American territory. The participants are the Royal Australian Air Force, Royal Canadian Air Force, Indian Navy, and Japan Maritime Self-Defence Force.In response to queries from the Hindustan Times, David Lavallee, public affairs officer with Canadian Armed Forces’ 1 Canadian Air Division and Canadian NORAD Region Headquarters, said, “Canada is also a Pacific nation. The RCAF often works closely with the US Navy’s Seventh Fleet, and our participation in Sea Dragon is an opportunity to demonstrate the strength and durability of our alliances in the Indo-Pacific region.” He also said the RCAF’s participation “enables substantial training opportunities for the Long Range Patrol community working with allies and partners in the Pacific, including Australia, India, Japan and the United States.”New Delhi is looking at this development as a “significant step forward” by Canada. Diplomatic sources said the RCAF’s participation appeared to be a “political nod to the Quad, Quad Plus without saying it is joining the Quad.”The name of the exercise itself and the participants indicate rising concern over China. The RCAF spokesperson said that “developing interoperability with our partners” and working with different aircraft “ensure that the RCAF remains ready to support Canada’s interests in the region.”Lavallee also said, “Given the increasing importance of the Asia-Pacific region to Canadian security and prosperity, Canada is committed to being a reliable partner in the region, through consistent engagement and building strong relationships. Canadian security and defence preparedness benefits tremendously from connectivity with our closest allies.”While proposed bilateral exercises with India have not come to fruition as yet, this is the first time in several years that Canada has joined an exercise with India as a participant, even if in the Quad context.“This training is critical to ensuring the RCAF’s Aurora (aircraft) crews remain ready and able to conduct patrol missions at home and interoperable with other like-minded nations, including those in the Asia-Pacific theatre,” he added. The exercises is being organised by the US Navy’s 7th Fleet and will conclude on Thursday.Interestingly, the Canadian Armed Forces had cancelled joint winter training exercises scheduled with China’s People’s Liberation Army in 2019, though this move had drawn criticism from the government of Prime Minister Justin Trudeau.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/canada-to-join-quad-joint-naval-exercise-in-pacific-ocean-101611556512917.html
25-01-2021||India||Covid positive I-T officer convicted for corruption dies by suicide: Cops||A coronavirus positive income tax (I-T) department officer convicted in a corruption case died by suicide on Monday morning in a Jaipur hospital, said police.“The deceased, a native of Kota, was 45. He was convicted in a corruption case and was sent to Jaipur central jail on January 22, three days ago by a local court,” said Abhijeet Singh, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), East.Singh added that before his admission in the Jaipur Central jail the officer tested positive for coronavirus.“After the results of Covid report, the deceased was admitted in a ward on the sixth floor of the RUHS hospital, a dedicated covid care center. Initial inquiry reveals that he was alone in his ward and around 4am on Monday morning, the security guards had seen the man on his bed in the ward. Later, when the guards came again, the man was found dead after which the security guard informed the RUHS management, who later informed the Pratap Nagar police,” the DCP East said.As it is a case of death during judicial custody, the police reached the spot along with a sub-divisional magistrate. The family members have been informed.The body has been kept in mortuary for postmortem.“As of now the reason behind the suicide is unknown,” said DCP East.In December, 2016, the deceased who was posted as inspector in I-T department in Jhalawar district was caught red-handed taking bribe by a team of Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) of ₹one lakh from an assessee for not imposing penalty on his Income Tax Return. The agency also found new currency notes worth ₹24 lakh during searches at his residence.“A case was registered U/s 7 of PC Act, 1988 against Income Tax Officer, Jhalawar on a complaint. It was alleged in the complaint that the Income Tax Officer demanded a bribe of ₹one lakh from the complainant for not imposing penalty due in the scrutiny of his income for the assessment year of 2014-15,” reads an official release of the CBI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-positive-i-t-officer-convicted-for-corruption-dies-by-suicide-cops-101611555671032.html
25-01-2021||India||On National Voters' Day, PM praises Election Commission's 'remarkable contribution'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday, which is being observed as National Voters' Day, praised the Election Commission of India (ECI) for strengthening the Indian democracy by ensuring smooth conduct of elections. "National Voters Day is an occasion to appreciate the remarkable contribution of the EC to strengthen our democratic fabric and ensure smooth conduct of elections. This is also a day to spread awareness on the need of ensuring voter registration, particularly among the youth," tweeted PM Modi on Monday.National Voters Day is an occasion to appreciate the remarkable contribution of the EC to strengthen our democratic fabric and ensure smooth conduct of elections. This is also a day to spread awareness on the need of ensuring voter registration, particularly among the youth.The theme for this year’s National Voters' Day, ‘Making Our Voters Empowered, Vigilant, Safe and Informed’, envisages active and participative voters during elections. It also focuses on ECI’s commitment towards conducting elections safely during the COVID-19 pandemic. National Voters Day is observed to encourage, facilitate and maximise enrolment, especially for the new voters.Also read Explained: When is National Voters Day? What’s the theme this year?"Dedicated to the voters of the country, the day is utilised to spread awareness among voters and for promoting informed participation in the electoral process. New voters are felicitated and handed over their Elector Photo Identity Card (EPIC) in the NVD functions," the government said in a release on Sunday.The Election Commission is celebrating the 11th National Voters Day on Tuesday and President Ram Nath Kovind will be the chief guest at an event being organised in New Delhi by the poll watchdog. Union Minister for law and justice Ravi Shankar Prasad will be the guest of honour. Prasad will launch the electronic version of the voter identity card, which can be downloaded on a mobile phone or a computer. The e-elector photo identity card is a non-editable digital version of the elector photo identity card and it can be saved in facilities such as a digital locker and can be printed in PDF format, officials said according to PTI.The government release said that the physical card takes time to print and reach the voter and the idea is to provide faster delivery and easy accessibility to the document. "Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad will launch the e-EPIC programme and distribute e-EPICs and Elector Photo Identity Cards to five new voters," it said on Sunday.The National Voters’ Day has been observed on January 25 every year since 2011 to mark the foundation day of the Election Commission of India on January 25, 1950.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-national-voters-day-pm-modi-praises-ec-s-remarkable-contribution-101611553334812.html
25-01-2021||India||India, China troops engage in brawl along LAC in Sikkim: Officials||There was a minor scuffle between the soldiers of the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the Naku La area of Sikkim last week, people familiar with the development said on Monday.The brawl on the night of January 20 was resolved by local commanders soon after, they said, adding that the clash took place after Chinese soldiers attempted to intrude into the Indian territory.This is the second such incident in the same area in less than a year. Scores of Indian and Chinese soldiers were involved in a tense face-off along the India-China boundary in Naku La last May. Four Indian soldiers and seven Chinese troops suffered injuries during the May 9 confrontation that involved around 150 soldiers.The January 20 clash happened four days before the ninth round of commander-level talks between the two sides was scheduled to resolve the tension in the eastern Ladakh sector along the LAC on Sunday. The meeting, held at Moldo on the Chinese side of the LAC, lasted for over 15 hours. However, the outcome of the meeting is not known yet. India and China have been locked in a lingering border standoff that also has impacted bilateral ties.Earlier this month, Indian Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane stated that India was committed to resolving the situation along the contested LAC through talks but no one should test India’s patience. “We are committed to resolving disputes through talks and political efforts. However, no one should make the mistake of testing India’s patience,” he had said.Indian Air Force (IAF) chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria too warned China saying, "If they (China) can get aggressive, we will also get aggressive. We have full preparations (to meet any eventuality).”India has been pushing for a comprehensive disengagement at all flashpoints and restoration of status quo ante of early April during the ongoing military talks over the tense Ladakh theatre. China, however, wants the Indian Army to first pull back troops deployed on strategic heights on the southern bank of Pangong Tso.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-chinese-troops-engaged-in-new-border-brawl-reports-101611553830806.html
25-01-2021||India||‘From maritime strikes to armed helicopters’: How India conducted Kavach drill||Indian armed forces conducted a large-scale joint military training exercise ‘Kavach’ along with “AMPHEX-21” in the Andaman Sea and Bay of Bengal on Monday. Performed under the Andaman and Nicobar Command (ANC), the drill saw the participation of the Eastern Naval Command and Army Southern Command involving the Indian Army, Navy, Indian Air Force and the Coast Guard.The exercise involved participation and deployment of all forces of ANC, elements of the amphibious brigade of the army's Southern Command along with corvettes, submarine and amphibious landing ships of Navy’s Eastern Fleet and Marine Commandos. Jaguar maritime strike and transport aircraft from Indian Air Force and assets of the Coast Guard also participated.How was the drill conducted?The exercise began with maritime strikes by Jaguar aircraft, para and marine commandos carrying out Combat Free Fall at Car Nicobar with an aim to validate air dominance and maritime strike capability within the area of interest in the Indian Ocean Region (IOR).Before the amphibious landing operations, troops of the army, navy and air force were mobilised and transported by sea and air in close coordination with all agencies.As part of shaping the battlefield, MARCOS along with their combat loads and Air Droppable Rigid Hull Inflatable Boats (ADR) were dropped over the Andaman Sea, enabling the marine commandos to reach the target with stealth and speed. MI-17 V5 Armed Helicopters undertook precision targeting against designated enemy assets at sea and on land.The training exercise culminated with the beach landing operations by elements of the amphibious brigade of Southern Command from INS Jalashwa, Airavat, Guldar and LCU MK-4 class of ships with 600 troops along with tanks, troop carrier vehicles and other heavy weapons. The logistic team demonstrated and validated the joint logistic system and its capabilities to respond to dynamic changes in operational situations and combat missions.Strategic significanceThe areas in which the exercise was conducted holds strategic significance for India. The drill comes at a time when India and China are engaged in a border standoff in the eastern Ladakh theatre and the Indian Navy has increased surveillance in the Indian Ocean Region (IOR) to keep tabs on China’s moves to expand its footprint in the strategic waters.The ministry of defence said that the exercise also validated joint capabilities of intelligence gathering from space, air, land and sea-based assets, its synthesis, analysis and near real-time sharing to achieve battlefield transparency for quick decision making.The joint force executed multi-domain, high-intensity offensive and defensive manoeuvres in the Andaman Sea and Bay of Bengal. The tri-services exercise fine-tuned joint warfighting capabilities and Standard Operating Procedures towards enhancing operational synergy, the ministry statement added.Commander-in-chief Andaman and Nicobar Command visited the exercise area in the Southern Group of Islands to oversee the exercise and commended all ranks for the high level of operational preparedness, the defence ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-maritime-strikes-to-armed-helicopters-how-india-conducted-kavach-drill-101611552676193.html
25-01-2021||India||Delhi HC to hear WhatsApp new privacy policy case today||The Delhi high court on Monday will hear a plea by a lawyer, challenging the new privacy policy of WhatsApp on the ground that it violates the right of privacy of individuals.Alleging that WhatsApp has put a “Damocles’ sword on its users” to accept its new privacy policy, the plea said that the updated policy virtually scrutinises the personal profile of a user by 360 degree.The plea, filed by advocate Chaitanya Rohilla, has said that the new norms, which are mandatory for the users to accept by February 8, also jeopardises the national security of the country by sharing, transmitting and storing the users data in some another country.Also read | Delhi HC objects to WhatsApp asking judge not to hear PILIt alleged that WhatsApp is integrating people into Facebook so that Facebook, WhatsApp and Instagram (another subsidiary of Facebook) all become part of one package.“WhatsApp has made a mockery out of our fundamental right to privacy while discharging a public function in India, besides jeopardising the national security of the country by sharing, transmitting and storing the users data in some another country. There remains a possibility that that foreign country might be a hostile country to India.“Brazenly, WhatsApp has also made it mandatory for its users to accept this policy by February 8 or else the services and accounts of the respective users would be terminated. This type of arbitrary behaviour and brow beating cannot be accepted in a democracy and is completely ultra vires and against the fundamental rights as enshrined in the Constitution of India,” the plea said.During a hearing last week, Justice Sanjeev Sachdeva had remarked that WhatsApp is a private application and a person can opt out of it and use some other app if there were concerns about privacy and sharing of information. WhatsApp’s lawyer Mukul Rohatgi, while refuting the allegations of sharing of data and breach of privacy, had also informed the high court that the new privacy policy has itself been deferred till April.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-high-court-to-hear-whatsapp-new-privacy-policy-case-today-101611552792437.html
25-01-2021||India||‘Largely under Haryana’: Farmers’ leader on routes given for R-Day tractor rally||A leader of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) on Monday expressed dissatisfaction over the routes approved by the Delhi Police for Tuesday’s proposed tractor rally by the farmers protesting against the three contentious farm laws. KMSC’s Sukhwinder Singh Sabhra told news agency ANI that the routes approved by the police come largely under Haryana, as against farmers’ leaders' demand for Delhi’s Outer Ring Road. Sabhra said a final call on the route would be taken after a meeting with the police at 10am.“We feel that the kind of permission granted to us for tractor rally is not right. We wanted to go to the Old Ring Road but we were given conditional permission and assigned the portion that comes largely under Haryana,” ANI quoted Sabhra as saying. “All we’re saying is that we don’t want to go there, we just want to go to the Ring Road. We’ll have a meeting with the police at 10am over this. It will then be decided where we will finally go. After the meeting, we’ll decide the time and route of the rally,” he said.All we're saying is that we don't want to go there, we just want to go to Ring Road. We'll have a meeting with Police at 10 am today over this. It will then be decided where will we finally go. After the meeting, we'll decide the time & route of the rally: Sukhwinder Singh Sabhra https://t.co/sGWOa1afMpAfter multiple rounds of talks last week, the Delhi Police on Sunday finally gave “conditional” approval for the rally. However, addressing a press conference, special commissioner of police (intelligence) Dependra Pathak said more than 300 Twitter handles had been set up in Pakistan to create “disturbance” at the rally.According to the police, the tractor parade would begin only after the conclusion of the official Republic Day celebrations. Barricades placed at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders would be removed, allowing the protesters to enter the national capital. The rally would cover a distance of 170km, of this, 100km would be covered inside the city. The Delhi Police has asked all its personnel, including those on Republic Day duty, to be on alert for any potential law and order situation.The farmers’ leaders, though, have repeatedly assured that the march would be “peaceful.” The agitation against the three farm laws entered day 61 on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/largely-under-haryana-farmers-leader-on-routes-given-for-r-day-tractor-rally-101611550337066.html
25-01-2021||India||Srinagar night temperature drops to -5.2°C as cold wave returns||Cold wave returned to Kashmir with the night temperature dropping to -5.2 degree Celsius in Srinagar on Sunday night. Tourists resorts of Gulmarg and Pahalgam were the coldest places in Kashmir, as the night temperature was recorded at 11.5°C and 11.9°C respectively. In a release, India Meteorological Department (IMD) also said that Jammu recorded 6°C.After a fresh spell of snowfall, the weather across Kashmir will remain dry till the end of this month which will also see the culmination of 40 day Chilai Kalan -- the harshest part of winters in Kashmir. This winter, the Valley witnessed back-to-back spells of snow which led to the accumulation of more than five feet of snow in southern parts as well as upper reaches of Kashmir. For the past two weeks, Kashmir has been witnessing cold wave with night temperature hovering between -5 and -10°C. Meanwhile, the Srinagar-Jammu national highway has been opened for traffic, though today only the stranded vehicles will be allowed to move on it. Air traffic has also been restored.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/srinagar-night-temperature-drops-to-5-2-c-as-cold-wave-returns-101611550752619.html
25-01-2021||India||Yogi Adityanath announces slew of awards to mark UP Diwas||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday kick-started a three-day extravaganza to mark ‘UP Diwas’ by announcing ‘UP Gaurav Samman’ and a host of other schemes and awards. The CM said the fourth edition of the ‘UP Diwas’ will be celebrated as a mark of respect for the people of the state for their resilience, sense of teamwork and ability to perform in adversity.Yogi also gave away several awards on the occasion - Laxmibai awards (to sportswomen) and Laxman awards (sportsmen), Gokul awards to milk producers, Vishwakarma awards to workers and artisans, scholarships to students, and also launched UP Geet (a song) sung by Kailash Kher. He launched ‘Udyam Sarathi’ mobile app for employment and announced ‘Abhyudaya’ coaching centres to come up in the state soon for the benefit of youths to prepare for competitive exams.Addressing the gathering at Avadh Shilpgram, Yogi said the strong resolve shown by the state during the Covid pandemic has been exemplary and a matter of pride.“It came as no surprise that Uttar Pradesh received accolades from foreign countries and WHO for the commendable work done in Covid management. It was all due to teamwork and strong resolve of everyone involved in the fight against Covid,’’ he said.Spelling out ‘Mission Rozgar’ for employment generation, Yogi said: “Four lakh youths have got government jobs during the last three-and-a-half years. Another 15 lakh were facilitated to get private jobs while 1.5 crore youths were added to employment through investment and about 15 crore youth got self-employment by way of various schemes of the Centre and the state.”“This year the social welfare department has identified over 1.43 lakh youths who have excelled in various fields and has given them scholarships. From this year, we will be identifying three to five people who have given a new identity to the state in the country as well as globally, and we will be honoring them with the ‘UP Gaurav Samman,’ the CM said, adding that the ‘Vishwakarma Samman’ was instituted in the 2nd edition of UP Diwas.Delving into history, Yogi said it was never celebrated despite the fact that on January 24, 1950, a notification was issued in this regard. He termed it ‘unfortunate’ that no previous government ever thought of glorifying the past of the state by celebrating the day.On Covid vaccine, Yogi said: “Besides people of the country, we are also giving it to many countries like Brazil, Bhutan, Nepal, Mauritius, Bangladesh and others.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yogi-adityanath-announces-slew-of-awards-to-mark-up-diwas-101611550052986.html
25-01-2021||India||India adds 13,203 Covid-19 cases, 131 deaths; tally over 10.66 million||With 13,203 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the lowest in more than eight months, and 131 related deaths in the last 24 hours, India's caseload has gone past 10.66 million, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Monday. The numbers of infections and deaths on Monday morning were lower than Sunday's 14,849 cases and 155 fatalities respectively, data showed. The active cases of the coronavirus disease also remained below 185,500 for the second day in a row at 184,182.There were 13,298 patients who were cured of the viral disease between Sunday and Monday morning, which have pushed India's recoveries to 10,330,084 and the recovery rate to 96.83%. The country's death toll is now at 153,470, according to the health ministry's dashboard at 8am.Also read | Grim milestone: Covid-19 count set to touch 100 millionThe dashboard also showed that over 1.6 million healthcare workers have been inoculated so far in the countrywide vaccination drive, which started on January 16. The health ministry had said on Sunday that India took only six days to roll out 1 million vaccine doses.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has said 19,23,37,117 samples were tested for Covid-19 up to January 24. Of these, 570,246 samples were tested on Saturday, it added.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said scientists have done their duty by developing the Covid-19 vaccine and that "now we have to fulfil ours" by defeating the network spreading lies and rumours about the vaccination. "Indian scientists have done their duty by developing the coronavirus vaccine and now we have to fulfil ours. We have to defeat every network spreading lies and rumours with the right information," Modi said.The Prime Minister said the youth should now come forward to assist in the Covid-19 vaccination programme by providing the right information to the people while addressing tribal guests, National Cadet Corps (NCC) cadets, National Service Scheme (NSS) volunteers and tableaux artists who would be a part of the upcoming Republic Day parade on Tuesday. "You need to take it to the next level now. Your reach is in all parts of society. I request you to come forward to help the country with the COVID-19 vaccination programme. You have to provide the right information on vaccines to the poor and general public," Modi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-adds-13-203-covid-19-cases-131-deaths-tally-over-10-66-million-101611549164867.html
25-01-2021||India||India conducts 'Kavach' drill in Andaman Sea to fine-tune joint war-fighting skills||The Indian military on Monday carried out a large-scale conjoint training exercise, codenamed Kavach or shield, in the Andaman Sea and Bay of Bengal to fine-tune joint war-fighting capabilities. The forces also conducted AMPHEX-21 drill off the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, news agency ANI reported.The training exercise was conducted under the Andaman and Nicobar Command with the participation of the Eastern Naval Command and Army Southern Command involving the Indian Army, Indian Navy, Indian Air Force and the Coast Guard.All forces of the Andaman and Nicobar Command, elements of an amphibious brigade of the army’s Southern Command, corvettes, submarine and amphibious landing ships of Navy the and Marine Commandos, Jaguar Maritime Strike and transport aircraft from IAF were part of the training exercise, the defence ministry was quoted as saying by ANI.The aim of the tri-service drill is to sharpen operational synergy between the three services, with the high-tempo exercise involving fighter jets, transport aircraft, helicopters, warships, infantry combat vehicles and elements of special forces, the defence ministry said last week.The exercise involves synergised application of maritime surveillance assets, coordinated air and maritime strikes, air defence, submarine and landing operations. According to the ministry, the scope of the drill will cover joint intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (ISR) tasks that will involve the military’s technical, electronic and human intelligence elements.The exercise comes at a time when India and China are locked in a border standoff in the eastern Ladakh theatre and the Indian Navy has stepped up surveillance in the Indian Ocean Region (IOR) to keep tabs on China’s moves to expand its footprint in the strategic waters.The joint force would execute multi-domain, high-intensity offensive and defensive manoeuvres in the Andaman Sea and Bay of Bengal and carry out amphibious landing operations, air landed operation, helicopters-borne insertion of Special Forces from sea culminating in tactical follow-on operations on land, the ministry had said last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-conducts-kavach-drill-in-andaman-sea-to-fine-tune-joint-war-fighting-skill-101611549068147.html
25-01-2021||India||J-K LG pays tribute to army jawan killed in ceasefire violation by Pakistan||Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Monday paid tribute to army jawan who succumbed to his injuries on Sunday in an unprovoked ceasefire violation by Pakistan on January 18 in Sunderbani sector."Tributes to Naik Nishant Sharma, one of the four soldiers injured along LoC in an unprovoked ceasefire violation by Pak in Sunderbani sector on Jan 18, who attained martyrdom. Our country is eternally indebted to the supreme sacrifices of our bravehearts: LG Manoj Sinha," Department of Information and Public Relations, Government of Jammu and Kashmir tweeted.As per the official statement, the Pakistan Army had resorted to an unprovoked ceasefire violation on the line of control (LoC) in the Sunderbani sector of Jammu and Kashmir's Rajouri district on January 18. Indian troops strongly responded to the retaliation.In the incident, Nk Nishant Sharma of 10 JAK RIF (Jammu and Kashmir Rifles) was critically injured and was under treatment at Command Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jk-lg-pays-tribute-to-army-jawan-killed-in-ceasefire-violation-by-pakistan-101611549136792.html
25-01-2021||India||Nepal Election Commission refuses to give legitimacy to either faction of ruling NCP||The Nepal Election Commission on Sunday refused to recognise either of the factions of the Nepal Communist Party--one led by Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli and the other by Pushpa Kamal Dahal and Madhav Kumar Nepal.The poll panel stated that both the factions have failed to follow the Political Parties Act-2017 and party statute."Decisions made by both the parties didn't come in line with the party's statute. As the decisions don't fall in line, we can't update the details of the Nepal Communist Party. We have notified both chairman KP Sharma Oli and Pushpa Kamal Dahal about it, making them clear that the Commission will maintain existing details of the party," Spokesperson for Election Commission Raj Kumar Shrestha confirmed.The Nepal Communist Party which has broken into two factions, one led by caretaker Prime Minister Oli and the other faction led by Dahal and Nepal. Both the factions filed an application in the Election Commission claiming authenticity along with the election emblem--the "Sun".The party broke into two factions on December 22, two days after Oli dissolved the lower house on 20th December, NCP-formed after a merger between then CPN-UML and CPN (Maoist Center) in May 2018, Oli and Dahal became the chairs of the party, as per the statute.The Kathmandu Post reported that the commission concluded that decisions taken by both sides failed to follow the provisions of the party statute that was submitted to the commission.The Election Commission decision means that even though the party has practically split, it continues to remain intact--technically and legally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nepal-election-commission-refuses-to-give-legitimacy-to-either-faction-of-ruling-ncp-101611547233951.html
25-01-2021||India||Republic Day 2021: Delhi Metro services schedule, parking details||Delhi Metro services will be partially curtailed on Tuesday and four stations in the vicinity of Rajpath will be shut in the morning due to security arrangements for Republic Day, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) had said.However, Metro train services will be available for commuters at all stations during the Republic Day Parade on Tuesday. The stations which will remain closed are Central Secretariat, Udyog Bhawan, Patel Chowk and Lok Kalyan Marg. Boarding or de-boarding at Central Secretariat from 5am till 12pm, Udyog Bhawan, Lok Kalyan Marg (Race Course) from 8.45am to 12pm, Patel Chowk and ITO will not be allowed."Entry/exit to the following stations will remain closed for a short period on 26th January 2021. Interchange shall be available at Central Secretariat. Parking facilities will remain closed from 6am on 25th January till 2 pm on 26th January at all stations," DMRC had tweeted.Also read | Farmers' tractor parade on R-Day: Routes, arrangements, traffic advisoryThe entry and exit at Patel Chowk and Lok Kalyan Marg Metro stations will remain closed from 8:45am to 12pm on January 26. All Metro parking lots will also remain closed from 6am on January 25 till 2pm on January 26. The Central Secretariat Metro station will only be used for the interchange of passengers between Line 2 (Yellow Line) and Line 6 (Violet Line) during that period, the DMRC said.Also read | Rafale to make R-Day debut: All you need to knowIndia will celebrate the 72nd Republic Day on Tuesday with a grand display of military might, vibrant cultural diversity and socio-economic progress on Rajpath in the national capital. The Republic Day parade will start at 9.50am from Vijay Chowk and move towards National Stadium and the tableaux will start from Vijay Chowk and proceed towards the Red Fort ground. The wreath-laying function at National War Memorial will take place at 9am.The parade will start from Vijay Chowk and pass through Rajpath, Amar Jawan Jyoti, India Gate, Princess Palace roundabout, Tilak Marg, and Radial Road, and then turn right on "C" Hexagon, turn left again and enter the National Stadium from gate number 1. The tableaux will start from Vijay Chowk and go towards Red Fort via Rajpath, Amar Jawan Jyoti, India Gate, Princess Palace roundabout, Tilak Marg, Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg and Netaji Subhash Marg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/republic-day-2021-delhi-metro-services-schedule-parking-details-101611546959169.html
25-01-2021||India||Cold wave over several parts of NW India likely from today||Cold wave to severe cold wave is likely to impact parts of north Rajasthan, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh during January 25 to 27 and west Uttar Pradesh and west Madhya Pradesh between January 26 and 27, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD).Delhi recorded a minimum temperature of 7.4 degrees Celsius (° C) on Monday. The Western Disturbance which caused widespread snowfall in the Western Himalayas moved northeastwards from Jammu and Kashmir. Cold, dry northwesterly winds are likely to pick up from today over northwest India and persist during the subsequent 3-4 days over plains of north and adjoining parts of central and western India.Under its influence, the current spell of dense to very dense fog over some pockets over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Uttar Pradesh, north Rajasthan is likely to persist till January 26 and decrease in spatial distribution and intensity thereafter. Today also, there was moderate fog with less than 500 metres visibility over many parts of northwest India. On Sunday, there was dense to very dense fog across the Himalayan foothills from north to the north-eastern states. In fact, a layer of uplifted fog persisted the entire day over parts of Punjab, Haryana, Delhi and west Uttar Pradesh.Cold day to severe cold day conditions are very likely in some pockets over Uttar Pradesh during the next two days. Cold wave to severe cold wave conditions are very likely in isolated pockets over north Rajasthan, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh between January 25 and 27.“We are expecting a substantial drop in minimum temperatures by 3-4 ° C over the plains as winds are northwesterly blowing from the direction of the Western Himalayas where there was widespread snowfall,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre.According to IMD, a cold day or severe cold day is classified as such on two parameters—a minimum temperature of under 10 ° C and a maximum temperature of 4.5° C or 6.4° C below normal.A cold wave occurs in the plains when the minimum temperature is 10° C or below and/or is 4.5 notches less than the season’s normal for two consecutive days. A cold wave is also declared when the minimum temperature is less than 4° C in the plains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cold-wave-over-several-parts-of-nw-india-likely-from-today-101611546852266.html
25-01-2021||India||2 Chinese nationals arrested in Uttar Pradesh for alleged money laundering||Two Chinese nationals, including a woman, were arrested by the UP Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) in Gautam Buddh Nagar for their alleged involvement in illegal money transactions after opening online accounts in banks using fraudulently activated SIM cards, said UP ADG, law and order, Prashant Kumar, on Sunday.The involvement of the two Chinese nationals surfaced after the arrest of 14 people from different parts of the state involved in providing them SIM cards on January 17, he said.The ADG did not rule out the possibility of money laundering/terror funding behind the racket and stated that the ATS was probing the motive behind illegal money transactions.He said the two Chinese nationals, identified as Xu Xunfu alias ‘Julahi’ and Pochnli Tengli alias ‘Alice’, were arrested from their hideout in Gautam Buddh Nagar. They were staying in India illegally for four-five months. Julahi’s visa expired in August, 2020 and Alice’s visa duration ended in September, 2020.The ADG said the two accused were involved in arranging fraudulently activated SIM cards for a Chinese couple who owns a hotel in Gurgaon, Haryana. The two arrested persons used to deliver these SIM cards to the Chinese manager of the Gurgaon hotel after arranging the same from different people.The duo had revealed that they delivered over 1,800 fraudulently activated SIM cards to the hotel manager. Efforts were on to trace the Chinese couple and their hotel manager involved in the racket, he said.The ADG said the Chinese couple, who was at large, was in regular touch with another person in China through an instant messaging application for illegal money transactions.He said they all were members of an international racket involved in illegal money transactions.The racketeers misused relaxations offered in banking services for the common man during the pandemic. In this period, people were allowed to open their online bank accounts through their mobile numbers, without having to visit the banks.A senior ATS official explained that at least two SIM cards could be issued in a day on one person’s identity proof. Some SIM card retailers and distributors used to get two SIM cards activated when any person approached them for a SIM card without letting the person know about the second card.He said these pre-activated SIM cards, which cost merely ₹20, were sold to other dealers at ₹260 and later the same SIM cards were used to open online bank accounts for illegal money transactions.The online bank accounts also have the facility of mentioning one beneficiary other than the account holder. The beneficiary could withdraw money from the ATM machines by getting one-time passwords sent to their registered mobile numbers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-chinese-nationals-arrested-in-uttar-pradesh-for-alleged-money-laundering-101611546312773.html
25-01-2021||India||Farmers' tractor parade on R-Day: Routes, arrangements, traffic advisory||Farmers across the country are gearing for the tractor rally on Republic Day on Tuesday after Delhi Police gave their nod. Thousands of vehicles from across Haryana, Punjab, the Terai region of Uttarakhand and western Uttar Pradesh started leaving for Delhi’s borders for the tractor rally, leading to heavy traffic on various roads, including the busy Delhi-Amritsar, Delhi-Jaipur, Delhi-Meerut highways.Also Read | Farmers' Republic Day tractor parade: Tableaux to depict stir against agri lawsOn Sunday, farmer leaders appealed to those participating in the Republic Day tractor march to carry enough ration for 24 hours and ensure that the rally remains peaceful. The agitation entered 61st day on Monday as the stand-off between farmers and the government continues. The contentious farm laws are farmers are the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.Here is all you need to know about the planned tractor rally:When will it begin?The tractor rally will start after the official Republic Day parade concludes at Rajpath and it will travel at Delhi's busiest Outer Ring Road. Farmers' leaders have assured the government that the tractor rally will remain peaceful and will not affect the official Republic Day parade in any way.Rally routesThe rally will be held from Delhi's three border points of Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur. Those starting from the Singhu border will traverse Sanjay Gandhi Transport Nagar, Bawana, Qutabgarh, Auchandi border and Kharkhoda toll plaza, according to farmers' leaders. The entire route will be 63 kilometre long. The 62-km long second route, starting from the Tikri border, will pass through Nagloi, Najafgarh, Jharoda border and Rohtak bypass and Asoda toll plaza.Tractors starting from Ghazipur will drive through Apsara border, Hapur road and Lal Kuan. Covering 68 kilometers, it is the longest route for the march.Traffic advisoryHaryana authorities have issued a travel advisory ahead of the tractor rally. The authorities warned against unnecessary travel towards Delhi over the next couple of days. It also said there would be disruptions in vehicular movement on the national highway from Karnal and Rohtak towards Delhi during January 25-27. Traffic on KMP-KGP Expressway will also be impacted and interchanges at Kundli, Assaudha and Badli will not be accessible to traffic movement on these dates," Haryana police said in the advisory.Security arrangementsFarmers' leaders have said a war room has been set up at each protest site to ensure effective coordination during the parade. There will be 40 members, including doctors, security personnel and social media managers, in each of these rooms. A team of ex-servicemen participating in the protest will also keep an eye on the security situation. Meanwhile, farmers have also deployed thousands of volunteers of their own to ensure no untoward incident takes place.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-tractor-parade-on-r-day-routes-arrangements-traffic-advisory-101611545333382.html
25-01-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: India-China hold 9th round of talks on Ladakh||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.In 15-hour meet, India, China discuss Ladakh border standoff for 9th timeThe corps commander-level talks between the Indian Army and the People’s Liberation Army (PLA), held at Moldo on the Chinese side of the LAC, began at 11am on Sunday and concluded around 2:30am on Monday. Read moreFarmers across India prepare for Republic Day stirThousands of vehicles from across Haryana, Punjab, the Terai region of Uttarakhand and western Uttar Pradesh started leaving for Delhi’s borders for the tractor rally, leading to heavy traffic on various roads. Read more20 years after war, Kargil waits for a new beginningMore than 20 years after the Kargil War between India and Pakistan, much has changed in the town that’s now a part of the newly created Union territory of Ladakh. Read moreExclusive Interview: Saha opens on battle with Pant for keeper's slot & India's win down underWhen the India wicket-keeper finally manage to spare some time for a chat, it didn’t take him much time to don the imaginary keeping gloves and gather the bouncer-like questions with utmost ease during. Read moreKaran Johar pens note on Varun Dhawan's wedding: 'My boy is all grown up and ready for this beautiful phase in his life'Filmmaker Karan Johar, who launched Varun Dhawan in Bollywood, was one of the few film celebrities to have made it to the actor's heavily guarded wedding in Alibaug on Sunday. Read moreBernie Sanders' meme edited onto iconic Bollywood scenes may be the best thing you’ll see todayIf you've been on the Internet recently, then you must have seen the memes inspired by the outfit US Senator Bernie Sanders wore to Joe Biden-Kamala Harris’ inauguration ceremony. Read more'Knickerwallahs from Nagpur': Rahul Gandhi mocks RSS in Tamil NaduCongress leader Rahul Gandhi targeted Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) in Tamil Nadu’s Tiruppur. Gandhi is leading the Congress party’s campaign ahead of state elections. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-india-china-hold-9th-round-of-talks-on-ladakh-101611543161544.html
25-01-2021||India||India, China hold 15-hour meeting to discuss Ladakh border standoff||The ninth round of talks between India and China to resolve the Ladakh standoff along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) on Sunday lasted for over 15 hours, officials aware of the development said on Monday. The outcome of the meeting, however, is not known yet. The corps commander-level talks between the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA), held at Moldo on the Chinese side of the LAC, began at 11am on Sunday and concluded around 2:30am on Monday.Eastern Ladakh continues to remain tense as two sides have been locked in a lingering border standoff that also has impacted bilateral ties. The soldiers of both the Indian Army and PLA are deployed eyeball-to-eyeball at friction points on the contested border.“The ground situation remains as it was in August-September (when Indian Army took control of key heights on the southern bank of Pangong Tso). The military dialogue alone is unlikely to yield results. Diplomatic efforts will have to progress simultaneously,” an official familiar with the development said before the meeting ended.While India has been consistently pushing for comprehensive disengagement at all flashpoints and restoration of status quo ante of early April 2020 during the ongoing military talks, the Chinese side wants the Indian army to first pull back troops deployed on strategic heights on the southern bank of Pangong Tso.Also Read: 20 years after war, Kargil waits for a new beginning“Neither side is willing to vacate the positions held by them. It seems unlikely that the standoff will be resolved in the short term. However, talks will go on as it is important not to break communication,” another official said.Earlier this month, army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane said that the Indian Army was prepared to hold its ground in eastern Ladakh “for as long as it takes” to achieve national objectives in case the ongoing military and diplomatic talks with China are prolonged. Meanwhile, the PLA has moved back at least 10,000 soldiers from depth areas to rear positions but its frontline deployments remain unchanged.Senior Indian and Chinese commanders met on November 6 last year for the eighth round of military talks, which remained inconclusive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-15-hour-meet-india-china-discuss-ladakh-border-standoff-for-9th-time-101611543851175.html
25-01-2021||India||Rafale to make R-Day debut: All you need to know||Among the many ‘firsts’ of the decade’s first Republic Day parade on Tuesday will be the participation of the newly-acquired Rafale fighter jets. A single Rafale aircraft of the Indian Air Force (IAF) will put on a show on January 26, in what is a highly-anticipated display.Here’s a look at some key points as the Rafale gets ready to make its R-Day debut:1. During Tuesday’s flypast, the Rafale will fly in a “Vertical Charlie” formation. The aircraft flies at a low altitude, pulls up vertically and conducts a roll before stabilising at a higher altitude in the “Vertical Charlie” formation.2. Besides Rafale, 41 other aircraft will be a part of different formations. These include 21 helicopters, 15 fighter jets, five transport aircraft and a vintage Dakota aircraft. The fighter jets include the Rafale, Sukhoi-30s and MiG-29s.3. Rafale will fly with two Jaguars and two MiG-29s in one of the formations, before performing another manoeuvre to wrap up the flypast.4. Rafale is a French-made twin-engine fighter aircraft. It is manufactured by French aircraft maker Dassault Aviation and was introduced in May 2001. Besides the IAF, the jet is used by air forces of Egypt, Qatar, Greece, among others.5. For India, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and then French president Francois Hollande announced the deal for 36 Rafale fighters, worth ₹59,000 crore, in April 2015, during Modi’s state visit to France. In September 2016, the two countries signed an inter-government agreement (IGA) for the acquisition of the jets.6. The deal, however, became subject of a major controversy, as opposition parties, led by Congress, accused the government of “corruption.” However, in December 2018, the Supreme Court upheld the deal and, in November 2019, dismissed petitions seeking review of its Rafale case judgement.7. In October 2019, defence minister Rajnath Singh arrived in France to receive India’s first Rafale. During his visit, Singh also took a sortie in the Rafale, which translates to “gust of wind” in French.8. Eventually, IAF pilots flew to India the country’s first five Rafale jets in July 2020, from France; the jets were due to arrive in May but the delivery was delayed due to the ongoing coronavirus pandemic. The fighters arrived at the Ambala air base and were inducted into the IAF’s “Golden Arrows” squadron in September.9. India has received eight of the 36 Rafale fighters thus far. Besides the five that were inducted last September, three aircraft were flown to India in November 2020. Three more are scheduled to arrive by the end of this month, taking the total to 11.10. The acquisition of Rafale marks India’s first acquisition of an imported fighter in more than two decades. In June 1997, the Russian Sukhoi 30 fighters began serving the IAF.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rafale-to-make-r-day-debut-all-you-need-to-know-101611543389216.html
25-01-2021||India||Farmers' Republic Day tractor parade: Tableaux to depict stir against agri laws||The Republic Day tractor parade by agitating farmers will feature a number of tableaux from across states depicting village life, the protest against the Centre's contentious farm laws, and hailing their courage, according to organisers.A farmer leader told PTI that directions were issued to all organisations participating in the protest to prepare tableaux for the parade.Follow latest updates on farmers protest here"Around one lakh tractor-trolleys from across the country will participate in the parade. Around 30 per cent of these will have tableaux on different themes, including the history of the farmers' movement in India, the role of women farmers and farming practices followed in different states," he said.A few children from Maharashtra's Vidarbha region have also planned a tableau on farmer suicides."Children of farmers who committed suicide are expected to participate in the parade. Their tableau will depict the hardships faced by farmers of the region that faces water scarcity," a member of Swaraj India said.Tableaux from states like Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir and Uttarakhand will show how fruits and vegetables are cultivated in the hilly regions.Participants from Punjab and Haryana will showcase traditional and modern farming technology and statues of women milking cows and farmers driving bullock carts.Each tractor will carry a tricolour and there will be folk music and patriotic songs.A member of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), a joint front of the protesting farmer unions, said the parade is likely to start from the five border points of Delhi -- Singhu, Tikri, Ghazipur, Palwal and Shahjahanpur -- where farmers have been camping since November 28 last year.The tractor parade will start after the official Republic Day parade concludes at Rajpath and cover a distance of more than 100 kilometers before culminating around 6 pm, he said.A war room has been set up at each protest site to ensure effective coordination during the parade. There will 40 members, including doctors, security personnel and social media managers, in each of these rooms, the SKM member said.Around 40 ambulances will be stationed along the route to attend to any medical emergency.Another farmer leader said around 2,500 volunteers have been deployed to ensure that the parade remains peaceful and no untoward incident takes place. The volunteers have been given badges and identity cards.Farmer leaders said only five people will be allowed on a tractor and strict vigil is being maintained to thwart any criminal activity.A team of ex-servicemen participating in the protest will also keep an eye on the security situation.A team of mechanics has also been formed to carry out any repair work in case the need arises.Farmer leaders asked all participants to carry jackets and blankets to shield themselves against the cold."Everyone has to return to the starting point after the parade," one of the leaders said.The Delhi Police has agreed to remove the barricades at Singhu and Tikri to let farmers enter the national capital.Farmer leaders said the tractor parade will remain peaceful will not affect the official Republic Day parade in any way.Enacted in September last year, the three farm laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country.However, the protesting farmers have expressed their apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of minimum support price and do away with the 'mandi' (wholesale market) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-republic-day-tractor-parade-tableaux-to-depict-stir-against-agri-laws-101611541458674.html
25-01-2021||India||Republic Day: Check traffic advisory for January 26, routes to avoid||The Delhi Traffic Police have issued an advisory on traffic arrangements and restrictions put in place for the smooth conduct of Republic Day on Tuesday. They have asked people to plan their journeys in advance and avoid the parade and tableaux routes between 4am and 12.30pm on Tuesday. The parade will start at 9.50am from Vijay Chowk and proceed towards the National Stadium and tableaux will start from Vijay Chowk and move towards the Red Fort Ground. The wreath laying function at National War Memorial will take place at 9am.Movement of traffic on certain roads leading to the route of the parade and tableaux will be restricted.Also read | President Kovind to address nation on Republic Day eve: When, where to watchNo traffic will be allowed on Vijay Chowk from 6pm on Monday till the parade is over, it said, adding that Rajpath is already out of bounds. No cross traffic will be allowed on Rajpath intersections from 11pm on Monday at Rafi Marg, Janpath, Man Singh Road till the parade is over, the advisory said.Parade and tableaux routesThe parade will start from Vijay Chowk and pass through Rajpath, Amar Jawan Jyoti, India Gate, Princess Palace roundabout, Tilak Marg and Radial Road, and then turn right on "C" Hexagon, turn left again and enter the National Stadium from gate number 1, the advisory said.The tableaux will start from Vijay Chowk and go towards Red Fort via Rajpath, Amar Jawan Jyoti, India Gate, Princess Palace roundabout, Tilak Marg, Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg and Netaji Subhash Marg, it said.Closed routesC-Hexagon-India Gate will be closed for traffic from 5am on Tuesday till the tableaux cross Tilak Marg. Traffic on Tilak Marg, Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg and Subhash Marg will not be allowed on both the carriageways from 4am on Tuesday. The cross traffic will only be allowed depending on the movement of tableaux, the advisory stated.Alternate routesThe traffic advisory suggested alternate routes which motorists can follow as north-south corridor that includes Ring Road, Ashram Chowk, Sarai Kale Khan, IP Flyover and Rajghat.Also read | PM Modi lauds NCC cadets, artistes ahead of Republic Day paradeCommuters can take the route from Madarsa, Lodhi Road T-point via Aurobindo Marg, AIIMS Chowk, Ring Road-Dhaula Kaun Vande Matram Marg, Shankar Road and Sheikh Mujbur Rahman road for going to Mandir Marg. There is also the east and the west corridors for motorists who have been suggested to take Ring Road via Bhairon Road at Mathura Road and Lodhi Road.Commuters who want to go towards AIIMS Chowk can take the Ring Road-Dhaula Kaun via Mandir Marg and to go towards Ring Road-ISBT, motorists can take Chadgi Ram Akhara and Mall road via Azadpur. Commuters going to the New Delhi Railway Station from south Delhi can go through Dhaula Kuan, Vande Matram Marg, Panchkuian Road, Connaught Place outer circle, Chelmsford Road for Paharganj side or Minto Road and Bhavbhuti Marg for Ajmeri Gate side.Also read | Republic Day 2021: History, significance of the day India became a republicFrom east Delhi, they can take Boulevard Road via ISBT bridge, Rani Jhansi flyover, Jhandewalan roundabout, DB Gupta Road, Sheela Cinema Road, Paharganj Bridge and reach New Delhi Railway Station, it said. To travel to Old Delhi Railway Station from south Delhi, people can take Ring Road, Ashram Chowk, Sarai Kale Khan, Rajghat, Chowk Yamuna Bazar, SP Mukherjee Marg, Chhatta Rail and Kauria Bridge, it said.Bus and Metro servicesThe movement of bus services will be curtailed at Shivaji Stadium, ISBT Sarai Kale Khan, Kamla Market roundabout, Delhi Secretariat (IGI Stadium), Pragati Maidan (Bhairon Road), Hanuman Mandir (Yamuna Bazar), Mori Gate and ISBT Kashmiri Gate, the advisory said.Metro train services will remain available for commuters at all Metro stations during the Republic Day Parade on Tuesday. However, boarding or de-boarding at Central Secretariat from 5am till 12 pm, Udyog Bhawan, Lok Kalyan Marg (Race Course) from 8.45am to 12 pm, Patel Chowk and ITO will not be allowed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/republic-day-check-traffic-advisory-for-january-26-routes-to-avoid-101611541022150.html
25-01-2021||India||President Kovind to address nation on Republic Day eve: When, where to watch||President Ram Nath Kovind will address the nation on the eve of India’s 72nd Republic Day on Monday. His speech will be telecast at 7pm on the entire national network of All India Radio (AIR) and over all channels of Doordarshan in Hindi followed by the English version.The address will then be broadcast in regional languages by regional channels of Doordarshan. AIR will broadcast regional language versions from 9:30pm onwards on its respective regional networks, the President's Secretariat said in a statement.In his previous address on the eve of Republic Day, Kovind had invoked constitutional ideals and the teachings of Mahatma Gandhi. "Our Constitution gave us rights as citizens of a free democratic nation, but also placed on us the responsibility to always adhere to the central tenets of our democracy – justice, liberty, equality and fraternity. It becomes easier for us to follow these constitutional ideals, if we keep in mind the life and values of the Father of our Nation,” he had said.Backing the Goods and Services Tax (GST), the President had said every policy initiative of the government is guided by the ‘nation-first’ principle. “The roll-out of the GST has realised our vision of ‘One country, One tax, One market’. It is being complemented by the e-NAM scheme, which is strengthening the process of creating ‘one market for one nation’ and will benefit farmers,” he said in his speech before the nation.As India gears up celebrate the 72nd Republic Day on Tuesday, this year's parade will be different amid the coronavirus pandemic. The parade, however, will also be a witness to many firsts, including the flypast with Rafale jets and soldiers wearing masks to ensure Covid-19 protocols are followed as they display the country’s military might. The number of officials participating in the parade has been reduced to from 144 to 96 this year due to the pandemic.Flight lieutenant Bhawana Kanth will also be a part of the Republic Day parade, becoming the first woman fighter pilot to take part in the country’s biggest ceremony. This year's Republic Day parade will be organised without a chief guest, a first in more than five decades.Soon after the Republic Day parade at Rajpath, farmers, who have been protesting against three agricultural laws enacted in September last year, will hold a tractor rally. The Delhi Police on Sunday gave in-principle approval to farmers to carry out their tractor rallies in the national capital from three border points – Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur. While the police pegged the number of tractors at around 30,000, farm leaders said there would be about 250,000 tractors entering the national capital from the three border points.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-kovind-to-address-nation-on-republic-day-eve-when-where-to-watch-101611540459002.html
25-01-2021||India||20 years after war, Kargil waits for a new beginning||Once the sun sets in the bitter winter cold of January, you can only see a few stray dogs on the streets of Kargil, which has a population of 150,000 people.But in the ice skating rinks, the lights don’t dim. Children are still practising even as adults make their way to the safety and the comfort of their warm homes. It is in Kargil that the Indian national ice hockey team practices as well.More than 20 years after the Kargil War between India and Pakistan, much has changed in the town that’s now a part of the newly created Union territory of Ladakh and is trying to shed an image rooted in tales of the conflict, and fear of landmines, that have kept tourists away.“That is not all that Kargil is about, we have so much more to offer,” said an administrative official on condition of anonymity. “But the stereotype is hard to overcome. They all associate it with the war. That is why Kargil has been ignored.” The conflict that raged between May and July of 1999 was sparked by the infiltration of Pakistani troops into positions on the Indian side of the Line of Control. Pakistan initially blamed the conflict on Kashmiri militants. After the Indian army, supported by the Indian Air Force, recaptured a majority of the positions, Pakistani forces withdrew in the face of international pressure.There is little to remind a visitor of the conflict in the Kargil of today. During the day, locals bustle about the well- stocked markets that sell wares from the traditional phiren to cutting-edge sporting equipment made by international chains such as Quechua, a trademarked brand for hiking and camping apparel and equipment marketed by the French company Decathlon. “There is great scope for tourism here,” said the official cited above. “But what is needed is an increased focus on education, especially English-medium schools.” Road infrastructure has improved . “It is now easier to get here, there are two-lane roads. More tourism often means more development, look at Leh,” said Azghar Ali, 26, a former national ice hockey player.A former army truck drive who identified himself as Dorje also accepts that the roads have improved, but not the mindset of the tourists. “There are many takers for the treks around there. But most people are still scared to visit Kargil,” he said.Kargil barely receives 4,000 tourists a year, a fifth of the visitors to Leh. “The mountain you see at the edge of Kargil, that’s where the Pakistanis were. We pushed them four mountains back. Why can’t we push back such memories as well, ” said Mohammed Ali, 20, who works with the Border Roads Organisation.The locals are hopeful that things will change with the change of status of Ladakh, previously a part of Jammu and Kashmir, an erstwhile state that was divided into two Union territories in 2019 -- J&K and Ladakh.“It was only after it became a UT that work began on the Zojila tunnel, which will become the lifeline of connectivity in Ladakh once completed,” said Amjad Hussain, 25, a professional skier in Pashkum, 10 kilometres from Kargil.The government is considering building an airport in Wakha and a possible realignment of the airport in Kurbathang, which is currently controlled by the Indian Air Force, the official mentioned in the first instance said. Union minister for tourism Prahlad Patel on Sunday announced that India’s premier skiing institute, Indian Institute of Skiing and Mountaineering (IISM) in Gulmarg, J&K, will soon be opening a branch in Pashkum, Kargil, to promote adventure tourism.Kansas Angmo, the Ladakh tourism director, said that with the UT status, a lot more can be achieved. “The share of a UT in the budget is much greater,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/20-years-after-war-kargil-waits-for-a-new-beginning-101611533984685.html
25-01-2021||India||Priyanka Gandhi provides financial aid to kin of party worker who died in accident||In a humanitarian gesture, AICC in-charge of Uttar Pradesh Priyanka Gandhi Vadra sent financial help to the family of a worker who had died in a road accident while he was travelling to attend a party programme.A top source in UP Congress told ANI, "One of our dedicated workers Tribhuvan Singh in Ghazipur district died in a road accident while he was going to attend a nyay panchayat meeting in his area with his block president where they met with an accident."Priyanka Gandhi Vadra spoke to the family members and came to know about the financial condition of his family. She then assigned AICC secretary in-charge Bajirao Khade to reach out to the family and provided financial help of ₹2 lakh from the party. On Sunday Bajirao visited the family of Tribhuvan Singh and handed over the help to them, the source said.Also Read | Priyanka Gandhi slams Centre for blocking farmers from entering Delhi"On behalf of Priyanka Gandhiji in presence of Congress leaders, the cheque of ₹2 lakh from UP Congress is given to respected Tribhuvan Singhji's family who died in a road accident while travelling to attend a party program," Bajirao Khade tweeted.Another leader in the UP Congress said the life of a person can't be taken back but the gesture shown by the leader sends the message to the party cadre that leadership relates with them in bad times. By taking this step Priyanka Gandhi has shown that every worker of the party, from any level, is important.For the last 45 days, UP Congress is running Sangathan Srijan Abhiyan phase II. It is intended to form nyay panchayat committees and elect nyay panchayat presidents.Out of 8,150 nyay panchayats we have completed 5,200 nyay panchayat meetings and subsequent formations. For the last one-month, district observers have been stationed in their respective district and to stay there and do the groundwork. The whole party is in active gear.At many places, Congress is forming nyay panchayat bodies after 25 years. It's a huge task which she has undertaken. Following the feedback and with this formation gram sabha, committees will begin to work. After that she will tour the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/priyanka-gandhi-provides-financial-aid-to-kin-of-party-worker-who-died-in-accident-101611533609747.html
25-01-2021||India||Law minister to launch Digital voter ID card today||Law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad will on Monday launch the electronic version of the voter identity card which can be downloaded on a mobile phone or a personal computer.The e-elector photo identity card is non-editable digital version of the elector photo identity card and it can be saved in facilities such as digital locker and can be printed in the PDF format, Election Commission officials said.“Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad will launch the e-EPIC programme and distribute e-EPICs and Elector Photo Identity Cards to five new voters,” a Commission statement said on Sunday.The physical card takes time to print and reach the voter, and the idea is to provide faster delivery and easy accessibility to the document, the statement said.The Aadhaar card, Permanent Account Number (PAN) card and driving licence are available in digital mode. Introduced in 1993, the elector photo identity cards are acceptable as proof of identity and address.The e version of the voter card is being launched to mark the anniversary of the Election Commission.The EC came into being on January 25, 1950, a day before India became a republic.For the past few years, January 25 is also observed as National Voters’ Day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/law-minister-to-launch-digital-voter-id-card-today-101611533875373.html
25-01-2021||India||Shopian fake encounter: Army Captain tried to destroy evidence, say cops||The army captain involved in the fake encounter in Kashmir’s Shopian district last July and two other civilian accused haven’t provided any information about the source of weapons planted on the three slain youths and had also attempted to destroy the evidence, a police charge sheet said.Captain Bhoopendra Singh had also provided wrong information to his superiors and the police about the recovery made during the staged encounter, the charge sheet filed by the Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the Jammu and Kashmir Police before the chief judicial magistrate here said.The case relates to the July 18, 2020 encounter in Shopian’s Amshipura in which three youths were killed and dubbed as terrorists. Later, the army ordered a Court of Inquiry after reports appeared on social media that the three youths were innocent.“No leads regarding the source of illegal weapons as illegally arranged by accused” for planting on the bodies were provided, the charge sheet said.“By staging the encounter,” the three accused “have purposefully destroyed evidence or real crime that they have committed and also have (been) purposefully projecting false information as part of a criminal conspiracy hatched between them with the motive to grab a prize money of ₹20 lakh,” it said.The army, however, had denied that its captain staged the encounter for ₹20 lakh, saying there was no system of cash rewards for its personnel for any acts in combat situations or otherwise in the line of duty.“The evidence was destroyed by accused Captain Singh,” the charge sheet said.Singh, who has been placed under detention, along with the other two accused -- Tabish Nazir and Bilal Ahmed Lone -- set fire to a shelter at the encounter site, according to the charge sheet. The SIT charge sheet gave details of forensic analysis of the crime scene which was photographed “from all possible perspectives”. The FSL (Forensic and Scientific Laboratory) team recovered vital evidence that was seized.Based on responses filed by 62 Rashtriya Rifles to the SIT about details of the ammunition fired during the incident along with a copy of SITREP (Situation Report), the “accused captain had claimed to have (sic) fired a total of 37 rounds from his service rifle”. The army, in its FIR registered at Heerpora police station, had claimed that based on “their own input about hiding of unknown terrorists in village Amshipora”, the encounter was launched on July 17, 2020 during which three unidentified hardcore terrorists were neutralised. Two pistols with two magazines and four empty pistol cartridges, 15 live cartridges and 15 empty cartridges of AK series weapon and other objectionable items were recovered from the encounter site. However, during the ballistic and forensic examination of the scene of crime, four empty cartridges were recovered -- two of which were from 7.65 mm and two from 9 mm pistols (used by the army).“From the circumstances at the crime scene which are contrary to the findings of the ballistic expert opinion the version of the accused captain Bhoopendra Singh... regarding information furnished by him in FIR is not supported.” There was no seizure of AK rifles from the staged encounter.The charge sheet submitted by the SIT has listed 75 witnesses in support of its findings and has also provided technical evidence including call data records of the accused persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shopian-fake-encounter-army-captain-tried-to-destroy-evidence-say-cops-101611533699323.html
25-01-2021||India||India, China hold talks on LAC row||India and China on Sunday held yet another round of military talks in their latest attempt to ease tensions in eastern Ladakh, where the two sides have been locked in a lingering border standoff that has hit bilateral ties, at a time when frontline soldiers are deployed eyeball-to-eyeball at friction points on the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC), officials familiar with the development said.The corps commander-level talks between the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) were held at Moldo on the Chinese side of the LAC. The outcome of the ninth round of military dialogue was not known when this report was filed.The situation in the Ladakh sector remains tense and the ongoing military and diplomatic dialogue has not yielded results. “The ground situation remains as it was in August-September (when Indian Army took control of key heights on the southern bank of Pangong Tso). The military dialogue alone is unlikely to yield results. Diplomatic efforts will have to progress simultaneously,” said one of the officials cited above.India has consistently pushed for comprehensive disengagement at all flashpoints and restoration of status quo ante of early April 2020 during the ongoing military talks whereas the Chinese side wants the Indian Army to first pull back troops deployed on strategic heights on the southern bank of Pangong Tso.“Neither side is willing to vacate the positions held by them. It seems unlikely that the standoff will be resolved in the short term. However, talks will go on as it is important not to break communication,” said a second official.Indian Air Force chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria on Saturday said that India was ready to match China’s aggression in the eastern Ladakh theatre, where the two countries have been locked in a border row since May 2020. “If they (China) can get aggressive, we will also get aggressive. We have full preparations (to meet any eventuality),” said the IAF chief.Last month, he said the likely reasons for Chinese actions in the Ladakh sector could include a planned escalation and an attempt to establish border claim lines and start border talks on the new positions, military signalling, domination efforts with escalation control and deployment and training of their Western Theatre forces in real war-like scenarios wherein the Galwan Valley incident was an overreach.Senior Indian and Chinese commanders met on November 6 for the eighth round of military talks.India has made all preparations to hold ground in Ladakh for an extended duration.On January 12, army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane said that the Indian Army was prepared to hold its ground in eastern Ladakh “for as long as it takes” to achieve national objectives in case the ongoing military and diplomatic talks with China are prolonged.Experts said talks are deadlocked because of serious differences between the two sides on the conditions of disengagement, as previously reported by Hindustan Times.The PLA has moved back at least 10,000 soldiers from depth areas to rear positions but its frontline deployments remain unchanged.Earlier, Naravane said India should not read too much into the withdrawal of Chinese troops from depth areas on the Tibetan plateau as there has been absolutely no troop cut by either side at friction points.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-hold-talks-on-lac-row-101611533488438.html
25-01-2021||India||Historical blunder corrected: Javadekar on Babri demolition||The Ram mandir being constructed at Ayodhya is a temple of unity of the country and people from different faiths support it, Union minister Prakash Javadekar said in New Delhi on Sunday.Speaking at an event at the Delhi BJP office to felicitate people who donated substantial sums for the construction of the Ram temple, Javadekar said the ‘Ram Janmbhoomi Andolan’ was a movement for the country’s self respect.“The Ram Mandir coming up at Ram Janmbhoomi is a temple of unity of the country. Ram unifies the country and symbolises the unity of the country,” he said.“When Babar came to India he chose to destruct Ram temple in Ayodhya as he understood that the living force of the country rested there,” said the Union Information and Broadcasting minister. He further said the disputed structure that came up after alleged destruction of an ancient Ram temple in Ayodhya was not a mosque because no worship happened there.Javadekar said he was in Ayodhya in 1992 and witnessed how a “historical blunder(Aitihasik Bhool)” was corrected.“We were sleeping there a night before. The three domes (of Babri Masjid) were visible. Next day the world saw how a historical blunder was removed,” he said.Javadekar said the collection of contributions from people for the Ram temple is like the one under which farmers of six lakh villages provided pieces of iron for Sardar Patel’s statue in Gujarat. “If we are asking people for help in the construction of Ram Mandir, they are happily donating for it. We have to reach every hold. People are contributing ₹10 to ₹10 crore. Some will even contribute more,” Javadekar added furtherHe said the Supreme Court judgement paving the way for construction of the Ram temple led to a wave of joy across the country. “I am happy that lord Ram is no longer claimed by one religion and has become a symbol of pride for the entire country. Even people of other religions favour construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya,” he said. He said construction of the Ram Mandir has begun in Ayodhya and it will be completed in two years. Not only all Indians but crores of people from all over the world will visit Ayodhya to see the grand Ram temple there, added the minister.(This story has been published from a wire agency feed without modifications to the text. Only the headline has been changed.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/historical-blunder-corrected-javadekar-on-babri-demolition-101611533206251.html
25-01-2021||India||Tamil Nadu: Rahul hits out at Modi, govt over Chinese intrusion, GST, farm stir||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday targeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the central government over the issues of Chinese intrusion, farmers, economy and the ideology of the BJP-RSS combine here on the second day of his campaign in Tamil Nadu, where assembly elections are slated for April-May.“As we speak today, thousands of Chinese troops are occupying our territory and the man with a 56-inch chest cannot even say the word China,” Gandhi said.Gandhi conducted public meetings, road shows in Tirupur and Erode districts on Sunday and interacted with the weavers community and had a traditional lunch on a leaf with them. Gandhi reiterated on Tamil language, culture and spirit in his outreach to the voters.“I will be Tamil Nadu’s soldier in Delhi. I’m here to help elect a government of farmers, labourers, small and medium business people, a government that looks after the interest of Tamil Nadu, a government that cannot be blackmailed by Narendra Modi,” he said.In a veiled attack on Modi’s monthly radio programme, he said, “I’ve not come here to tell you my Mann Ki Baat; I’ve come here to listen to resolve your problems with you. I’m not a Tamil but I understand, accept and listen Tamil spirit & culture. I won’t allow the Prime Minister & BJP to disrespect Tamil people.”He also attacked the Centre over rise in fuel prices, saying people are suffering due to inflation. “Modi ji has brought about tremendous growth in GDP -- gas, diesel and petrol -- prices. People are suffering due to inflation, while the Modi government is busy in tax collection,” he said.Gandhi will meet farmers in Karur district on Monday.The Bharatiya Janata Party in Tamil Nadu, an ally of the ruling All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK), on Sunday released a four-page statement titled, ‘BJP is for Tamils, their culture and their livelihood’ to counter Gandhi’s comments that Modi- BJP is suppressing the Tamil spirit.(With PTI Inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-rahul-hits-out-at-modi-govt-over-chinese-intrusion-gst-farm-stir-101611530809234.html
25-01-2021||India||PM Modi lauds NCC cadets, artistes ahead of Republic Day parade||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday interacted with the NCC cadets and artistes who will perform in the Republic Day parade this Tuesday and said India’s parade pays tribute to the country’s Constitution, which “brings alive the world’s largest democracy”.Lauding the spirit of various cadets and artistes who have prepared with zeal and fervour to perform in Tuesday’s parade, PM Modi said, “Coronavirus has really changed a lot. Masks, corona tests and social distancing (Do Gaz ki Doori) have now become part of our everyday life. Despite this, there is no lack in your enthusiasm.”“When you step on the Rajpath with zeal, every countryman is filled with enthusiasm. When you show a glimpse of the rich art, culture, tradition and heritage of India, the head of every countryperson rises with pride,” PM Modi said in his conversation with the performers.The Republic Day parade, PM Modi said, pays tribute to India’s great social, cultural heritage, as well as our strategic strength.“This year our country is entering its 75th year of independence. This year is also the 400th Prakash Parv of Guru Tegh Bahadur Ji. In the same year we are also making 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose,” PM Modi said.Urging people to make the nation stronger, PM Modi said, “We did not get an opportunity to sacrifice our everything for the independence of the country. But the country has definitely given us the opportunity to give our best. We should keep doing what we can to make the country stronger.”India will be holding it’s first Republic Day parade with Covid-19 protocols in place in a bid to contain the spread.Unlike any previous parade, the jawans will be seen wearing masks and only 25,000 spectators will witness the function this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-lauds-ncc-cadets-artistes-ahead-of-republic-day-parade-101611530605794.html
25-01-2021||India||Bodo accord has brought peace to BTR, says Amit Shah in Assam||Union home minister Amit Shah said on Sunday that the Bodoland Territorial Region Accord, which was inked a year ago, triggered the process of ending insurgency in the North-east and was able to bring peace to the troubled region in Assam.The Bodo Accord, the third peace deal with Bodo rebel groups, was signed in New Delhi on January 27 last year by the Centre with all four factions of National Democratic Front of Bodoland (NDFB), the All Bodo Students Union (ABSU) and United Bodo Peoples’ Organisation (UBPO).“Peace has returned to Bodo areas due to the accord. There used to be killings and abductions here, but I can assure that in a few years, this region will become the most developed part of Assam,” he said while addressing a rally in Kokrajhar, the BTR headquarters, to mark one year of the signing of the accord.“Several steps have already been taken to implement clauses of the accord. I have come to reiterate the commitments made last year and assure that the Centre and state governments would fulfil all the promises made in the accord,” he added.He also attacked the Congress for failing to fulfil promises and implement accords.“If Assam has to be made corruption-free, infiltrator-free, terrorism-free and pollution-free, then only the BJP can do so under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” Shah said. Assam is among the five states slated to hold assembly elections this year.Pitching for another term for a BJP-led government in Assam to “safeguard” the interests of the state, Shah said the Congress-AIUDF combine would open “all gates” to infiltrators if voted to power.In his first political rally in the poll-bound state, Shah also took a swipe at the Congress for calling the BJP “communal”, and questioned the grand old party’s alliance with the Muslim League in Kerala and the Badruddin Ajmal-led AIUDF in Assam, two regional parties that draw their support mostly from Muslims.The Congress said that the claim that the BJP ensured peace and stability in Assam by curbing insurgency was a “hogwash” as it is well-known that Congress is credited with the surrender of several ULFA leaders as well as their rehabilitation and bringing peace to the state while the outfit had declared unilateral ceasefire in 2011.The accord was expected to end the decades-old violent demand for a separate Bodoland state and bring peace to areas dominated by Bodos, the largest tribe in Assam. Soon after signing of the accord, 1,615 cadres of NDFB laid down arms and in March, the outfit disbanded itself.The deal renamed Bodoland Territorial Areas District (BTAD), which included four districts, as the Bodoland Territorial Region (BTR). Redrawing of BTR boundaries, grant of ₹5,000 crore, rehabilitation of NDFB rebels and naming Bodo as associate official language of the state were also part of the deal.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bodo-accord-has-brought-peace-to-btr-says-amit-shah-in-assam-101611530346988.html
25-01-2021||India||Kerala hands solar scandal probe to CBI||Kerala’s Party of India (Marxist)-led government on Sunday unexpectedly decided to hand over a probe of the Team Solar scandal, which almost led to the fall of the Oomen Chandy regime seven years ago, to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) just months ahead of assembly elections due to take place in the state.The move came after Chandy was made chief of the Congress party’s election management committee for the polls.The scandal centred around a fictitious solar energy company called Team Solar formed in 2013 by an alleged con woman named Saritha Nair and second husband, Biju Radhakrishnan, who boasted of their contacts with the chief minister’s office, and cheated people out of money by seeking investments with the promise of making them business partners or offering to install solar power units. Chandy was then the Kerala CM.With the transfer of the case to the CBI, the Left Front government has ensured that two women-- Nair and Swapna Suresh, the principal suspect in a gold smuggling racket unearthed in July -- will be among the central characters in the campaign for the assembly elections due in April-May.The opposition Congress said it was a politically motivated move by the Pinarayi Vijayan government with an eye on the assembly elections.The party will deal with it legally and politically, it said.Nair petitioned Vijayan last week complaining that she was yet to receive justice in sexual assault cases she filed against many Congress leaders ,and called for a probe by a central agency.The government moved quickly to counter the opposition’s campaign against it over the gold smuggling racket by acting on the request.The solar scandal surfaced in 2014 and 60 cases were registered against Nair and her husband. Chandy sacked two of his private secretaries and the state public relations director when their names cropped up in the case.The government also constituted a judicial commission to probe the case.Interestingly, Nair was sentenced in at last six cases and is out on bail. In the 2019 parliament elections, she attempted to take on Congress leader Rahul Gandhi in Kerala’s Wayanad, but her nomination papers were rejected because of her conviction.Last year, the Supreme Court dismissed a plea by her questioning Gandhi’s election and imposed a fine of ₹10,000 on her.“At least three senior police officers investigated the case and found no evidence to prove her claims. For almost five years, the government sat over the case and explored many ways to make it alive. Neck-deep in corruption, gold smuggling and drug trafficking charges, it dusted out an old case as a face-saver,” said senior Congress leader K C Joseph.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-hands-solar-scandal-probe-to-cbi-101611529459174.html
25-01-2021||India||Farmers across India prepare for Republic Day stir||As thousands of farmers have started marching towards Delhi borders to participate in the tractor rally on Republic Day, agriculture organisations have decided to hold similar parades at state and district headquarters across the country.Thousands of vehicles from across Haryana, Punjab, the Terai region of Uttarkhand and western Uttar Pradesh started leaving for Delhi’s borders for the tractor rally, leading to heavy traffic on various roads, including the busy Delhi-Amritsar, Delhi-Jaipur, Delhi-Meerut highways.Traffic police officials in the four states mentioned above said several arterial roads leading to the national highways towards Delhi were choked with a huge number of vehicles as no directions had been issued to stop them. “I belong to a farming family and I decided to take my two children to Delhi for this historic parade,” said Ritu Rani, who drove a tractor from Chandigarh and was stuck at Bastara toll plaza in Karnal.Although farm leaders such as Haryana Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni) president, Gurnam Singh Charuni, had appealed to farmers not to bring trailers, the farmers en route to Delhi said they were taking the trailers along as they will stay in Delhi until the laws are withdrawn. In Haryana, farm bodies have not planned any parade in the state as the focus is on the Delhi rally. However, farmers in Punjab would hold protests at nearly 100 locations. “We want the maximum number of farmers from Punjab to reach the Singhu, Tikri and other borders of Delhi along with their tractors and those who have stayed back should take part in the ongoing protest at the ongoing locations,” said Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan, a general secretary of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan), the farm body that has the highest number of members of all the bodies spearheading the stir.From villages in western Uttar Pradesh, thousands of tractors had already left for Delhi, farm leaders said, even as the state police tried to persuade them not to participate in the rally. “We had evolved a formula of 1 village, 1 tractor, 11 persons from a village to support the movement,” Bharatiya Kisan Union youth wing state president Digamber Singh said. Chaudhary Diwakar Singh, national vice president of BKU (Bhanu), added they have aimed for 500,000 tractors to participate in parade.At some places, police issued prohibitory orders to prevent any violence on Republic Day. Inspector general of police of Meerut range Praveen Kumar, who is camping in Ghaziabad since the beginning of the agitation, met farmer leaders and denied that police were preventing them from reaching Delhi. The statement came after media reports said farmers were being denied the purchase of diesel at some places in Uttar Pradesh; police said there were no such orders in place.Close to 1,500 tractors with farmers from Uttarakhand will reach Delhi for the January 26 protest. Many have reached Haridwar and Uddam Singh Nagar districts. Farmer leader Vikas Chaudhary said from all the blocks of Haridwar district, farmers on tractors will be gathering at Narsain on Monday and then leave for Delhi in groups.Several farmer, Dalit and worker groups in Karnataka are expected to take part in rallies across the state to express solidarity with proposed RD parade in Delhi. “We are going to take out a rally in Bengaluru and are expecting around 25,000 vehicles and even bullock carts. People will enter the city from all major roads leading into Bengaluru,” Kuruburu Shanthakumar, president of the Karnataka State Sugarcane Growers’ Association said on Sunday, adding similar protests would be held in Belagavi and Bagalkot also.In Tamil Nadu, farmers and labour unions will take part in the Republic Day tractor rally in various districts across the state. “Tractors, bullock carts and two-wheelers or whatever vehicle we get, we will carry out a parade,” said AIKSCC state coordinator K Balakrishanan.(With inputs from state bureaus)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-across-india-prepare-for-republic-day-stir-101611529283066.html
25-01-2021||India||Andhra Asha worker dies after Covid vaccine dose, autopsy awaited||A 42-year-old woman working as an accredited social health activist (Asha) in Andhra Pradesh’s Guntur district died of a brain stem stroke on Sunday, four days after she received a Covid-19 vaccine, but a senior official said it wasn’t possible to establish a link between the jab and the stroke.The authorities at Guntur General Hospital (GGH) said Bokka Vijaya Lakshmi of Penumaka village, who was admitted to hospital with complaints of severe headache, giddiness, seizures and vomiting on Friday evening, died early on Sunday. Vijayalakshmi took the Covishield vaccine shot along with 10 others on January 20.“She was absolutely fine on the day of vaccination and even the next day. According to her family members, she developed mild symptoms on the midnight of January 21; when her condition turned serious the following day, she was brought to Guntur General Hospital,” Guntur district immunisation officer Dr Chukka Ratna Manmohan said.GGH superintendent Dr G Prabhavati said the hospital authorities had carried out all investigations after she was brought to the hospital.Dr Manmohan said investigations revealed that Vijayalakshmi developed a blood clot in the brain that led to the stroke.“We do not know exactly whether she already had the blood clot in her brain before vaccination or whether it was induced by vaccination. We are hoping to find some reason after conducting the autopsy,” he said.The immunisation officer said there was no way it could be established that it was a vaccine-induced death. “First of all, Covid-19 itself is one-year old in the country. And the vaccination for Covid-19 is still in its nascent stage. We have not come across any such incidents of brain stroke due to vaccination in any part of the country so far,”Dr Manmohan said.District medical and health officer (DMHO) Dr Jonnalagadda Yasmin, in a statement, said out of 11 persons including a medical officer who got vaccinated at the Tadepalli primary health centre on January 20, only Vijayalakshmi and an auxiliary nurse midwife Gottimukkala Lakshmi, 38, showed symptoms of giddiness and seizures in the next two days.“They were shifted to GGH by the AEFI committee. While Vijayalakshmi’s condition turned critical due to brain stroke, the other woman is stable and recovering,” she said.Vijayalakshmi’s husband Sambasiva Rao, a village revenue assistant at Penumaka, said she had no other health complications. “She developed symptoms only after receiving the vaccination,” he said. Rao, along with other family members, hundreds of activists of CPI (M), staged a sit-in at the GGH, demanding a compensation of ₹50 lakh and a government job to one of her two sons and a plot of land to build a house. Meanwhile, a 45-year-old Anganwadi worker died in Telangana’s Warangal district on Sunday, five days after she was vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-asha-worker-dies-after-covid-vaccine-dose-autopsy-awaited-101611528611276.html
25-01-2021||India||1.6 million Covid jabs given, Karnataka sees highest turnout||India vaccinated 1.6 million health care workers since coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccination drive was launched in the country on January 16 till Sunday, said the Union health ministry .Karnataka tops the list so far with maximum number of vaccinations at 191,443, followed by Odisha (152,371) and Andhra Pradesh (147,030).Close to 30,000 vaccination sessions have been conducted in the country so far at about 3,000 plus sites.“India took only 6 days to roll out 1 million vaccine doses. This count is higher for countries like USA and the UK. The UK took 18 days whereas USA took 10 days to reach the 1 million mark,” said Union health ministry in a statement issued on Sunday.There are still an estimated 8.4 million health care workers remaining to be vaccinated across the country, and the government is making efforts to scale up by increasing vaccination sites in next few weeks.The initial plan was to ramp the facility to add at least 2,000 more vaccination sites across the country, making it about 5,000 sites, in about two weeks from the launch day.Dr VK Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog, had said during the launch, “It is starting with about 3,000, but the vaccination sessions will be scaled up to about 5,000 in next fortnight or so.”The Centre had advised states to conduct Covid-19 vaccinations for at least four days in a week, and states, after due deliberation, had come up with an individual vaccination plan according to their local requirements, infrastructure and human resources availability. Different states are following a different vaccination schedule that ranges from six to two days in a week, depending on local conditions and needs.Initially, there was a low turnout of health care workers at vaccination centres, which both the Centre and state governments attributed to vaccine hesitancy among the medical professionals because of spread of a lot of misinformation regarding Covid-19 vaccines permitted for use in India.India’s drugs regulator has granted approval for use in India to two Covid-19 vaccines. Covaxin, which is an indigenous vaccine developed by Bharat Biotech International Limited, and Covishield, a vaccine manufactured by Serum Institute of India (SII), and developed by Oxford University and AstroZeneca, have received restricted emergency use authorisation from the national drugs regulator on January 3. While all states have been given Covishield, about 12 states have so far been given Covaxin.The Centre plans to increase the number of states that will introduce Covaxin in days to come. The seven other states that would start doing so from Monday onwards are Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Jharkhand, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab and West Bengal.Government has been making serious efforts to dispel concerns regarding the vaccines, for which it last week also launched a mass digital awareness campaign. As part of the campaign, the Union health ministry has also been publicising feedback from senior doctors who took the shot against the viral disease, and were doing fine.“One of the reasons why vaccinations have picked up is because a lot of health care workers have got confidence on seeing how there senior were doing fine after receiving the Covid-19 vaccine shot. It helps to see your seniors and peers doing fine after receiving the jab,” said a senior health ministry official, requesting not to be identified.“The states were also asked to engage more effectively with the target population so that their concerns are addressed. The efforts seem to have borne fruit as the numbers are picking up with each passing day. India also reached the one-million mark in under a week,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/16-million-covid-jabs-given-karnataka-sees-highest-turnout-101611527939583.html
25-01-2021||India||India, China hold another round of military talks to defuse LAC tensions||India and China on Sunday held yet another round of military talks in their latest attempt to ease tensions in eastern Ladakh where the two sides have been locked in a lingering border standoff that has hit bilateral ties. This comes at a time when frontline soldiers are deployed eyeball to eyeball at friction points on the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC), officials familiar with the development said.The corps commander-level talks between the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) were held at Moldo on the Chinese side of the LAC. The outcome of the ninth round of military dialogue was not known when this report was filed.The situation in the Ladakh sector remains tense and the ongoing military and diplomatic dialogue has not yielded results. “The ground situation remains as it was in August-September (when the Indian Army took control of key heights on the southern bank of Pangong Tso). The military dialogue alone is unlikely to yield results. Diplomatic efforts will have to progress simultaneously,” said one of the officials cited above.India has consistently pushed for comprehensive disengagement at all flashpoints and restoration of status quo ante of early April 2020 during the ongoing military talks whereas the Chinese side wants the Indian Army to first pull back troops deployed on strategic heights on the southern bank of Pangong Tso.Also read: Force Taliban to reduce violence and agree to truce, Afghanistan tells Pakistan“Neither side is willing to vacate the positions held by them. It seems unlikely that the standoff will be resolved in the short term. However, talks will go on as it is important not to break communication,” said a second official.Indian Air Force chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria on Saturday said that India was ready to match China’s aggression in the eastern Ladakh theatre, where the two countries have been locked in a border row since May 2020. "If they (China) can get aggressive, we will also get aggressive. We have full preparations (to meet any eventuality,” said the IAF chief.Last month, he said the likely reasons for Chinese actions in the Ladakh sector could include a planned escalation and an attempt to establish border claim lines and start border talks on the new positions, military signalling, domination efforts with escalation control and deployment and training of their Western Theatre forces in real war-like scenarios wherein the Galwan Valley incident was an overreach.Senior Indian and Chinese commanders had met on November 6 for the eighth round of military talks. India has made all preparations to hold ground in Ladakh for an extended duration.On January 12, army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane said that the Indian Army was prepared to hold its ground in eastern Ladakh “for as long as it takes” to achieve national objectives in case the ongoing military and diplomatic talks with China are prolonged.Experts said talks are deadlocked because of serious differences between the two sides on the conditions of disengagement, as previously reported by Hindustan Times.The PLA has moved back at least 10,000 soldiers from depth areas to rear positions but its frontline deployments remain unchanged.Earlier, Naravane said India should not read too much into the withdrawal of Chinese troops from depth areas on the Tibetan plateau as there has been absolutely no troop cut by either side at friction points.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-hold-military-talks-to-defuse-lac-tensions-101611510270225.html
25-01-2021||India||Metro services to be restricted on Jan 26; these stations to remain closed||Services of Delhi Metro will be restricted partially on Tuesday as part of the security arrangements for the Republic Day celebrations in Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR). Entry and exit at the Central Secretariat station will remain closed till 12pm and it will only be used for interchange of passengers between Line 2 and Line 6, a statement by the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) said.Services on HUDA City Centre-Samaypur Badli Metro line will be partially regulated on January 26, it said in the statement. Entry at Udyog Bhawan will remain closed until the parade is over, as per the statement. Entry at Patel Chowk Metro station and Lok Kalyan Marg Metro station will also remain closed from 8:45am to 12pm, it added.Also Read | Woman fighter pilot, Rafale jets and soldiers in masks: Key things to watch for this year's Republic Day paradeAll Metro parking lots will be closed from 6am on January 25 and it will remain closed till 2pm on January 26. "This step has been taken as part of the security arrangements," DMRC said in the statement.India is all set to display its military might during the annual parade. However, the Republic Day parade this year will be very different from previous ones amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. In many firsts, the parade will be held without the presence of a chief guest this year. British prime minister Boris Johnson, who had initially accepted India's invitation to be the chief guest, cancelled his visit due to the rise in Covid-19 cases in the United Kingdom. The UK is also dealing with a new strain of Covid-19 which transmits from one person to another much faster than the previous one. There were no chief guests during the Republic Day parade in 1952, 1953 and 1966 before this.In view of the pandemic, only 25,000 spectators will witness the Republic Day parade, the government has mandated. Last year, 150,000 spectators were allowed. The number of media persons, too, has been cut from 300 to 200. This year, the Republic Day Parade will end at the National Stadium instead of going up to the Red Fort where it usually concludes. The distance for the march has been reduced by 50 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/metro-services-to-be-restricted-on-jan-26-these-stations-to-remain-closed-101611472516711.html
25-01-2021||NA||Highlights: Israel bans international flights to curb spread of new variant||India recorded less than 15,000 cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) for three days in a row as 14,849 new infections were reported in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry on Sunday morning. There were 155 deaths in the same period across the country and the fatalities have remained below 200 for the last 11 days, health ministry's data showed. According to the health ministry's dashboard at 8am, there were 184,408 active cases of the coronavirus disease. More than 1.27 million healthcare workers have been vaccinated in the last seven days since the launch of the Covid-19 vaccination program on January 16, the Union health ministry has said. India had vaccinated more than a million people within five days of the launch of the Covid-19 vaccination drive. The number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) infection globally exceeded 98 million as the deadly virus continues to spread across the world. The death toll passed 2.1 million, as per the Bloomberg report.Follow all the updates here:Egypt begins Covid-19 vaccination drive with frontline medical staffEgypt on Sunday began vaccinating frontline medical staff against the coronavirus disease using the vaccine developed by Chinese based pharmaceutical firm Sinopharm. Health Minister Hala Zayed added that the vaccine would be provided free of cost to all doctors and frontline workers treating coronavirus patients, then to other medical workers, senior citizens and people with chronic illnesses, reports Reuters. Israel bans international flights to stop new Covid-19 variant from spreadingIsrael on Sunday banned all international flights to and from the country to stop the new coronavirus variant from spreading, reported Reuters. The ban will be coming to force to Monday and will reportedly last till the end of January. Israel is currently under its third national lockdown as the government races to inoculate its citizens.Jharkhand records 54 new cases of Covid-19, 2 fatalitiesJharkhand reported 54 new COVID-19 cases and 109 recoveries today, as per the State Health DepartmentTotal cases: 1,18,286Total recoveries: 1,16,402Active cases: 821Death toll: 1,063 pic.twitter.com/lit6qZbHWVJharkhand on Sunday reported 54 new cases of Covid-19, taking the state wide tally to 1,18,286. 109 individuals recovered from the infection taking the toll of active cases down to 821. 2 fatalities were also reported, the death toll now stands at 1063, reported news agency ANI.Mutated strain of coronavirus detected in SerbiaSerbia reported its first case of the mutated strain of Covid-19 on Sunday, reported Reuters. Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic told reporters that the variant has been detected in a woman who had recently travelled to London. The afflicted individual has been kept under observation.Karnataka records 573 new cases of Covid-19, 4 fatalitiesKarnataka reported 573 new #COVID19 cases, 401 discharges, and 4 deaths in the last 24 hours: State Health DepartmentTotal cases: 9,36,051Total discharges: 9,16,325Death toll: 12,197Active cases: 7,510 pic.twitter.com/tTn9IXvFlP16 lakh healthcare workers across the nation have been inoculated so far, says health ministryThe cumulative number of vaccinated healthcare workers across the country surpasses 16 lakh through 28,613 sessions. 31,466 beneficiaries were vaccinated and 10 cases of Adverse Effect After Vaccination (AEFI) reported till 6 pm today: Ministry of HealthThe Union health ministry told news agency ANI that as of Sunday a total of 16 lakh healthcare workers have been inoculated all over the country, through 28,613 sessions. On Sunday 31,466 beneficiaries were vaccinated, with 10 reporting adverse effects.BSF reports a total of 46 active cases of Covid-19Active COVID-19 cases in Border Security Force (BSF) stand at 46. Vaccinations are in progress: BSFUP reports 297 new cases of Covid-19, 8 fatalitiesUttar Pradesh on Sunday recorded 297 new cases of Covid-19, taking the total number of cases to 5,98,713. 8 individuals also succumbed to the infection, pushing the death toll to 8,617, reported news agency PTI.Delhi reports 185 new cases of Covid-19, 9 fatalitiesThe national capital reported 185 new cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the statewide tally to 6,33,924. 9 fatalities were also reported, with the death toll now standing at 10,808, reported news agency PTI. The number of active cases in Delhi currently stands at 1,741.77 cases of South African variant of Covid-19 has been found in UK so farBritish Health Secretary Matt Hancock told reporters on Saturday that a total of 77 cases of the South African variant of Covid-19 has been found in the UK so far. All the imported cases are linked to international travel, reported Reuters.Brazil's Covid-19 death toll surpasses 216,000Brazil reported 1,202 deaths from the Covid-19 pandemic in the last 24 hours, making Saturday the fifth consecutive day of more than 1,000 deaths, bringing the death toll to 216,445, the ministry of health reported Saturday. The ministry said that in the last 24 hours, 62,334 new Covid-19 cases were registered, bringing the total to 8,816,254. Sao Paulo, the state affected the most by the pandemic, has registered 51,423 deaths and 1,694,355 positive cases in total.Hong Kong plans to lift lockdown placed on densely populated area on MondayHong Kong plans to lift the Covid-19 lockdown that was imposed on one of its most densely populated districts on Monday, Chief Secretary Matthew Cheung Kin-chung informed on Sunday. Chief Secretary Cheung said that the authorities are set to complete coronavirus screening this weekend on around 10,000 people living in the Yau Tsim Mong area, which was placed under quarantine on Saturday to prevent the spread of Covid-19, the South China Morning Post reported. Stating that the preliminary results from the screening operation were expected by Sunday night, Cheung added: "If everything goes smoothly, we can lift the restrictions at 6 am on Monday so that people can go to work."Pakistan approves emergency use of Russia's Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccinePakistan has authorised the emergency use of Russia’s Sputnik V, the third anti-Covid-19 vaccine approved by the country against the deadly coronavirus, authorities said on Sunday. The government has given a go-ahead to a local pharmaceutical company for the import and distribution of the Russian-developed Sputnik V, the Dawn newspaper quoted an official as saying.Sputnik V is the third vaccine to be approved for the emergency use in the country, the report said. “In a meeting conducted by the registration board of the Drug Regulatory Authority of Pakistan (DRAP), another vaccine has also been given EUA (emergency use authorisation) which was developed with the backing of Russian Development Investment Fund,” the official said.Puducherry adds 30 fresh Covid-19 cases, overall tally risesThe union territory of Puducherry logged 30 new coronavirus cases during the last 24, taking the overall tally to 38,860, a top Health department official said on Sunday. A 87-year old patient succumbed to the infection pushing up the toll to 645, Director of Health and Family Welfare S Mohan Kumar said in a release.The patient who passed away at the government hospital here had severe Covid pneumonia and ARDS, he added. The 30 new cases were identified at the end of the examination of 3,046 samples.One million Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in India in just 6 daysIndia took only 6 days to administer one million Covid-19 vaccine doses, a count which is higher than that of countries like the US and the UK, the Union Health Ministry said on Sunday as the number of beneficiaries who have received the anti-coronavirus shots inched close to 16 lakh. The UK took 18 days whereas the US took 10 days to reach the one million mark, the ministry said. As on January 24, till 8 am, nearly 16 lakh (15,82,201) beneficiaries have received Covid-19 vaccination. In a span of 24 hours, close to 2 lakh (1,91,609) people were vaccinated across 3,512 sessions. A total of 27,920 sessions have been conducted so far, the ministry said. India took only 6 days to roll out one million vaccine doses. This count is higher than countries like the US and the UK. The UK took 18 days whereas USA took 10 days to reach the one million mark, the ministry highlighted.Odisha logs 150 new Covid-19 cases, 1 fresh fatalityOdisha's Covid-19 tally on Sunday mounted to 3,34,300 as 150 more people tested positive for the infection, while one fresh fatality pushed the state's coronavirus death toll to 1,905, a health department official said. The new cases were detected in 24 of the state's 30 districts, with 89 reported from different quarantine centres, while the remaining 61 are local contact cases.Sundergarh district reported the highest of 22 new positive cases followed by Bargarh (18) and Cuttack (15). Six other districts - Dhenkanal, Gajapati, Koraput, Malkangiri, Nayagarh and Rayagada, did not register any new positive cases since Saturday.Telangana logs 197 new Covid-19 cases, 1 deathTelangana recorded 197 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the total positives to over 2.93 lakh while one fatality pushed the toll to 1,589, the state government said on Sunday. Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) accounted for the most number of cases with 32, followed by Karimnagar (13) and Medchal Malkajgiri and Rangareddy with 12 each, it said in a bulletin, providing details as of 8 PM on January 23. The total number of cases stood at2,93,253 while recoveries were at 2,88,275.Brazilian state Amazonas announces movement restrictions due to surging Covid-19 casesUnnecessary movement, as well as non-essential activities, will be banned for seven days starting from Monday in the face of the collapse of the health system due to the surge in the cases of Covid-19, Wilson Lima, governor of the Brazilian state of Amazonas announced on Saturday. "The movement of people will be prohibited, which does not mean cutting off their right to come and go, but they can only leave out of extreme necessity, such as going to the doctor, the supermarket or being authorized to work," said the governor at a press conference. The announcement came following a request from the Public Ministry after the city's oxygen supplies were depleted due to 100 per cent occupancy in hospitals in the state capital of Manaus.Brazil reports deadliest week since summerBrazil reported 1,202 new fatalities, ending the deadliest week since the surge last summer. Total deaths are now 216,445, the Health Ministry reported. The nation, which has the most cases after the US and India, reported another 62,334 infections. The weekly count declined from the previous week but is still higher than during the summer peak. Total cases are 8.8 million.Australia vaccine program on trackAustralia’s Covid-19 vaccine program is on track to begin as scheduled, with the first Pfizer doses set to arrive in hospitals in mid-to-late February, Treasurer Josh Frydenberg said Sunday. Australia pre-purchased 10 million units of the Pfizer and BioTech vaccine in November to begin inoculating front-line workers in hospitals and aged-care residents next month. Concern has heightened about delays in delivery of the vaccine and tightening supplies after Pfizer said it would scale back shipments to countries outside the US while it renovates a factory in Belgium.Germany's confirmed coronavirus cases rise by 12,257 to 2,134,936The number of confirmed coronavirus cases in Germany increased by 12,257 to 2,134,936, data from the Robert Koch Institute (RKI) for infectious diseases showed on Sunday. The reported death toll rose by 349 to 51,870, the tally showed.2 new Covid-19 cases push Mizoram's tally to 4,351Mizoram reported two new Covid-19 cases, pushing the tally to 4,351, an official said on Sunday. The two new cases from Aizawl district were confirmed at Zoram Medical College (ZMC) through RT-PCR facility, he said. While one patient has returned from Maharashtra, the other was diagnosed with Covid-19 during contact tracing, he said. Mizoram now has 58 active Covid-19 cases, while 4,284 people have recovered from the disease so far. The Covid-19 recovery rate in the state now is 98.47 per cent, the official said.Maharashtra: 266 new Covid-19 cases in Thane, 5 more deathsThe Covid-19 tally in Thane district of Maharashtra has reached 2,51,641 with the addition of 266 new cases, an official said on Sunday. The virus has claimed lives of five more persons, raising the death toll in the district rose to 6,109, he said. The Covid-19 mortality rate in the district stands at 2.43 per cent, he said. So far, 2,41,975 patients have recovered from the infection, improving the recovery rate in the district to 96. 16 per cent, the official said. At present, there are 3,557 active Covid-19 cases in the district, he said.6,000 healthcare workers vaccinated against Covid-19 in Army's Southern CommandLieutenant General CP Mohanty, General Officer Commanding-in-Chief Southern Command of the Indian Army on Saturday said around 6,000 healthcare workers in the command have been vaccinated against Covid-19 so far. Briefing the media, Mohanty said, "We have prioritised our vaccination drives. Our healthcare workers in military hospitals are providing sustained support. We have started administering the vaccine to our health workers. Around 6,000 of them have been vaccinated so far."Jharkhand reports 78 new Covid-19 cases, 1 deathJharkhand's Covid-19 tally mounted to 1,18,232 as 78 more people tested positive for the infection, a health official said on Sunday. The state's coronavirus death toll rose to 1,061 as one more person succumbed to the infection in the last 24 hours, he said. Ranchi district reported the highest number of new cases at 55, followed by Dhanbad (5) and four cases each in East Singhbhum and Ramgarh, the official said. Jharkhand now has 878 active coronavirus cases, while 1,16,293 people have recovered from the disease so far, he said.Mainland China reports 80 new Covid-19 casesMainland China reported 80 new Covid-19 cases on January 23, down from 107 cases a day earlier, the country's national health authority said on Sunday. The National Health Commission, in a statement, said 65 of the new cases were local infections. The number of new asymptomatic cases, which China does not classify as confirmed cases, fell to 92 from 99 cases a day earlier. The total number of confirmed Covid-19 cases in Mainland China now stands at 88,991, while the death toll remained unchanged at 4,635.Africa's confirmed Covid-19 cases near 3.4 millionThe number of confirmed Covid-19 cases on the African continent reached 3,393,591 as of Saturday evening, the Africa Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (Africa CDC) said. According to the agency's data, the death toll related to the pandemic in Africa stood at 83,901 as of Saturday evening.A total of 2,854,275 people infected with Covid-19 have recovered across the continent so far, the agency added.New Zealand health officials probe probable community Covid-19 caseNew Zealand health officials said on Sunday they were investigating a probable community coronavirus case, the country's first in months. New Zealand, one of the most successful developed nations in controlling the spread of the pandemic, last recorded a community coronavirus transmission on Nov. 18, according to information on the Health Ministry website. "Health officials are currently investigating the case," the health ministry said in a statement.The ministry is to provide more detail later on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-live-updates-hindustan-times-101611455029799.html
25-01-2021||NA||Highlights : Pawar should take lead in resolving farm stir, says Athawale||The farmers' agitation entered 60th day on Sunday as the stand-off between the government and the protesters continues. Farmers from various parts the country taking out tractor rallies in support of the farmers protesting in and around Delhi against the contentious legislation ahead of the proposed parade on January 26.Over two lakh tractors are expected to take part in the January 26 "Kisan Parade" in the national capital, farmer union confirmed on Saturday. The number of participants may increase further, they also said. The tractor parade will start from the Ghazipur, Singhu and Tikri border points of Delhi, said Kohar, who is a senior member of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of the agitating unions.Meanwhile, Shiromanki Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal has asked the Bharatiya Janata Party-led Centre to shun the "ego" and accept the demand of farmers of repealing the three farm laws. "It is shameful to see that the central government is adamant on its stand and not ready to repeal farm laws as per the demand of farmers," he said.Follow all the live updates here:Follow all the updates here:Sharad Pawar should take lead in resolving stir, says Ramdas AthawaleUnion minister Ramdas Athawale said on Sunday that Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar should take initiative in resolving the ongoing farmers' agitation. "The Supreme Court has already put a stay on the implementation of the three farm laws. But the farmers are continuingwith their protest. Their agitation is being used for politics," Athawale added.Punjab CM condemns UP government's efforts to stop protesting farmersStrongly condemn reports of UP Government asking authorities to stop diesel supply to farmers going to Delhi on Republic Day. Such oppressive & intimidatory tactics will only strengthen people's resolve. No administrative highhandedness should be practised against farmers. https://t.co/SF1IhlErkTPunjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, citing a news report, slammed UP government for their efforts to stop protesting farmers going to Delhi.Read the news report here - UP govt orders no diesel for tractors as farmers gear up for Jan 26 rallyAmritsar: NSUI Punjab holds tractor rally in support of protesting farmersSea of tractors today at Golden Gate in Amritsar shows growing bitterness agnst @narendramodi. @NSUIPunjab organised Jago as respect for our farmers saw unseen public participation. We would keep raising Punjab's voice until 3 acts are reversed. #26JanDelhiChalo#farmersrprotest pic.twitter.com/jIrlWNr4nACongress party's student wing National Students' Union of India (NSUI) held a tractor rally in Amritsar to support the protesting farmers.Punjab AAP MLAs to leave from their constituencies to participate in farmers' tractor rally at DelhiFollowing their earlier announcement, Punjab AAP MLAs have decided to leave for Delhi to participate in the farmers' tractor rally on Republic day from their respective constituencies citing heavy traffic on main roads across Punjab, reports ANI.Protesting farmers from Nashik camp at Mumbai's Azad maidanMaharashtra: Farmers from Nashik camp at Azad Maidan in Mumbai.They have marched from Nashik to Mumbai in support of farmers agitating against three agriculture laws at Delhi borders. pic.twitter.com/4L1HMOsYEKMaharashtra farmers, marching from Nashik in protest of the farm laws, have camped at Azad Maidan in Mumbai after reaching there, reports ANI.All MLAs of AAP will move towards Delhi on Jan 25 on tractors from ShambuAll MLAs of Aam Aadmi Party will move towards Delhi on Jan 25 on tractors from Shambu at Punjab-Haryana border to support the tractor parade of farmers, says party's state unitMore batches of farmers from Punjab head for Delhi to take part in tractor paradeMore batches of farmers from Punjab on Sunday set out for Delhi to participate in the proposed tractor parade on January 26.Farmer unions protesting the Centre's three farm laws had said they would go ahead with their tractor parade in Delhi on Republic Day.Tractor rally will enter Delhi from Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur borders and return to its originating points: PoliceThe tractor rally will enter Delhi from Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur borders and return to its originating points. From Singhu, it will pass through Kanjhawala, Bawana, Auchandi border, KMP Expressway and then return to Singhu. From Tikri border, it will go to Nagloi and pass through Najafgarh and Western Peripheral Expressway. From Ghazipur border, the rally will go to 56-foot road and return to its originating point passing through Kundli-Ghaziabad-Palwal Expressway: Dependra Pathak, Special CP, Intelligence, Delhi PoliceWe will be providing required police deployment: Delhi PoliceFor the security arrangements of the tractor rally, we will be providing required police deployment realising that there are elements of threat to create disturbance in the rally: Dependra Pathak, Special CP, Intelligence, Delhi Police.Farmers' proposed tractor rally will begin amid tight security: Delhi PoliceFarmers' proposed tractor rally on Tuesday will begin amid tight security after Republic Day celebrations conclude: Delhi Police.Farmers' R-Day tractor parade: Tableaux to depict protest against agri lawsThe Republic Day tractor parade by agitating farmers will feature a number of tableaux from across states depicting village life, the protest against the Centre's contentious farm laws, and hailing their courage, according to organisers.A farmer leader told news agency PTI that directions were issued to all organisations participating in the protest to prepare tableaux for the parade.There are miscreant elements, people carrying Khalistani flags: Ravneet BittuI have been saying for a while. There are miscreant elements, people carrying Khalistani flags. But what can farmer leaders do to verify identities in such numbers of people. ₹1cr-80 lakhs is given to such elements for waving flags and I am a target anyway: Congress MP Ravneet Bittu.We were ambushed as if by guerilla warriors armed with sticks, weapons: Congress MP Ravneet BittuWe had gone to participate in a meeting called by farmer leaders. Upon reaching we were ambushed, as if by guerilla warriors who were armed with sticks and other weapons. We are not going to take any action now as the farmers' movements are still going on: Congress MP Ravneet Bittu.Tractor rally will begin after Republic Day parade endsThe rally will begin after the end of the Republic Day parade ends. There is no clarity on when it would end. About 15,000 tractors are there at the three border points, as per police estimates. More could come in, says Delhi Police.In-principle permission has been granted for tractor rally from three points: Deependra PathakDeependra Pathak, special CP (intelligence), said that an in-principle permission has been granted for tractor rally from three points -- Singhu, Tikri, Ghazipur.Total routes will be about 170 kms, of which over 100 kms will fall in Delhi.Yogendra Yadav says farmers have received formal permission from Delhi Police for Jan 26 tractor rallyToday there was a short meeting with officers of Delhi Police. We have got formal permission from Police for the tractor rally. As I told earlier, 'Kisan Gantantra Parade' will be held on January 26 in a peaceful manner: Yogendra Yadav, Swaraj India.Thousands of tractors-trolleys leave for DelhiThousands tractors-trolleys leave for Delhi, vehicles choke NH 44UP govt orders no diesel for tractors as farmers gear up for Jan 26 rally: ReportHindustan Times' sister publication Livehindustan reported that Uttar Pradesh government has asked supply officers in all the districts to not give diesel to protesting farmers.Priyanka Gandhi slams Centre for blocking farmers from entering DelhiAll India Congress Committee General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Central government of transferring the wealth of the country to corporates and taking away the rights of farmers.Farmers walk along the Mumbai-Nashik highwayFarmers from Igatpuri Nashik district walk along the Mumbai-Nashik highway at Khardi to join the farmers protest in Mumbai.Nashik farmers begin marching for MumbaiNashik farmers affiliated to All India Kisan Sabha and various other farmer organisations started marching towards Mumbai on Sunday. They will gather at Mumbai and then march towards Delhi so as to support the ongoing agiatation on Republic Day.Farmers to take out tractor rally after R-Day parade is overThe tractor parades will be taken out only after 12 pm, after the Republic Day parade on Delhi's Rajpath concludes, according to the protesting farmer unions. Read more about the proposed rallyAround 25,000 tractors from UP, Uttarakhand to participate in 'kisan parade'Around 25,000 tractors from Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand will participate in the 'kisan parade' in the national capital on January 26, said Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-live-updates-january-24-101611450870124.html
25-01-2021||Editorials||India’s vaccine diplomacy | HT Editorial||India started its vaccination drive against Covid-19 on January 16. But even as it prepares to equip its citizens against the virus that has devastated lives and livelihoods, over the past week, India has proactively sent vaccine supplies, as grant, to its neighbours and friends. Bhutan, Maldives, Bangladesh, Nepal, Mauritius, Myanmar, and Seychelles have already received vaccine doses, in varying quantities, while Sri Lanka and Afghanistan are expected to get these soon. There are also commercial supplies that have made available to Brazil and Morocco — even as other countries have reached out for assistance.India’s Vaccine Maitri, as the initiative has come to be known, is one of the most humane and diplomatically astute moves by the government on the foreign policy front in recent times. It fits into Narendra Modi’s declared policy of neighbourhood first. It is no secret that ties with smaller neighbours have gone through ups and downs, often due to the policy approach adopted by these neighbouring countries vis-à-vis China and due to internal political salience of the nationalist card, which often translates into criticising India. But Delhi — by providing the most important public good possible at this time in history — has scored in generating goodwill not just among governments, but most importantly, citizens, both in the immediate vicinity and extended neighbourhood. The message is simple — when there is a crisis, India is there to help.The fact that India has been the first responder also helps it score — in terms of real geopolitical signalling — over China — which has faced issues with its own vaccine. This helps dispel the impression of New Delhi as a laggard and counters the often exaggerated spin of Beijing as having all the answers. The praise Delhi has got from others, from the World Health Organization to the State Department of the United States, is further boost to India’s soft power. By being a responsible power, empathetic to the needs of people beyond its borders, ready to help even as it faces its own crises, in a tough region, India has served itself — and the wider region of South Asia and Indian Ocean — well. The government must be applauded for this imaginative diplomacy, aided in no small measure by the structural advantage of being the world’s pharmacy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/indias-vaccine-diplomacy-hteditorial-101611493629720.html
