24-03-2020||India||14 more test positive for Covid-19 in Kerala, total cases rise to 105||With 14 more people in Kerala testing positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday the total number of infected by coronavirus in the state rose to 105, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said and warned that the government will henceforth strictly enforce a lockdown.The number of people under observation has also risen to 72,460 out of which 71,994 are in their homes and 466 in hospitals.Out of 14 fresh cases six were from Kasaragod in north Kerala which bore the maximum brunt after some people who returned from Persian Gulf countries flouted guidelines and roamed around freely before they tested positive. Last week a man who returned from Dubai had slipped out of home quarantine and participated in weddings, sport events and many other functions. The police have impounded passports of two such persons. The CM said among the 14 to test positive is a health worker who cared for Covid-19 patients. Follow coronavirus live updates here.He said the state will enforce the lockdown strictly in view of increasing number of cases and alerted local bodies and others to prepare facilities for more isolation wards.“It seems some people have taken the lockdown casually. We will be forced to enforce it strictly. Passes will be issued to those who want to come out of their houses citing proper reasons. Others will be dealt with seriously,” he said adding police were given strict instructions to enforce the lockdown. Police said they registered 402 cases against those who flouted lockdown guidelines in the state. Director General of Police Loknath Behra said police will increase their vigil and will show no leniency towards those who come out of their houses without valid reasons. “Some people have taken it lightly. We will not allow this to happen,” said the DGP.After Maharashtra, Kerala has reported maximum number of cases. It was the first to report three cases in the country two months ago. All three were later discharged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/14-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-kerala-total-cases-rise-to-105/story-w4XB2rtkoXFZDZfC1SQOGM.html
24-03-2020||India||Lockdown: The word doing the rounds amid Covid-19 curbs||‘Lockdown’ paints a picture of a security threat, of confining yourself from a deadly enemy or keeping the enemy confined. Rightly so. In this case, the enemy is invisible, and is stealthily infecting people and waging a war inside them.The word ‘Lock’ is derived from the Old English ‘loc’, meaning fastening; ‘down’ comes from the Middle English word, ‘doun’, according to the Macmillan Dictionary blog. It usually implies a confinement measure to protect from harm. By Tuesday afternoon, all of India was pretty much under lockdown, including 32 states and union territories. This means three out of four Indians are restricted to their homes. While the lockdown began on Sunday as a “Janata curfew” (people’s curfew), a voluntary move of citizens to practice social distancing on the request of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, now the lockdown is being enforced with police forces keeping a check on people’s movements in every neighbourhood and only essential services like groceries and pharmacies serving people.Also read: ‘Think about those helping you’: Highlights from PM Modi’s speechWhat will such a lockdown achieve and why is it so important to adhere to it? According to the World Health Organisation’s latest count, 334,981 people in 190 countries globally are infected with SARS-CoV-2 virus, which has killed at least 14,652 as on Tuesday. The virus spreads from person to person through small droplets from the nose or mouth which are released when a person with Covid-19 coughs or exhales, even those who are asymptomatic. These droplets land on objects and surfaces around the person. Other people then catch Covid-19 by touching these objects or surfaces. The virus usually causes symptoms like fever, tiredness and dry cough but can be deadly for the elderly or those with co-morbidities like blood pressure, heart disease, diabetes etc.The disruption because of the lockdown can cause much anxiety and inconvenience. But Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) conducted a mathematical modelling which concluded social distancing measures such as home quarantine of symptomatic people, and suspected cases will reduce the overall expected number of cases by 62% and the peak number of cases by 89%, thus “flattening” the curve and providing more opportunities for interventions.China enforced similar lockdowns but with far more stringency in various parts of the country in phases for over two months. Along with massive lockdowns, electronic surveillance was used in China to track people’s movements. A recent study by the Imperial College London’s Covid-19 team found that population-wide social distancing applied to the population as a whole would have the largest impact in transmission reduction. Along with that, other interventions like home isolation of infected people and school and university closure are needed.China’s model has been replicated in Italy, in the US’ New York, Los Angeles and Chicago, the United Kingdom, France, Italy, Spain and other European countries where the authorities have ordered people to stay at home, threatening them with fines in some cases.“A minimum of two weeks of curfew is needed to have an effect on transmission chains. Because what didn’t happen today will happen tomorrow. People will go shopping, will meet each other etc. We need to have a strategy to pay people the losses faced due to a lockdown. The UK government has budgeted billions of pounds to pay people while they are at home,” said Dr T Jacob John, former head of the Indian Council for Medical Research’s Centre for Advanced Research in Virology.Similar lockdowns or curfews haven’t been implemented before to deal with a pandemic of this scale and hence are historic. SARS didn’t need a lockdown because the infection was only in the lungs and it was infectious only after a person developed fever.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-the-word-doing-the-rounds-amid-covid-19-curbs/story-qU52z5SN3VKMEQtzLjYWsM.html
24-03-2020||India||PM Modi to join extraordinary virtual G20 Summit on Thursday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will join an “extraordinary virtual G20 leaders’ summit” on March 26 to discuss a coordinated response to the Covid-19 pandemic and its economic ramifications, two people familiar with developments said on Tuesday.Saudi Arabia, the current president of the G20, called for the virtual summit last week. Though there has been no formal announcement from Riyadh, a person familiar with planning for the summit confirmed it will be held in the evening on Thursday. The leaders’ summit will be preceded by a virtual meeting on March 25 of the G20 Sherpas or personal representatives of heads of governments of the member states. India’s Sherpa is former commerce minister Suresh Prabhu.Ahead of the summit, European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen tweeted on Tuesday that she spoken on the phone with Modi about preparations for the meeting, “supply chains affected by the coronavirus as well as about production capacities for crucial pharmaceuticals”.The G20 includes the European Union and major economies such as China, Australia, Canada, Japan, South Korea and the US. India is set to assume the G20 presidency in 2022.The G20 leaders’ summit will be held at a time when the world community is grappling with the rapid spread of infections and deaths caused by Covid-19 in as many as 168 countries. According to statistics from the World Health Organisation, there were 332,930 confirmed cases and 14,510 deaths as of Monday. Preparations for the virtual summit have also figured in PM Modi’s recent phone conversations with Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman and Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison.According to a statement from Saudi Arabia, the G20 leaders are expected to “put forward a coordinated set of policies to protect people and safeguard the global economy”. The G20 will act with global bodies to alleviate the impact of the pandemic and the virtual summit will build on efforts by G20 finance ministers, central bank governors and senior officials to develop “the precise requirements and actions needed”.The G20 finance ministers and central bank governors held a virtual meeting on Monday and discussed the impact of the pandemic on the global economy and preparations for the virtual leaders’ summit.Saudi finance minister Mohammed Aljadaan stressed the need to step up the G20’s joint efforts and act decisively and in a coordinated manner to people and businesses, safeguard the stability of the global economy and financial markets, restore confidence and prevent deep and prolonged negative economic impacts.He highlighted that since the last meeting of the G20 finance ministers and central bank governors in February, the “global economy outlook has significantly deteriorated and that the evolution and global spread of the Covid-19 pandemic has impacted the global economy [against] the backdrop of disruption in elements of both supply and demand”.The finance ministers and central bank governors “agreed to closely monitor the evolution of the pandemic, including its impact on markets and economic conditions and take further actions to support the economy during and after this phase”, according to an official statement.They also agreed to develop a “joint G20 action plan”, which will outline the individual and collective actions the grouping will take to respond to the pandemic. They also discussed ways to step up “coordinated efforts by bilateral and multilateral creditors to address the risks of debt vulnerabilities, especially in low-income countries”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-join-extraordinary-virtual-g20-summit-on-thursday/story-yG1J654DEALHLIA78rjRQO.html
24-03-2020||India||Nirvana Country condo forms Combat Corona committee||Gurugram: Last week, when a man was detected with Covid-19 in a condominium in Nirvana Country, panic rippled out to other high-rises in the vicinity. Amid the uncertainty of the evolving situation, various condominiums in the neighbourhood ramped up their efforts aimed at containing the spread of coronavirus disease. One such Nirvana Country condominium, Fresco Apartment, responded to the crisis by forming a Combat Corona committee. Comprising volunteers with knowledge, interest and subject matter expertise about the disease, the committee took a number of steps that are now being followed to try and check on the spread of the pandemic.Starting from Wednesday, the condominium is entering a complete lockdown with a ban on the entry of all domestic staff (maids, drivers, car cleaners and dog walkers). Visitors are not allowed to go beyond the main gate. Only essential staff or medical assistants will be allowed to enter the condominium. People entering the building with deliveries have to use a hand sanitiser and get their temperatures checked. Further, plastic sheets have been placed on lift buttons and the sheet is disinfected every hour with Dettol and cotton. Until last week, the condominium had placed toothpicks inside the lift which were being used by residents to press the lift buttons without any direct contact. However, due to resource constraints and better efficiency, plastic sheets replaced the toothpicks.The RWA has also banned the supply of newspapers.In other checks, the RWA has requested all residents to self-quarantine themselves and not leave the premises till March 31. Residents have been asked to limit their movements within the condominium as much as possible. In line with the mandated rules, the condominium has made it mandatory for people with international travel history to share their travel details with the maintenance office.Nilesh Tandon, RWA president of Fresco, said that the condominium had imposed a partial lockdown on Saturday and was following it up with a complete lockdown from Wednesday. “Besides the lockdown, we are ensuring taking small steps that can go a long way in breaking the chain. Our staff members are advised to wash their hands three to four times in a single shift. They have been asked to stand at a distance of two metres from each other during their daily briefing and not share their pens with others,” said Tandon. He added that while children were not stepping out of their apartments, swings were also being sanitised.Anticipating a complete curfew, the condominium is preparing rooms for support staff and their family. “We are preparing rooms for service staff whose services are essential to run the society. In case there is a complete clampdown that restricts all movement in and out of the condominium, we can get the support staff and their families shifted here so that they can stay here till the situation improves,” added Tandon.Asha Johari, a resident, said that with a complete lockdown in force in the condominium, silence enveloped the complex. “It almost feels like a curfew has been imposed on the condominium. There is panic and uncertainty but people are reaching out to each other,” said Johari, who has been cooped up in her apartment with her son for a week now. A class 12 student, her son’s last board examination was called off because of the coronavirus outbreak. “My son was supposed to appear for examinations for higher education in the Netherlands but with the board exams postponed, he is in a dilemma since ambiguity is prevailing on the future course of action,” she said.The extended period of lockdown, however, has given Johari a chance to bond with her son over household chores. “My son is doing all the household work and helping me out. Prior to the coronavirus outbreak, he wasn’t as involved as he is now. Now, we divide the responsibilities among themselves and, I believe, these days will help him in becoming more self-sufficient,” she said.Johari also noted that pollution levels had gone down with people staying in and her son had benefited from that. “My son was having severe asthma but due to a decrease in pollution levels, for the first time, he is not having any medicines,” she said.Johri is also a part of a volunteer network that has been formed in the wake of the contagion. These self-help groups will reach out to people in need of assistance. “We are trying to manage the situation with support from residents, who are pitching in and helping each other out. People who are unable to cook can reach out to resident volunteers who will prepare food for them too. Recently, a woman reached out regarding shortage of milk and around ten people volunteered to help her out,” she said. Vaibhav Singla, another resident, said that most residents were being advised to not deduct the salary of domestic help unable to work during this period. He also said that the RWA was quickly debunking any misinformation that may find its way to society Whatsapp groups. “Panic was created when a case was reported from the vicinity. To avoid any such negative situation, our RWA has been taking steps to ensure that misinformation and fake messages are debunked internally within the society WhatsApp groups,” said Singla.Within the condominium, there are grocery shops that are being used for commodities. While a shortage of supplies has not been reported so far, residents said that Milk Basket had stopped delivering to the apartment, which was a cause of concern. “Milk Basket has refused to deliver to the apartment due to a shortage of manpower. We have two-three shops within the condominium through which people are managing,” said Singla.Tandon, however, said that talks had been held with the company to resume the supply of milk. “We have reached out to Milk Basket and they will be placing a mobile van on campus if everything works out. We will ask people to share their contact numbers and their order will be delivered to the tower guard. We don’t want anyone crowding near the mobile vans,” said Tandon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nirvana-country-condo-forms-combat-corona-committee/story-oUtcQEcgGl3VY3Y6Bty4vO.html
24-03-2020||India||Grocery, milk booth, vegetable shops open during 21-day lockdown: Complete list||Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led National Disaster Management Authority on Tuesday evening ordered central departments and states to take “effective measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19 in the country”. Soon after PM Modi made the announcement of a complete lockdown in his 8 pm address to the nation, the Home Ministry ordered state governments to enforce a 21-day lockdown.A set of guidelines circulated by the Home Ministry to the states made it clear that all government and private sector offices across the country will remain closed unless they have been specifically exempted. The guidelines have also ordered all educational institutions and places of worship to close and restricted the congregation at any funeral during the lockdown to a maximum of 20 people.The home ministry also ordered all enforcement authorities to note that these strict restrictions fundamentally relate to movement of people but not to that of essential goodsOffices and services that remain openCentral governmentDefence, central armed police forces, treasury, public utilities (including petroleum, CNG, LPG, PNG), disaster management, power generation and transmission units, post offices, National Informatics Centre and early warning agenciesState governmentPolice, home guards, civil defence fire and emergency services disaster management and prisonsAt district level, district administration and treasury, electricity, water and sanitation. Staff of municipal bodies required for provision of essential services - sanitation and water supply - municipal bodies - will be required to workHospitals and medical establishmentsHospitals and medical establishments involved in manufacture and distribution such as dispensaries, hospitals, chemist and medical equipment shops will remain open. The transportation for all medical personnel, nurses , para-medical staff, other hospital support services will be permittedCommercial establishmentsShops including ration shops, dealing with food, groceries, fruits and vegetables, dairy and milk booths, meat and fish, animal fodder. However, district authorities may encourage and facilitate home delivery to minimise the movement of individuals outside their homes.Banks, insurance offices and ATMs. Print and electronic media Telecom, internet services, broadcasting and cable services and IT and IT enabled services can be open to the extent that they have to provide essential services.Delivery of all essential goods including food, pharmaceuticals, medical equipment through e-commerce. Petrol pups, LPG, petroleum and gas retail and storage outlets. Power generation, transmission and distribution.Capital and debt market services notified by the Securities and Exchange Board of IndiaCold storage and warehousing servicesPrivate security agencies. all other establishments may work from home onlyIndustrial establishments will remain closed except those producing essential commoditiesAll transport services remain suspended except transportation of essential goods and emergency services such as fire and law and orderHospitality services to remain suspended except those accommodating stranded tourists and people due to lockdown and emergency staff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coroanvirus-outbreak-india-lockdown-explained-what-can-open-what-s-closed-during-21-day-lockdown/story-QH4gnzi0hsTUxI7YqFS3XP.html
24-03-2020||India||Govt invokes Disaster Management Act to enforce Covid-19 lockdown||The government on Tuesday invoked the Disaster Management Act to enforce the 21-day countrywide lockdown that begins at midnight to check the spread of coronavirus. The Union home ministry released a list of offences that attracts imprisonment under the Act shortly after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a three-week lockdown.If any person without any reasonable cause obstructs an officer or employee of the central government or state government or refuses to comply with directions given by or on behalf of the central or state government, shall on conviction be punishable with a jail term of up to a year or fine or both. In case of dangerous behaviour, the imprisonment can be for two years. For making a false claim for obtaining relief or assistance, the punishment may extend up to two years in jail and a fine.The offence of misappropriation of money or materials carries a jail term of two years and a fine.The punishment for a false warning of a disaster is imprisonment for up to a year and a fine.As far as offences by government departments are concerned, the head of the department will he held guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be punished accordingly unless he proves that the offence was committed without his knowledge.A Government officer can be imprisoned for up to a year and fined for failure in duty or connivance in contravention of the provisions of the Disaster Management Act.If an offence is committed by a company, every person who at the time of the offence was in charge of, and responsible to the company, as well as the company shall be deemed to be guilty of contravention and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-invokes-disaster-management-act-to-enforce-covid-19-lockdown/story-AOGxaElEOHpHWDPyUYSiaP.html
24-03-2020||India||Coronavirus Outbreak- Obstruction in enforcing national lockdown will lead to jail||The home ministry has issued guidelines under the Disaster Management Act (DMA) for application of various measures across the country to fight the spread of coronavirus during the 21-day lockdown announced by prime minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday evening.The guidelines are being issued to maintain “consistency in the application and implementation’ of various measures while maintaining “essential services and supplies including the health infrastructure” says the home ministry release. MHA guidelines follows the declaration of lockdown, which will come into effect from Tuesday midnight for the next 21 days as announced during PM’s modi address to the nation on Tuesday.The guidelines have announced a maximum sentence of two years for obstruction of a government official in discharge of his enforcement duties under the DMA.It also announces several other penalties including jail term for two years for offences like “false claim”, “false warning”, “misappropriation of money or materials” etc. Prime minister said the lockdown will be “like curfew” but much more stringent than “the Janta Curfew” that was observed voluntarily on Sunday requiring people to stay home except for emergency situations.“This order should remain in force in all parts of the country for a period of 21 days from 25.03.2020,” the order says.The home ministry is also expected to announce a “24/7 hotline” to assist states during this period, said a news agency.Another agency reported that Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba will chair an urgent meeting with all the state Director Generals of Police (DGPs) and Chief Secretaries on Tuesday night to chalk out a plan on coronavirus pandemic.Examples of other countries like Italy and the UK among other European nations that have already enforced lockdown suggest that all services and businesses except for essential services will be shut down and people will have to mostly stay at home, except for minimal outings for grocery or for unavoidable medical attention.The ban on public gatherings and mass events which is already in force will continue along with closure of education institutions and recreational avenues like cinemas, malls, gymnasiums, clubs, bars, pubs, restaurants, swimming pools, parks, circuses, community halls, marriage halls, etc will continue.It is not clear if all public transport will continue to be off road as well, however, it looks likely since Railways has already shut down its services till 31st March and other states have enforced similar curbs on road transport both in the public and the private sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-outbreak-obstruction-in-enforcing-national-lockdown-will-lead-to-jail/story-QRZgI3sYgnZjq3nWlcou7M.html
24-03-2020||India||‘Think about those helping you’: Highlights from PM Modi’s speech||From clamping a complete-lockdown across the country for 21 days to announcing that crores of rupees have been spent to deal with coronavirus disease in the country, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday addressed the nation for the second time in less than a week.With the Covid-19-related cases and deaths rising, more than 500 people have been infected and ten killed across the country as of Tuesday, the government has already imposed unprecedented measures, including stringent travel restrictions, to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease.Here are the highlights of PM Modi’s address to the nation:“Experts are saying that social distancing is the only way to deal with the coronavirus crisis across the globe. There is another way to deal with coronavirus and we need to save ourselves. And we have to break the cycle of its infection.”“From 12 midnight, the entire country will go under complete lockdown. The lockdown will be for 21 days -- three weeks. This lockdown is in a way curfew and would be more stringent than Janta Curfew.”“Stay at home. It is for all Indians, every family and even for the PM. The laxity of certain will jeopardise the entire country - including you, your parents, friends.”“This 21-day lockdown is absolutely necessary to break the chain of spread. If we don’t manage these 21 days, the country will be pushed back by 21 years. Some families will be destroyed forever.”“Today’s decision of lockdown means a Lakshman rekha has been drawn outside your doors. If you put even one foot out, coronavirus will enter your homes.“Friends, at such a time you should be cautious, as knowingly or unknowingly rumours spread fast. They have a tendency to travel fast. I appeal to you, do not believe in such rumours and superstitions,” he said.“Please do not take any medicine with consulting any doctor. Any such carelessness can put your life in more danger. I am sure that every citizen will follow the directions of the government and local administration,” he said.“Think about the police personnel who are on their duty, day and night, without thinking about their own family, to protect you and your family. They also face the anger of some people sometimes.”“While staying at home, remember and pray for people who are working while putting their lives at risk. Remember the doctors, nurses, paramedics and pathologists who are working day and night to save lives and hospital administration, ambulance drivers, ward boys, serving others in these tough times.”“The government has allotted Rs 15,000 crore for coronavirus testing facilities, PPEs, ICUs, ventilators and training medical workers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/think-about-those-helping-you-highlights-from-pm-modi-s-speech/story-oAnKO0SAL3QQFi55JctgJN.html
24-03-2020||India||Will be pushed back 21 years if we can’t manage 21 days: PM Modi on Covid-19 lockdown||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday warned that India will have to pay a high price if the country cannot enforce a 21-day lockdown to fight coronavirus.“If we are not able to manage the upcoming 21 days we will be pushed back by 21 years,” Modi said in a televised address to the nation, his second in a week on a day when the number of Covid-19 infections in the country rose to more than 500. He said the 21 days will be sacrosanct and likened them to a ‘Lakshman rekha’ for citizens to save themselves.The 21-day lockdown is the most severe response yet by the central government to combat the spread of coronavirus that has showed exponential growth this month after only three persons had been infected in Kerala in January.He acknowledged that there will be an economic price to pay for the lockdown but warned that ignoring social distancing may extract an incalculable price from the country.“India is at a stage where our actions today will decide to what extent we can reduce the impact of this pandemic. This is the time to strengthen our resolve again and again,” Modi said.He emphasised that social distancing is the only way to break the chain of transmission of coronavirus “There is no way to avoid coronavirus other than social distancing. We have to break the cycle of transmission,, Some are under the impression that social distancing are for patients,. Social distancing is for everyone, even for the prime minister,” Modi said.Without naming any particular country, he said that coronavirus spread so exponentially that it seemed to overwhelm some some countries.“You have seen how many countries have been rendered helpless by coronavirus. It is spreading so fast that despite the best efforts by these countries they are facing huge challenges.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-be-pushed-back-21-years-if-we-can-t-manage-21-days-pm-modi-on-covid-19-lockdown/story-GahaCrIdNtkNrc5StnkBLJ.html
24-03-2020||India||‘This is a type of curfew’: PM Modi explains what 21-day lockdown means||Prime Minnister Narendra Modi on Tuesday announced further tightening of measures to check the spread of coronavirus disease Covid-19.He said that the entire country will be under lockdown for 21 days which he said is required to break the cycle of infection.“Every state, every union territory, every district, every village and every locality is being put under a lockdown. This is in effect a curfew, more stringent than the Janta Curfew,” PM Modi said explaining the new measure which comes into force from midnight tonight.“There will be an economic cost, but saving the life of each and every Indian is the first priority for me,” he added. “I request you to remain wherever you are in the country.”More on Covid-19:• Your guide to staying safe• What you need to know today• How difficult it is to maintain 1-metre distance• How coronavirus is different from seasonal flu and common cold“If we are not able to manage this pandemic in the next 21 days, the country and your families will be set back by 21 years,” said the Prime Minister.During his address, PM Modi said people are using innovative ways to spread awareness about the disease. “There is one such poster I liked and want to share with you. It says ‘Co-Ro-Na which means Koi Road Par Na Nikle (Nobody should come out on the roads)’. It gives a message in very few words.”“Experts have said that if one contracts the virus today, it may take many days for it to exhibit its signs. During this period, the virus gets transmitted to all others who come in contact with such person,” the PM added.He also said that this disease spreads like wildfire. “Coronavirus took 67 days to infect one lakh people, another lakh were affected in 11 days and the number reached 3 lakh in jut four days. This shows how fast this virus spreads,” said PM Modi.The Prime Minister said that this is the time for patience and discipline. “I appeal to you with folded hands to remember people putting their lives at risk for our safety,” PM Modi said in his address.He ended is nearly 30-minute-long address with an appeal to the countrymen to take care of themselves, their families and friends.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/this-is-a-type-of-curfew-pm-modi-explains-what-21-day-lockdown-means/story-GkPVWEA8UBEiEFUPL6Z80I.html
24-03-2020||India||Lok Nayak hospital docs want separate block for Covid-19 treatment||Doctors at Delhi’s Lok Nayak hospital, where six patients infected with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) are admitted, have asked the hospital to form a separate block that would include all wards and diagnostics related to the Covid-19 treatment, so that other patients visiting the hospital are safeguarded from any possible exposure to the virus. They have also demanded discontinuation of general out-patient clinics and diagnostic services.“We suggest that such isolation or quarantine can be done in one block like the entire MAIDS (Maulana Azad Institute of Dental Sciences), new medicine block or the entire orthopaedics block, and these should be declared as corona-treating units with different floors managing various categories of patients,” the teacher’s association of the Maulana Azad Medical College that is linked to the Lok Nayak hospital said in a letter dated March 23.The Lok Nayak hospital near Delhi Gate has a 34-bed isolation ward for suspected patients and 11 isolated rooms for Covid-19 positive patients. It is one of the 27 hospitals with isolation facilities in the national capital.Till now, people who are suspected Covid-19 patients are first triaged (order and site of treatment is decided) on the ground floor of the hospital’s emergency building and then moved to the Covid-19 isolation ward on the sixth floor of the same building. Often, patients being diagnosed or treated for Covid-19 have to be taken through the out-patient clinics and the pharmacy department to the X-ray unit in another building, which is common for general patients as well. Such movements of Covid-19 patients, doctors say, could expose others to the high-contagious infection. If the test is positive, the confirmed patient is shifted to an isolation room in another block across a third building in the campus. For this too, the Covid-19 patient has to cross out-patient clinics as well as the in-patient wards, according to doctors. Similarly, for using a ventilator, a Covid-19 patient will have to be brought back to the emergency building. “Moving Covid-19 patients from building to building will put the general patients at risk,” a senior doctor from the hospital said on condition of anonymity. Another ward being prepared by the hospital to treat more Covid-19 patients is in the orthopaedic block, which will be located in a fourth building. While the 2000-bed hospital has cut OPD registration timings by two hours, the clinics continue to function. The hospital has also stopped all elective non-emergency surgeries to reduce the crowd.“Yes, the facilities are fragmented, there is no doubt about that. But the government of India has declared us a Covid-19 hospital and we are doing the best with what we have. We are taking every precaution to ensure that the infection is controlled. We have cut down the OPD, but I am not willing to shut it completely because where will the poor patients go otherwise? We are also reminding people to maintain distance and wash their hands before touching their eyes, nose, or mouth regularly through announcements,” said Dr Kishore Singh, medical director of the Lok Nayak hospital.Apart from the fragmented facilities, the doctors are also concerned about personal protective equipment (PPE) being provided to health care workers. “There is a shortage of PPE in the hospital. The doctors working in these isolation wards were not being given PPE and the supply that has now come have stitches coming loose and pores in the fabric. We are knowingly subjecting our people to the infection,” the doctor cited above said.Experts agree that a single facility dedicated to treating infected patients is better than the piecemeal approach.“Of course, moving the patient around across the hospital increases the chances of them giving the infection to others in the hospital. To effectively manage the Covid-19 patients, either the hospitals should discharge their other patients or use vacant facilities – like AIIMS will be using its Jhajjar cancer centre that is not yet fully operational – to treat Covid-19 patients,” said Dr MC Mishra, former director of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lok-nayak-hospital-docs-want-separate-block-for-covid-19-treatment/story-kB1ELiRHX6AiVcfX226EaJ.html
24-03-2020||India||Don’t listen to rumours, don’t be superstitious in fight against Covid-19: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday asked people to be cautious against rumours and not to fall to superstition at a time when he said hundreds of people are working to fight the coronavirus outbreak.“Friends, at such a time you should be cautious, as knowingly or unknowingly rumours spread fast. They have a tendency to travel fast. I appeal to you, do not believe in such rumours and superstitions,” he said.The Prime Minister said it very important for people to follow the instructions and advice of the medical fraternity.“Please do not take any medicine with consulting any doctor. Any such carelessness can put your life in more danger. I am sure that every citizen will follow the directions of the government and local administration,” he said.The Covid-19-related cases and deaths have been mounting with more than 500 people infected and nine killed across the country.More than a billion people, or nearly 90% of India’s population, are under lockdown as of Tuesday evening with authorities imposing unprecedented measures, including stringent travel restrictions, to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease.All districts in as many as 32 states and Union territories (UTs) have completely shut down, barring the delivery of essential services. The Prime Minister had tweeted earlier in the day that he will address the country on the fast-spreading disease with flu-like symptoms to “share some important things”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-listen-to-rumours-don-t-be-superstitious-in-fight-against-covid-19-pm-modi/story-4vrEy2HWkya95J9aVOuxCJ.html
24-03-2020||India||In a speech to announce complete lockdown, PM Modi talks about coronavirus poster||As Prime Minister Narendra Modi declared an unprecedented complete-lockdown for 21 days across the country on Tuesday, he talked about a poster that caught his eyes.The Prime Minister urged people to follow social distancing, in his second address to the nation in less than a week, as the coronavirus-related disease cases and deaths mounted with more than 500 people infected and nine killed across the country.“As I saw videos and posters, I liked one. It talked about what coronavirus means. CORONA—Koi Road Par Na Nikle (No one must go out on the roads),” he said.More than a billion people, or nearly 90% of India’s population, are under lockdown as of Tuesday evening in all the districts in as many as 32 states and Union territories (UTs), barring the delivery of essential services. Authorities have already clamped unprecedented measures, including stringent travel restrictions, to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease.He called out to people to follow the practice of social distancing.“Experts are saying that social distancing is the only way to deal with the coronavirus crisis across the globe. There is no other way to deal with coronavirus and we need to save ourselves. And we have to break the cycle of its infection,” the Prime Minister said.“People will have to pay dearly and it will unimaginable,” he warned.The Prime Minister had tweeted earlier in the day that he will address the country on the fast-spreading disease with flu-like symptoms to “share some important things”.In a television address last Thursday, Modi highlighted the threat posed by the Sars-Cov-2 virus, which causes the disease, and appealed to people to practise social distancing and work from home. He had also asked Indians to take a pledge to keep themselves and others in the society safe.Modi had on Monday appealed to state governments to ensure the adherence to the unprecedented measures announced in several parts of the country, saying that many people are still not taking the situation seriously. The Prime Minister had also expressed concern in a tweet that many were not taking the lockdown seriously and urged people to follow the instructions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-a-speech-to-announce-compete-lockdown-pm-modi-talks-about-coronavirus-poster/story-8A2AAS8j5OEPQE6iDMdELP.html
24-03-2020||India||PM Modi Live on Coronavirus: India bound in ‘Lakshman Rekha’ for next 21 days||Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a complete lockdown for the country beginning midnight saying it was being done to save the lives of 1.3 billion Indians and added that there will be a complete ban on people stepping out of their homes for the next 21 days, which if not followed, will set the country back by 21 years.‘If we won’t follow the nationwide lockdown for 21 days, we will be pushed back by 21 years,’ PM said, underlining the centrality of this measure to India’s efforts to prevent it from breaking lose.“Coming 21 days are very important for us. Health experts say 21 days are very important to break the cycle of coronavirus infections,” PM said.He reiterated that social distancing, which could only be enforced by a strict adherence to the principle of staying indoors, was the only solution in this unprecedented crisis. He added that while he recognised that the lockdown period of 21 days was long but added that it was necessary for the safety of every Indian family.‘No matter what happens, we don’t have to come out of our houses,’ he said more than once. Coronavirus has infected over 500 people in the country so far but globally the toll has crossed 334,000 with close to 15,000 fatalities.The prime minister used examples of advanced economies like the United States and Italy to drive home the point that the contagion, if allowed to enter the community transmission stage, can prove to be unstoppable and destructive for a developing economy of the size of India.He said some people’s carelessness will cost India dear and it was difficult to gauge how enormous this cost will be, while urging the residents to honour lockdown provisions enforced across the country.He reminded the country that he had asked every Indian to be prepared to sacrifice a “few weeks” to deal with this extraordinary challenge posed by the global pandemic during his last address to the nation on March 19, when he identified “resolve and restraint” as the two tools to fight the disease and introduced the 14-hour long ‘Janta Curfew’- a precursor to the nationwide lockdown.PM’s address comes amid accusations of delayed government response and pressure from the opposition to devise a comprehensive strategy to deal with the economic challenges arising out of the situation. States have also demanded fiscal relief and help from the centre.The prime minister also announced that the central government had made an allocation of Rs 15,000 crore to strengthen health infrastructure in the wake of the outbreak that is putting it to test.Earlier today, centre issued advisory to all states/UTs to use cess fund corpus worth Rs, 52000 crore for the welfare of about 3.5 crore construction workers is registered with Construction welfare Boards.The prime minister added that the country “may have to pay a financial cost for this lockdown” but it was “important for the safety of people”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-live-on-coronavirus-india-bound-in-lakshman-rekha-for-next-21-days/story-GQBN5dfEsnPtEg4hyob7mL.html
24-03-2020||India||‘Social distancing is the only way’: PM Modi appeals to people in fight against coronavirus||Prime Minister Narendra Modi urged people to follow social distancing on Tuesday, in his second address to the nation in less than a week, as the coronavirus-related disease cases and deaths mounted with more than 500 people infected and nine killed across the country.More than a billion people, or nearly 90% of India’s population, are under lockdown as of Tuesday evening with authorities imposing unprecedented measures, including stringent travel restrictions, to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease.All districts in as many as 32 states and Union territories (UTs) have completely shut down, barring the delivery of essential services. “Experts are saying that social distancing is the only way to deal with the coronavirus crisis across the globe. There is no other way to deal with coronavirus and we need to save ourselves. And we have to break the cycle of its infection,” the Prime Minister said.He called out people to remove all doubts about who has to follow the practice of social distancing.“Some people are under the impression that social distancing is only for Covid-19 patients — it is for every member of the family and even the prime minister. And the wrong impressions and thoughts can bring a lot of trouble to their families, friends and the even the entire country,” he said.“People will have to pay dearly and it will unimaginable,” he warned.The Prime Minister had tweeted earlier in the day that he will address the country on the fast-spreading disease with flu-like symptoms to “share some important things”.In a television address last Thursday, Modi highlighted the threat posed by the Sars-Cov-2 virus, which causes the disease, and appealed to people to practise social distancing and work from home. He had also asked Indians to take a pledge to keep themselves and others in the society safe.He had requested citizens to observe a Janta Curfew (people’s curfew), which was in place for 14 hours on Sunday - from 7 am to 9 pm. And, people stayed off the roads and public places during this period.Since then, India has announced unprecedented restrictions, including travel curbs, to stop the infection. As many as 32 states and Union Territories, including Delhi, are under complete lockdown.On Monday, Modi appealed to state governments to ensure the adherence to the unprecedented measures announced in several parts of the country, saying that many people are still not taking the situation seriously. And then, again on Twitter, Modi said he called upon industry leaders to continue following the work-from-home order as much as possible.The Prime Minister had also expressed concern in a tweet that many were not taking the lockdown seriously.“Many people are still not taking the lockdown seriously. Please save yourself, save your family, follow the instructions seriously. I request state governments to ensure rules and laws are followed,” he had tweeted in Hindi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/social-distancing-is-the-only-way-pm-modi-appeals-to-people-in-fight-against-coronavirus/story-W5iHWaQmXqwH8Tj5LbAtLL.html
24-03-2020||India||Delay in lockdown could have led to threefold jump in coronavirus cases in China||Early and effective shutdowns are crucial to avoiding a dramatic expansion of the coronavirus disease outbreak, a new study has found, using data to argue that if China had delayed its sweeping restrictions on gatherings and travel by a week, the disease would have affected three times as many patients.Using a travel network-based statistical model to simulate the Covid-19 outbreak across mainland China, researchers in the UK, the US and China estimated that if non-pharmaceutical interventions (NPIs) were clamped one week, two weeks, or three weeks later, the number of cases could have shown a threefold, sevenfold, and 18- fold increase across China.Three major NPIs were considered by the researchers. The first was intercity travel bans; the second was tough screening, contact tracing, identification, diagnosis, isolation and reporting of suspected ill persons; and the third was clamping inner-city travel and contact restrictions to reduce risk of community transmission.Researchers found that if NPIs had been conducted one week, two weeks, or three weeks earlier in China, cases could have been reduced by 66%, 86%, and 95% respectively, together with significantly reducing the number of affected areas. The geographical range of affected areas would shrink from 308 cities to 192, 130, and 61 cities, respectively.“Results also suggest that the social distancing intervention should be continued for the next few months in China to prevent case numbers increasing again,” the study said.The study found that early detection and isolation of cases was more important than contact reduction and social distancing in the early stages (fivefold versus 2.6-fold) because the focus was quickly preventing more infections.But in the longer term, social distancing and contact reduction was crucial in stopping epidemics from increasing. “integrated NPIs would achieve the strongest and most rapid effect on Covid-19 outbreak,” the study found.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delay-in-lockdown-could-have-led-to-threefold-jump-in-coronavirus-cases-in-china/story-whYZGrQ3OEmGP1tI8vpVVN.html
24-03-2020||India||Watch live: PM Modi’s address on coronavirus crisis in India||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday has announced a complete lockdown in the country for 21 days beginning midnight. This, PM Modi said in his televised address to the nation, will be more stringent than the voluntary janata curfew on Sunday. PM Modi told the country that people would not be allowed to come out of their houses for the next 21 days and asked them to meticulously follow this. “Today India is at the stage where our actions today, will decide to what extent we can bring down the impact of this disaster. This is the time to strengthen our resolve again and again,” PM Modi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/watch-live-pm-modi-s-address-on-coronavirus-crisis-in-india/story-on4TjNlz4VYBbKDBoUV8oN.html
24-03-2020||India||PM Modi Live on coronavirus outbreak: India in complete lockdown from midnight||Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced India was going into a complete lockdown mode from midnight on Tuesday resulting in a complete ban in people stepping out of their homes in order to prevent further transmission of Coronavirus in India that has registered over 500 cases so far.He added that social distancing was the only effective measure to fight Coronavirus that had deflated the most advanced countries across the world despite their infrastructure while criticising those who have been reported to be flouting the restrictions in the last couple of days.“The cycle of transmission must be broken if we have to defeat Coronavirus,” he said, and added that “Some people were under this misconception that social distancing was only for the sick but it is meant for everyone for their own safety, it applies even to the prime minister.”He added that some people’s carelessness will cost India dear and it was difficult to gauge how enormous this cost will be, while urging the residents to honour lockdown provisions enforced across the country.In his last address to the nation on March 19 he called for “resolve and restraint” to fight the disease and introduced the 14-hour long Janta Curfew on Sunday to encourage social distancing to break the chain of transmissions.The prime minister has held several review meetings including one with the chief ministers and health ministers of all states and with stakeholders outside the government including health care providers and media institutions to coordinate efforts against the spread of Cov-Sars-2.Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba will chair an urgent meeting with all the state Director Generals of Police and Chief Secretaries after the Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address to the nation to chalk out a plan on coronavirus pandemic, said a news agency.In his last address to the nation on March 19 he called for “resolve and restraint” to fight the disease and introduced the 14-hour long Janta Curfew on Sunday to encourage social distancing to break the chain of transmissions.The prime minister has held several review meetings including one with the chief ministers and health ministers of all states and with stakeholders outside the government including health care providers and media institutions to coordinate efforts against the spread of Cov-Sars-2.In his last address to the nation on March 19, the prime minister had announced the setting up of the task force to lead the fight against the virus, however, the finance minister on Tuesday said the fiscal measures were still in the works and will be announced soon. Nirmala Sitharaman announced several other relaxations including from the requirement of maintaining a minimum balance in savings account, waiver of surcharge for withdrawing money from ATMs outside the network of an account holder’s own bank, reduction in interest rates on penalties and extension of the deadlines for filling GST for firms and Income Tax Return for individuals among other measures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-live-on-coronavirus-outbreak-india-in-complete-lockdown-from-midnight/story-gnsucLOviS828MrwsCPnCP.html
24-03-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Global economy is in crisis. Here’s what the world is doing||The rapid spread of coronavirus (Covid-19) disease around the world has severely affected the global economy causing economic distress to companies and individuals. It has caused disruptions in both supply and demand chain for goods and services around the world.The pandemic has led to a lockdown in large parts of the world. The lockdown, has, in turn, caused a major disruption to the economy with sectors such as tourism, aviation and hospitality being among the worst affected. Major equity markets have lost around quarter of their value since the beginning of the crisis.As India grapples with the consequences of the economic crisis due to Covid-19, here is a look at steps that major countries have taken to deal with the same.The United StatesThe United States (US) is working on its third stimulus package of more than $1 trillion to support its industries as well as workers. As a part of this package, the government is planning to give $1200 per adult and $500 per child in direct money transfer. The package includes provisions of over $50 billion for airlines industry as well as enhanced unemployment insurance for workers.In its earlier coronavirus relief package of around $100 billion approved last week, the US government had included provisions for free testing for Covid-19 and paid emergency leave. This also included unemployment benefits for its laid off workers.The US Federal Reserve has cut down its interest rates twice in March, first by 50 basis points and then by 100 basis points in mid March to nearly zero. 100 basis points equals to one percentage point. It has also announced measures to inject $700 billion into the US economy by buying government bonds.The United KingdomThe Bank of England has cut the bank rate by 50 basis points to 0.25%. It has announced a scheme that would pay grants to firms to cover up to 80% of the salary of workers (up to 2500 pounds per month) to avoid mass layoffs. It has also deferred the next quarter of VAT payments of companies.The UK government had earlier announced 330 billion pound ($398 billion) package of government- backed loan and guarantees. The package offered support to businesses that are paying sick pay to employees and also granted funds to smaller businesses up to 25000 pound.EuropeGermany is planning a €150billion ($1600billion) rescue package to support its economy. The government is also setting up a 500-billion-euro bailout fund to take stakes in critical industries, according to reports.The French government has announced a 45 billion euro ($50 billion) aid for small businesses and employees mainly through deferral of tax payments. It has also announced to guarantee bank loans up to 300 billion euros to avoid any risk of bankruptcy by small and medium companies.ChinaThe People’s bank of China (PBOC) announced in early February its decision to inject 1.2 trillion yuan ($174 billion) into the markets through open market operations (reverse repo operations) in order to maintain “reasonable and abundant liquidity” in the banking system. To lower the cost of financing, the PBOC has also cut the amount of cash that banks have to set aside as reserves (reserve requirement ratio) from mid March.In mid February, the PBOC bank had lowered the interest rate on around $29 billion worth of one year loans to its banks by 10 basis points so that they could help businesses by lowering costs for them. Earlier this month, the Chinese financial regulators had offered relief to its small and medium-sized businesses by allowing them to delay loan or interest payments until the end of June, as per a Bloomberg report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-global-economy-is-in-crisis-here-s-what-the-world-is-doing/story-4l6sZW3ukAd5yL7tsLzanL.html
24-03-2020||India||Coronavirus update- 97k-1.3mn stand risk of infection by May: Study||India might end up with 97,000 to 1.3 million coronavirus disease (Covid-19) infections by mid-May, according to a statistical analysis of current trends and the country’s demographics that raises the possibility of the country being unable to avoid widespread deaths if its frail healthcare system is overwhelmed by the outbreak.Created by a team including 13 academics from three American universities and one from the Delhi School of Economics, the projection is based on cases reported till March 22 and underscores the need for the government to immediately ramp up efforts such as building dedicated new hospitals as China did in Wuhan.“By May 15, we estimate between 97,000 and 1.3 million people may be infected across India,” said Bhramar Mukherjee, chair of biostatistics at the University of Michigan School of Public Health, and one of the authors of the report, “Predictions and role of interventions for Covid-19 outbreak in India”.The assessment is based on daily case data from the 2019 Novel Coronavirus Visual Dashboard operated by the Johns Hopkins University Center for Systems Science and Engineering.The trend, according to the researchers,will depend on how strong India’s interventions are to stop the new coronavirus (Sars-Cov-2) from spreading further in the country, where at least 400 people in 22 states have already been sickened.“Current estimates are at best underestimates for India based on early phase data, given the low frequency and scale of testing in India,” says the report, adding that the predicted surge in cases will make it “impossible for health care providers to support the sheer volume of cases. India has the most overstretched health care system where it is hard to provide care in times of normal patient volume”.According to the report, India has 0.7 hospital beds for every 100,000 people — far fewer than South Korea’s six per 100,000. South Korea, seen as one of the countries that has been successful in responding to the epidemic, has also mounted a widespread testing programme that covered tens of thousands of people in the initial weeks.The report also flags the vast proportion of vulnerable Indians who suffer from non-communicable diseases such as hypertension and diabetes as a factor that could make the outbreak serious in India.“All the susceptibility factors that have been identified for people to be at higher risk for hospitalisations are more prevalent in India. And India has far fewer number of hospital beds for its population than the United States or South Korea,” Mukherjee said.This, she added, makes the concept of “flattening of the curve” difficult for India.Flattening the curve refers to keeping number of infections suppressed to levels that will allow existing healthcare system to be able to give care.In the US, several hospitals have in the last week reported to have run out of beds for new patients, leaving many without the critical care they need to be able to survive.To get ahead of the problem, Mukherjee and her colleagues suggest immediate ramping up of efforts by the government. “The effect of severe intervention is quite palpable – as seen in China that effectively contained most of the infection to Hubei. There are two stages to the strategy we see: in early phase, you can go for large scale testing to identify the spread of the disease,” she said on the phone.The second phase is when community spread begins, “when you are unable to trace every contact, you have to shift your focus to building health care facility”.“You have to think of creative strategies, not just to tackle the initial surge but also manage the pandemic over the next months or even the years that it could last,” said Mukherjee, citing experiments such as the one in China where people were allowed to go out in a lottery-based permissions system.In the longer term, policy makers will need to think about economic as well as the societal implications from the crisis, which has led to a situation in which entire cities, industries and the mammoth railways network have been shut down for the first time.“The interventions need to be paired with incentives so that people are encouraged to follow restrictions. Because let us remember the mortality rate is not in itself very high, and we must be wary of triggering mass panic and anxiety that could lead to other psychosocial and economic problems,” said Mukherjee.The report also covers speculation that the following summer months could help stem the disease’s spread – a notion the scientists said did not hold up to statistical scrutiny.“Let’s also remember that every flu has two seasons. One early in the spring and a return in the fall. Even if it dies down in summer, it will likely come back, so we have to be prepared at least for a couple of years till we get herd immunity or a vaccine,” said Mukherjee.For now, the report emphasises the need to increase testing so that there is a better baseline data for epidemiological projections – a process that takes into account a number of positive as well as negative cases, in addition to demographic distribution and the pathogen’s observed rate of spread.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-97k-1-3mn-stand-risk-of-infection-by-may-study/story-OiDQdtdutPDo659o092u6L.html
24-03-2020||India||Coronavirus update: IAF asks pilots to have minimal contact, army shuts canteens||The Indian Air Force (IAF) and the army have announced new protocols to tackle the swift spread of Covid-19, including a ban on persons showing symptoms from boarding service aircraft, advising pilots not to step out of the cockpit and restricting the movement of army personnel in the 82 districts that are in lockdown.The army has also directed soldiers to also keep a daily log of who they meet. Last week, the army had confirmed its first case of Covid-19 — a 34-year-old soldier had tested positive in Leh. It had then banned all entry and exit to and from the Ladakh Scouts Regimental Centre where the man was posted.The air force has asked its crew to have “minimal contact” with travellers. “Passengers will be briefed to avoid any unnecessary contact with persons/aircraft surfaces,” the IAF advisory said.The army has restricted movement of personnel and shut its canteen stores department outlets in 82 districts that are in lockdown. The army has also instituted mechanisms to trace contact history and asked personnel to maintain a daily contact log.Other measures in place include cancellation of all non-essential training, conferences and travel, and avoiding any assembly of more than 50 personnel.Fresh instructions to combat Covid-19 were also issued by the navy after the lockdown of 82 districts that include key bases such as Mumbai and Vizag, two officials said asking not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-iaf-asks-pilots-to-have-minimal-contact-army-shuts-canteens/story-iyYrUmmE4Ol5KDU8vEsEQM.html
24-03-2020||India||Amit Shah tells Delhi top cop to ensure doctors not harassed over Covid-19||Home Minister Amit Shah on Tuesday spoke to Delhi Police chief S N Shrivastava and directed him to ensure security of doctors in the wake of complaints of harassment for treating coronavirus patients, officials said.Shah also spoke Resident Doctors’ Association (RDA) of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) following their complaint.“Home Minister Shri.Amit Shah personally called RDA AIIMS and assured that any such issue of ostracisation will be taken seriously and action will be taken immediately,” Dr. Srinivas Rajkumar T, General Secretary of the RDA told members of the association.Follow coronavirus live updates here.Earlier in the day, the RDA had written to the home minister complaining of discrimination and unfair behaviour by landlords. “…..Doctors, nurses and other healthcare workers involved in COVID care are being asked to vacate their rented homes and some have even been forcefully evicted by landlords and house-owners due to the fear that those healthcare professionals make them more susceptible to coronavirus infection. Many doctors are now stranded on the roads with all their luggage, nowhere to go across the country,” the RDA had complained. Ironically, the complaint of harassment comes barely two days after the country in response to an appeal by Prime Minister Narendra Modi applauded the efforts of doctors, pilots, air crew and others in the forefront of the fight against coronavirus that has now affected over 500 people in the country and prompted a countrywide lockdown. On Tuesday, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal also referred to the harassment of those involved in the fight against coronavirus and called it unfair.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-tells-delhi-top-cop-to-ensure-doctors-not-harassed-over-covid-19/story-2a33A9DNU5pxwdapYpdO2I.html
24-03-2020||India||Coronavirus- ‘Consider cash payouts for poor’: Industrialists to PM amid Covid-19 crisis||Indian industry leaders met Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday and requested a package of about ₹2-3 lakh crore to provide direct cash transfer to millions of people belonging to the unorganised sector who have lost their jobs because of the crisis triggered by the (coronavirus disease) Covid-19 outbreak.The industrialists also sought a three-month moratorium on all loan payments and asked for the suspension of repayment obligations for this period.The delegation asked the government to transfer cash into the bank accounts of those earning below ₹5 lakh a year. They requested that all citizens be given cash through direct benefit transfer to their accounts. While those below 25 years of age can be given a one-time payment of ₹5,000, senior citizens above 65 years of age can be given ₹10,000, the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) recommended to the Prime MinisterAccording to an official statement, PM Modi praised the industry leaders for speaking in one voice on the needs of the unorganised sector and called it “a new dawn of economic integration”.“The PM asked the industry to send their suggestions in writing so that he could take appropriate action,” a person with knowledge of the matter said on condition of anonymity. The PM met representatives of associations such as CII, Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry and ASSOCHAM via video-conferencing.The representatives also thanked the Prime Minister for leading from the front and taking swift action to counter the Covid-19 threat.Vikram Kirloskar, president, CII, said the industry informed Modi about initiatives taken by businessmen. “Our initiatives to help the economically deprived people, particularly our commitment to not retrench any worker including blue collar and contract workers, resonated well with PM Modi, who appreciated our efforts,” he said.They informed Modi about the steps being taken by them to maintain supply lines of essential items and medical equipment such as ventilators; assistance extended in the creation of isolation wards; utilisation of corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds for combating Covid-19; and provision of assistance to migrant labourers. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman has relaxed CSR fund norms so that companies can spend money from the corpus to fight Covid-19.The Prime Minister told them that while the government was working on giving a fillip to the pace of growth in the country, an unforeseen hurdle in the form of Covid-19 came to the fore. “The challenge posed by the pandemic is graver than even that posed by the world wars and we need to be on constant vigil to prevent its spread,” the statement quoting PM Modi said.Modi said that several sectors such as tourism, construction, hospitality and daily life engagements, including the informal sector, have been hit due to Covid-19. “Its impact on the economy will be felt for some time to come,” he said.They discussed the specific issues being faced by sectors such as banking, finance, hospitality, tourism and infrastructure, and requested help to overcome challenges through financial and fiscal assistance.Industry representatives also appreciated the importance of instituting a lockdown, irrespective of economic losses, to prevent the spread of the virus. The meeting was also attended by the principal secretary at the Prime Minister’s Office, the cabinet secretary and the industry secretary.Industrialist Uday Kotak spoke about the Covid Rehabilitation Fund and said the micro and small industries would need hand-holding. “The CII Covid Rehabilitation and Relief Fund (CRR) will be an industry-led initiative to work with the MSME sector,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-consider-cash-payouts-for-poor-industrialists-to-pm-amid-covid-19-crisis/story-229TikUgW98GN5WeGW0LcK.html
24-03-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Anti-malarial drug for high-risk people||The anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine has been approved by the national task force of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) as a prophylaxis – treatment to prevent disease — for people at high risk of contracting Covid-19, according to the Union ministry of health.High-risk population has been defined as health care workers involved in taking care of or treatment of suspected and confirmed patients of the coronavirus disease and asymptomatic people living in the same house as a laboratory-confirmed Covid-19 case.India’s drug regulator – Drug Controller General of India – has approved restricted use of the medicine in emergency.So far, there is no conclusive proof of the medicine working against Covid-19. It was one of a medley of drugs being used by clinicians in China, South Korea, France and Italy. A French study published recently in the International Journal of Antimicrobial Agents found that a combination of the anti-malarial drug and an antibiotic may be effective against Covid-19.To be sure, large controlled clinical trials are needed to test efficacy of the medicine as a preventive drug against Covid-19.The advisory from the Union health ministry, however, warns against deriving a a false sense of security from the use of the drug.“The placing of health care workers on chemoprophylaxis (taking a drug to prevent the disease) should not instil a sense of false security. They should follow all public health measures such as frequent washing of hands, respiratory etiquettes, keeping a minimum distance of 1m and use of personal protective equipment,” the advisory said.The high-risk contacts of a Covid-19-positive person also need to remain under home quarantine even with the prophylactic treatment. The medicine will be given only on prescription and people on the treatment should go back to their doctor in case they experience symptoms other than fever, cough, and breathing difficulty, the advisory says.A similar approval had been given for the use of a combination of two anti-HIV medicines -- lopinavir and ritonavir – in individuals with severe infection. A study of 199 patients from China now, however, has shown that the medicine offers no benefit.“The drug does have anti-inflammatory properties and has been used against other coronaviruses before. There are two schools of thought: One says the drug does not have too many side effects and can be used if there is a chance that it can prevent the infection. The other argues what if it has some negative impact,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head, department of community medicine at Safdarjung Hospital.“It should not be given indiscriminately to patients. A research body should be overseeing the prescription of the medicine so that data can be presented on its efficacy,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-anti-malarial-drug-for-high-risk-people/story-Enoayz7P1OCxqfhpNSJ90O.html
24-03-2020||India||Covid-19: Railways offers its units to manufacture medical equipment||Indian Railways has offered its large manufacturing and locomotive production units and workshops for manufacturing essential medical equipment such as ventilators, hospital beds, and stretchers, among others, on a war-footing. “The epidemic of Covid-19 has gripped the country. In this dire situation the manufacturing capabilities of Indian Railways may be needed to be harnessed in order to combat this scourge,” said a letter written by the Railway Board, a copy of which has been reviewed by HT. The availability of ventilators will be a key determinant in India’s success to keep the mortality rate of Covid-19 patients down, should community transmission sets in.Also read: ‘Think about those helping you’: Highlights from PM Modi’s speech“In the wake of pandemic Covid-19, the Ministry of Railways, in consultation with Production Units & Zonal Railway workshops, has decided to use the manufacturing facilities of its Production Units such as Chittaranjan Loco Works, Chittaranjan, Integral Coach Factory, Chennai, Rail Coach Factory, Kaapurthala, Diesel Loco Works, Varanasi, Rail Wheel Factory, Yelehanka to manufacture essential items which can be utilised for the treatment of affected people by this pandemic,” a railway ministry official said on condition of anonymity. India needs around 2.1 ventilators per 10,000 patients to battle the Covid-19 outbreak, according to medical experts. On March 21, a panel of senior scientists cleared an industry proposal to ramp up production of ventilators in the country to minimise shortages in the context of an increasing number of people testing positive for the Sar-CoV-2 virus, which causes the Covid-19 infection.Earlier, HT had reported that there are over 4,000 ventilators across the country.The Railway Board, the apex planning body of the national transporter, has asked production units and workshops to assess the feasibility to manufacture these items in large quantities, as may be required, at a short notice. “It is noted that the manufacturing facilities available in Indian Railways’ production units and zonal railway workshops can be utilised for manufacture of items such as simple hospital beds, medical trolleys for hospitals, and quarantine facilities, intravenous stands, stretchers, hospital bedside lockers, wash-basins with stands, ventilators, PPEs [Personal Protective Equipment] like masks, sanitisers, water tanks, etc. Other items like sheet metal fabrication work, welding, and machining can also be manufactured in these facilities based on an urgent requirement,” the letter said. The rail authorities have also stepped up their efforts in supplying essential commodities during the pan-India lockdown till March 31. At present, 32 states and Union Territories have imposed a complete lockdown. Two more have announced they would do so from Wednesday.The national transporter is ensuring the operation of goods trains for supplying commodities such as food grains, coal, milk and vegetables among others. “This is to ensure that essential services do not get disrupted at any cost and the nation keeps moving ahead. We clearly understand our responsibility for the next few months,” the India railways said. The authorities have decided to slash freight charges during the lockdown period even as the frequency of freight trains is down by nearly 32% from last year. “During the situation of lockdown in various states, the rail staff deployed at various good sheds, stations and control offices is working on a 24/7 basis to ensure that the supply of essential items for the nation does not get affected,” it added. The railways’ mammoth 166-year-old-network ferrying 22 million passengers across over 13,000 trains daily came to a standstill on Monday. According to data reviewed by HT, the rail authorities have suffered losses worth Rs 1.421 crore this month till Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-railways-offers-its-units-to-manufacture-medical-equipment/story-iR7ryJIJsd9qrd8TfHMjUM.html
24-03-2020||India||Delhi govt to give Rs 5000 to construction workers hit by Covid-19 lockdown||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday announced that his government would give Rs 5000 to construction workers whose livelihood has been affected by the lockdown to fight coronavirus.“We don’t want the poor to suffer. We all should offer help to those in distress,” he told reporters.Delhi’s lockdown has rendered daily wage earners like construction workers jobless overnight. Kejriwal said that although no new case of coronavirus has been reported in Delhi, a long battle lies ahead against coronavirus.He said a five-member doctors’ panel has been set up to suggest a plan to deal with the situation if Delhi enters stage 3 of the coronavirus pandemic despite an all-out effort to stem it.The panel has been asked to submit its report within 24 hours, he said.He appealed to the people to help each other in these difficult times.Kejriwal also took note of reports of harassment of doctors who claimed that they were facing discrimination for treating Covid-19 patients.“On the request of the Prime Minister we clapped for our doctors, nurses, pilots, air hostesses and others who are in forefront of the fight against coronavirus. But now I hear that landlords are evicting tenants like nurses claiming that they work among coronavirus patients. I have also heard that pilots and air hostesses are not being allowed to enter their housing societies. This is completely wrong,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-govt-to-give-rs-5000-to-construction-workers-hit-by-covid-19-lockdown/story-8jYMR2HdwrpNxabB8KaeWM.html
24-03-2020||India||Special flight to bring back more than 270 Indians from Iran||More than 270 Indians are set to return from Iran in a special flight on Tuesday as part of efforts to evacuate some 500 pilgrims and students from the Covid-19-affected country by the end of the week, people familiar with developments said.Iran’s Mahan Air will operate the special flight that will bring back the Indians who have already been screened and tested negative for the Coronavirus, the people said on condition of anonymity. The flight is expected to land in New Delhi after midnight on Tuesday.Mahan Air is expected to operate another special flight on March 28 to evacuate more Indians, the people said.“We are looking to evacuate some 500 Indians, including pilgrims and students, from Iran by the end of this week,” said one of the people cited above.India has already evacuated close to 600 of its nationals from Iran, where 255 Indians tested positive for Covid-19. One of the people who tested positive died subsequently while the others are being treated by Iranian doctors at a special facility set up by the Indian embassy in the holy city of Qom.The Indian embassy in Tehran has deployed its officials at several locations to help the stranded Indians, a majority of them Shia pilgrims from Ladakh and Kashmir. Iran is among the countries worst affected by the pandemic, with more than 21,600 infections and 1,685 deaths.Meanwhile, the French embassy is coordinating with Indian authorities to arrange the evacuation of more than 1,000 French travellers stranded in the country. India suspended all international flights for a week from March 22 and there are indications this measure could be extended.“We are working with the Indian authorities and with airline companies to organise flights for French citizens currently on a visit in India,” French ambassador Emmanuel Lenain told HT.The embassy tweeted a message on Tuesday asking French travellers to report on a designated phone number and an email ID.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/special-flight-to-bring-back-more-than-270-indians-from-iran/story-ERu1eDGMEMVyhVOA1prgBN.html
24-03-2020||India||Centre tells states to identify, earmark hospitals to deal with Covid-19 cases||New Delhi: Cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba on Tuesday asked state governments to immediately identify and earmark hospitals to deal with the corona virus outbreak and step up surveillance and contact mapping.In a letter to chief secretaries of all the states, Gauba said all states should immediately identify hospitals dedicated for management of Covid-19 cases and ensure that they are in a state of full readiness to deal with the situation in the event of a further spike in number of confirmed cases.“I would request you to personally review the action in respect of surveillance and contact tracing measures as well as identification and preparation of dedicated hospitals,” he said.As more cases of people jumping quarantine or not revealing their travel history have come to notice, Gauba reiterated the need to step up surveillance.He told the chief secretaries to “suitably supplement” the state and district surveillance teams as well as the rapid response teams. “It is absolutely essential that surveillance and contact tracing of all positive cases is taken up and no suspected or high-risk person is left out. It is important that while these tasks are being monitored at the state level by the state health secretaries, this activity is directly and regularly monitored at the district level by the district magistrates, involving the official machinery available in the district,” the letter says.Earlier this week, the union government announced restrictions on the movement of non-essential passenger transport including suspension of inter-state transport buses, Metro, rail services, domestic flights and inter state passenger transport till March 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-tells-states-to-identify-earmark-hospitals-to-deal-with-covid-19-cases/story-eghOQui537JRfGZ1P0qI7K.html
24-03-2020||India||Amit Shah responds to SOS from doctors, tells police chief to crack the whip||Resident doctors of All India Institute of Medical Sciences in national capital Delhi on Tuesday approached Home Minister Amit Shah for his intervention after reports that some landlords were forcing out doctors and medical personnel staying in their house over fears that they might have contracted SARS-CoV-2 at work.In a letter to Amit Shah, the doctors’ body said there had been several instances of healthcare professionals being evicted by house owners and asked the home minister to order the police to help them out.“Many doctors are now stranded on the roads with all their luggage, nowhere to go, across the country,” president of the AIIMS association of resident doctors Dr Adarsh Pratap Singh said.Amit Shah later phoned Delhi Police Commissioner SN Shrivastava to ask him to take action on complaints received from healthcare professionals. Dr Srinivas Rajkumar T, general secretary of the AIIMS association, later said the home minister had called him the association also and assured that “any such issue of ostracisation will be taken seriously and action will be taken immediately”.Doctors aren’t the first set of professionals to complain of harassment at the hands of landlords and neighbours. Air India and IndiGo had reported receiving similar complaints from airline crew after India bought home hundreds of citizens stranded abroad.Union aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri had backed them earlier in the day, speaking with “distress” at news that some aviation professionals who had been at the forefront of efforts to rescue fellow citizens and helped contain the spread of Covid-19 were being harassed by their neighbours and resident welfare associations.By Tuesday evening, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal also weighed in with a request directed at Prime Minister Narendra Modi.“On the request of our Prime Minister we clapped for our doctors, nurses and others who are giving essential services. But now I am getting information that a landlord has forcefully evicted a nurse tenant as she treats coronavirus patients,” Kejriwal said.Some people, Kejriwa continued, are not allowing the pilots and air hostesses to enter their colonies. “This is not right. These people are risking their lives for us and we are behaving in this way. We should change this mindset,” Arvind Kejriwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/forced-to-vacate-houses-doctors-treating-covid-19-patients-send-sos-to-govt/story-mWAtkvtbq705Deo8Jw5EWJ.html
24-03-2020||India||Amid Covid-19 crisis, PM Modi tells media to act as a link between govt and people||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday stressed on the importance of tackling the spread of pessimism, negativity and rumour mongering while fighting the coronavirus pandemic and specifically asked the print media, which he said has “tremendous credibility” to act as a link between government and people and provide continuous feedback, at both national and regional levels to help in the fight against COVID-19.At an interaction with stakeholders from print media from across the country through video conferencing, the Prime Minister urged media houses to not only ensure their credibility is maintained by reporting facts, but also give a platform to efforts being made to control the spread of the global pandemic that has led to nine deaths in India.Union minister for information and broadcasting, Prakash Javadekar, was also present on the occasion.According to a statement issued by the government, the PM said that while the media has played a praise-worthy role in disseminating information about the pandemic to every nook and cranny of this nation, it needs to take the message to micro levels. He reminded the media of its social responsibility towards the less privileged and said it is critical to improve social cohesion to safeguard our national security, said the statement issued by the government. According to a person aware of what transpired at the meeting, the Prime Minister asked print media to provide readers with news they could use.While the PM, in his address to the nation on Thursday, urged people to follow the protocol of social distancing, on Tuesday he underlined the need to inform the public about the steps being taken to ensure health checks and the protocols to be followed to stem the virus from spreading. Citizens need to be assured that the government is committed to countering the impact of COVID-19, he said.The PM said it is imperative to keep the fighting spirit of the people up; and pointed out that newspapers carry tremendous credibility. The local pages are widely read, he added. It is therefore imperative that awareness about coronavirus is spread through articles published on this page, the statement said.The statement further said, the PM also asked newspapers and their websites to carry essential information about where the testing centres are, who should get tested, whom to contact to get tested, and how to follow home isolation protocols.He also suggested that information about the location of availability of essential items during the ongoing lockdown should be shared on the regional pages. To step up measures to create awareness about the virus, he said media should highlight the impact of spread of the virus, through inclusion of international data and case studies about other countries in the papers.“The PM also took suggestions from the participants who joined the video conference from across the country. There were over 20 participants from 14 locations and represented both national and regional media, representing 11 different languages,” said a second person familiar with what happened at the meeting.The second person said that media representatives apprised the PM of various concerns including the difficulties being faced by newspaper vendors and deliver people in collecting and distributing newspapers and in combating rumours that papers can be carriers of the virus. It was suggested that the government make it easier for the newspaper vendors and delivery people to move around during a lockdown.“They also suggested that in this time of crisis, the government should organise regular briefings and have systems in place for information dissemination,” the person quoted above said.Some of the media representatives also apprised the PM about the steps being taken by them to convey information to the masses such as focused coverage on the local pages; highlighting the protocols for social distancing to be followed and highlighting success stories and efforts being undertaken by healthcare workers.“The stakeholders from print media appreciated the role played by the Prime Minister in communicating effectively and leading the country from the front. They said that they will work on the suggestions of the Prime Minister to publish inspiring and positive stories. They also thanked him for reinforcing the credibility of print media and noted that the entire nation has followed his message of coming together to face this grave challenge,” the statement said.The PM, who is scheduled to address the nation at 8pm on Tuesday, also met stakeholders from electronic media channels through video conference on Monday and spoke about the emerging challenges in the wake of COVID-19 spread.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-covid-19-crisis-pm-modi-tells-media-to-act-as-a-link-between-govt-and-people/story-CHQQ2UiVVtUHdfmzXKR0GK.html
24-03-2020||India||No one infected by Covid-19 through newspapers: Scientists||No one has been infected by coronavirus (Covid-19) through newspapers or packages with scientific research showing the virus does not survive on porous surfaces. The particular sterility of newsprint makes newspapers safe, the world’s top scientists and researchers have said.A study published in the New England Journal of Medicine, the world’s most-cited research journal, on the varying stability of the coronavirus on different surfaces found that the lowest transmission possibilities were through copper because of its atomic makeup and cardboard because of its porous texture. The transmission was highest through aerosols and higher through plastic and stainless steel, the study found.The coronavirus loses half its potency every 66 minutes and is only one-eighth as infectious three hours after landing on a surface, and has 2% potency after six hours, researchers found. It lasts longest on smooth, non-porous surfaces , and can stay live on plastic and stainless steel with steadily lowering potency for two to three days. The virus does not last on cardboard after 24 hours, and lasts even less on newsprint, which is far more porous than cardboard.Experts have dismissed the misinformation that newsprint can cause Covid-19 across continents. “Newspapers are pretty sterile because of the way they are printed and the process they have been through. Traditionally, people have eaten fish and chips out of them for that very reason. So all of the ink and the print makes them actually quite sterile....,” Prof George Lomonossoff, a project leader in the Department of Chemistry at the John Innes Centre, Norwich, told BBC.Leading experts, including from apex health research and public health organisations, as well government centres tasked with tracking and containing infections in India, have also dismissed misinformation regarding newspapers as potential carriers of Covid-19, saying it has no scientific basis.National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) director Dr Sujeet K Singh said it is untrue that newspapers can be a source of Covid-19 infection. ”There is no evidence to suggest that. If it was happening, we would have said so to stop the infection. What we know about the virus, for sure, right now is that it spreads largely through droplets and fomites [infected surfaces], not newspapers,” said Singh.The NCDC (Delhi) and Pune’s National Institute of Virology are two premier labs that have been testing samples for Covid-19 since the first two cases from Delhi and Hyderabad were reported on March 2.Dr BK Tripathi, a medicine professor at Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital, where 14 Covid-19 and 50 suspected cases are in an isolation ward, echoed Singh, saying that claims of newspapers being able to transmit the infection is misinformation. “Towels, doorknobs, handles, plastic objects are known as fomites... But all [other[ articles we use in our daily lives will not transmit the infection. Newspapers do not transmit the infection,’’ said Tripathi. Tripathi underlined the virus cannot survive in the open air for more than four to five hours. “In closed humid areas, the virus can survive for days as is the case with doorknobs, car keys etc. There is no recommendation to stop reading or getting newspapers. They [newspapers] are providing very important information,” he said. Nivedita Gupta, a senior scientist with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)’s epidemiology division, said they have no evidence to suggest the virus can be spread through newspapers or items like milk packets. “I do not think we should stop getting these things...,” said Gupta, whose organisation is tasked with tracking and documenting Covid-19 cases.Dr Amit Singh, an associate professor with the Centre for Infectious Disease Research at Bengaluru’s Indian Institute of Science, cited a 2011 study on the 2009 H1N1 virus outbreak and added that a virus does not survive on porous surfaces like paper, cloth or tissue, but stays up to 48 hours on surfaces like steel, plastic, glass, aluminium etc. “This is simply because the protein envelope of a virus disintegrates easily in dry, porous surfaces. The viruses may last only for about four hours on such surfaces. This is based on evidence from the H1N1 flu epidemic.”The World Health Organization, in the myth busters section on its website, addresses the question on whether it is safe to receive a package. “Yes. The likelihood of an infected person contaminating commercial goods is low and the risk of catching the virus that causes Covid-19 from a package that has been moved, travelled, and exposed to different conditions and temperature is also low.” Dr T Jacob John, an emeritus professor at Vellore’s Christian Medical College, said newspapers are not the probable source of any infection. “A few human hands touch newspapers before they reach our homes. If one of these people are infected, there is a chance that some viruses may be deposited on the paper. But they will not jump out of the paper at you. They do not survive in the air. You do not need to stop newspapers. All you need to do is wash your hands after reading them and that is something you should be doing anyway,” said John, who is also a former head of the ICMR’s Centre for Advanced Research in Virology. Dr Dilip Mavlankar, the director of Gandhinagar’s Indian Institute of Public Health, said there are no infections reported because of newspapers. “I think it is too much of a stretch of the imagination. What are the chances that somebody will cough on your newspaper? If people are very concerned, they can keep newspapers out in the sun for an hour. The virus would not survive in the open in the heat,” he said. Dr Gupta said the survival of a virus depends on many factors like the type of surface, temperature, and humidity, among others. “Now, in the Indian context, we do not have data on how long the virus may survive on different kinds of surfaces because there is no rampant community transmission. So far, in all cases, people were infected either when they travelled abroad or when they came in contact with a Covid-19 positive person.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-one-infected-by-covid-19-through-newspapers-scientists/story-2HvgJHCtNlYcllyIAuilIP.html
24-03-2020||India||Rains in Delhi amid coronavirus lockdown, temperature drops||Delhi witnessed heavy rains and thunderstorm in several areas on Tuesday afternoon as the national capital remained under lockdown to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast partly cloudy sky with light rain and thundershower for the day in Delhi and said a fresh western disturbance, fifth in March, will affect the western Himalayan region from March 23. “We are not expecting widespread rains in Delhi NCR and other northern plains. Only some thunderstorm activity or light rain. The impact will be moderate in the hills. Owing to the WDs maximum temperature will remain between 30 to 34 degree C this week,” Kuldeep Shrivastava, the head of the regional weather forecasting centre, had said.The western disturbance and its interaction with low-level easterlies will lead to fairly widespread rainfall, snow and thunderstorm accompanied by hail and gusty winds is likely over the western Himalayan region on March 23 and 24.Heavy rainfall is also likely over Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit and Baltistan and Himachal Pradesh on March 24. Light rainfall and thunderstorms accompanied by lightning, hail and gusty winds are likely over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, West Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan during to March 23 to 25 and with maximum intensity on March 24 and 25.Another western disturbance is expected to impact the Western Himalayan region on March 27 which will again bring snowfall to the hills and light rain in the plains.The maximum temperature is likely to drop by 2 to 3 degrees after the WD moves away in most parts of northwest India, weather officials had said.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said earlier in the day that no new coronavirus case have been reported in the national capital in the last 24 hours. The biggest challenge, he said on Twitter, is not to let the situation go out of control as he sought people’s support to fight the epidemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rains-in-delhi-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-temperature-drops/story-oTw49NLRRy3EiKfNoMrU0N.html
24-03-2020||India||Maharashtra lockdown over Covid-19: FAQs||Maharashtra’s total lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus caught many people unawares about its implications. Here is a list of what one can do and cannot do during the lockdown.1. I need to urgently leave town, can I take a flight or train?No, you cannot. All outstation trains and suburban trains have been suspended until the midnight of March 31, 2020. All international flights were suspended from March 22 to March 29. All domestic flights have been suspended from midnight of March 24. Only freight trains and cargo planes (both international and domestic) are operational.2. Can I come to work from one city to another. For example, from Thane or Navi Mumbai to Mumbai? Or Pune to Mumbai?The general public cannot. However, if you work in any of the essential services defined by the Maharashtra government, you will have to show your official ID to the police at checkpoints and they will let you through. This is the list exempted from the lockdown tweeted by Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray (https://twitter.com/CMOMaharashtra/status/1242112899008483330).3. I am diabetic. Can I go out to buy for insulin?Yes, you can. All pharmacies are allowed to stay open. However, some of them may have staffing issues as public transport is shut.Also read: 506 coronavirus cases in India; Maharashtra, Kerala top list: ICMR data4. Can my domestic help come home?Experts have recommended that social distancing should be enforced at all points, including homes. It is advisable to ask domestic help staff to stay in their respective homes.5. My dog is cooped up at home. Can I take her out for a walk?Pet stores and veterinary clinics are classified as “essential services” by the Maharashtra government. You will be able to treat your pet in case of an emergency or buy pet food. If the pet wants to go for a walk, you could use your car park, your terrace, etc. There are no specific instructions for walking pets in public areas, but it is not encouraged either.6. I don’t own a car, what do I do in case of emergency?The government has allowed black-yellow taxis and autorickshaws to ply. However, if a police patrol stops you, you will have to prove the nature of your emergency. If it is a medical emergency, please call for an ambulance.7. I need physiotherapy. Can I go?Yes, you can visit the local hospital. In case you are immobile, your registered physiotherapist can visit your home.8. Can I visit my local temple, mosque or church?No. Only priests on staff are allowed to enter.9. There is a power cut in my house, what can I do?Power is an essential service. All power distribution companies have been ordered to provide uninterrupted power. If there is no power, please call the provider’s helpline number.10. I have run out of money, where can I go?All ATMS and banks are functioning.11. My home is running out of vegetables. Can I get groceries?Yes, all vegetable markets are functioning. Trucks to deliver vegetables, fruits and daily kitchen essentials are allowed to ply.12. Can I take an Uber or Ola cab?All app-based aggregators have suspended their operations. You will be able to use them once they resume.13. How can I tell the police I am an essential services provider?You will have to show an official ID. If you do not have an ID, you will need to at least carry a letter from your organisation stating your purpose of travel. However, the police may still refuse it.14. If someone is disobeying lockdown rules, can I report them?Yes, you can. Call 100, or report on Twitter tagging @MumbaiPolice or tag your city’s police Twitter handles.15. I want to order food. Is it permitted?Yes. Please ensure your preferred restaurants are open. They may have staffing issues given the restrictions on public movement.16. Are liquor stores open in the state?No.17. How long is the lockdown going to last?We don’t know. The government is assessing the situation every day.18. Can I host a house party?No.19. What ID do I need to carry when stepping out?If you belong to the list of essential service providers, your company or organisation ID will do. If you are from the general public, you will have to carry a government-authorised ID card: PAN, Driving License, Voter ID, Passport or Aadhaar.20. I am working from home and my internet is giving me trouble. Can I have my service provider visit my house?Yes.21. Is home quarantine for healthy people as well?Yes, a home quarantine does not mean you are infected. It is to keep you and your family safe. If you have a travel history, or have come in contact with someone who has, it is best to self-quarantine. Details are available at www.mohfw.in, the official website of the ministry of health and family welfare. You can also visit www.who.int, the official website of the World Health Organisation for details.22. Will my garbage collector come to my doorstep? Is there an alternate arrangement from the government?Yes, conservancy workers are part of essential services.23. Can I go to a nearby park for a walk when no one’s around?No. If social distancing rules are relaxed for one person, they will have to be relaxed for all.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-lockdown-over-covid-19-faqs/story-Kuq0R8YtpjYrfQ6AHDdo5K.html
24-03-2020||India||Covid-19: On day 1, confusion in Delhi for curfew passes to cross borders||New Delhi The Delhi Police’s directive asking providers of essential services to get “curfew passes” to enter the city sparked chaos and confusion at district police offices on Tuesday, a day after the order was issued to tighten curbs on movement imposed in the wake of the outbreak of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) .Several people came with applications that were not typed in their company’s letterheads, triggering fresh problems. Then there were applicants who could not produce identity proofs, as sought by the police.All border posts would be sealed for everyone except people heading in for essential goods and services, according to the order, which gave businesses engaged in such services less than a day’s window to apply for the passes.After several rounds of heated exchange, officials at office of the deputy commissioner of police (DCP), East, in IP Extension started accepting applications on plain paper around 2pm. Along with it, they asked for documents to prove that applicants were part of essential service providers. The curfew passes for essential service providers based in Noida and Ghaziabad are being issued at the DCP East office. Since morning, 50-60 people had gathered there; many of them were not aware of the formalities they had to follow to get the passes. Two nodal officers stationed at the main gate were seen addressing the queries of the people assembled there. While they were able to respond to the basic queries, they couldn’t satisfactorily answer whether private doctors not associated with any hospitals and pharmacists not having their profession-related ID proofs would get the passes.“I own a warehouse of grocery and sanitary items in Noida, and supply such items to various stores in Delhi-NCR. I came to the DCP office to get the curfew passes for my staffers and myself. But the policemen asked me to give an application on a letterhead. I don’t have any letter pad of my warehouse. They are not accepting application on plain paper. The police should have clarified the requirement of letterheads in the order itself,” said Ankur Aggarwal.Sanjeev Rastogi, who deals in the food supply, said: “Many of my employees sent their IDs and photos on WhatsApp. But the policemen need photocopies of the ID and photos for the passes. No photocopy shops or photo studios are open. Where should we go to get the work done.”About the initial confusion, DCP (East) Jasmeet Singh said, “We have been regularly briefing our staff about the issues which the people are bringing to our notice. All the issues are being addressed properly and resolved. There are still issues which are personal and cannot be resolved.”Another police officer, who did not want to be named, said the initial confusion prevailed because there was no clarity on the issuing of passes, requisite documents and who all should be covered under it. “In the morning, we were asked to only accept application on the company’s letterhead. Many people such as pharmacists, food delivery riders, shopkeepers, and persons dealing in essential services did not have letterheads. They were asked to go back. As we brought this matter to our seniors’ notice, they instructed us to accept applications on plain papers but with documents proving their services. By afternoon, a majority of the issues were resolved,” the officer said.“We have begun issuing curfew passes. Around 50 passes have been issued till 4pm,” said DCP Singh.At south-east DCP office in Sarita Vihar — from where essential service providers of this district and those with offices in Faridabad — were supposed to collect their passes, the process of collecting applications began only around 2.30pm because senior police officers were busy handling the Shaheen Bagh protest site, where agitators were evicted.Dozens of applicants began to assemble since morning, though, and had to wait for three-four hours. When the police finally put up posters about the requirements for issuing the passes, many applicants found out that they wouldn’t make the cut. Many of applicants didn’t bring photocopies of their identity proofs and their photographs, and they didn’t know who to approach. “Even if we manage to get photocopies from any shop that is currently open, from where do we procure photographs?” asked an applicant, Mohammad Arif, who works for a bank. The police permitted the applicants to submit additional documents by 6pm and informed them that the passes will be issued on Wednesday. “The policeman at the desk was kind enough to share with me his phone number if I had any queries,” said Bhanu Singh, another applicant. The police took down the phone numbers of all applicants to communicate to them about the status of their passes.At the office of the DCP South -- which was providing passes for Gurugram -- the collection of the applications was swifter even as applicants were informed that they would receive their passes either by late Tuesday evening or Wednesday morning.“My office colleagues advised me to get a curfew pass or a written permission from the police so that I face no obstruction on my way to the airport,” said Shravan Kumar, who planned to catch a flight to his hometown in Hyderabad on Tuesday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-on-day-1-confusion-in-delhi-for-curfew-passes-to-cross-borders/story-2BWjmEXOG9fnKFxE3eWOxL.html
24-03-2020||India||Don’t shut clinics: Maharashtra minister to doctors amid Covid-19 lockdown||Maharashtra’s health minister Rajesh Tope on Tuesday asked private doctors not to close their clinics as this will lead to suffering for the people in the state which reported ten new cases of coronavirus, taking the number of affected to 107.On Monday, the state was out under complete lockdown with even inter-districts being sealed to prevent the spread of coronavirus. Maharashtra continues to have the highest number of people infected with the virus.“Though the number of positive cases rose to 107, I am satisfied to inform that people are also recovering and by Wednesday will be releasing 15 such patients who have now recovered after testing positive for novel coronavirus,” Tope said on Facebook live. Of them, 12 are from Mumbai, two in Pune and one is from Aurangabad, he said. Following complaints of private doctors not opening their clinics, he asked them to restart their services for the people. “The state government has exempted private practitioners from the curfew as people do need medical assistance. Call your staff and start examining patients at your clinics,” the health minister said.Tope also urged people from rural areas not to panic and allow those returning from cities to enter their villages. At many places, people who returned from cities are not being allowed to enter villages out of fear that they may infect villagers. Those coming from other areas only need to be monitored and not boycotted, he said.Tope urged people to show humanity and be vigilant at the same time. “They are our people who had gone out for employment and it is also not necessary that they are positive of coronavirus. We need to show humanity and allow them to enter in villages but at the same time need to be vigil and keep monitoring their health. If found any symptoms take them to the hospital,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-shut-clinics-maharashtra-minister-to-doctors-amid-covid-19-lockdown/story-Afhg63OCj8fSp6MfZa9DlO.html
24-03-2020||India||506 coronavirus cases in India; Maharashtra, Kerala top list: ICMR data||Cases of the coronavirus infection (Covid-19) crossed the 500 mark on Tuesday, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said, adding that so far nine people have died in the country due to the disease with flu-like symptoms.Maharashtra is on top of the table with 97 cases. There have been two deaths in the western state, which, like many other regions in India, is under complete lockdown to stop the fast-spreading, deadly Covid-19 disease. Kerala follows Maharashtra with 95 cases.The ICMR data said of the 506 cases as of Tuesday morning, 35 have recovered and nine died. Karnataka, Delhi, Gujarat, Punjab, Bihar, West Bengal and Himachal Pradesh have recorded one death each. Delhi has 30 coronavirus cases; five of the patients have recovered.As of Monday night, there were 471 cases and the same number of fatalities. The updated number means 35 new cases and no fresh casualties.The announcement came on the day over 1.06 billion people residing in more than 600 Indian districts are under lockdown.India has also suspended domestic flights as well as passenger services of the railways till March 31, widening curbs amid the public health emergency. International flight operations have been stopped on March 22, and the restriction will remain in place for seven days.There are restrictions on traffic movements, and people not following orders are being booked. However, people discharging essential services, such as medical facilities, are exempt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/506-coronavirus-cases-in-india-maharashtra-kerala-top-list-icmr-data/story-4CQo0hM94W2O5XeWV3F2jM.html
24-03-2020||India||From income tax returns to ATM withdrawals: 10 announcements by FM Sitharaman||Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Tuesday announced a slew of measures to shore up the economy including an extension of dates to file income tax returns to GST and minimum balance requirement in accounts to charge cash withdrawal from ATMs.The measures were announced by the Union finance minister at a press conference as the country remained under lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus disease with the number of Covid-19 patients ballooning.Here are the major announcements made by Nirmala Sitharaman:1. She extended the last date for filing of income tax return (ITR) for FY2018-19 to June 302. The deadline for linking Aadhaar with PAN card was also extended to June 30 from March 313. The Union finance minister announced that debit cardholders who withdraw cash from any other bank’s ATM can do it free of charge for the next three months4. She also announced that minimum account balance criteria for bank account holders have also been waived off for the next three months. Customers required to maintain a minimum balance in their savings accounts will not be penalised for not doing so during this period.5. The last date for filing Goods and Services Tax (GST) returns for March, April, May 2020 will also be extended to June 30, she said6. For companies with a turnover of more than Rs 5 crore, no late fee and penalty will be charged on late GST return filing and the interest rate was reduced to 9% from 12%, she said7. An economic package is being worked out and an announcement will come soon, she said8. Every attention is being given to the economy and Prime Minister Narendra Modi is monitoring the situation himself, she added. 8. Nirmala Sitharaman said the threshold for default by companies under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC), which currently stands at Rs 1 lakh, is being raised to Rs 1 crore9. She said the government will watch the situation and if it continues to remain the same beyond April 30 then it may consider suspending Section 7, Section 9 and Section 10 of IBC for six months.10. All the regulators, RBI and ministry of finance, are working together to monitor the developments and the volatility in the stock market. SEBI has come up with some set of guidelines and has stated its position due to volatility so that there is no greater instability in the market.“We are in contact in the morning, afternoon and evening regarding the market.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-income-tax-returns-to-atm-withdrawals-10-announcements-by-nirmala-sitharaman/story-iYG5NHiBOridq9YGGbI0qN.html
24-03-2020||India||Covid-19: ATM withdrawal charges waived for 3 months||Union finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Tuesday announced the waiver of minimum bank charges for savings bank accounts to help citizens deal with a countrywide lockdown due to the coronavirus outbreak tgat has affected almost 500 people across the country.Among a clutch of measures, she also announced free of charge cash withdrawal from any other bank ATM allowed for debit card holders for three months. Different banks have different minimum balance limits that customers have to maintain failing which banks levy penalties.On ATM withdrawals, banks allow a limited number of free withdrawals before charging a free for subsequent usage of the facility. Follow coronavirus live updates here.Many banks also charge a fee if a debit card of a different bank is used on its ATMs. The lockdown over coronavirus has also affected banking services with many now working with reduced staff. Banks have also cautioned customers about likely delays in delivery of cards, cheque books etc. The lockdown has also hurt the middle and low income groups including daily wage earners. Sitharaman also said the government will soon announce an economic package to help through the coronavirus lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-atm-withdrawal-charges-waived-for-3-months/story-ohEc3we40MpMhTok20AAMN.html
24-03-2020||India||Areas covering 90% of Indians are in Covid-19 lockdown||Over a billion people, or nearly 90% of the Indian population, reside in areas under lockdown as the country imposes unprecedented measures, including stringent travel restrictions, to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), according to 2011 Census data.All districts in as many as 32 states and Union Territories (UTs) have completely shut down as of Tuesday afternoon, barring the delivery of essential services. This means people in 560 districts are confined to their homes. Of the 1.2 billion Indians, 896 million (or almost three out of four Indians) live in these 32 states and UTs, according to the Census figures.Then there are three states — Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Odisha — where some areas have been closed down. And in Lakshadweep, there are restrictions on certain activities.Odisha announced on Tuesday that all of its 30 districts will be completely shut down from midnight, effectively taking the number of states and UTs to 33 and the total people under lockdown to 938 million.Additionally, in Uttar Pradesh, 16 districts, which have a combined population of 66 million, are in lockdown. This is a third of the state’s total population of about 200 million.In Madhya Pradesh, restrictions have been imposed in 37 districts and a curfew in two. These districts are home to 57 million people, which is nearly 80% of the state’s population of 73 million.All put together, there are over 1.06 billion people residing in over 600 Indian districts under lockdown. In other words, that’s about nine out of 10 Indians (87.7% to be precise).India has suspended domestic flights as well as passenger services of the railways till March 31, widening curbs amid the public health emergency. International flight operations have been stopped on March 22, and the restriction will remain in place for seven days.There are restrictions on traffic movements, and people not following orders are being booked. However, people discharging essential services, such as medical facilities, are exempt.According to data published by the Union ministry of health, the Sars-Cov-2 virus, which causes the Covid-19 disease with flu-like symptoms, has infected at least 492 and killed nine people in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/areas-covering-90-of-indians-are-in-covid-19-lockdown/story-MuHLCuso96rUHvppCDWAJP.html
24-03-2020||India||Violating coronavirus lockdown norms will invite action under IPC sections||The Centre on Monday directed states to strictly enforce the lockdowns imposed across the country’s 80 districts a day earlier to deal with the coronavirus threat and take legal action against the violators of the restrictions mostly imposed under the Epidemic Diseases Act, a colonial law enacted in 1897.The law empowers state governments to prescribe measures and regulations to deal with epidemics. The measures include inspections of travellers using different modes of transportation and segregation in hospitals and other temporary accommodations of people suspected of being infected.Violation of norms or regulations under the law is punishable as per Indian Penal Code (IPC)’s Section 188, which can lead to imprisonment for up to one month for any person disobeying a public servant’s orders. The law combined with Section 188 provides for six-month imprisonment. The IPC also has stand-alone provisions to punish those, who indulge in negligent acts likely to spread infectious diseases or those who break quarantine prescribed to check their spread. IPC’s Section 269 covers cases of negligent acts likely to spread an infectious disease. It states that anybody, who commits any unlawful or negligent act which he/she knows is likely to spread infectious diseases dangerous to life, can be punished with imprisonment of up to 6 months. Such a person can be fined (HOW MUCH) as well. Thus, violation of lockdown orders is punishable under this provision, too. The significance of the provision is that the unlawful or negligent act need not be unlawful per se. All that the provision requires is that anybody committing the act should be aware that it is likely to spread disease and yet went ahead with it. That is, there is no need of a law or government order declaring that anybody, in the present situation, with coronavirus should not escape quarantine or that a person who has come in contact with a person who has coronavirus should quarantine.Thus, even organising parties and events in the times of epidemics can also be brought under this provision.In 1902, one Nidar Mal had stayed at a plague-stricken person’s house and had come into contact with the patient (WHERE). He travelled by train to a neighbouring city and was held guilty under this provision.IPC’s Section 270 deals with an aggravated form of the offence covered under Section 269. As per Section 270, anybody who does a malignant act which he/ she knows is likely to spread infectious diseases dangerous to life can be punished with imprisonment of up to two years or with fine (HOW MUCH).Thus, what differentiates this offence from the one covered under Section 269 is that the accused, who does an act with a deliberate intention to cause harm, is punishable under this provision.Section 271 of the IPC is another provision likely to come into play, particularly when a lockdown is in operation. It makes flouting of quarantine rules punishable by six-month imprisonment. It states anybody, who knowingly disobeys any rule made with the object of isolating places where an infectious disease prevails, will be guilty under the provision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/violating-coronavirus-lockdown-norms-will-invite-action-under-ipc-sections/story-2n1zhblJzA7aFAEIXXKvUJ.html
24-03-2020||India||Closely monitoring volatility in stock markets, says FM Nirmala Sitharaman||Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharamanon said on Tuesday the government is closely monitoring volatility in stock markets as she announced a slew of measures for the economy to tackle the impact of Covid-19.“The regulators, Reserve Bank and the finance ministry are all working together to keep monitoring the developments and volatility in the stock market. SEBI (Securities and Exchange Board of India) has come up with some set of guidelines and also stated its position,” Nirmala Sitharaman said during a press conference.“We are in contact in the morning, afternoon and evening regarding the market,” she said.“Every attention is being given to the economy. Prime Minister is monitoring situation himself,” she added.However, the Union finance minister’s announcements failed to cheer domestic markets.Also read: From income tax returns to ATM withdrawals: 10 announcements by Nirmala SitharamanThe Sensex gave up its gains and lost about 700 points and was trading 529.28 points or 2.04% higher at 26,510.52 as the Union finance minister announced various relaxation measures for the economy.The broader Nifty also lost about 200 points and was trading 142.15 points or 1.87% up at 7,752.40.Indian stocks had suffered their worst single-day rout in history on Monday and the rupee plunged to a new all-time low as several states across the country imposed lockdowns and restrictions to curb the spread of the virus, shutting down businesses and disrupting daily life.The government’s lockdown came as one of the measures to check the spread of the coronavirus disease after nearly 500 people were infected with Sars-Cov-2 and nine killed across India so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/closely-monitoring-volatility-in-stock-markets-nirmala-sitharaman/story-UP3a7uOKYzliyNvhUv56rL.html
24-03-2020||India||Covid-19: 90% of India’s population under lockdown as govt imposes stringent curbs||Over a billion people, or nearly 90 per cent of the Indian population, reside in areas under lockdown as the country imposes unprecedented measures, including stringent travel restrictions, to stop the spread of coronavirus disease Covid-19, according to 2011 Census data.All districts in as many as 32 states and Union Territories (UTs) have completely shut down as of Tuesday afternoon, barring the delivery of essential services. This means people in 560 districts are confined to their homes. Of the 1.2 billion Indians, 896 million (or almost three out of four Indians) live in these 32 states and UTs, according to the Census figures.Then there are three states - Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Odisha - where some areas have been closed down. In Lakshadweep, there are restrictions on certain activities.More on Covid-19:• Your guide to staying safe• What you need to know today• How difficult it is to maintain 1-metre distance• How coronavirus is different from seasonal flu and common coldOdisha announced on Tuesday that all of its 30 districts will be completely shut down from midnight, effectively taking the number of states and UTs to 33 and the total people under lockdown to 938 million.Additionally, in Uttar Pradesh, 16 districts, which have a combined population of 66 million, are in lockdown. This is a third of the state’s total population of about 200 million.In Madhya Pradesh, restrictions have been imposed in 37 districts and a curfew in two. These districts are home to 57 million people, which is nearly 80% of the state’s population of 73 million.All put together, there are over one billion people residing in over 600 Indian districts under lockdown. In other words, that’s nine out of 10 Indians (87.7% to be precise).India has suspended domestic flights as well as passenger services of the railways till March 31, widening curbs amid the public health emergency. International flight operations have been stopped on March 22, and the restriction will remain in place for seven days.There are restrictions on traffic movements, and people not following orders are being booked. However, people discharging essential services, such as medical facilities, are exempt.According to data published by the Ministry of Health, the Sars-Cov-2 virus, which causes the Covid-19 disease with flu-like symptoms, has infected at least 492 and killed nine people in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-90-of-india-s-population-under-lockdown-as-govt-imposes-stringent-curbs/story-6G3XKQhBri80d1AZyaaIrM.html
24-03-2020||India||Covid-19 restrictions don’t stop Ugadi shopping in Karnataka districts||Hundreds of people came out of their houses in several cities and towns across Karnataka on Tuesday to shop for Wednesday’s Ugadi festival despite the government’s lockdown orders to prevent the spread of coronavirus. Karnataka has reported there are 33 Covid-19 patients across the state and four people have recovered from the respiratory illness. One person has died, so far.People in several districts including Bengaluru, Chikballapur, Mysore, Mandya and several other towns were seen shopping for the festival rather than staying at home. Ugadi, or the beginning of the new year, is an important festival according to the Hindu calendar in Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Maharashtra. It is usually celebrated by tying mango leaves to house entrances, arches and eating a mixture of jaggery and neem leaves, said to symbolise both the sweet and the bitter experiences of life, after offering prayers.Police also carried out a mild lathi-charge in several local flower and vegetable markets in Mandya, Mysuru and Chikkaballapur as a large number of people had gathered for shopping for the festivities.Bengaluru Police commissioner Bhaskar Rao also said police would take the strictest action against those found deliberately violating the government’s orders to stay indoors.“Am getting calls since 4 am that their service is essential…more essential than Corona..” he tweeted with an emoji of a smiley indicating the demands by several people to allow them to go ahead as usual in spite of government orders. “Requesting citizens to ensure ‘stay indoor call’ is implemented. No threat of law but don your role of enlightened citizen. Nothing is more important than our life. Please do this for yourself,” he said in another tweet.Several people from cities also travelled to their native villages to celebrate the festival. Chief minister BS Yediyurappa has repeatedly appealed to citizens to avoid all non-essential and non-emergency travel to ensure that villages, which are largely unaffected by the coronavirus, remain so.Yediyurappa also appealed to people to celebrate Ugadi at home by offering prayers and not going out. “If some defy the government order banning movement, the police will take action without any compunction according to law,” he said.Meanwhile, the free food at Indira canteens across Bengaluru has been stopped as hundreds thronged it defeating the purpose of maintaining social distance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-restrictions-don-t-stop-ugadi-shopping-in-karnataka-districts/story-KxXkB7wbCdqbxeQx0GsBjP.html
24-03-2020||India||Covid-19: Mumbai Police bust black market racket, seize 25 lakh masks||Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh on Tuesday said 25 lakh masks including the N-95 variety worth over Rs 15 crore were seized in a crackdown on black marketing during the coronavirus pandemic.Four people were arrested in the police operations.“The masks are not available in the market and police got tip-off and acted on it. Strict action will be taken against all the accused for illegal stocking of mask,” Deshmukh told reporters at a joint press conference with Mumbai police commissioner Parambir Singh.Police said they seized 3.25 lakh N-95 masks which are now in short supply in the city, and 22 lakh 3-ply masks. There has ben a surge in demand of masks in the wake of the cornoavirus outbreak.Police said the crime branch raided two warehouses Akhil warehouse and Gulam warehouse at Sahar village near the airport following a tip off.The warehouse owners identified as Shahrukh Akhil Shaikh and Gulam Murtuza Munshir were arrested and during their interrogation they revealed that masks were also stored at another godown in Bhiwandi, crime branch officials said.Four police teams raided the godown at Bhiwandi and seized 3 lakh N-95 masks and 22 lakh 3-ply masks, said deputy commissioner of police, Akbar Pathan. The crime branch also arrested two more persons in Bhiwandi - Balaji Muttupandi Nadar , an alleged black market operator and Mihir Darshan Patel, a customs house agent. “The accused were selling the masks at exorbitant rates to make a huge profit. The 3-ply mask which costs Rs 2 in the market was being sold at Rs 20 by the accused. While the accused were selling the N-95 masks for Rs 300 in the black market,” said Pathan.All the accused were produced in a court on Tuesday and remanded in police custody till March 27. The crime branch is now probing if the accused were planning to sell a certain number of masks abroad as well, and if the cancellation of flights had hampered their operations. “We are checking the records to find out if the accused had sent masks to any country or not,” said Pathan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-mumbai-police-bust-black-market-racket-seize-25-lakh-masks/story-mCXBbFXtX8e53nnrLqHNTL.html
24-03-2020||India||Making family tree, stay-safe videos, paper planes: How ‘Janta’ is beating boredom||Even as health officials work to slow the spread of coronavirus, there is anxiety all around. Told to stay at home, majority of persons, especially in urban households, have confined themselves to the four walls of their homes.While many are working from home, what are others doing? Well, there is more to social media addiction that people are hooked on to in this season of corona scare.Take for example, Jamal Qasim, a teacher in government primary school. “Nobody likes such forced holidays but since it is upon us, I decided to make the most of it by spending quality time with my kids. Bereft of ideas on how to kill time, I went back to my childhood days and bought a set of Ludo, chess and carom just in time when the shops were about to shut on Friday afternoon,” he says busy playing ‘saanp-seedhi’ with his two sons, Hamza and Ali.“More than fun, it was a pleasure to realize that this generation kids are much smarter than us,” he says after losing few games of chess with his son.Tanvi, a class 2 student of La Martineire School, Lucknow, is keeping herself busy with engaging in new-age game — making short videos. “Bored with watching cartoon channels, she came up with the idea of making a short video on what people should do to avoid getting infected with coronavirus. With a little help from her nani (maternal grandmother), she made of list of do’s and don’ts and her video was ready,” says Smriti, her mother.“The clip brought a smile on our faces. They way she spoke in front of a camera, was a revelation for me,” she says while forwarding the same to her WhatsApp friends.A housewife, Anita Srivastava, is thrilled to share the stories of the super heroes she adored as a child with her two sons. After rummaging in her storeroom for quite some time, she got hold of the neatly bound series of Nagraj comics, Chacha Chowdhary and Sabu, Champak, and some classic issues of Amar Chitra Katha.“My teenage sons Subodh and Amit are planning to now carry forward this legacy by documenting the pages online so that others could also know what our generation used to love as kids. I am glad that I still kept it with me like a treasure. They all were gifts from my father,” she says.Radhika Kushwaha, a teacher, who is otherwise a very busy person, is now spending her time at home while doing the most creative thing. She is busy calling her relatives to know the names of her ancestors. She also plans to retrieve their photographs so that she could make her family tree and let her children add to the links later on.“It’s very inspiring to know about my ancestors. Incidentally, we all belong to the family of zamindars and yes, they led a very interesting life. Without mentioning the name, I want to add that one of my ancestors married twice,” she says with a chuckle.With son and grandsons at home, 60-year-old Brinda Sen rekindled an entirely different childhood passion of making paper planes. None could escape her when she holds the pointed plane in between her index fingers and hurl it within a second. Her grand kids are the happiest to see their dadi playing with them in the most quirky way.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/making-family-tree-stay-safe-videos-paper-planes-how-janta-is-beating-boredom/story-AHEAxRg9rfD2bPsZauvNNN.html
24-03-2020||India||‘There shall not be any minimum balance requirement fee in bank accounts,’ announces FM Nirmala Sitharaman||Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Tuesday announced there will a complete waiver of minimum balance fee for account holders in banks as she announced a slew of measures for the economy in order to tackle the impact of Covid-19.The government has clamped a lockdown in most of the country to check the spread of the coronavirus disease after nearly 500 people have been infected with Sars-Cov-2 and nine killed across India so far.Nirmala Sitharaman also said debit cardholders who withdraw cash from any bank’s ATM can do it free of charge for the next three months.The minister also made other announced extension of dates for filing the income tax return and linking of PAN Card with Aadhaar among others. Also read: From income tax returns to ATM withdrawals: 10 announcements by Nirmala SitharamanThe government also extended the deadline for filing Goods and Services Tax (GST) returns for March, April and May to June 30 to provide relief to businesses grappling with the economic impact of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/there-shall-not-be-any-minimum-balance-requirement-fee-in-bank-accounts-announces-fm-nirmala-sitharaman/story-4ptz93IgDhpgi242wCcIQM.html
24-03-2020||India||Covid-19: Sonia Gandhi writes to PM, seeks wage support for migrant workers||Congress president Sonia Gandhi has urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to roll out emergency welfare measures, including financial support, to millions of construction workers who are in distress due to the outbreak of coronavirus.In her letter dated March 23 to the Prime Minister, Gandhi requested him to advise the state building and other construction workers’ welfare boards in this regard.Gandhi also wrote to Congress chief ministers Captain Amarinder Singh (Punjab), Ashok Gehlot (Rajasthan), Bhupesh Baghel (Chhattisgarh) and V Narayanasamy (Puducherry) to ensure that state welfare boards should provide wage support to registered beneficiaries given that a significant amount of building and other construction workers welfare cess remains unutilised.“Over the last week, lakhs of migrant workers in major cities across India have left for their hometowns and villages fearing a prolonged economic downturn. As the second-largest employer in India, over 44 million construction workers are now faced with a precarious future. Many are stranded in cities and are deprived of their livelihoods due to stringent lockdown measures,” she wrote in her letter to the Prime Minister.She referred to the Building and Other Construction Workers (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service) Act, 1996 that provides for various welfare measures for workers and the constitution of state welfare boards and welfare fund.“It is reported that the welfare boards collected cess amounting to Rs 49,688.07 crore till March 31, 2019. However, only an amount of Rs 19,379.922 crore had been spent,” said Gandhi, who is also the chairperson of the Congress parliamentary party (CPP).She said Canada and several other countries have announced wage subsidy measures as part of their Covid-19 economic response plan.More than 600 districts have been placed under lockdown in an effort to stop the coronavirus disease or Covid-19 that has afflicted nearly 500 across India. Commercial airlines have been grounded, passenger trains stopped and state governments have also severely curtailed the movement of people except to maintain the supply line of essential commodities services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-sonia-gandhi-writes-to-pm-modi-seeks-wage-support-for-migrant-workers/story-UNy8B6Bc0hZXOxLEopqIWJ.html
24-03-2020||India||On the first evening of coronavirus lockdown, Kolkata Police arrest 255 for violations||More than 250 people were arrested on Monday for loitering on the streets in West Bengal’s Kolkata as police raided localities to strictly implement the five-day lockdown announced by the Mamata Banerjee government to prevent the spread of the coronavirus.The lockdown started from 5pm on Monday and will continue till March 27 midnight. The gathering of more than seven persons has been prohibited.Police said the 255 people booked under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) that pertains to disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant.“255 persons arrested violating Restriction Order & prosecuted u/s 188 IPC. I appeal to all citizens to #StayHome and cooperate with the administration. @KolkataPolice will continue the drive against violators,” Kolkata Police commissioner Anuj Sharma tweeted around midnight on Monday.Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday instructed the police to ensure strict implementation of the lockdown.Several people were arrested in other towns in West Bengal as well.The state recorded it’s first death of a Covid-19 patient on Monday afternoon even as six others are being treated for the disease. The death has sparked fear of community spread of the infection as the dead man had no history of travelling outside the country or meeting anyone who came from abroad recently. He had travelled in a train from Bilaspur in Chhattisgarh to Kolkata earlier this month, during which he is suspected to have contracted the disease.The government has clamped severe restriction across the state and sealed its border. Under the Critical Safety Regulation ordered on Sunday, the government said that no public transport services, including operations of taxis and auto-rickshaws, will be permitted. Taxis will be allowed only outside hospitals, railway stations and bus terminals. However, railway stations have completely shut from Monday night.“All shops, commercial establishments, offices and factories, workshops, godowns, etc shall close their operations,” the lockdown notification of Sunday said while exempting grocery shops, markets selling vegetables, fish, and meat.Hundreds of people were booked for violating the norms on the first day of lockdowns imposed across the country to check the spread of coronavirus and issued warnings of arrest with jail terms up to a year if the violations continued. The number of states and Union territories that imposed the lockdowns increased to 28 on Monday with Punjab and Maharashtra, the worst-hit state, imposing curfews.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-the-first-evening-of-coronavirus-lockdown-kolkata-police-arrest-255-for-violations/story-KsFcIT5MFQCiGOsQ0bSWYN.html
24-03-2020||India||Aadhaar-PAN linking deadline extended to June 30: Nirmala Sitharaman||Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Tuesday the deadline for linking Aadhaar with PAN card has been extended to June 30 from March 31 as the country is under lockdown to stop the spread of the Covid-19 disease, which has infected nearly 500 people and killed nine.The deadline for linking Permanent Account Number card to Aadhaar was extended by the Income Tax department to March 31 earlier—the eighth time that an extension was made.After the Supreme Court announced its verdict about the Aadhaar card in 2018, the 12-digit identification number has become mandatory for filing income tax returns and also to acquire a Permanent Account Number (PAN) card. PAN card is connected to taxes and bank accounts.Nirmala Sitharaman, who has received many requests from traders, companies and others for relaxation in deadlines, made the announcements at a press conference. Before the address, she had tweeted she would make some announcements about statutory and regulatory compliance matters in the context of the Covid-19 pandemic.Covid-19 cases in India have increased to 492 and a lockdown has been declared in most of the country to check the spread of the coronavirus disease that has claimed more than 14,500 lives globally.In her tweet, Sitharaman also underlined that the government was working on an economic package on priority “to help us through the Corona lockdown” that has impacted economic activity in the country. But this would take a bit more time to be finalised.The government has already extended the deadlines for filing returns of goods and services tax (GST) in view of the coronavirus crisis. Sitharaman has also allowed companies to deploy their Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) funds to fight the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic, tapping a potential Rs 30,000 crore in funding.But there have been demands that the government relax deadlines for income tax payments and relax the mandatory filing norms that would coincide with the ending of the financial year next week.Traders have also sought ‘coronavirus’ cash loans at a reduced rate to merchants to keep the supply chain running smoothly across the country.The labour ministry, on the other hand, has asked states and Union territories to dip into the Rs 52,000 crore cess fund available with them to transfer money into bank accounts of 3.5 crore construction workers registered with the construction welfare boards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aadhaar-pan-linking-deadline-extended-to-june-30-nirmala-sitharaman/story-I5z0biVRhwxzeKORbrjXwO.html
24-03-2020||India||West Bengal to be under lockdown from 5 pm today till March 31 amid coronavirus outbreak||This is a breaking band. More details will be added soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aadhaar-pan-linking-deadline-extended-till-june-30-announces-fm-sitharaman/story-WuUN1m2K8IVpDylDhTeOFI.html
24-03-2020||India||Govt extends tax deadline till June 30 in view of lockdown due to coronavirus||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Tuesday announced a slew of measures, giving relief across sectors in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.“The date to file income tax return for financial year 2018-19 has been extended to June 30, 2020. For delayed payment, interest rates reduced to nine per cent from 12 per cent,” Sitharaman said at a press conference organised through video conferencing.“The deadline to link Aadhaar to PAN card has also been extended to June 30, 2020,” she further said.She started the press conference by saying the government is “very close to announcing economic package to deal with the coronavirus pandemic”.The Covid-19 cases increased to 492 in the country on Tuesday. Much of the country is locked down to check the spread of the disease that has claimed more than 14,500 lives globally.The government has already extended the deadlines for filing returns of goods and services tax (GST) in view of the coronavirus crisis. Sitharaman has also allowed companies to deploy their Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) funds to fight the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic, tapping a potential Rs 30,000 crore in funding.But there had been demands that the government relax deadlines for income tax payments and relax the mandatory filing norms that would coincide with the ending of the financial year next week.The labour ministry on the other hand, has asked states and union territories to dip into the Rs 52,000 crore cess fund available with them to transfer money into bank accounts of 3.5 crore construction workers registered with the construction welfare boards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-extends-income-tax-return-date-allows-pan-aadhaar-linking-till-june-30/story-stCPd8LlpWOIClOsZGA3EM.html
24-03-2020||India||95 cases, lockdown in 14 districts, Section 144: Here’s how Kerala is coping||Kerala has said there are 95 Covid-19 patients so far as the government clamped a state-wide lockdown until the end of March to stop the spread of coronavirus.Kasaragod in north Kerala has the highest number of Sars-Cov-2 infected among the 28 new cases reported on Monday. Twenty-five among the 28 people had returned from Dubai and three others are secondary infections, officials have said.“We are going through a difficult situation. We have to face it united. The government is on the forefront in the battle against the enemy. All will have to obey its directive in letter and spirit,” Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said.The number of people under observation also rose sharply to 64,320 and out of these 63,937 were in homes and 383 in hospitals. At least 2987 people have tested negative and results of more than 500 are awaited. Three people have been cured and were sent home last month.Here is the latest from the state:1. Amid a complete lockdown in Kerala, essential services are working but police are discouraging travellers2. There is a curfew-like situation in worst-hit Kasargode which reported 19 cases3. Section 144 has been imposed on certain areas of Malappuram and Ernakulam districts4. The former member of Parliament NK Premajam was booked for throwing tantrums on health workers5. An air traveller was booked at the international airport in Kochi for arguing with staff6. Three people were booked in Wayanad for hiding their travel history and checked in a home-stay7. Food minister P Thilothaman has said the state has essentials in stock for three months8. The state has increased the number of beds and sought the help of private hospitals. It has also recruited medical staff for the long haul9. The is a demand for hydroxychloroquine tablets, which are used for the prevention and treatment of certain types of malaria, but experts have warned not to take them without advice10. The Indian Medical Association (IMA) has asked doctors to stop consulting in private clinics and reach out to patients only through phones||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/95-cases-lockdown-in-14-districts-section-144-here-s-how-kerala-is-coping/story-A7RvR7essszwoeQlUNpEYI.html
24-03-2020||India||Amid coronavirus lockdown, virtual class room via Google Inc, Google Hangout||Several educational institutions in Lucknow have switched to virtual classrooms amid the lockdown over rising novel coronavirus (Covid-19) cases.For instance, City Montessori School (CMS) has adopted e-learning for its students to compensate for days missed due to the lockdown.CMS is using the Google Classroom platform, a free web service that aims to simplify creating, distributing and grading assignments in a paperless way.“Google Classroom is an easy platform for students to access lessons, study materials and submit assignments shared by their teachers. It is a versatile application that can be used on a desktop, laptop, tablet and mobile phone. It is convenient for both students and teachers,” said Geeta Kingdon, president of CMS.Each teacher and student has been provided with a unique email id to log in to Google Classroom and access study materials. The school’s information technology department carried out a Google Classroom refresher course for all the teachers after Holi as the authorities anticipated closure over the Covid-19 scare.Hemant Kumar, father of Annanya Verma, a grade three student of CMS’s Gomti Nagar Campus, said that her daughter was getting regular lessons and assignments from her teachers. “Annanya has learnt how to use Google Classroom well,” he said.Shilpa Arora, mother of Anwita, a class five student of the CMS’s Gomti Nagar campus, expressed satisfaction as her daughter’s time was being productively utilised, despite the lockdown. “Anwita learns her lessons and completes her daily assignments. Initially, she found it a little difficult to access online resources, but she got a lot of support from her teacher. Now, she can do it easily,” Arora said.City International School’s students are following a daily timetable of two to five hours of home study. “The timetable includes brushing up of spoken English in front of a mirror, experiential learning and doing worksheets designed as self-learning lessons, Google Hangout webinars and assignments posted on Google Classroom,” said Sunita Gandhi, director, City International School.Online learning is the best way to educate children, who otherwise would have suffered immensely because of the mandatory closure of schools to maintain social distancing because of the Covid-19 outbreak, Gandhi said.Study Hall School teachers are sharing assignments and complementary videos online daily to students between grades one and eight. “We are sending worksheets and projects to students. We are also sharing some self-explanatory videos to make them understand the concept,” said Shalini Sinha, principal of Study Hall.“Study from home is a good initiative. Students need to prepare the topics assigned by their teachers and repost the videos,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-coronavirus-lockdown-virtual-class-room-via-google-inc-google-hangout/story-oBu5bu0oXSXFyGMZimIIvJ.html
24-03-2020||India||Omar Abdullah released from detention, says obey govt orders on coronavirus||In his first remarks after his release from detention after seven months, former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Omar Abdullah on Tuesday asked the government to restore mobile data connectivity in the state so that the people could be made aware of the precautions to be taken to avoid coronavirus disease. Abdullah, who turned 50 earlier this month, also asked the government to release the other political prisoners in the state irrespective of their political ideology.Omar Abdullah’s release from detention came hours after the Jammu and Kashmir revoked orders to detain him under the Public Safety Act on Tuesday morning.Watch: Omar Abdullah walks out of detention after 7 months, PSA revoked Abdullah, who spent more than seven months at a government guest house Hariniwas which was declared as sub jail, was released after a medical checkup. The National Conference leader headed straight to his residence at Gupkar which had been sealed by the police.Omar Abdullah drove his vehicle from Hariniwas to his home in Srinagar’s posh locality, also briefly to journalists on his release. The former chief minister told reporters that he would speak on the scrapping of Article 370 at some point but for now, the immediate priority was to fight coronavirus disease.He asked people to take the precautions to avoid contracting this disease. “We’re fighting a battle of life and death,” Omar Abdullah said, still sporting a long pepper and white beard. The former chief minister, who had been active on social media before his detention, tweeted a photograph of the release orders with his photograph, sitting in the driver’s seat of his vehicle.“232 days after my detention today I finally left Hari Niwas. It’s a very different world today to the one that existed on 5th August 2019,” he said. A few minutes later, he tweeted again.“Had lunch with my mum & dad for the first time in almost 8 months. I can’t remember a better meal even though I’ve been in a bit of a daze & don’t remember what I ate,” he tweeted.Omar Abdullah was picked up by security forces hours before the Centre moved Parliament to scrap Article 370, divided the state into two Union Territories and imposed restrictions in the Kashmir valley.Omar was initially detained under Section 107 of the Code of Criminal Procedure that empowers an executive magistrate to order a person to execute bonds “for keeping the peace”. Just before his detention was to expire in February 2020, the government invoked the Public Safety Act to hold him. This law empowers authorities to hold any person for two more years.The government’s decision to invoke the stringent law prompted Omar Abdullah’s sister, Sara Abdullah Pilot, to move the Supreme Court in February, arguing that his detention was “unconstitutional”. A two-judge bench of the top court, which had asked the government in February to explain Omar Abdullah’s detention, last week cautioned the government that it would take up the petition on merits on the next date of hearing if the state did not release him.Omar Abdullah’s father and National Conference president Farooq Abdullah, who was also detained along with his son, had been released on March 13.The National Conference called Omar Abdullah’s release “a good step” and nudged the government to release other political prisoners as well.“Now without wasting any time, the government should release other prisoners and shift the prisoners who are in different jails in the country and detained before August 5 as we are passing through testing times,’’NC MP, Husnain Masoodi told Hindustan Times.After seven months of detention, Former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir and National Conference (NC) president Farooq Abdullah was released on March 13.Farooq Abdullah had then visited Omar Abdullah at the sub jail along with his wife Molly Abdullah and daughter, Safia Abdullah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omar-abdullah-released-from-detention-says-must-obey-orders-on-coronavirus/story-UV4vOwdNoMqcMBrhcQ6JDK.html
24-03-2020||India||Coronavirus outbreak: Nirmala Sitharaman addresses media via video conference||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, who has received many requests from traders, companies and others for relaxation in deadlines, will hold a Press conference on Tuesday at 2 pm. In a tweet announcing the timing of her briefing via video conference, Nirmala Sitharaman said she would make some announcements about statutory and regulatory compliance matters in context of the Covid-19 pandemic.COVID-19 cases in India have increased to 492 as much of the country is locked down to check the spread of the coronavirus disease that has claimed more than 14,500 lives globally.Also read: From income tax returns to ATM withdrawals: 10 announcements by FM SitharamanIn her tweet, Sitharaman also underlined that the government was working on an economic package on priority “to help us through the Corona lockdown” that has impacted economic activity in the country. But this would take a bit more time to be finalised.The government has already extended the deadlines for filing returns of goods and services tax (GST) in view of the coronavirus crisis. Sitharaman has also allowed companies to deploy their Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) funds to fight the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic, tapping a potential Rs 30,000 crore in funding.But there have been demands that the government relax deadlines for income tax payments and and relax the mandatory filing norms that would coincide with the ending of the financial year next week.Traders have also sought ‘coronavirus’ cash loans at a reduced rate to merchants to keep the supply chain running smoothly across the country.The labour ministry on the other hand, has asked states and union territories to dip into the Rs 52,000 crore cess fund available with them to transfer money into bank accounts of 3.5 crore construction workers registered with the construction welfare boards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nirmala-sitharaman-to-address-media-at-2pm-via-video-conference/story-Mpk1HrZa94FI3UTyQcYdLO.html
24-03-2020||India||From taking flights to moving around: Your Covid-19 lockdown questions answered||As cities and states go under lockdown due to coronavirus, people are forced to stay indoors. With the lockdown measures intensifying, there is a growing sense of confusion over what can and what can’t be done during this shutdown. Can I fly to my family in another city? Should I ask my house help to stay home or not? There is no dearth of questions mushrooming in an individual’s mind around the lockdown scenario. Here is a quick guide to surviving the Covid-19 lockdown and staying safe. Flights and domestic travelOne can only take domestic flight until 11.59 pm today. All domestic flights will stand suspended from Wednesday midnight till March 31. Remember, all interstate bus services and train services are also suspended till March 31. Movement within your cityPrivate taxis, autos, metro trains, rickshaws and other means of public transport have been suspended. A limited number of public buses are operational. The government has asked people to stay indoors and work from home. Only those who are ‘essential service providers’ have been allowed to travel and go to work. Such people include those working for hospitals, medical professionals, media personnel, people employed with power, fire, electricity, water supply departments and others. Delhi Police has announced that people entering Delhi from any of its borders will require special “curfew passes” from today. The passes are only for inter-border movement, and will not be required for those living and commuting within Delhi.While you moveFor essential service providers, the movement shall be permitted on the basis of identity card and authorization issued by the concerned organisation. Essentials and necessitiesPeople with medical emergency are allowed to step out. Those in need of grocery, medicines, essential goods are also allowed to go to the nearest pharmacy, grocery store to get supplies and go to the nearest bank branch or ATM to withdraw money. There has been no direction issued on the movement of domestic help, however, many societies have asked their house helps to stay home in the absence of the availability of public transport. Simple rule: Stall what you canDuring the lockdown, the emphasis is on what is urgent and on any emergency. Whatever that can be postponed or avoided must therefore be stalled.On Monday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi appealed to state governments to ensure the adherence to the unprecedented measures announced in several parts of the country, saying that many people are still not taking the situation seriously. The prime minister will address the nation today at 8 pm on the coronavirus outbreak. This is his second address to the nation on Covid-19 in a week. Over 500 districts have been placed under lockdown in an effort to stop the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) that has afflicted nearly 500 across the nation. By Tuesday morning, the number of Covid-19 cases had increased to 492 and initial test reports from states indicated that this number would rise further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-your-guide-to-surviving-the-covid-19-lockdown/story-ANZvSEOuuqGvFzcy9tK04I.html
24-03-2020||India||Covid-19 cases set to cross 500 as 600 districts placed under lockdown||Over 600 districts have been placed under lockdown in an effort to stop the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) that has afflicted nearly 500 across the nation. The Centre has grounded commercial airlines, stopped passenger trains and nudged state governments to severely curtail movement of people except to maintain the supply line of essential commodities services.By Tuesday morning, the number of Covid-19 cases had increased to 492 and initial test reports from states indicated that this number would rise further. Like the UK-returned 23-year-old woman in Manipur, believed to be the first Covid-19 case in the north-east.A total of 451 Indians and 41 foreigners have tested positive to severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2, or SARS-CoV-2, in confirmatory tests, according to data provided by the Union Health Ministry that has been attempting to prevent, or delay the disease moving to the community transmission stage.Top central government officials who have been tracking restrictions imposed in the country said 560 districts in 32 states had been placed under complete lockdown apart from 58 more in Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Odisha. The centrally administered island Lakshadweep has banned movement of passenger ships from the mainland. In all, the restrictions cover 619 districts.In Delhi, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal suggested that the government might have been able to get the situation under control. “The biggest challenge now is to not let the situation go out of control, we need your support,” Arvind Kejriwal said on Twitter.In neighbouring Gurgaon, Police Commissioner Muhammad Akil asked people in the city to restrict their movements. “If we think that we are not getting full cooperation, we will be forced to invoke Section 144 and impose curfew,” the city’s top police officer.Maharashtra, which has reported the most Covid-19 cases at 101, has already ordered a statewide curfew to force people to stay indoors. Punjab, which has recorded 21 cases and one death, had been among the first to stop public transport in the state and then, impose a curfew that came into force from Monday.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who had yesterday signalled his displeasure at people not staying at home, will deliver his second televised address to the nation. In a tweet that made the announcement, PM Modi said he would speak on some vital issues relating to coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-cases-set-to-cross-500-as-600-districts-go-under-lockdown/story-W6i3gEHKrItImbkLp8t9VN.html
24-03-2020||India||Coronavirus update: How the government is coping with lockdown||Amid the lockdown and restrictions across the country clamped to stop the outbreak of Covid-19, the coronavirus disease, the functioning of the government has also been affected. India has reported 482 cases of Covid-19 so far and nine deaths across the country.Here is how various ministries in the government of India are coping with the lockdown and enhanced restrictions while continuing to do their work.Finance ministry“We are strictly following DoPT’s [Department of Personnel and Training] OM [office memorandum] dated March 22, 2020,” a finance ministry spokesperson said.“Preventive measures to contain the spread of COVID-19”, directs heads of departments of all central government offices to draw up a roster of staff that includes all officers and employees, including consultants, contract and outsourced employees, who are required to render essential services within each department. “They alone may be asked to attend office from 23rd March until 31st March 2020. In other words, the office should function with a skeletal staff,” it said.Officials working from home should be available on telephone and electronic means of communications at all times, it said. They should attend office if called for, in case of any exigencies of work, it added.Also read: Each new coronavirus infected Indian could spread it to 4 others, finds ICMR studyIt has directed the Department of Financial Services (DFS), which is the administrative authority for public sector banks and insurers, to implement the same directive. The office of DFS is not located at the North Block. It functions from a building about 2km of North Block that houses the finance ministry.Ministry of railwaysMajority of the 1.3 million-strong Indian Railways’ workforce has also been asked to ensure bare minimum staff to come to work.Maintenance staff at railway locomotive sheds, however, are still working “at a bare minimum level as goods train loco needs attention,” the railway ministry said. Goods trains’ locomotives also require minimum maintenance work on a daily basis.There is a lack of clarity at some such sheds over directions issued by the ministry on how the daily functioning would be affected.Also read: 16 private labs can now conduct coronavirus testsOn Monday, an employee of the Eastern Railways zone in West Bengal who had contracted Covid-19 died.For now, given an unprecedented cancellation of all passenger, mail express and suburban trains, the ministry has put on hold all priority projects and is focusing on monitoring the situation on the ground. The priority will be to make arrangements from March 31 when the ban on public transport is scheduled to be lifted. “Railways is working 24X7... We are ensuring supply by moving goods like food grain, coal, POL, milk, vegetables etc, which is very important for society. We clearly understand our responsibility during the next few months. Please support us in fighting the spread of corona and ensuring essential supplies to the public,” the ministry said in a statement issued on Tuesday. External affairs ministryOnly the most essential divisions in the external affairs ministry handling Covid-19 related matters and the issues of stranded Indians are currently functioning, though, with reduced staff, people familiar with developments said. Among the divisions that are currently working are administration, the Covid-19 cell, the foreign secretary’s office and the foreign minister’s office, the people said. Rosters have been created for officials to come to work by turns. Other divisions have resorted to working from home and are using teleconferences to discuss important issues, the people said. Also read: EC defers Rajya Sabha polls as Covid-19 positive cases spike in country“It’s all coronavirus related issues now, anyway. Nothing else is happening. Even the limited bilateral and multilateral engagements underway are related to coordinated efforts to tackle Covid-19, such as the engagement at the level of Saarc or G20,” said a person who declined to be named.Housing and urban affairs ministryFollowing the order issued by DoPT, the ministry issued a detailed advisory to its employees. It also suggested that as a precautionary measure, leave be granted expeditiously to all employees who apply for it whenever a request is made for self-quarantine.At a project monitoring level, the ministry has not stopped work on any of its key projects especially its most ambitious project— the Central Vista redevelopment plan. Click here for complete coverage of coronavirusOn March 20 as the Centre was preparing for a countrywide lockdown, the housing ministry notified the land-use change of over 86-acre area in Lutyens’ Delhi that currently houses some of India’s landmark buildings like the Parliament House, Rashtrapati Bhavan, North Block and South Block, among others, to expedite completion of the Rs 20,000-crore Central Vista redevelopment project. Earlier in March, the Hindustan Times had reported that Centre’s application seeking environmental clearance for the construction of a new Parliament complex has been deferred by the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC), and the proposal is likely to be reconsidered after pending court cases related to the project are resolved.Defence ministryThe defence ministry and the armed forces have been at the forefront of the fight against Covid-19, setting up quarantine facilities across the country and carrying out evacuations from hotspots like Wuhan and Tehran. The focus of the ministry is to ensure that the armed forces stay prepared for all challenges not just along the borders but also inside the country where Covid-19 cases are soaring. Another focus is to make sure the disease does not spread within the military’s ranks. Work in the ministry appears to be progressing well despite the coronavirus situation --- the ministry had green-lighted a Rs 38,000-crore jet deal and unveiled a new draft policy for arms acquisition that seeks to promote indigenisation. The armed forces are issuing instructions to their personnel almost on a daily basis on how to stop the spread of Covid-19 and stay prepared for tasks assigned to them.Department of military affairsThe department of military affairs, under the chief of defence staff, has issued a letter directing all staff to adhere to the government’s fresh guidelines on preventive measures to contain the spread of Covid-19.The letter, issued on Monday, said except for officials engaged in essential services, the rest are directed not to attend office from Match 23 to March 31.“However all the officers/officials are requested to be available on telephone and electronic means of communication at all times,” said the letter.Last week, the Indian Army announced home quarantine for soldiers posted in its headquarters here, staggered office timings and imposed a temporary freeze on postings and foreign assignments. The Indian Air Force (IAF) also plans to work with 50% manpower in rotation to prevent the spread of disease within its ranks.Rural development ministryIn the rural development ministry, just 5% of the officials are coming to office. But many senior officers are working overtime from office because the financial year is coming to an end and the individual ministries need to submit their reports in the government’s expenditure management system.These reports include both receipts as well as claims. “Our team is working on skeletal staff. Most of the rooms as closed but many officers are working from home too,” said a senior bureaucrat of the ministry.Department of Personnel and TrainingFor the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT), work has been streamlined to ensure a smooth flow of information. All senior officers are communicating via calls and the internet, officials said while speaking to HT. “Our priority right now is to ensure a seamless exchange of information. Key decisions are being taken, yesterday, the UPSC results were declared and uploaded on the website and released by our officials from home,” an official said.Nearly 80% of DoPT staff is now working from home.“The aim is to curtail the spread of the virus and the best way to ensure that is to follow government directives, especially on social distancing,” the official said.WCD ministryThe Union ministry of women and child development, in an office memorandum dated March 18, sent a set of preventive measures to all the employees of the ministry as well as those of its autonomous organisations and attached agencies.These include the National Commission for Women, Central Adoption Resource Agency and National Commission for Protection of Child Rights. Employees, who are unwell, are to work from home and asked to keep meetings at a minimum and rely on videoconference and telephones instead. The ministry also asked its employees to not crowd the chambers and corridors of offices and asked officers to ensure that staff attached with them be allowed to work in shifts. It also directed employees to rely on the DoPT notification from March 17, which detailed the steps all central employees and offices must take to halt the spread.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-how-the-government-is-coping-with-lockdown/story-mHniBlkFloE6QGzQ6hWAkO.html
24-03-2020||India||Coronavirus update: More checks for lockdown abusers in Delhi, no new cases in 24 hours||Delhi has been put under a complete lockdown till March 31 in a bid to fight novel coronavirus. The national capital has reported as many as 30 cases of coronavirus so far with one fatality. Six people have recovered from Covid-19 in the national capital. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday said that no new coronavirus case has been reported in Delhi in the last 24 hours.The chief minister said that the biggest challenge now is to not let the situation go out of control.“The biggest challenge now is to not let the situation go out of control. Need your (people’s) cooperation for this,” Kejriwal added in his tweet in Hindi. Special Task Force constituted by CM Arvind Kejriwal will hold a meeting today at 3:30 pm at his residence to discuss the steps taken till now to control the spread of coronavirus, news agency ANI reported. Top officials of the concerned departments will be also present during the meeting.Kejriwal had said that stringent action will be taken against those who don’t obey the lockdown. Delhi Police has announced that people entering Delhi from any of its borders will require special “curfew passes” from today. The passes are only for inter-border movement, and will not be required for those living and commuting within Delhi.For essential service providers, the movement shall be permitted on the basis of identity card and authorization issued by the concerned organisation.Delhi administration, last week, had announced all schools, colleges and educational institutes, cinema halls, dine-in restaurants, nightclubs, bazaars, shopping malls, et cetera to remain shut till March 31 in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak. Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences has shut down its OPD and all speciality services.Meanwhile, anti Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) protesters also cleared the protest site at Delhi’s Shaheen Bagh area. Police said they have taken all the tents and billboards agitators had put up in Shaheen Bagh, which has been placed under heavy security.“Shaheen Bagh has been cleared. We requested them to vacate the road. They continued to ignore the request,” RP Meena, deputy commissioner of police Southeast Delhi, said.In a first, Delhi Metro came to a stop for a day on Sunday for Janta Curfew. Delhi Metro Rail Corporation had earlier decided to stagger its services for Monday to promote social distancing. On Sunday, all metro rail operations across the country were directed to suspend services till March 31. A total of 32 states and Union territories have declared complete lockdown so far covering 560 districts, in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-more-checks-for-lockdown-abusers-in-delhi-no-new-cases-in-24-hours/story-MdapsKoN1IRC0lf1BBYgtO.html
24-03-2020||India||Pune firm gets approval for first ‘Made in India’ Covid-19 testing kit; 16 private labs approved by govt||A Pune-based company has said that it has received commercial approval from the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) for its Covid-19 test kit.“With emphasis on ‘Make in India’ and support from local and central government, the Covid- 19 kit has been made as per WHO/CDC guidelines. It was developed and evaluated in a record time,” Hasmukh Rawal, MD of molecular diagnostics company Mylab Discovery Solutions, said on Monday.The company said the kit will cost nearly one-fourth of the current procurement cost.More on Covid-19:• Your guide to staying safe• What you need to know today• How difficult it is to maintain 1-metre distance• How coronavirus is different from seasonal flu and common coldThe Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has, meanwhile, given a green signal to 16 private laboratories across the country to conduct Covid-19 testing in India.The apex medical research body has also issued guidelines for private laboratories by capping the test rates.The maximum cost for testing samples is capped at Rs 4,500 (Rs 1,500 for screening test for likely cases and additional Rs 3,000 for confirmation test).“All these laboratories have over 15,000 laboratory chains across the country. Our work is in progress to include more laboratories soon,” Dr Balram Bhargava, Director General of ICMR, said on Monday.These include Lal Path Labs from Delhi, Unipath Specialty Laboratory from Gujarat, Strand Life Sciences and SRL Limited from Haryana, CMC and Apollo Hospitals in Tamil Nadu. While Maharashtra has five laboratories which include Thyrocare Technologies Limited, Suburban Diagnostics (India) Pvt. Ltd, Metropolis Healthcare Ltd, Sir HN Reliance Foundation Hospital and Research Centre, Molecular Medicine, Reliance Life Sciences Pvt. Ltd and SRL Limited.“As far as testing kits manufacturers are concerned, we have fast-tracked approval for Indian Covid-19 testing kits for commercial use. About two manufacturers have already got the approval,” Dr Bhargava said.“Only test kits with 100 per cent concordance among true positive and true negative samples have been recommended for commercial use in India. In addition, US FDA approved kits can be used directly after due approval from DGCI and intimation to ICMR,” Dr Bhargava further said.There are 471 Covid-19 patients across India and the respiratory illness has killed nine people so far, the Centre has said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pune-firm-gets-approval-for-first-made-in-india-covid-19-testing-kit-12-private-labs-approved-by-govt/story-S4Vmo2lhqmZYVoTfDwM0RJ.html
24-03-2020||India||EC defers Rajya Sabha polls as Covid-19 positive cases spike in country||New Delhi: The Election Commission of India (ECI) said on Tuesday it was postponing the Rajya Sabha polls scheduled for March 26 in the wake of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak to “prevent a health hazard”. Elections were to be held for 18 Upper House across seven assemblies — Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Jharkhand, Andhra Pradesh, Manipur, Meghalaya and Gujarat -- in the latest round of indirect elections for the 245-member council of states. Of the 55 seats that fell vacant, 37 members were elected unopposed.The decision was taken at a meeting attended by election commissioners Ashok Lavasa and Sushil Chandra.“The situation because of Covid-19 mandates that we shouldn’t put MLAs in a congregation. The decision has been taken independently by the commission and will be up for review once the situation improves,” said a senior EC official who asked not to be named.“We have decided to defer the polls as the situation is not conducive for them,” a second senior EC official told Hindustan Times. “We will review the decision after March 31,” he added.The first official said that this round of elections will be conducted separately from the next round of Rajya Sabha polls likely in June. “The two will not be clubbed together,” he said.In a press release issued by ECI, it said the decision was being taken in view of the health risks posed by Covid-19. “Commission has reviewed in detail the matter. The prevailing unforeseen situation of public health emergency indicates the need for avoidance of possibilities of gatherings of any nature, which expose all concerned to possible health hazard,” the release said.“The poll process in the above said elections would necessarily include the gathering of polling officials, agents of political parties, support officials and members of respective Legislative Assemblies on the poll day, which may not be suitable in view of the prevailing unforeseen situation and related advisories in the country,” it added.The poll watchdog has invoked Article 153 of the Representation of People’s Act, 1951, under which the commission “for reasons which it considers sufficient, may extend the time for the completion of any election by making necessary amendments”. In accordance with its provisions, EC has “deferred the poll and extended the period of said election under the provisions of Section 153 of the Act”. The order added that the list of contesting candidates, which have already been published by the respective returning officers of the different states, will remain valid.Elections to the Rajya Sabha require MLAs to cast their votes in an open ballot, displaying their choice to the authorised agent of their party in the presence of the EC’s presiding officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ec-defers-rajya-sabha-polls-as-covid-19-positive-cases-spike-in-country/story-sfvz4LFGuJRCcxd2jSxjKJ.html
24-03-2020||India||Shivraj Singh Chouhan-led BJP government wins confidence motion in Madhya Pradesh||Shivraj Singh Chouhan, who took oath as Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister on Monday, won a confidence motion in the state assembly and thus proved the BJP government’s majority in the House. No one from the Opposition Congress was present in the House.The independent, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and Samajwadi Party (SP) MLAs too voted in favour of the BJP government’s confidence motion.Chouhan was sworn-in as the 19th chief minister of Madhya Pradesh on Monday night. Also Watch | ‘Will fight Coronavirus’: Shivraj Chouhan takes MP CM oath for 4th time In the state assembly, BJP has 106 MLAs and Congress 92 while the effective strength of the state assembly has been reduced to 205 after resignation of 23 MLAs and two seats lying vacant. There are four independent, two BSP and one SP MLAs.State assembly budget session was reconvened on Tuesday with only agenda of the BJP government led by Chouhan seeking a trust vote in the state assembly.During the four-day session which will see three sittings, the new government will also seek a vote on account in the state assembly later.Earlier, on Monday night, Speaker NP Prajapati tendered his resignation from the post while a no-confidence motion that the BJP legislature party moved was lying against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shivraj-singh-chouhan-led-bjp-government-wins-confidence-motion-in-madhya-pradesh/story-ASwZSxoOI9TLphE0BJ1ZiO.html
