25-03-2020||India||In contact with India to evacuate citizens, says US||New Delhi: The US on Wednesday said it was in contact with the Indian government to help find accommodation for American citizens stranded in the country because of the Covid-19 lockdown till the time it can arrange flights to evacuate them.The Indian government imposed a 21-day lockdown from midnight on Tuesday to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease. The exact number of stranded American travellers in the country could not immediately be ascertained but it is believed to be in the hundreds.“The US Mission to India continues to work with @StateDept & airline companies to arrange flights from India to the US for US citizens. Once flights are arranged, we will work with the GoI to arrange to the greatest extent possible safe passage to airports for US citizens,” ambassador Kenneth Juster tweeted. In a separate tweet, the US embassy said, “We are in contact with the Indian government to emphasize the need for hotels to continue to lodge US citizens during the nationwide curfew.”The US embassy said daily updates will be provided about its repatriation efforts through the “Smart Traveler Enrollment Program (STEP)” application and asked US citizens to enrol online for the programme.An alert posted on the embassy’s website said: “While the exact parameters of the curfew are still unclear, US citizens should cooperate by sheltering in place. US citizens are required to comply with Indian law and obey directions from law enforcement officers.”It added, “We know there is great interest from US citizens in obtaining assistance to depart India, and we are working to support necessary arrangements.”On Tuesday, French officials said they were working with the Indian government to try and arrange flights to evacuate about 1,000 French travellers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-contact-with-india-to-evacuate-citizens-says-us/story-Qd9HcTEWI4DJQZDGbz4t8K.html
25-03-2020||India||P Chidambaram suggests 10-point plan to deal with lockdown impact||Congress leader P Chidambaram on Wednesday described the three-week countrywide lockdown to check the coronavirus (Covid-19) spread a “watershed moment” in the battle against the pandemic and suggested a 10-point plan to deal with its impact, including putting money in the bank accounts of the poor and marginalised.Chidambaram, a former Union finance minister, demanded a cut in Goods and Services Tax rates by 5% on all wage goods, essential goods and services, and all goods of mass consumption from April 1 to June 30. He called for doubling the money paid and payable under the PM-KISAN scheme to Rs 12,000 and transfer of the additional amounts immediately. Under PM-KISAN, Rs 6,000 is annually paid to farmer families across the country in equal instalments.For tenant farmers, Chidambaram called for bringing them under PM-KISAN and transferring Rs 12,000 (in two instalments) to their bank accounts. He said Rs 3,000 should be transferred into bank accounts of workers registered under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee scheme.For the urban poor, Chidambaram suggested transfer of Rs 6,000 into their Jan Dhan accounts, besides offering them rice for 10 per kg or wheat absolutely free, as a one-time measure over the next 21 days. He called for asking all registered employers to maintain current levels of employment and wages. “Guarantee to such employers who do so that the wages of the employees will be reimbursed by the government within 30 days of payment.”Chidambaram suggested opening a register in every ward or block and invite people, who have not received payment under any of the categories. These, he said, should include street people and destitute. After minimal verification, open a bank account in each name (if there is not already one), seed it with Aadhaar and transfer Rs 3,000 into each bank account, he added.The Congress leader sought extension of deadlines for payment of any kind of taxes until June 30. In the interim, banks can be instructed to lend to panchayats, municipalities and corporations against the security of the tax receivables, he said. He said banks should be instructed to extend the date for any kind of EMI payments until 30 June.The Congress on Wednesday separately urged the government to implement the Nyuntam Aay Yojana, or Nyay, a minimum income guarantee scheme it had proposed as a pre-poll promise ahead of the 2019 national elections, as an immediate measure to counter the impact of the three-week lockdown on the poor and daily wagers.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had promised that 20% of the country’s poorest families will be given Rs 72,000 each annually under the scheme if his party came to power. The scheme envisaged to cover 50 million families with each earning at least Rs 12,000 monthly. BJP spokesperson Gopal Agarwal said, “We welcome all suggestions and support. But the government is already on the job and working on a package. It is thinking not only for 21-day but for a long term revival.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/p-chidambaram-suggests-10-point-plan-to-deal-with-lockdown-impact/story-OQFCqb6dxCi3fNyEHRKXgJ.html
25-03-2020||India||UP CM faces flak for ceremony in Ayodhya||LUCKNOW With Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath presiding over the early morning ceremony, Ram Lalla’s idol was moved to a pre-fabricated, temporary temple within the Ram Janmabhoomi premises in Ayodhya on Wednesday morning.The idol of Ram Lalla, the presiding deity of the Ram Janmabhoomi, had been in the makeshift temple since December 6, 1992.The ceremony, held on the first day of the nine-day-long Navratra, was organised by the Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust. Only priests and Trust members were present at the event; no locals or media persons were allowed.Priests from New Delhi, Varanasi and Ayodhya performed Vedic rituals which began on March 23 and continued till the shifting of the deity took place at 4.30 am on Wednesday.Prominent among those present on the occasion were the general secretary of the Trust, Champat Rai, its members, including Mahant Dhinendra Das, Vimlendra Mohan Pratap Mishra and Anil Mishra.Additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi, who is the state government’s representative in the Trust and district magistrate of Ayodhya Anuj Jha (ex-officio member of the Trust) were also present.Chairman of the Trust Mahant Nritya Gopal Das was represented by his heir Mahant Kamal Nayan Das.Meanwhile, questions are being raised over holding of the ceremony despite the 21-day lockdown, beginning the same day, to contain the spread of Covid-19.Ramesh Dixit, former professor, political science department, Lucknow University, said, “When there is a nationwide lockdown and the Prime Minister has appealed for us to remain indoors, the ceremony should have been postponed.”“The chief minister should have set an example by postponing the ceremony,” he added.Social activist Nutan Thakur, tweeted to Prime Minister and Union home minister Amit Shah, seeking action against the CM for attending the ceremony.However, justifying why the ceremony was held, Trust general secretary Champat Rai said, “The ceremony was organised by the Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust. It was decided to shift Ram Lalla on the first day of Navratra, on March 25. Only members of the Trust and priests were allowed to attend the ceremony.” Around 15 lakh devotees were expected to arrive in Ayodhya during the nine-day Navratri staring March 25 and for Ram Navami Mela on April 2, the last day of Navratri. However, the administration cancelled all the Navratri celebrations, including the mela..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-cm-faces-flak-for-ceremony-in-ayodhya/story-6tNClcBqBuk91AAmJZm8CJ.html
25-03-2020||India||Two who came in contact with Bihar’s first Covid-19 casualty, test positive||Two persons who had come in contact with a 38-year old man, who returned from Qatar after contracting coronavirus and died last Sunday, have also tested positive for the virus, taking the number of positive cases to six in the state late Wednesday evening.The two - a 35-year-old woman and a 12-year-old boy - tested positive after their samples were sent to Patna’s Rajendra Memorial Research Institute of Medical Sciences (RMRIMS), said its director Dr Pradeep Das.The state authorities had sent a medical team to Munger to track all those who came in contact with the 38-year old man from that town. The team had taken oropharengyeal (nasal swab) samples of the family members as well as those who had come in contact with the man.Das said the two samples, which tested positive, had come from a hospital in Munger. The two did not have any travel history.Earlier, a 29-year old man from Patna who returned from Gujarat, had tested positive on Tuesday. He has been kept in the isolation ward of the Nalanda Medical College Hospital (NMCH), which has now been converted into a special hospital for Covid-19 in Bihar.Follow coronavirus live updates here.Sources said the Patna resident, who came to the city on March 9, initially underwent treatment at a private health facility before being referred to the NMCH on March 22. His sample was sent for test to the RMRMIS on March 23. The other two Covid-19 cases are of a 45-year old woman and a 25-year-old man — both from Patna. While the woman, whose son had returned from Italy earlier this month, is undergoing treatment at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS)-Patna, the man who returned from Scotland, is at NMCH.According to a health bulletin released by the state health department earlier in the day, 275 samples had been tested of which 268 were negative, while two samples were rejected and one result was awaited.The number of coronavirus positive cases across the country rose to 606 on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-who-came-in-contact-with-bihar-s-first-covid-19-casualty-test-positive/story-sj8GgP9dOtiOcN6SwBuujL.html
25-03-2020||India||Chef who brought Indian fine dine to US dies of Covid-19||Mumbai: Celebrated chef Floyd Cardoz, the name behind top restaurants such as Tabla in New York and The Bombay Canteen and OPedro in Mumbai, died of Covid-19-related complications in New Jersey on Wednesday. He was 59, and was last in India earlier this month.A statement by Hunger Inc, the Indian hospitality company he co-founded, said that Cardoz tested positive for the coronavirus disease in the US on March 18th, and was being treated for it at the Mountainside Medical Centre in New Jersey. Over 55,000 people have tested positive for Covid-19 in the US, of which more than 30,000 have been infected in New York and New Jersey alone.Mumbai-born Cardoz is widely credited with giving Indian fine-dining its due in the US, and for adding a modern, relaxed vibe to Indian cuisine in Mumbai. Trained as a biochemist, he attended culinary school in Mumbai and the Global Hospitality Management School in Les Roches, Switzerland, before moving to New York in 1988.There, he quickly climbed up the ranks to set up Tabla with restaurant guru Danny Meyer in 1997. It had a successful run in midtown Manhattan, and by 2012, Cardoz, who won Season Three of the show Top Chef Masters and donated his winnings to cancer research, had become a prominent member of the city’s culinary set.It was in the 2010s that Cardoz truly came into his own, opening three restaurants in the US, and becoming the culinary director and creating the launch menu for Mumbai’s The Bombay Canteen in 2015. When it opened, the restaurant introduced a light, inventive take on Indian dining, serving dishes such as a seafood bhel, a spicy club favourite “Eggs Kejriwal”, and a tuna ceviche with sol-kadi sauce. This, along with the Bombay Canteen’s tapas, and fusion desserts such as the gulab-nut (a gulab jamun-donut hybrid), set the restaurant apart in a market then dominated by comfort European food and high-priced imports such as Norwegian salmon and New Zealand lamb chops.Restaurateur Riyaz Amlani, former president of the National Restaurant Association of India and proprietor of dining chains Smokehouse Deli, Saltwater Cafe and Social, says Cardoz’s death has stunned those in the hospitality industry. “He was the first true ambassador of Indian food abroad to a new generation of diners who saw Indian food as trendy and high quality,” Amlani said.Cardoz authored two books, most recently Flavorwalla in 2016. But to food lovers, he will be remembered as the man who gave Indian food (long considered cheap and stodgy in the West) a fresh, light makeover. To Indians, he’s the local boy who made good internationally, and returned to change the game and inspire local chefs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chef-who-brought-indian-fine-dine-to-us-dies-of-covid-19/story-0fRhSbKe1lD6dmNEmWyRSM.html
25-03-2020||India||Corona lockdown: DLF-2 RWA starts food service for residents||Gurugram: Amid the ongoing lockdown announced to curb the spread of coronavirus disease, a neighbourhood in the city has started a community kitchen to cater to the needs of those who are struggling to prepare food themselves or in self-isolation. The service, initiated by the residents welfare association (RWA) of DLF-2 , aims at extending a helping hand to such residents in the locality who can order pre-packed food that will be delivered to their address.According to RWA officials, each thali, which costs Rs 80, consists of two different vegetables, curd, rice, salad and chapatis. For the service, one has to simply call on the RWA manager’s phone number to book the thali, following which the order is delivered by staff having their hands sanitised. For lunch, an order has to be placed by 12:30pm and the thalis start getting delivered from 1:30pm onwards. For dinner, there is no fixed time, but residents can place order post evening and the thalis are delivered until 10pm.There are about 4,200 families living in DLF-2.Gaurav Wahi, RWA president of DLF-2, said that the initiative of delivering food had been undertaken in consideration of people who are dependent on cooks. “We have a significant number of people who are incapable of cooking due to their age or because they are single with no experience in cooking. We are helping them out by providing services through the community kitchen at subsidised rates. The hygiene and sanitization at the kitchen is also taken care of,” said Wahi. Besides regular thalis, special Navratri thalis are also being prepared in the community kitchen. Smriti Chabbra, a resident, said that with restrictions in place for the next 21 days, the food service was a novel idea for both elderly and working professionals. “Starting the food service is an important decision since people have been advised to stay in homes and not everyone might have the skill or ability of cooking. Lunch, dinner, and breakfast are being served through the community kitchen. In addition, special Navratri thalis are being distributed by the security team for those who are observing the festival. People, especially senior citizens who are dependent on full-time help, are ordering these thalis,” said Chabbra.The RWA has also arranged for the delivery of groceries and other essentials such as medicines. For further assistance with specific commodity, senior citizens and other residents have been asked to reach out to a network of volunteers. “The RWA is focused on ensuring that people don’t throng the neighbourhood shops. The volunteer network is ensuring that the needs of senior citizens are catered to, be it the supply of essential items or services of masseurs,” said Chabbra.There are six entry points to DLF-2. The RWA had closed five gates a day before Sunday’s janta curfew and only one gate has been left open. The locality has been under lockdown since Sunday and has restricted the entry of all domestic helps to contain the spread of coronavirus disease.At gate number 3, the only one which is open, the RWA has arranged for soap, water, and a bottle of sanitiser for outsiders entering the residential neighbourhood. “We ask about the purpose of visiting. If one is not a resident but supplier of an essential service, the individual needs to get the goods scanned and sanitise or wash his/her hands. We are also providing gloves and masks, if outsiders are not wearing them,” said Wahi. While the RWA was in favour of stopping the delivery of newspapers, some elderly persons had raised an objection following which regular supply of newspapers continues in the area. The locality has created a 99-member task force comprising residents, security guards, and other volunteers who are being trained and provided with protective gear. Jackets, sirens, and temperature guns have been provided to those members tasked with screening of people. The RWA has also put in place a medical team comprising doctors and support staff. “A medical team of six doctors with 8-9 support staff is on standby to deal with medical emergencies. We have also created a quarantine area. Members of the task force will be equipped with protective suits, which will get delivered to us in a day,” said Wahi. Residential arrangements for the guards have been made within the locality to ensure that there is no unnecessary movement. Insecured spots in the locality have also been fixed to curb any unwarranted movement. “There were two spots with broken walls which were fixed with railings. The neighbourhood has been secured and neither can anyone jump in or go out except through the one operational gate,” said the RWA president.Apart from society WhatsApp group, the RWA has also created a Telegram group to reach out to the residents where all important messages pertaining to coronavirus disease and the subsequent lockdown are shared. For families with international travel history or others with symptoms, the RWA has created self-declaration forms. Such families have been advised to practise self-isolation. The RWA has identified two sites for quarantine facilities which would be used in case a Covid-19 positive person is identified in the area. So far, no person has been suspected of Covid-19 in the locality, the resident body said.“The only thing left is the preparation and sanitization of the isolation sites that we have identified. So far, we don’t have any confirmed Covid-19 case or even a suspected case, but we are fully prepared to deal with the situation. Both the facilities can be set up within 24 hours, if a case is detected,” said Wahi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/corona-lockdown-dlf-2-rwa-starts-food-service-for-residents/story-meKWfHR0Dy2zlV3pzhXwaM.html
25-03-2020||India||Tripura to start community kitchen for homeless during Covid-19 lockdown||The Tripura government will start community kitchens to prepare food for homeless and poor people in urban areas from Thursday amid the lockdown to prevent the spread of Covid-19.Urban development director Dr Shailesh Kumar Yadav in an order asked officials of 20 urban local bodies (ULBs) of the state to set up kitchens to prepare food like khichdi in their respective areas. The Food and Civil Supplies department will provide rice and dal to all the districts. Self Help Groups (SHG) have been asked to make the food and distribute food packets. “In view of the lockdown to combat Covid-19, it is felt that the urban homeless, construction workers and other urban poor may not have sufficient access to food......Any good SHG under the National Urban Livelihood Mission (NULM) may be deployed for cooking and making food packets. Distribution of food packets to the urban poor twice daily may be done by using one or more dedicated vehicles by the respective ULB,” the order said.Follow coronavirus live updates here.Yadav also warned against huge gathering at a place during distribution of food packets. The food distributors should be provided with sanitizers and gloves. Control rooms have been set up in all the eight districts of the state to coordinate information related to coronavirus. Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb on Wednesday launched 50 ambulances for emergency services to ferry likely coronavirus affected people. Currently, 948 people are in home quarantine. No positive case of coronavirus has been found in the state so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-to-start-community-kitchen-for-homeless-during-covid-19-lockdown/story-c4ItNLCY8KIn9EJ5U4PgIM.html
25-03-2020||India||Udupi man feared he had coronavirus, kills himself; tells family to stay safe||A 56-year-old man in Karnataka’s Udupi district who feared that he had contracted the SARS-CoV-2 pathogen that causes coronavirus committed suicide on Wednesday, police said.The man, a trainer at the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation, slipped out of the house in the early hours of Wednesday. He was found hanging by a tree in the backyard of his house in the district’s Brahmavar taluk a few hours later.By the window that was close to the tree, the family found a note that he had left for them. He feared, according to this note, that he had contracted the disease and asked his family to be safe, a police officer said.“His family says he had no symptoms of the virus and had not been to the doctor for any treatment, apart from lifestyle diseases,” a police officer from Brahmavar police station who spoke to HT on phone said.Coronavirus: How it is different from seasonal flu and common coldThe officer, who did not want to be identified as he is not authorized to speak to the media, said the man apparently had been tracking news about the virus and the coronavirus disease. Quoting his family, the officer said, he was afraid that he would contract the disease too and had been mentally depressed about it.His wife told the police that he had been particularly worried since Sunday.On Tuesday night, he is said to have retired for the night at around 10.30 pm.His wife woke up the next day when the alarm on his mobile phone started buzzing at 5.30 am. She assumed that he had gone for a walk. But when he failed to turn up a few hours later, the family started looking for him and spotted him hanging from the tree.Police said they were holding an inquiry for suspected suicide and were awaiting the autopsy report.“We urge everybody not to fall prey to social media forwards and if they have any symptoms, to go to the nearest government hospital,” the police officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-udupi-man-feared-he-had-coronavirus-kills-himself-tells-family-to-stay-safe/story-OuVAMafdF3L8b5UxMDtUZN.html
25-03-2020||India||Mosquitoes are not carriers; all don’t need masks: Health Ministry dispels myths about Covid-19||Coronavirus infection cannot be transmitted through mosquito bites, the Union Health Ministry said on Wednesday while dispelling some commonly spread myths about the disease since its outbreak in the country.On the notion that everybody should wear masks to protect themselves from contracting the virus, the health ministry said those who have symptoms like fever, cough and cold or are health care workers and assigned care takers of home quarantined persons should wear masks.Putting to rest the rumours and misinformation about the respiratory viral infection which has claimed 10 lives and infected over 600 people in India, the ministry said it was a myth that only people with symptoms of COVID-19 can spread the disease.  “Even people with the COVID-19 infection but no symptoms can spread the disease,” it said.Lastly, the ministry said it was a myth that eating garlic and consuming alcohol can prevent coronavirus.“Eating garlic and drinking alcohol does not prevent COVID-19,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mosquitoes-are-not-carriers-all-don-t-need-masks-health-ministry-dispels-myths-about-covid-19/story-UESaHpSaQ0qZKd1eym5JCM.html
25-03-2020||India||Omar Abdullah repeats demand for Mehbooba Mufti’s release||Former J&K chief minister and NC vice president, Omar Abdullah on Wednesday said the detention of PDP president Mehbooba Mufti was “callous and cruel” and hoped that she will be released along with other detained persons.Omar Abdullah was released on Tuesday after eight months in custody after the J&K government revoked the Public Safety Act (PSA) imposed on him in Febuary. The PSA was slapped on Abdullah after the end of his six-month-long preventive detention.This is the second time in the last two days that the former JK chief minister has sought the release of Mehbooba Mufti and other detained persons.“It’s callous & cruel to continue to detain@MehboobaMufti & others at a time like this. There was never much justification to detain everyone in the 1st place & none at all to keep them detained as the country enters a 3-week lockdown. I hope @PMOIndia & @HMOIndia will release them,” Omar Abdullah tweeted.He also shared how he used to spend his time during detention at Hariniwas and said people could follow these tips while they stay put at their homes during the 21-day lockdown.“Exercise, exercise, exercise. I can’t emphasise this point enough. I was fortunate to have space & access to the grounds in HNSJ to get outside but even when the weather didn’t permit, I exercised indoors - walking in the corridor, up & down the stairs or just endless burpees,” Omar tweeted.Omar Abdullah added that a couple of mobile applications proved useful for him during his detention.“I used a couple of apps that were really helpful because I had workouts downloaded on them earlier. Nike Training Club & Fitbod (both on iOS & probably Android as well) were great for workouts of varying intensity & equipment levels,” he said.Throughout the day on Wednesday there were speculations that former CM Mehbooba Mufti could be released from the detention. However, Mehbooba’s daughter Iltija Mufti denied them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omar-abdullah-repeats-demand-for-mehbooba-mufti-s-release/story-M5meJ197g8v437F3e5EZPP.html
25-03-2020||India||Covid-19 update: Odisha police demand isolation wards, protective gear for staff enforcing lockdown||With police personnel manning all roads to ensure complete lockdown in the state, Odisha police has asked the state government to sanction funds to build isolation wards, ICUs and necessary personal protective gear like masks and Hazmat suits for police staff and their families.In a letter to the state home secretary, a senior official of Odisha police said while a multipronged approach is being adopted by various departments of the government to contain the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic in Odisha; it is equally incumbent upon the police force to scale up its level of preparedness to deal with the epidemic.Though the officers of the police department are being sensitized to maintain high standards of personal hygiene and sanitation, in order to prevent the spread of infection, isolation wards for police personnel and their families can be built at the Police Commissionerate in Bhubaneswar, Cuttack and district level, the letter said.“The maximum pressure on existing healthcare facilities due to any possible epidemic would be in Cuttack and Bhubaneswar where the bulk of specialized medical care facilities are available. Hence it is required to set up isolation wards at Reserve Police Lines Hospitals at Bhubaneswar and Cuttack, SAP 7th battalion Police Hospital and Special Security Battalion Hospital,” the letter said.“Besides Bhubaneswar & Cuttack urban police districts, there exist 17 police hospitals having adequate presence of doctors and paramedic staff in 13 districts that could be utilized for creating at least 10 bedded isolation wards in each of the facilities for the police personnel or their families,” the letter read.These isolation wards would need to be equipped adequately to cater to Covid-19 patients by providing them hazmat suits, N95 masks, clean linen, hand towels, medicines, gloves, thermometers, oxygen cylinders, screen partition, medicines etc.In another letter to the state home secretary, Bhubaneswar-Cuttack police commissioner Sudhansu Sarangi demanded 50 platoons of additional police force to enforce a complete shutdown. Sarangi said as police personnel are key emergency workers and need to be well looked after, kept physically fit and psychologically motivated, steps need to be undertaken at the preparatory stage keeping in mind a worst case scenario.“When personnel are deployed to enforce a shut down while allowing essential movement, they will be required to be on the street exposed to a number of people. The protective equipment that they will need are Hazmat suits, N-95 masks and hand sanitisers,” Sarangi stressed while emphasising that the four police hospitals in Bhubaneswar and Cuttack and their capacity needed to be augmented to meet the immediate crisis as well as by way of capacity up-gradation.The police demanded about Rs 4 crore from the state disaster response department for ramping up infrastructure in its hospitals.The Odisha Havildar and Sepoy confederation also demanded that those lower-level policemen enforcing lockdown should be tested for coronavirus and be kept in quarantine.Meanwhile, the Odisha Medical Service Association, a body of state government doctors said that that there is an acute shortage of protective kits for doctors and health care service providers at the district level.In a letter to the Odisha government’s health department, OMSA said that there are insufficient number of masks, sanitizers and PPE kits. “Supply of six important items is necessary while treating suspected coronavirus affected patients. The items are NIOSH (National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health) approved particulate respirator, powder free, latex free superior puncture and tear resistant HD gloves, ANSI-approved light weight reusable indirect vented (splash proof) clear vision goggles, biohazard bags with international biohazard signs, disposable boot covers, resistant to particulate and liquids, elastic top 17 inches high and gowns,” OMSA said.The medical association added that stage III of the pandemic will occur when a person or animal carrying the virus can produce sporadic cases or small clusters of disease among the population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-odisha-police-demand-isolation-wards-protective-gear-for-staff-enforcing-lockdown/story-kHQcTVw531F3UVzVTu66HP.html
25-03-2020||India||Odisha goes all out to recruit medical professionals to fight Covid-19||The Odisha government on Wednesday launched a massive recruitment for thousands of doctors, nurses, paramedics and multipurpose health workers offering them lucrative remuneration to join the battle against the coronavirus pandemic.The government flooded newspapers with advertisements for healthcare professionals a day after predicting a doomsday-like scenario of a huge number of Covid-19 positive patients by May-end. The state has reported two positive cases so far.In its advertisement, the health and family welfare department asked qualified specialists, MBBS doctors, staff nurses and other paramedics including retired people to work on contract for next three months in the special coronavirus wards of district hospitals as well as medical colleges. While the state government wants to recruit around 8000 nurses, pharmacists, laboratory technicians, radiographers and multipurpose health workers, it also wants to rope in as many doctors as possible.Follow coronavirus live updates here.While the specialist doctors would get Rs 5000 a day, MBBS doctors would receive Rs 3000 per day. Staff nurses, lab technicians and radiographers would get Rs 1000 a day while multipurpose health workers would be paid Rs 850 a day.“We have given free hand to the districts to recruit as per their requirements. It’s a dynamic situation now and the number may go up,” said Bijoy Mohapatra, director of health services. Subroto Bagchi, the government spokesperson on coronavirus in Odisha, on Tuesday said if people do not adhere to a strict lockdown then there would be a minimum of 2345 and a maximum of 36,000 coronavirus-infected people by the end of May. Till Wednesday Odisha had only two positive cases.Also read: Covid-19: Why it will be difficult for India to emulate Hubei lockdownBagchi said 78,233 people who have come from other states to different districts of Odisha have been told to put themselves under home quarantine. “Many of these people have returned from states which have a high population of Covid-19 infected people. It would be a mistake to assume that none of them would be carrying infections. In maximum cases the symptoms of coronavirus infections is visible in five days while in other cases it is revealed after 14 days. Since the disease is basically asymptomatic, the people who have returned from other states will have to remain in strict home isolation for 14 days,” he said.To boost the morale of healthcare workers, chief minister Naveen Patnaik also announced advance payment of salary for four months to doctors, paramedics and workers.In a video message issued by Health and Family Welfare department, Patnaik said, “With folded hands I venerate doctors, paramedics, workers engaged in health service. For the benefit of the health workers and their families I have directed officials to pay advance salary of April, May, June and July to doctors, paramedics and other health workers next month.”Patnaik also warned of strict action against those who misbehave with health workers. “People must not create hindrances in their work. We must encourage and appreciate the sacrifice and service of the health workers.”Odisha has about 6300 MBBS doctors working in various government facilities, but not all may be available to treat the coronavirus patients as some of them are senior residents in medical colleges. The sanctioned strength of doctors in government hospitals is about 11000.Officials are also worried about the dearth of adequate number of ICU beds with ventilator and oxygen facilities. The State has just about 90 such beds (including those in private facilities) to treat Covid-19 patients who need ventilator support. The state government is currently scouting sites to build special hospitals for coronavirus with 1000 beds and 150 ICU beds. The state government is also planning to ramp up its testing facilities from two labs (RMRC and AIIMS, Bhubaneswar) to two more that can test 200 samples a day.A senior doctor in a state government hospital said the number of positive cases in the State would spike up considerably in the coming days if lockdown is not strictly enforced. The State government has so far lodged 137 cases against people for violation of lockdown guidelines.The number of people who have returned from abroad and registered themselves in the state government’s Covid-19 portal has risen to 4,015. Of these, the samples of 133 were sent for test. Test results of 129 samples resulted negative, two tsted positive while the results of the other two samples are awaited. However, the Odisha government is yet to trace out three of the 57 individuals in the state who had come in contact with the Covid-19 positives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-goes-all-out-to-recruit-medical-professionals-to-fight-covid-19/story-WRy5od3lz3leDjRB1y0E4H.html
25-03-2020||India||Coronavirus Outbreak:US tells citizens in India to abide by lockdown while it plans evacuation||The United States government has asked its citizens in India to follow the curbs imposed during the 21-day nationwide lockdown announced Tuesday by prime mnister Narendra Modi. Washington also indicated on Wednesday that it is in talks with New Delhi to fly back its citizens.“On March 24, Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a nationwide curfew till April 15, 2020, in order to prevent the spread of #COVID19. US citizens are required to comply with Indian law & obey directions from law enforcement officers,” said a release from the US Embassy in India.The 21-day lockdown announced yesterday bars movement of all residents including foreigners unless they are associated with essential services and also orders shutting down of private businesses including hotels etc. However, exemptions have been made and authorities are intervening to address genuine concerns.The US embassy release asks its citizens to comply while adding that the “exact parameters of the curfew are still unclear”. The embassy also said it had requested Indian authorities to allow US residents to stay in their hotels despite the lockdown provisions.The embassy statement says it is working to arrange for flights from India to the US and once that is done it will request the government for a “safe passage” for US citizens to the airport. “The U.S. Mission to India continues to work with the U.S. Department of State and airline companies to arrange flights from India to the United States for U.S. citizens. Once these flights are arranged, we will work with the Indian government to arrange to the greatest extent possible safe passage to airports for U.S. citizens,” says the release.The embassy noted that several US citizens have sought assistance to leave India and asked all to register for its Smart Traveler Enrollment Program (STEP) application to receive daily updates on the evacuation efforts. The embassy release doesn’t offer any estimate of the number of US citizens currently staying in India and how many have sought assistance to fly back to their own country, which is one of the worst affected by the outbreak of the disease.France has also said that it wants to evacuate about 2,000 French tourists in India through special Air France flights, arrangement for which is being discussed with the Indian authorities.It must be noted that India has enforced a ban on the arrival of all international flights in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-outbreak-us-tells-citizens-in-india-to-abide-by-the-lockdown-while-it-plans-evacuation/story-Yz8ueNk8ylPwISIutrnumN.html
25-03-2020||India||Covid-19: Why it will be difficult for India to emulate Hubei lockdown||As India goes into a 21-day lockdown to keep around 1.3 billion people at home, it’s important to note that not even China where the novel coronavirus first emerged in late December and then rapidly spread tried to put all of its 1.4 billion people behind locked doors.It locked down one province, Hubei, with around 60 million people, and implemented tough restrictions on movement and banned mass gatherings and closed down schools and tourist spots in the rest of the country.Beijing, the sprawling capital of more than 21 million, for example, was never under a lockdown – it put in place restrictions on residential communities including not allowing outsiders from coming into apartment complexes, made wearing masks mandatory and urged people not to mingle.(Those restrictions are still in place as of Wednesday though signs of normalcy are now more evident on the streets of Beijing.)Beijingers, and the residents of other regions and cities in China were not stopped from stepping out, buying essentials, and returning home.Follow coronavirus live updates here.Public transport including the subways and buses and taxis operated.The delivery systems including couriers operated unhindered too – only residents had to step out of their homes to pick up delivery as courier personnel were not allowed inside apartment complexes or homes.But in Wuhan, a city of 11 million, it was a different story.In that city, where the virus first emerged last year, communities were sealed off, internal transport was suspended and people were not allowed outside their homes.How did Wuhan sustain the lockdown for weeks?Thousands of volunteers who signed up to help communities were deployed.At the peak of the lockdown, one member of each family was allowed to step out of their homes to pick up the deliveries of essentials, which were brought to the gate of the community by registered volunteers.According to official statistics quoted by news agency Xinhua, the city has 1.5 million registered volunteers.“From medical aid, food, and goods assistance and psychological support to transport and community services, thousands of volunteers responded quickly after the city was locked down to curb the spread of the deadly virus,” Xinhua reported earlier this month.Until the first week of March, the Communist Party of China’s (CPC) Youth League had trained thousands of volunteers to “…serve as deliverymen, drivers, coordinators and community workers in grocery stores, neighborhoods, designated hospitals and makeshift hospitals to receive infected patients”.By that week, 7148 communities in Wuhan had implemented “closed-door management”.Clothed in protective clothing and armed with loudspeakers, community workers were deployed daily across Wuhan to publicly announce new information about the rapidly evolving epidemic situation.Besides volunteers, a developed online system in China helped locked up residents in Wuhan – and the not-so-locked up all over China – to buy what they wanted on the internet.However, the system of deploying community workers and volunteers at a short notice will be difficult to emulate in India as it is, maybe uniquely, a Chinese phenomenon – drawing its origins and nourishment from the authoritarian nature of the Chinese system.“As the coronavirus spreads around the world, other countries must be careful about looking to China for examples of how to manage it. Cities in other countries do not have a political culture that would allow them to replicate what China has done, or the same governance structures,” Toby Lincoln, an expert on Chinese urban history with the University of Leicester recently wrote for the London-based New Statesman.Lincoln wrote that Chinese urban governance – and the current coronavirus lockdown – is overseen by local residents’ committees.“These have their origins in the 1950s, when the CPC established control over cities. Urban districts were sub-divided into residents’ committees, made up of several hundred households, and residents’ small groups, composed of fewer still. They were staffed by CPC officials and local volunteers, and were responsible for keeping order, putting up propaganda posters, and running political campaigns,” wrote Lincoln.The implementation of that tried – and now seriously tested -- granular tradition was aided in China, and especially in Wuhan, by the seriousness of the epidemic situation.“At the individual level, the Chinese people have reacted to this outbreak with courage and conviction. They have accepted and adhered to the starkest of containment measures – whether the suspension of public gatherings, the month-long ‘stay at home’ advisories or prohibitions on travel,” the WHO-China Joint Mission report said after completing its two-week mission in February.It’s important to remember that Wuhan has reported more than 50000 cases and over 2500 deaths – by far the most in China – until now.The residents knew they were up against a deadly outbreak which had not only severely disrupted their lives but had the potential to ravage it further.There was no other option for Wuhan but to be locked down.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-why-it-will-be-difficult-for-india-to-emulate-hubei-lockdown/story-MICIbLjvGo0weeQShYlYKP.html
25-03-2020||India||India bans export of malarial drug being tested for coronavirus treatment||India said on Wednesday it had banned the export of hydroxychloroquine and formulations of the malaria drug while experts test its efficacy in helping treat patients infected with coronavirus. There are currently no approved treatments, or preventive vaccines for COVID-19, the highly contagious, sometimes deadly respiratory illness caused by coronavirus.Researchers are studying existing treatments and working on experimental ones, but most current patients receive only supportive care such as breathing assistance.Hydroxychloroquine, a malaria drug, is among the medications undergoing testing as a potential treatment for patients with the disease. Earlier this week, the American Society of Health-System Pharmacists (ASHP), which maintains a list of drug shortages, said there was a shortage of hydroxychloroquine.“Chloroquine has demonstrated toxicity in certain patients,” Dinesh Dua, chairman of the Pharmaceuticals Export Promotion Council of India, told Reuters. “You have to tread with caution because there is no comprehensive data to prove it works.” The group said India, the world’s largest supplier of generic drugs, was not short of the drug but that companies were acutely short of staff to run operations. Cadila Healthcare Ltd, part of the Zydus group and one of India’s top makers of the drug, said it was ramping up production to about 200 million pills a month.“The priority is to work with the government in these challenging times and do all that we can in combating the coronavirus,” a spokesman said.Earlier on Wednesday, Cadila Healthcare’s stock fell more than 5% after the export ban was announced.Late on Tuesday, India ordered a 21-day lockdown of its 1.3 billion people to try to protect the world’s second most populous country from the fast-spreading coronavirus.“It is impossible to maintain operations due to lockdown, because employees don’t want to come (to work),” Dua said.India has already banned the export of ventilators, sanitizers and personal protection equipment such as masks and clothing used in the fight against the virus, which has so far infected more than 500 people and killed nine in the country.The ban came after India this month curbed the export of 26 pharmaceutical ingredients and the medicines made from them, including Paracetamol - a common pain reliever also sold as acetaminophen - as the coronavirus outbreak plays havoc with supply chains.Some of those restrictions have since been relaxed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-bans-export-of-malarial-drug-being-tested-for-coronavirus-treatment/story-CU131I0cvycSjQgs0Nw2oM.html
25-03-2020||India||Social distancing, personal hygiene key in Covid-19 fight, says doctor||New Delhi: With the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive patients increasing rapidly, health care workers — especially those on the front line — will need a steady supply of masks, hand rub, and fluid repellent gowns that are all in short supply at most hospitals. They will also need training on handling Covid-19 patients. Equipping them with specific information and protective gear will go a long way, Dr Divya Deodhar, associate professor, department of infectious diseases at Christian Medical College, Vellore, tells Jayashree Nandi. Edited excerpts:Do you think India needs more testing to identify community transmission?We should increase testing but only to a certain extent. It shouldn’t be a priority. Containing the spread of the virus should be our focus by driving home the importance of social distancing, personal hygiene, sanitation -- like washing hands again and again with soap and water or with a hand sanitiser -- and avoiding touching your face. Testing should be recommended for those coming with severe infections or severe acute respiratory infections. It is important that people who have contact with those who have travelled back or have even visited any big airport for domestic travel should self-report if they have symptoms. If possible, people should avoid domestic travel also. How will testing all patients with Severe Acute Respiratory Infections (SARI) help?SARI patients should be tested to understand the extent of transmission and to know the exact level of transmission and mortality. It is not for clinical use. Those with milder symptoms can self isolate at home.Do you think private hospitals should be involved in testing and care?The Centre has issued guidelines for government hospitals on treating Covid-19 patients. But there are different policies in states. Not all government centres are well-equipped and there will be a need to involve private hospitals. There are premium private hospitals which can test and also keep patients in isolation. We need private participation.Is there a deficiency of protective gear for health care workers?There is definitely a deficiency of basic protection like hand sanitisers and masks in most hospitals. But we also need to teach all categories of health care workers on how to care for patients and at the same time protect themselves. It’s important that we don’t create a scare. We have pledged to serve humanity and it’s our duty to treat patients. We at CMC are cohorting (grouping of people with similar symptoms), so people coming into emergency or OPD with symptoms of the infection are treated separately by health care workers using protective equipment. We are also working on building a fever clinic so as to better cohort them. Ours is a referral centre where we get patients from all over the world.Do we use hazmat suits in our hospitals? Do we have enough of them?Some of this gear was used based on the experience from Ebola. In India, we are not very sure how the virus behaves. We are not very sure the whole equipment is required all the time during treating infected persons. Most often health care workers are advised to be one metre away from the patient. But a fluid-repellant gown is needed during aerosol generating procedures such as while intubating the patient, performing a bronchoscopy or doing a spirometry of suspected and infected patients. We have to place a special order for those. We definitely need those gowns at least for the workers in ICU for infected patients.Are you treating Covid-19 patients?We get patients who are suspected to have the infection. We refer them for testing depending on their symptoms. I have experience with the H1N1 outbreak. We were taught how to handle an outbreak and how to care for yourself. We have to treat patients. We can’t be afraid but we have to be alert.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/social-distancing-personal-hygiene-key-in-covid-19-fight-divya-deodhar/story-ktNLIh0Ox3QyKR142qfVTP.html
25-03-2020||India||Jharkhand starts 356 Khichdi centres for needy, offers two-month’s ration in advance||Jharkhand government has initiated several welfare measures, including low-price ‘Khichdi’ distribution centres and two months’ advance ration to PDS beneficiaries, in a bid to ease the economic burden on the poor residents of the state during the 21-day long nation-wide lockdown to check the spread of highly infectious Covid-19.A total of 356 ‘Khichdi’(an easy to cook nutritious dish) distribution centres have started functioning from Wednesday across the state. However, beneficiaries are not allowed to have the food sitting at the centres due to the need to maintain social distancing. Besides, the centres would not offer plates for food but require the beneficiaries to bring their own plates from homes, officials said.Chief minister Hemant Soren on Monday had directed to convert all Mukhiya Mantri Daal-Bhaat Kendras, where rice, pulse and a vegetable was being served at Rs 5, into Khichdi centres for the needy in the state during this period of crisis.However, the food would not be for free. Beneficiaries have to pay Rs 5 for a plate of Khichdi. “If it is done free, people might misuse the food. This is why a minimal price is being taken from the beneficiaries,” said the principal secretary of food, public distribution and consumer affairs department, Arun Kumar Singh.In Ranchi city area, 11 Khichdi centres started functioning from Wednesday, while 18 centres started functioning in the in rural areas.“Footfalls at these centres in village areas have dropped, while it is quite good in city areas due to the presence of hospitals,” said Meena, in-charge district supply officer (DSO), Ranchi.Ravindra Kumar, a resident of Chhatarpur in Garhwa, said he is a migrant labourer and recently returned from Uttar Pradesh, where he was working as a contract labourer.“Khichdi centre has come as a great relief in this crisis, as there is a crisis of food item at home. I will request such centres should also be operative at night,” he said.Sub-divisional officer (SDO), Chhatarpur, Narendra Gupta said, “We received a huge response on the first day. There is a good population of migrant labourer here. A total of 16 centres have been started, which would be taken to 46 very soon,” he said.The state government has also decided to offer two months’ ration to the beneficiaries enrolled under the National Food Security Act (NFSA). Singh said, “We are allotting ration of two months-April and May- to the beneficiaries so that they do not suffer during the lockdown.”Around 2.64 crore people from 57 lakh households are covered under NFSA in Jharkhand. However, there are many who are still deprived of ration cards. More than 6.97 lakh applications for ration cards are pending with the department. Since Centre has fixed number of beneficiaries under NFSA, these people might suffer during the lockdown.Keeping this in mind, the department has given Rs 30 lakh to each district and directed the district authorities to provide 10kg of rice to needy families, if they are lacking ration cards.Sanjay Kumar, director food, public distribution and consumers affairs, said, “Additional Rs 5 lakh was given to each district on Tuesday to deal with any kind of hunger situation in the district.”Meanwhile, the education department is giving one month’s mid-may meal ration to students under a take-home ration scheme so that no student suffers due to closure of the schools.MGNREGA wage rises by Rs 23, the state seeks unemployment allowance during the lockdownThe Centre has increased minimum wage for MGNREGA workers in Jharkhand from Rs 171 to Rs 194, even as Jharkhand government has sought unemployment allowance from the centre for MGNREGA workers during the lockdown period, officials said.Jharkhand MGNREGA commissioner Sidhartha Tripathi said this was for the first time when the minimum wage for MGNREGA increased by Rs 23. “However, we had demanded it to be made at par with state’s minimum wage, which is Rs 274,” Tripathi said. He said the enhanced remuneration will come into effect from April 1.He further said the state has written to the Centre for unemployment allowance for the workers, who would not be able to work despite allotment due to the lockdown.“We have engaged 54,000 worksite supervisor for sensitization regarding the threat of Covid-19 in rural areas. We have taken all precautions for the labourers who are working in sites,” he said....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jharkhand-starts-356-khichdi-centres-for-needy-offers-two-month-s-ration-in-advance/story-CphyJDvrv01OnCNQTLfrWP.html
25-03-2020||India||ATM operation services and LPG supplies exempted from lockdown||The Central government on Wednesday evening added ATM operation and cash management agencies to the list of services exempted from the 21-day national lockdown announced on Tuesday. This will ensure that ATMs are refilled with cash and do not run out of money leading to inconvenience for consumers. The finance ministry had yesterday waived off any surcharge for withdrawal of money from ATMs not belonging to one’s bank for the convenience of users during the lockdown period.The notification issued on Wednesday also adds several other services—veterinary hospitals, pharmacies including Jan Aushadhi Kendra, IT vendors for banking operations, shops for seeds and pesticides, manufacturing units for drugs, pharmaceuticals, medical devises, their raw materials, packaging material for food items, cross land border movements of LPG, food products and medical supplies—to the list of exempted or essential services released last evening. These directives have been issued by the ministry of home affairs for implementation by states and the Union Territories under the Disaster Management Act (DMA), which has been invoked to deal with the unprecedented situation arising out of coronavirus outbreak in the country. First set of such directives were issued last evening to the chief secretaries and the Directors General of Police (DGPs) of all states and UTs, directing them to enforce the lockdown norms which were detailed in the communication.It urged states to ensure social distancing was observed and essential services were allowed to function.It advised setting up of a 24X7 control room or office with helplines at state and district level to address any grievance faced by the providers of goods and services including during inter-state movement.Police in several states, including Punjab and Delhi, held meetings on Wednesday with online suppliers of essential items including food and provisions and assured them that their employees will be issued passes to move freely for delivery purposes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/atm-operation-services-and-lpg-supplies-exempted-from-lockdown/story-wY3JGX50rSder0SXRrFGQO.html
25-03-2020||India||Cash help for poor, tax break for industries among Rahul’s suggestions||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi listed his suggestions to fight the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Wednesday, asking the government to provide daily-wagers immediate help through direct cash transfers in their accounts and free rations at a time when the country has imposed a 21-day lockdown. “Many industries are struggling. Act quickly by announcing tax breaks & financial support to prevent massive job losses & reassure business owners that the Govt will support them through this crisis,” he posted on Twitter amid mounting worries over the economy.India is fighting a war against the Sars-Cov-2 virus, he said, adding that the strategy to “minimise casualties in this war” should have two components — economy and tackling the disease. “Isolate the virus and block its escape routes,” he said, calling for expanding tests to identify patients. “Create massive emergency field hospitals in particularly in urban areas with full ICU capability to provide care to patients,” Gandhi added.Elaborating on the economy front, the former Congress president said, apart from direct cash transfers, the government must act quickly by announcing tax breaks and provide financial support to prevent massive job losses. Many industries are struggling, and the government has to ensure business owners that they will support during this crisis, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cash-help-for-poor-tax-break-for-industries-among-rahul-s-suggestions/story-W3VPVOCWRQakSMmnO41bFL.html
25-03-2020||India||Flipkart to resume e-commerce sales of essential products||Walmart Inc’s Flipkart will resume e-commerce services for essential products after receiving federal and state government assurances on the safety of its delivery staff and a hassle-free supply chain.Bengaluru-based Flipkart halted all shopping on its website and mobile app early on Wednesday, only hours after Prime Minister Narendra Modi ordered a 21-day nationwide lockdown to counter the spread of the coronavirus. Though people worldwide have increasingly turned to online retailers to buy household goods, food and medicine as the crisis has deepened, there was confusion over Indian authorities’ mixed messages on e-commerce.The confusion extended to some of those enforcing India’s lockdown, with reports of some deliveries being halted by police officers.Announcing Flipkart’s partial resumption in services, a statement from Chief Executive Kalyan Krishnamurthy said the decision was made after it had been assured safe passage for its supplies and delivery workers by law enforcement authorities.“(We) are resuming our grocery and essentials services later today,” Krishnamurthy said. The Flipkart Group also owns fashion portal Myntra and digital payments business PhonePe.Amazon.com’s Indian business, Flipkart’s main rival, announced on Tuesday that it was limiting its services to the sale and delivery of essential products. On Wednesday, its Pantry grocery service was unavailable in several cities and orders for most other food or household items showed delivery dates stretching well beyond the first week of April.Healthcare platform Medlife was among those that encountered delivery difficulties after the national lockdown. One delivery worker was baton-charged by police officers as they tried to disperse people in a New Delhi neighbourhood and at least three others have been prevented from getting products to customers, said Chief Executive Ananth Narayanan.“You have to enforce the lockdown with empathy, I don’t think you need to be brutal,” Narayanan said. “When somebody gets beaten up it’s very difficult to get other people to come to work.”Alibaba-backed online grocer BigBasket said its services had also been affected.“We are working with the local authorities for the passes and permits that allow movement of personnel and vehicles,” BigBasket said in a statement.The company also said it was booked for the next seven days in almost all the cities in which it operates.Albinder Dhindsa, CEO of SoftBank-backed Grofers, said the online grocer had a backlog of about 400,000 orders owing to “hiccups in our operations” over the past few days. Grofers was working with local authorities to resume operations and will soon start accepting new orders, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/flipkart-to-resume-e-commerce-sales-of-essential-products/story-Skzoze8XyTJrNuJ0q10nGJ.html
25-03-2020||India||Mamata Banerjee exempts farmers from Covid-19 lockdown, appeals for funds||Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday asked the police not to stop farmers from taking part in agricultural activities, saying farming cannot stop during the lockdown to contain the Covid-19 outbreak.“Out of sheer ignorance vegetable vendors have been stopped in many places. We cannot stop supply of vegetables to people. Delivery boys carrying essential items cannot be stopped as well. Similarly farmers cannot be stopped from working in the fields,” Banerjee said at a media conference at the state secretariat in the afternoon.“Agriculture cannot stop. Farmers work alone in the fields, keeping a long distance from each other. The administration should only ensure that they do not gather in one place. Farmers are quite conscious. Tea gardens should also be open,” said Banerjee.She also announced that farmers, old people and others who get social pension from the state will be given their dues for March and April together. Hotels, guest houses and marriage halls are also being requisitioned to provide accommodation to doctors and healthcare staff.Follow coronavirus live updates here.The chief minister also made a fund raising pitch to fight the pandemic that has infected over 600 people in the country. Bengal has eight cases of infection and one casualty. “The state’s coffers are almost empty. We appeal to NRIs, corporate houses and PSUs to donate. They can also help us with materials,” said the chief minister. Banerjee also read out details of the bank account of the state relief fund. The chief minister also announced a task force and a 24-hour control room. She said inter-district passes should be issued to people attached to emergency services or carrying essential items such as medicine.“Many doctors living in rented places have been asked to vacate by their landlords. This must stop. I don’t want to hear such reports again. Similarly, don’t jump to conclusions if someone is running common cold and force him to run to hospital,” said Banerjee.Banerjee said community block development officers and local police stations in the districts have to ensure that people do not starve if they are stranded.Banerjee said fair price shops have been asked to give a month’s ration to people. Also mid-day meals will be sent to the homes of children by Anganwadi workers. “Housekeeping staff will be provided food by state-run hospitals. Funds will be released by the health department,” said Banerjee.On Wednesday a 24-year-old woman was arrested in Salt Lake for abusing policemen and using a lipstick to soil the uniform of a police officer who stopped the radio taxi she was riding with her male friend. The officer wanted to know where the passengers were going. The woman could not give any satisfactory reply. Her friend and the driver were arrested too, said SP Yadav, deputy commissioner (headquarters) of Bidhannagar Police.In Hooghly district, a Trinamool Congress civic body councillor was arrested when he allegedly heckled policemen while they were shutting down a sweetmeat shop.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-banerjee-exempts-farmers-from-covid-19-lockdown-appeals-for-funds/story-GVSqCJ5ObvH0reICebfrKJ.html
25-03-2020||India||Congress urges PM to implement Nyay for poor amid Covid-19 crisis||The Congress on Wednesday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to implement ‘Nyuntam Aay Yojana’ (NYAY), a minimum income guarantee scheme proposed by the party as a promise ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, as an immediate economic measure for the poor and daily-wage earners to tide over the ongoing crisis triggered by the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) outbreak. PM Modi on Tuesday evening announced a 21-day nationwide lockdown to prevent the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. The PM also announced an allocation of Rs 15,000 crore to strengthen healthcare infrastructure to combat the Covid-19 outbreak. On March 25, the then Congress president, Rahul Gandhi, had promised that 20% of the poorest families in the country would get Rs 72,000 each annually under the scheme if the party win the parliamentary elections.The scheme was envisaged to cover five crore families and benefit nearly 25 crore people and each family would earn at least Rs 12,000 every month. The total estimated expenditures of the scheme were around Rs 3.5 lakh crore. The basic arithmetic of the NYAY scheme, as explained by Gandhi, is if a family makes Rs 6,000, the government will chip in with another Rs 6,000, raising the monthly income to Rs 12,000. “While the government waits to announce an economic package, experts are already voicing their opinion for the NYAY scheme proposed by Congress last year. The scheme will guarantee a minimum income to the poor aiding them in these times of crisis,” the party said on its official Twitter handle.Congress’s chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala also tweeted, “Dear PM, need of the hour is to implement forthwith “Minimum Income Guarantee Scheme” [NYAY] mooted by Rahulji & Congress.”“Please transfer Rs 7,500 to every Jan Dhan A/C, PM Kisan A/C; every Pension A/C to tide over nutrition needs of 21 days & give free PDS ration,” he said in another tweet.“How will daily wagers, workers in small businesses survive for 21 days?” asked Surjewala.The government’s think-tank, NITI Aayog, had dismissed the proposed move, declaring that India neither had the kind of fiscal bandwidth, nor the complete data needed to implement such an ambitious scheme.The scheme was widely seen as a variant of universal basic income (UBI), a concept that entitles families to a certain threshold sum of money, irrespective of whether they work or not.UBI made a debut in the official discourse when the then chief economic adviser, Arvind Subramanian, proposed it in the 2016-17 Economic Survey. But the Modi government did not pursue it.The PM’s lockdown move was backed by several Congress leaders, including chief ministers of Punjab (Captain Amarinder Singh), Rajasthan (Ashok Gehlot), Chhattisgarh (Bhupesh Baghel) and former finance minister P Chidambaram.On Wednesday, Chidambarm described the lockdown move as a “watershed moment” in the battle against Covid-19 and called Modi as the commander and the people as “foot soldiers”.Chidambaram also suggested a 10-point plan to put money in the bank accounts of the poor and the marginalised, including farmers and labourers, and demanded a cut in Goods and Services Tax (GST) rates by 5% on all wage goods, essential goods and services, and all goods of mass consumption from April 1 to June 30.“The Prime Minister’s announcement yesterday of a nationwide 21-day lockdown is a watershed moment in the battle against Covid-19. We should put behind us the debates that took place before March 24 and look upon the nationwide lockdown as the beginning of a new battle in which the people are the foot soldiers and the PM is the Commander,” he said.“We owe a duty to extend our total support to the Prime Minister and the central and state governments,” the Congress leader added.Chidambaram also urged people to stay home, saying “STAYHOMEINDIA is a great rally cry”.He also called for the protection of the current employment and wages, besides putting money into the hands of the poor and the marginalised.“Here is a 10-point plan [without too much elaboration], which is intended to put cash and food immediately in the hands of the poor and the vulnerable. It is placed for the consideration of the government and for an immediate announcement of relief,” the former finance minister said.Chidambaram called for doubling the amount paid/payable under PM-KISAN to Rs 12,000 and transfer the additional amount immediately to the bank account of each beneficiary.For tenant farmers, he called for bringing them under PM-KISAN after taking the lists from the state governments and transfer Rs 12,000 (in two installments) to the bank account of each tenant farmer.He also demanded to transfer Rs 3,000 into bank accounts of registered Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) workers.Chidambaram demanded transfer of Rs 6,000 into the urban poor’s Jan Dhan accounts, besides offering 10 kg of rice or wheat for free, as a one-time measure in the next 21 days to every ration cardholder.He urged all registered employers to maintain current levels of employment and wages. “Guarantee to such employers who do so that the wages of the employees will be reimbursed by the government within 30 days of payment.”Chidambaram also called for opening a register in every ward or block and invite persons who have not received payment under any of the categories. These, he said, include destitute.“After minimal verification, open a bank account in each name [if there is not already one], seed it with Aadhaar and transfer Rs 3,000 into each bank account,” he added.The Congress leader also sought extension of deadlines for payment of any kind of tax until June 30. In the interim, banks can be instructed to lend to panchayats, municipalities, and corporations against the security of the tax receivables.He said banks should be instructed to extend the date for any kind of payment of equated monthly installments (EMIs) until June 30.The former finance minister said these steps are for the present, one-time cash transfers and the need for more such transfers can be assessed depending upon the situation as it evolves.“This plan would address only the immediate challenge of putting cash in the hands of the people who will STAY HOME. There are many other challenges that have to be addressed in the next few days,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-urges-pm-to-implement-nyay-for-poor-amid-covid-19-crisis/story-yQ9AWpOVR7PaLFOLN93fYL.html
25-03-2020||India||Panic buying defeating purpose of Covid-19 lockdown: Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal urged people on Wednesday not to crowd grocery and medical stores, saying it defeats the purpose of the 21-day nationwide lockdown stop the spread of the coronavirus pandemic.“It is our responsibility to ensure that all shops selling essential items remain open. We assure you that supplies of commodities of your daily need will not dry up. Do not resort to panic buying,” Kejriwal appealed, holding a digital press conference with lieutenant governor Anil Baijal.Kejriwal also announced e-passes for those delivering essential services, which are exempt from the lockdown, for movement within and outside the city limits amid stringent travel restrictions.Follow coronavirus live updates here.The announcement came in the wake of the government receiving several complainants from medical items, milk and vegetable suppliers, who said they do not have proper documents to prove that they are delivering essential services.“Those who are providing essential services, but do not have a formal ID card to back their claim will be issued an e-pass. Workers at grocery and provisional stores, milk plant and others can avail this,” Kejriwal said.Kejriwal said a separate helpline number for this purpose will be announced. Applicants can also apply on WhatsApp.“Those working in factories producing masks, sanitisers and milk will not face any problem once they get the e-passes. They should get the same for their drivers too so that transportation of such items are not affected,” Kejriwal said.An e-pass will be issued to a person by the office of the district magistrate concerned. A government circular issued on Tuesday evening said: “By sending details to the authorised mobile number of the concerned district magistrate [published on the revenue department website] or through email to ddma.delhi@nic.in giving their particulars along with relevant documents of identity and the essential service as the case may be.”Previously, the Delhi Police asked providers of essential services to get “curfew passes” to enter the city. The only way to apply for such curfew passes was to physically go to the offices of deputy commissioners of police and district magistrates and fill up application forms.The e-pass initiative, government officials said, is likely to reduce the burden on these offices.Around 2,400 curfew passes were issued till Wednesday 11 am, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/panic-buying-defeating-purpose-of-covid-19-lockdown-arvind-kejriwal/story-smbNFRJ37r8XKm1ua1RjtK.html
25-03-2020||India||Confusion over second Delhi fatality, govt revises coronavirus death toll to 9||The Union health ministry website revised India’s Covid-19 death toll to nine on Wednesday as confusion prevailed over a patient who succumbed in Delhi a day ago.On Tuesday, the website reported that a second person died due to the fast-spreading disease in the national capital, prompting Delhi’s Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) unit to frantically call its officials and the health ministry to find out who the casualty was. The report of this death took India’s toll to 10.On Wednesday, the confusion persisted, with the health ministry website saying that the person had tested negative, but Delhi IDSP saying the reports were not available yet.While officials of the Delhi health department said they did not inform the Centre about the a second death, the Union health ministry pointed out it gets information from on-ground workers and hospitals (effectively, the Delhi health department).Authorities later figured out that a 60-year-old man with Covid-19-like symptoms – fever and cough – who died in Rajiv Gandhi Superspeciality hospital in Tahirpur.“The man came to us with arrhythmias and needed an angioplasty. However, he had symptoms of mild fever and cough. When the doctor took a history, they came to know that one of his family members had just returned from Saudi Arabia. Hence, we sent his samples. But, before the test results could come, he died of complications on Tuesday in the hospital,” said BL Sherwal, director, Rajiv Gandhi Superspeciality hospital, an autonomous hospital under the Delhi government.The hospital has an isolation facility for Covid-19 patients where currently 16 suspected and five positive cases are admitted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/confusion-over-second-delhi-fatality-govt-revises-toll-to-9/story-k8YXOrsHVMRBc4MAYSrcuO.html
25-03-2020||India||Covid-19: PM Modi reads riot act to those harassing medical professionals||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday warned people against misbehaving with doctors and nurses amid reports that many healthcare professionals are facing harassment for caring for Covid-19 patients.The warning came during a television address to his constituency of Varanasi about the coronavirus pandemic. “I have told the Home Ministry and DGPs to take strict action against those who are not supporting or are not cooperating with doctors, nurses and other professionals who are serving us in this critical time,” he said.He also appealed to citizens to intervene if they see a medical professional being ill-treated.“I appeal to all the citizens, if you notice any incident where professionals, such as doctors and nurses, are ill-treated then you should take an initiative to make such people (those who are ill-treating healthcare professionals) understand that they are wrong,” Modi said.Watch | Covid-19 | ‘Mahabharata won in 18 days but..’: PM Modi on 21-day lockdown The Centre has taken serious note of the harassment and abuse of doctors and nurses. On Tuesday, Union home minister Amit Shah spoke to Delhi Police chief S N Shrivastava and directed him to ensure security of doctors in the wake of complaints of harassment for treating coronavirus patients.Shah also spoke Resident Doctors’ Association (RDA) of Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) following their complaint about discrimination and unfair behaviour by landlords who have allegedly asked doctors, nurses and other healthcare workers involved in Covid-19 care to vacate their rented homes.The RDA had also claimed that some have even been forcefully evicted by landlords and house-owners due to the fear that those healthcare professionals make them more susceptible to coronavirus infection.Healthcare professionals are not the only ones facing harassment. Airline crews have also faced similar nuisance.Ironically, on March 22, following an appeal by Modi, the entire country had applauded the efforts of medical professionals, pilots and airline crews and others in the frontline of the fight against coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-pm-modi-reads-riot-act-to-those-harassing-medical-professionals/story-qUvX8uRQreLYng1QgWwKuJ.html
25-03-2020||India||Environment experts seek to defer draft clearance regulation||In view of the 21-day lockdown being enforced by the government to reduce the transmission of SARS-CoV-2 virus, environmental experts have written to the environment ministry asking it to reissue draft environment impact assessment (EIA) notification 2020 after the lockdown is lifted and normal activities resume.The draft EIA notification 2020 was published on the environment ministry’s website on March 12, 2020, just before Covid-19 cases started picking up in India. The World Health Organization (WHO) declared the outbreak a ‘pandemic’ on March 11.The draft EIA notification has been contentious for a number of reasons. Hindustan Times had reported on March 13 that the draft proposes to bring projects that have violated or will violate the environment clearance process “under the regulations in the interest of environment.” Environmental experts had said that the draft was attempting to regularise large-scale environmental violations.The draft also proposes to reduce the time period for public to submit their comments during a public hearing from 30 days earlier to 20 days for any application seeking environmental clearance. This can dilute the public hearing process, experts said.“We are deeply concerned that this draft notification has been put out in the midst of a national health crisis. As you are aware, most of the country is under lockdown and there are severe restrictions on movement in public places…the EIA notification is an important regulation through which the impacts of land use change, water extraction, tree felling, pollution, waste and effluent management for industrial and infrastructure projects are to be studied and used in developmental decision-making.” Kanchi Kohli and Manju Menon, legal researchers at Centre for Policy Research wrote in their letter to CK, Mishra, environment secretary on Wednesday.They also said that the restrictions make it impossible to disseminate information about the notification to communities who deserve to know and comment. “We therefore request the environment ministry to: Immediately, withdraw the proposed amendments of the Draft EIA notification 2020; consider reissuing the draft only after health conditions related to Covid19 and civic life is normalized across the country; ensure that there are wide spread and informed public discussions on the implication of these amendments,” the letter said.“There has not been any discussion on the draft yet. We have not decided anything,” said Geeta Menon, joint secretary, environment ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/environment-experts-seek-to-defer-draft-environment-clearance-regulation/story-sQIjIqM4DvyTTDU1Nc2ZAO.html
25-03-2020||India||PM Modi addresses Varanasi live on coronavirus, urges to fight Duryodhana like tendency||Prime Minister Narendra Modi used Mahabharata example to underline the enormity of the challenge posed by coronavirus and reiterated the need to follow social distancing during the 21-day lock down period. He also used Duryodhyana’s example while referring to those found flouting the rules by stepping out of their homes unnecessarily or by crowding market places while shopping for essentials.The prime minister was addressing his constituency of Varanasi on Wednesday, a day after he had announced the nation-wide lockdown in an address to the nation. “There are some people who listen from their ears, see from their eyes and understand using their intellect, yet do not implement. This tendency is like Duryodhana’s,” he said drawing another parallel with the epic Mahabharata.He again cautioned people against complacency and non-adherence to social distancing principles necessary to keep the virus from advancing to the community transmission stage-- when the infections rise exponentially making it difficult to control. He reiterated that social distancing was the only way to win this unprecedented fight against a pandemic that has stunned the world with its ferocity.”He, however, added that the disease could be cured.“More than one lakh people have been cured of coronavirus around the world including dozens in India. I saw the news yesterday that one 91-year old woman recovered from the disease in Italy,” he said, giving hope to people.He also announced a WhatsApp number helpline launched by the government of India for dissemination of important information needed to fight the disease.“Here’s the whatsApp number – 9013151515, send your greeting (Namaste) to this number and you will get a response,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-addresses-varanasi-live-on-coronavirus-urges-to-fight-duryodhan-like-tendency/story-kpKhgwUwsJEjgV9qX5kv4I.html
25-03-2020||India||Covid-19: EC allows use of indelible ink for home quarantine stamps||In a rare move, the Election Commission (EC) on Wednesday allowed the use of its “proprietary” indelible ink to mark people who have been quarantined at home in the coronavirus outbreak. The ink, so far used during elections and manufactured by a Mysore-based company only for the EC, will now be made available to the states. The ink mark lasts for over a month. The commission, say senior poll officials, has reached out to the health ministry to standardise a mark that is different from the one used during elections. “The move was spurred by a clarification sought by the chief electoral officer of Karnataka after the chief secretary of the state inquired if they could use the ink,” an EC official told Hindustan Times. “The decision has been taken in public interest keeping in view the demand from states to use an indelible marker on quarantined individuals,” election commissioner Ashok Lavasa told Hindustan Times. “EC has provided safeguards to ensure that the sanctity of the election procedure is maintained.”A notification issued by EC on Wednesday details the safeguards. “The Ministry may standardise the mark and the location on the body where the mark has to be applied so that it does not come in the way of conduct of elections anywhere in the country,” it stated. “The authorities concerned shall be instructed to maintain the record of the persons to whom Indelible Ink is applied. The authorities shall also be instructed to ensure that the Indelible Ink shall not be used for any other purpose,” it adds. The health ministry, said a second EC official who did not want to be named, will be allowed to choose how to mark those in home quarantine. “The officials who will be using the ink will also be told about the voting mark and asked to not use it. A record of people who have been marked will also be maintained,” the official said. According to former chief election commissioner SY Quraishi, the move is a first of sorts for the EC.“The ink cannot be used without EC’s permission, as it is a “proprietary item” in a sense,” Quraishi said.“Requests to export the ink are a commonplace occurrence,”he added. “The Election Commission is also liberal to a certain extent in granting such permission as long as the electoral procedure is not compromised and the capacity to provide it exists. This is a good decision that the EC has taken.”Quraishi added that the ink had in the past been exported to some countries for the purpose of elections and even, at times, gifted after proper approval from EC. Maharashtra has already begun ‘stamping’ those in 100% quarantine on March 17, after the number of cases in the state spiked. The date of isolation is stamped on the left palm of the individual with ink that would last for 14 days.District magistrate south-west Delhi Rahul Singh said a different version of the same principle was earlier being implemented by the government. “We were stamping those coming from abroad with ink that lasted 20-25 days,” Singh said. “It was important to identify potential carriers so as to avoid transmission of the virus.” Singh added that he had not yet received any guidelines on how use to the EC’s ink from the government. Singh has also initiated a system to ensure the delivery of groceries and medicines through phone calls for those who have been home quarantined in his district; a move the central government is at present contemplating.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-ec-allows-use-of-indelible-ink-for-home-quarantine-stamps/story-ij0Vx0yD8gJUABIq24au1H.html
25-03-2020||India||Mahabharata won in 18 days, battle against coronavirus will take 21 days, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said winning the war against coronavirus will take 21 days as opposed to the 18 days taken to win the epic war of Mahabharata, underlining the enormity of the challenge posed by the disease that has brought the world to its knees. He added that while Lord Krishna had guided the Pandavas to victory, the nation was today being guided by its 1.3 billion citizens.The prime minister made the remarks while addressing his constituency of Varanasi on Wednesday and said the ancient city of ‘Kashi’ –the other name for Varanasi, can take the lead in teaching the rest of the country the value of restraint, resolve and kindness.Watch | Covid-19 | ‘Mahabharata won in 18 days but..’: PM Modi on 21-day lockdown PM added that the country needed divine blessings on the first day of Hindu festival of ‘Chaitra Navratri’ to win the fight against coronavirus.Modi then opened the session for an interaction over coronavirus with the residents of the constituency.Prime minister’s address and subsequent interaction on Wednesday was replete with mythical and religious references, he started his address with greeting the people on the first day of ‘Navratra’ festivals and said he could not be among the people of his constituency on this occasion because of the coronavirus pandemic.“Today is the first day of Navratri, you all must be busy in performing rituals & offering prayers, but still you took out time for this interaction, I’m grateful to all of you. I pray to Goddess Shailputri to give us the strength to fight the country’s battle against coronavirus,” he said.He compared India’s efforts to tackle coronavirus with a “war” on a couple of occasions and even likened the essential service providers to the foot soldiers in this fight but reserved the top praise for doctors and medical professionals, who he said, were “god-like’ for their life-saving efforts.“Healthcare professionals working in white uniforms in hospitals are like God for us today, they are saving us from the disease. They are saving us by risking their own lives,” he said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced a 21-day national lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus in the country in a televised address to the nation on Tuesday and stressed on the need for citizens to follow social distancing as the only way to stop the pandemic from wreaking further havoc in India.He said not following the lockdown norms set out by the state and Central governments would cost the country heavily and failure to stay at home for the duration of lockdown could set the country back by 21 years.On Wednesday, he said that home ministry officials and police chiefs of every state had been instructed to take strict against the violators.“I have told Home Ministry & DGPs to take strict action against those who are not supporting or not co-operating with doctors, nurses & other professionals who are serving us in this critical time,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mahabharat-won-in-18-days-battle-against-coronavirus-will-take-21-days-says-pm-modi-in-video-address/story-g3JUhCmg3pWw9fH4RPvH8H.html
25-03-2020||India||In demarcation drive, Mumbai Police ask people to maintain safe distance||The Mumbai Police drew the lines, literally, on roads and footpaths leading to grocery stores on Wednesday, making sure that citizens rushing to buy essential items maintain social distancing in the wake of the outbreak of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The demarcation drive began even as a large section of people pressed the panic button following Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Tuesday night announcement of a nationwide lockdown for 21 days, and thronged grocery stories to buy essentials.“To ensure strict implementation of social distancing to prevent the spread of Covid-19, all 94 police stations in the city have been ordered to make marks on footpaths or roads outside grocery stores. It has been done to ensure safety of citizens who are out to buy essential commodities,” said Mumbai Police spokesperson and deputy commissioner of police (operations) Pranaya Ashok.The top brass of the city police held a meeting after the PM’s speech and the decision to mark the roads and footpaths for disciplined queues was taken, Mumbai Police officials aware of the developments said.“Our teams are present in market areas and are asking people to stand in queues while maintaining a distance of four feet. We have also asked vendors to maintain a fair distance between their stalls. Public announcements are being made to maintain social distancing and to disperse (people) soon after they are done shopping. We have not lodged any FIR so far,” said George Fernandes, senior police inspector, Malad police station in Malad (W).Both shopkeepers and citizens welcomed the move.Motiram Chaudhary, 40, the owner of Balaji super market in Andheri Marol pump house area, said: “Police gave us this idea for smooth selling of essential items without any crowd or mess. We are following it.”Ramesh Shirke, a Jogeshwari resident out to buy grocery items, said, “It’s a good move by the police to ensure safe distance between the people for preventing the spread of coronavirus.”All zonal deputy commissioners of police (DCPs) have been asked to supervise and ensure proper implementation of the drive. All DCPs in the city are also given free hand to come out with other effective measures to ensure minimum inconvenience to the citizens during the lockdown and strict implementation of social distancing, a senior police officer said.Mohankumar Dahikar, DCP zone XI, said: “Locals are slowly cooperating with us. We are continuously patrolling places that tend to get crowded, and are ensuring that people are made aware of the consequences. Not only us, even small grocery shops are making announcements to maintain social distancing.”DCP Pranaya Ashok said the city police are also coordinating with all e-commerce platforms and super markets to ensure that their home delivery services of essential commodities are not hit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-demarcation-drive-mumbai-police-ask-people-to-maintain-safe-distance/story-I4DkV634Uvbi4bFAcynbKJ.html
25-03-2020||India||Covid-19: Delhi HC asks MEA to ensure safety of Indian students stranded in Kazakhstan||The Delhi High Court which heard its first matter through video conferencing on Wednesday directed the Ministry of External Affairs to ensure welfare and safety of Indian students stranded at Almaty airport in Kazakhstan for the past 2-3 days without food and medical aid due to coronavirus pandemic.During the hearing through video conferencing, a two-judge bench of justices Siddharth Mridul and Talwant Singh asked the MEA to expeditiously provide the students basic amenities and including humanitarian assistanceThe two judges joined hooked up from their homes from their homes while advocate Fozia Rahman, who appeared for the petitioner, and central government standing counsel Jasmeet Singh, who represented the MEA, connected from their offices.Follow coronavirus live updates here.The court was informed that several Indian students, who are enrolled for higher studies, including MBBS, at Semey Medical University in Kazakhstan are stranded in that country including at the Almaty Airport without food, water, transportation and medical aid.The petition was filed by Sehla Saira. The court issued notice to the Centre through MEA and granted time till March 27 to its file response to the petition.“…we find it incumbent upon us to direct the Ministry of External Affairs, Government of India, to promptly appoint a Nodal Officer from the Indian Embassy in Kazakhstan to ensure, inter alia, the welfare, well-being and safety of all such Indian students. The Nodal Officer is directed to expeditiously facilitate, secure and provide the said students with all basic amenities and including humanitarian assistance, in terms of, medical care, boarding (food), lodging and transportation, as may be necessary or warranted,” the bench said.The court also said the details of the nodal officer, including his name and telephone number, be communicated to the stranded Indian students and also uploaded on the website of Indian Embassy at Kazakhstan and on the website of MEA immediately.The court listed the matter for further hearing on March 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-delhi-hc-asks-mea-to-ensure-safety-of-indian-students-stranded-in-kazakhstan/story-4T5qumfmoYdZPsirvn3KZI.html
25-03-2020||India||NPR, Census suspended indefinitely due to coronavirus outbreak||The home ministry has indefinitely suspended the exercise to update the NPR and collection of data for Census 2021 in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak in the country.The decision comes on the first day of a 21-day lockdown announced by the central government and amid repeated demands from the opposition to suspend the two exercises which they have often seen with suspicion and alleged that it could be used along with the CAA and the NRC to take away the citizenship of the minorities in India. The government, however, has rejected this fear as baseless on several occasions.Several states and politicians had also requested for the suspension of the two exercises citing the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic and the need for channelizing all government efforts in combating it.According to earlier official release, the two exercises were to be conducted between April 1 and September 30, 2020.The home ministry had recently said after a conference of the Directors of the Census Operations that the preparations for the two exercises had intensified.The states which have been opposing the NPR include Kerala, West Bengal, Punjab, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and Bihar.However, most of them also said they will cooperate with the house listing phase of the Census.The objective of the NPR is to create a comprehensive identity database of every usual resident in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/npr-census-suspended-indefinitely-due-to-coronavirus-outbreak/story-4X01yzmw1FiyTZ8qcukPQM.html
25-03-2020||India||Lockdown in place, ‘vindicated‘ Chidambaram tweets 10-point plan for PM||P Chidambaram, the former finance minister who was among the first to advocate a nationwide lockdown to stop the coronavirus disease from spreading, on Wednesday tweeted a 10-point plan for the government to put money in the hands of the poor during the 21-day lockdown announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Chidambaram had last week pitched the lockdown as one way to slow down the spread of Sars-CoV-2 pathogen that causes the coronavirus disease. That was hours before PM Modi appeared on national television last week to speak on the challenge ahead.After PM Modi announced the 21-day lockdown, Chidambaram had responded with a short tweet on the emotions his speech evoked: “relief, vindication, frustration, disappointment, worry, fear etc”.Watch | ‘Type of curfew’: PM Modi declares 21-day lockdown over COVID-19 l Full speech The government’s critics have argued that PM Modi didn’t really spell out how the poor would be able to sustain themselves during the three more weeks that they will be out of work.On Wednesday, Chidambaram pitched for a fresh start.In a statement that he put out on Twitter - the veteran Congress leader also tweeted key points from his 10-point plan - Chidambaram described the nationwide lockdown as a “watershed moment” in the battle against Covid-19.“We should put behind us the debates that took place before March 24 and look upon the nationwide lockdown as the beginning of a new battle in which the people are the foot soldiers and the PM is the commander. We owe a duty to extend our total support to the Prime Minister and the central and state governments,” Chidambaram, who has been one of the harshest critics of the government, said. My statement on the current lockdown and how the Government can help make it better. ⁦@PMOIndia⁩ ⁦@narendramodi⁩ ⁦@nsitharaman⁩ ⁦@nsitharamanoffc⁩ ⁦@FinMinIndia⁩ #STAYHOMEINDIA pic.twitter.com/0sQJwG0HAD“Stay home India is a great rally cry, but to stay at home people will need money and food. We must think and plan not only for the next 21 days but for some weeks beyond the lockdown period,” Chidambaram said. He also submitted his plan for the government’s consideration and “an immediate announcement of relief”.Chidambaram’s package asks the government to double payments to farmers to Rs 12,000, cover tenant farmers as well under the PM scheme for farmers, give people enrolled in the rural employment guarantee scheme Rs 3,000, deposit Rs 6,000 in each Jan Dhan scheme, home deliver 10 kg rice or wheat to each ration card holder, require employers to pay salaries to all employees and reimburse the money to them.People who still get left out of these schemes should be given Rs 3,000, extend deadlines for payment of all taxes to 30 June, defer monthly repayment of all loans to June-end and cut GST rates by 5 per cent on all wage goods, essential goods and services, and all goods of mass consumption for the next three months.Chidambaram said the government could use Aadhaar to identify the beneficiaries and avoid a person getting it twice. But even if it does, the former finance minister said this should not be counted as a problem. He did not, however, spell out how this relief package should be financed or how much it would cost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-p-chidambaram-backs-lockdown-says-pm-modi-is-commander-in-covid-19-battle/story-gZGK1UgN0k9aZ61suwc28J.html
25-03-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown: ‘Police stations will take responsibility to deliver food at doorsteps,’ says Mamata||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday said that there is a need to ensure that there is no scarcity of food in the wake of coronavirus lockdown. Banerjee said that for this purpose, all Police stations will take the responsibility to deliver food at doorsteps and the same will be monitored by the District Magistrates and Police Superintendents.“Please don’t crowd markets, maintain social distance. And please cover your face with something before going outdoors,” Banerjee told media persons on Tuesday.She said there were adequate supplies in the market, and so there is no need to store anything.The West Bengal Government is leaving no stone unturned to ensure safety & precautions for its citizens in combating COVID-19 efficiently. At this critical juncture, it is only collective efforts & public cooperation which can help fight this menace (1/2)On Monday, Banerjee had said that her administration is leaving no stone unturned to ensure that citizens are safe from coronavirus.“The West Bengal Government is leaving no stone unturned to ensure safety & precautions for its citizens in combating COVID-19 efficiently. At this critical juncture, it is only collective efforts & public cooperation which can help fight this menace,” the chief minister had tweeted out. We have to ensure that there is no scarcity of food. All Police stations will take responsibility to deliver food at doorsteps and it will be monitored by District Magistrates & Police Superintendents: West Bengal CM, Mamata Banerjee #COVID19 pic.twitter.com/4ja2zipXhY“It is my sincere request to all the fellow citizens to abide by Government guidelines. Until and unless an emergency, please don’t step out of your homes. We will fight this together. Only we can help keep everyone around us safe,” her tweet read. More than 1,000 people were arrested in Kolkata since Monday evening for violating the lockdown, officials said. Of the nine afflicted with coronavirus in the state, one has died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-police-stations-will-take-responsibility-to-deliver-food-at-doorsteps-says-mamata-banerjee/story-YOYnHAdwmTHAZzzcTLYYuI.html
25-03-2020||India||A few examples of social distancing trickle in as India deals with Covid 19 lockdown||In between widespread reports of panic buying at neighbourhood grocery stores by crowds violating the social distancing principle, emphasised regularly by the health experts and authorities as the most potent weapon to prevent the spread of coronavirus, some instances of enforcement of social distancing are being reported from across the country which is struggling to adjust to the near reality of an unprecedented 21-day lockdown.News agency ANI tweeted a picture of people in Delhi’s Bengali Market locality maintaining distance in a queue to buy medicines. The shopkeepers have marked spots for people to stand in and wait for their turn.  दिल्ली: देश भर में 21 दिनों तक चलने वाले लॉकडाउन के बीच दवाई खरीदने के लिए लाइन में खड़े लोग, लोग इस दौरान आपस में दूरी का भी ख्याल रखते दिखे। इस लॉकडाउन के बीच जरूरी सेवाएं पहले की तरह ही जारी रहेंगी। तस्वीरें बंगाली मार्केट से।#CoronavirusLockdown pic.twitter.com/EuRXc20lXfAnother picture from outside a bank in the Paharganj area which is usually bustling with people shows cops enforcing social distancing to a crowd, which had to be cane charged first. Delhi: Women standing in a queue outside a bank in Paharganj refused to maintain social distancing and were dispersed by police personnel. They later reassembled keeping distance after Police assured them that banks and ATMs will remain open amid #21daylockdown pic.twitter.com/xFTpQ1Gm5mPrime Minister Narendra Modi had singled out social distancing as the only measure that could save India from slipping into the community transmission stage of coronavirus infections, when positive cases increase exponentially making it nearly impossible to track the source of infections resulting in sheer volumes of patients that become impossible to treat, even for the best medical care infrastructures around the world.There have been several reports of people thronging banks, grocery and medicine stores in the past couple of days, throwing caution to the wind and increasing the possibility of infection transmission. Police had to cane charge people at several places to disperse them.State governments have been asked to enforce the 21- day national lockdown, which was declared primarily to force social distancing, with the objective of breaking the chain of infections. In another picture from Lucknow, people were seen maintaining the recommended minimum one-metre distance between fellow shoppers at a vegetable market and pharmacy.  Lucknow: People in the city practice #socialdistancing at vegetable/fruit shops and pharmacies. Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his address to the nation yesterday had appealed to people to maintain social distancing to combat #COVID19. pic.twitter.com/8fC2EvNcG3In another instance from Jharkhand, several street dwellers were seen maintaining distance while lining up to receive free food being distributed by a charity organisation. Jharkhand: Sri Maheshwari Sabha in Ranchi is providing free food to the needy amid lockdown, in wake of the #Coronavirus outbreak. pic.twitter.com/TqWiejT7O6The Jharkhand government on Wednesday released a rate-chart of various essential items to prevent over-pricing and asked the buyers to report the officials concerned if any ration shop overcharged them.Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh tweeted photographs of residents in the state following social distancing while coming out for necessary errands. He also tagged pictures as a reference for state officials employed with the essential services explaining how to maintain social distance while dealing with the public.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/few-examples-of-social-distancing-trickle-in-as-india-deals-with-covid-19-lockdown/story-sT1b9HIlQVIoKERMwB72oL.html
25-03-2020||India||Covid-19: India among countries with low hand-washing culture||There is a strong link between high exposure to coronavirus and a culture of hand-washing automatically after using the toilet, and India figures tenth on the list of top ten countries where the culture is the weakest, a new study released on Tuesday suggests.According to University of Birmingham researchers, at least 50% of people do not have a habit of automatic hand-washing after using the toilet in China (77%), Japan (70%), South Korea (61%) and the Netherlands (50%).These countries are followed by Thailand, Kenya, Italy, Malaysia, Hong Kong and India, the study says, which used data from 63 countries; those with the strongest culture of hand-washing are Saudi Arabia, Bosnia, Algeria, Lebanon and Papua New Guinea.Published in journal Regulation & Governance, the study is based on data on hand-washing habits released in 2015 by the BVA France Sarl in collaboration with the Worldwide Independent Network of Market Research and GALLUP International.The study notes that the data with 64,002 respondents predates the outbreak of coronavirus. Current hand-washing habits could be significantly influenced by the international media campaigns, since frequent hand-washing is widely recommended to neutralise the virus, it adds.Gann Pogrebna, the study’s co-author, says: “Countries where people do not have a habit of washing their hands automatically tend to have a much higher exposure to Covid-19. In the absence of a cure or vaccine, the current outbreak obliges humanity to find ways of reducing the potential risk of infection”.“It is possible to quickly influence individual hygiene behaviour in the short term, but changing hand-washing culture in a particular country – or globally - is a much more difficult task.”Alex Kharlamov, also a co-author, adds: “Many factors may have contributed to the spread of COVID-19 around the globe, but hand-washing culture alone appears to be an important factor in explaining why some counties have been hit harder by the outbreak”.“Time will tell whether the challenges posed by COVID-19 will help to make hand-washing culture around the globe more unified. However, the data – adjusted for cultural differences and differences in economic development between countries - demonstrated a very strong correlation between lack of hand-washing culture and exposure to the virus.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-india-among-countries-with-low-hand-washing-culture/story-QPLJ5957qvi71MUTitzsJO.html
25-03-2020||India||E-commerce delivery agents to get curfew passes during Covid-19 lockdown||Delhi Police on Wednesday sought to assure e-commerce website that their concerns over disruption in deliveries due to the countrywide lockdown to check the spread of the coronavirus pandemic will be addressed. In a meeting held between the representatives and Delhi Police’s additional commissioner Mandeep Randhawa, the officer assured the e-commerce companies that their persons would be given curfew passes to cross inter-state borders and also move within the city to facilitate the home delivery process of essential items.On Monday, the Delhi Police had announced that those involved in essential goods and services will need to get a curfew pass to move about.Randhawa said that companies have also been assured that the police personnel on duty across the city will help the companies open their warehouses and ensure that they face no problem. “The work has already started. Curfew passes will be issued at the earliest. Home delivery of essential services will not be affected. We are working with the companies to ensure that neither their delivery persons nor the citizens face any inconvenience,” the officer said.Follow coronavirus live updates here.Grofers, an online grocery service operating across India, said that their services were shut down because their warehouses were getting closed and delivery agents were not being allowed in many parts of the city. They have, however, now sought help from the police, which has assured them that deliveries of essential items will not be affected.“We will start accepting orders and delivering essential groceries at the earliest. Local authorities are helping us in restarting our operations. We did face some problems over the last few days but we will be on track now,” a Grofers spokesperson said on Wednesday.During the hour-long meeting on Wednesday, police and e-commerce representatives discussed how each company will ensure high level of hygiene standards for all its employees. “Home delivery of essential items is important. We encourage citizens not to step out of their homes. The essential items will be delivered at their door step. There is no need to panic. If people face any problems during this lockdown, police is there to help them,” Randhawa said.Delhi Police has also started talks with different Resident Welfare Associations across the city asking them to allow the delivery persons to drop essential items. The e-commerce company representatives told police that at many colonies, their delivery persons were stopped by the security guards and their entry was banned.The 21-day lockdown has sparked panic buying of groceries in many places while many others banked on e-commerce sites.On Wednesday, Flipkart announced temporary suspension of services. It said it will not take or deliver any orders until further notice hours after Prime Minister announced the three-week lockdown Tuesday night. Flipkart’s major rival, Amazon India did not stop its services its services but restricted it to essential goods. The e-commerce platform will deliver products that fall under categories such as household staples, packaged food, health care, hygiene, personal safety. For others whose orders were pending, Amazon India said it will offer a refund.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-police-to-help-e-commerce-delivery-agents-amid-covid-19-lockdown/story-8xS8bMWAFT1m1xjFWvXRMP.html
25-03-2020||India||Wake up early and meditate, suggests government amid 21-day Covid-19 lockdown||A lot can be done in three weeks, suggests government. In a series of tweets on Wednesday, the Press Information Bureau posted ways in which citizens can stay indoors and make productive use of their time during the Covid-19 lockdown.“The next 21 days, beginning today can be used to cultivate simple new habits, such as waking up early, sticking to a new diet, meditating, etc,” it tweeted out.In one of the tweets, it quoted American surgeon and author Dr Maxwell Maltz and said that it takes 21 days to break or form a habit and called on people to use this time to cultivate good habits and get rid of the bad ones.The next 21 days, beginning today can be used to cultivate simple new habits, such as waking up early, sticking to a new diet, meditating, etc.#21daylockdown #IndiaFightsCorona“The 21-day trial is not limited to good habits, you can use it to break bad habits as well,” one of the posts read.Earlier, PIB India had initiated #My14ForIndia during the ‘Janta Curfew’ on March 22, in which people, including Bollywood personalities and leading journalists, shared what they would do during those 14 hours of the voluntary lockdown.Celebrities, social influencers and eminent personalities have already taken to social media to show ways in which they plan to spend the 3-week long period. From cooking, to cleaning the house, reading, working out to even meditating, there has been a flood of videos doing the rounds on social media exhibiting different ways in which people are following the lockdown and spending time indoor, productively.On Tuesday evening, in his address to the nation of coronavirus, the prime minister called for a 3-week nationwide lockdown and urged people not to step out of their homes.PM Modi said the country will have to bear the economic cost of lockdown but saving the life of every citizen is his priority and the priority of the Central and state governments as also of local administrations.The prime minister also emphasized the need to maintain social distancing to keep coronavirus in check.“Experts are saying that social distancing is the only way to deal with the coronavirus crisis across the globe. There is no other way to deal with coronavirus and we need to save ourselves. And we have to break the cycle of its infection,” the Prime Minister said yesterday.Over 500 people have been infected by Covid-19 in the country while 10 people have lost their lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-wake-up-early-meditate-government-s-suggestions-for-21-day-covid-19-lockdown/story-e56UOAJWRPA9Kuk5oeHG9I.html
25-03-2020||India||Despite lockdown, about 200 tea gardens open in north Bengal||Thousands of workers in about 200 tea gardens in northern West Bengal continued to work on Tuesday, despite a complete lockdown announced by Mamata Banerjee from Monday evening, triggering a huge controversy. The Darjeeling hills and Dooars region of West Bengal have 283 tea gardens, employing 350,000 permanent and casual workers, who earn Rs 176 per day besides the weekly ration. Sprawling across the districts of Darjeeling, Jalpaiguri and Alipurduars, the belt has another 40,000 small growers who employ one lakh labourers. Most of these gardens operated on Tuesday.While no worker turned up on Wednesday, the gardens have not yet issued any notification stating closure of operations. It remained uncertain whether the gardens would function on Wednesday, as a section of workers were confused and panicked over the prospect of a loss of pay.Ram Avtar Sharma, secretary of the Dooars branch of Tea Association of India, said that they did not receive “any specific instruction” from the administration to keep the gardens closed.“Most of the gardens in Dooars were open on Tuesday but none functioned on Wednesday because workers did not turn up,” Sharma said.Prabir Kumar Bhattacharya, the secretary-general of Tea Association of India, said that the government order issued announcing lockdown from March 23 did not mention the areas where the gardens are located.“In view of the revised order issued by the chief secretary on March 24 when the entire state of West Bengal has been advised to be locked out, the industry shall be taking a decision on this matter soon,” Bhattacharya said.The March 22 order enforcing the Complete Safety Regulations had mentioned the towns of Darjeeling, Jalpaiguri, Kurseung, Kalimpong, Alipurduar and Jaigaon in the three districts. It had instructed a five-day closure of all public transport facilities, shops, commercial establishments, factories workshops and godowns and prohibited the gathering of more than seven persons from Monday evening. The order issued by the state government on March 24, extending the lockdown till March 31, mentioned ‘whole of West Bengal’.“This is the time for the first flush, which fetches the highest price, and helps us survive throughout the year. Closing gardens would amount to huge losses. Besides, workers would demand wages and ration if we close the gardens on our own. Let the administration close them down if they want,” a manager of a tea garden, who did not want to be identified, said.Saman Pathak, a leader of the Joint Forum of Trade Unions in the Tea Industry who belongs to the Communist Party of India (Marxist), wrote a letter to the district magistrate on Tuesday, appealing to implement Complete Safety Regulations in the gardens.Local human rights activist Rupan Deb said that the administration needed to send teams in the gardens to inquire about people’s travel history.“Many family members of garden workers migrate to other states, including Kerala and Maharashtra, for work in different industries. Many of them have returned recently but have not reported them to the administration. If the administration does not take precautionary steps immediately and fails to ensure wages and rations, there could be trouble,” Deb said. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s Alipurduars MP John Barla alleged that tea gardens’ management forced and threatened workers to join plucking tea leaves.“They forced workers to gather at the gardens. The tea gardens owners are risking the lives of thousands of workers for their monetary benefits,” Barla alleged.Sonia Jabbar, the owner of Nuxalbari Tea Estate, rubbished Barla’s allegations.“We come under the organised sector and we act only on the basis of written communication from our association or the administration. There was no such communication. We only take orders. Everything is decided by three parties - government, unions and owners through the ITA and other associations. So there’s no question of forcing workers,” Jabbar said. “The allegation of forcing workers to work is absolutely baseless. On the other hand, we at our garden ensured that every worked maintained the distance of six feet and washed their hands every two hours. Now that the prime minister has announced a country-wide total lockdown for 21 days, we will not function from Wednesday,” she added. However, BJP’s Madarihat MLA Manoj Tigga alleged that most of the gardens in Alipurduars did not follow safety measures, including maintaining the minimum distance between workers.There are nine Covid-19 patients in the state, which has also reported one death, so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/despite-lockdown-about-200-tea-gardens-open-in-north-bengal/story-8zMUAL62SqmPH3imFRblHM.html
25-03-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Panic buying continues in Odisha’s Bhadrak amid national lockdown||Hundreds of people rushed to shops to stock up on food and vegetables in Odisha’s Bhadrak district on Wednesday amid a national lockdown and despite repeated appeals by chief minister Naveen Patnaik to residents to stay at home in a fight against Covid-19 disease.The 21-day countrywide complete lockdown was clamped by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday evening to enforce social distancing to stop the spread of coronavirus.The panic buying continued even as Ranendra Pratap Swain, the state food supply and consumer welfare minister, said Odisha had enough stocks. “Let me assure that we have adequate stock of essential commodities to meet the demand of at least 10 days. Also, the movement of essential goods has not been restricted to ensure smooth supply,” Swain said.“We have been holding discussions with traders and oil company representatives to maintain stock of essential goods,” he said.Before the Prime Minister’s announcement, chief minister Naveen Patnaik had ordered the closure of 16 more districts in the state and issued a video appeal. He had asked people to take a pledge in the name of their children and parents that they would not go out of their homes. “In the last 20 years of service to Odisha, I have requested you all many times to follow certain regulations and you have never disappointed me. However, the request that I am placing before you today, is the most important one of my life. Our safety is in our own hands,” he said.“Whether coronavirus enters our home or not, depends on our behaviour. If you are alert and watchful, this virus cannot enter your home. Let us read this pledge on a daily basis: I promise in the name of my children and parents that I will not go out during these times. If I go out, Coronavirus can come inside my house with me. And it can harm my family. Please keep my request - Stay at Home, Save Your Family,” said Patnaik. He also urged people to put a pledge on display on the entrance of their houses that they will not allow the virus to enter their homes.The chief minister said if at all people needed to go out for an emergency task, then after returning, they should wash their hands cleanly with soap for 20 seconds and then enter into the house. He also urged people to make videos of their pledges and send it to him over social media.Numbers will riseA senior official put the numbers in perspective as he said Odisha could see an explosion of coronavirus cases in the state by the end of May.Subroto Bagchi, the spokesperson for coronavirus disease in Odisha, said if people do not adhere to the strict procedures of lockdown then there would be a minimum of 2345 and a maximum of 36,000 coronavirus-infected people.“Though we have 519 (till Tuesday) positive cases in India and two cases in Odisha, these are initial days of the virus entering India. The explosive situation is yet to begin. The first one to be affected by this disease would be the old people in our homes. So, we have to change our lifestyle and follow lockdown measures scrupulously,” he said.Of the 3861 people who have registered with the state government after returning from abroad, 100 are showing symptoms of the disease and are being watched. Of the 110 persons tested so far, only two have tested positive.“Their health conditions are stable. Of the 57 who came in contact with the two positive patients, 45 have been kept in isolation wards of various hospitals,” Bagchi said.StickersThe state government has put stickers on each of the 3861 patients for easy identification as some 100-odd people were reportedly found to be violating the home quarantine conditions. The stickers would have details like their names and address, the period of quarantine and the number of people quarantined. Their neighbours would have to maintain social distance from them without making them feel uncomfortable.It has so far lodged cases against eight such people. Odisha health department officials said the state government is scouting for sites to start two special corona hospitals in Bhubaneswar with more than 2000 beds. The existing seven government medical colleges and hospitals and 30 district headquarter hospitals have more than 350 beds for Covid-19 patients with ventilators. Swami Vivekanand National Institute of Rehabilitation Training and Research, an autonomous institute in Cuttack district for treatment of people with locomotor diseases, would be used as a coronavirus special hospital. Ranendra Pratap Swain, state minister for food supply, has urged in a letter to the state government to use an abandoned 60-bedded private hospital in Bhubaneswar for coronavirus patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-panic-buying-continues-in-odisha-s-bhadrak-amid-national-lockdown/story-s3DlRkX5PEwIuIo6eN8qaJ.html
25-03-2020||India||Coronavirus: GoAir says employees to take pay cut in March||Mumbai: As the government ceased all the domestic and international flight operations, in order to stop spread of Covid-19, low-cost carrier GoAir CEO Vinay Dube stated on Wednesday that all employees will be taking a pay cut in March.On March 17, GoAir had not only laid of its expatriate pilots but also had asked employees of every department to go on unpaid leaves on rotational basis. GoAir, the country’s fourth largest airline by passenger numbers, has a staff of around 6000. In an internal official communication to its employees, Vinay Dube- Chief executive officer (CEO) stated, “With the grounding of our fleet for the next 21 days, GoAir will require only a skeletal base of employees to focus on the preservation of our aircraft and the reopening of our skies... under the current conditions we find ourselves in, we are left with no choice but to exrend salary cuts for all of us for the month of march. We will ensure that lowest pay grades suffer the least.’Dube assured its employees that they will find a way to compensate them for this pay cut once the situation gets normal.As reported by HT earlier, India’s largest airline- IndiGo too had announced up to 25% pay cut for its employees. Air India also took off more than 100 of its retired pilots who were re-employed on contracts. It had also withdrew entertainment allowances to executive pilots and effective April 1, reduced fuel allowances by 10%.With the fall in passenger volumes, the seat factor (occupancy) of airlines could see a sharp 50-60% decline over the next three months, stated Acuite Rating and Research report released on March 14.Aviation think tank, Centre for Asia Aviation (CAPA), has warned that most airlines across the world will go bankrupt if the governments do not take coordinated action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-goair-says-employees-to-take-pay-cut-in-march/story-U2zc6vMdhNk04YKlq2FYyO.html
25-03-2020||India||Mizoram reports first Covid-19 case; second in northeast||Mizoram has reported its first case of Covid-19 after a pastor, who came back from Amsterdam in the Netherlands, tested positive for the infection, news agency ANI reported on Wednesday.According to ANI, the state’s health minister R Lalthangliana said the pastor has been shifted to Zoram Medical College.This is the second case in the northeast after a 23-year-old woman, who came back from the United Kingdom to Manipur, tested positive for the coronavirus disease.The woman had shown signs of illness on March 22, a day after she arrived in Manipur. Her samples were collected on Monday and the results announced early on Tuesday morning. The number of Covid-19 patients has risen to 542 across the country, according to data from the Union ministry of health. These include 40 people who have been cured, one fatality and one who went out of India after contracting the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mizoram-reports-first-covid-19-case-second-in-northeast/story-ysFXRWj81cUFHX4lwSOSpN.html
25-03-2020||India||At home listening to Mrs CM, says Thackeray on lockdown. Then, an advice||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is staying put at home and he has one person to thank.The Maharashtra government had announced a complete lockdown in the state on Monday, a day before the 21-day clamped nationwide by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.As many came out of their homes on Tuesday morning, a day ahead of Gudi Padwa, police used force to send them back. The Shiv Sena leader issued a video appeal a day after people came out on the streets to buy food and other things as the number of Covid-19 patients in the state jumped to 116.“I am at home listening to Mrs CM and you listen to your home minister. There is no need to panic as essential services are available,” Uddhav Thackeray said in his appeal in Marathi.The state administration has swung into action and urged people to take the clampdown more seriously by not stepping out of their homes. The police were directed to restrain from taking unnecessary action. “As a result of these efforts, we are getting a good response to the ‘curfew’ announced by the state and central government. Very few people have stepped out of their homes despite it being the holy day of Gudi Padwa. There are fewer complaints of police using force or resorting to lathi-charge,” an official from the state control room at Mantralaya said.Many villages have blocked their borders by prohibiting those coming from virus -affected cities to avoid the spread.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-home-listening-to-mrs-cm-says-thackeray-on-lockdown-then-an-advice/story-IG68XHFWwvdJiXffXFE1iJ.html
25-03-2020||India||Central govt works from home through e-office tool||Last week, some senior officials in a key social sector ministry had to prepare their minister’s written answers for a reply in Parliament.There was a problem, though.Most of them were at home amidst the Covid-19 outbreak and even a briefing meeting on the questions could not take place in the ministry.That was last week.This week, there’s a near-complete lockdown , although at least 5% of government officers are still at office; the rest are working from home.Not surprisingly, the focus is on a tool developed back in 2014-15, the Centre’s e-office.This was developed to accelerate the movement of files through the bureaucracy and make the latter more accountable.Now, it has become the veritable lifeline of the Centre as the country scrambles to fight the coronavirus outbreak.From creating government files online to uploading scanned letters—the e-office is mandated not only to replace physical files but also to keep a tab on which officer is sitting on a file for how long.“The system also allows colour coding in files to ascertain priorities. If a file needs to be cleared immediately, we mark it in red—a colour which we are using too often over the past two weeks,” said a secretary-level officer in a ministry who asked not to be named.With travel restrictions and social distancing guidelines in place, the Modi government’s e-office is busier than ever. While decisions are pushed through digital files, consultations happen through video-conferencing.“It’s not the same government structure anymore,” said another secretary-level officer who asked not to be named. “The Indian bureaucracy dons a corporate set-up.”Almost 70% inter-ministerial video conferences or files are related to Covid-19, according to officials.“The system gives you the opportunity to draft a letter or modify one,” said another senior bureaucrat, “Some circulars or guidelines for the states are also drafted online.The system also records any changes.“From the author to the date and the content, any amendment is recorded in the system,” said the secondsecretary-level officer.For those working from home, the e-office can be accessed through a VPN provided by the National Informatics Centre, which manages the entire e-office.The virtual office network is used extensively in most of the ministries barring a few that deals with security-related issues or extremely sensitive subjects.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, during whose tenure the e-office was turned into the government’s fully functional digital establishment, had regularly advocated use of technology in governance.In 2015, he even addressed a national conference on e-governance through twitter.“E-Governance is an essential part of our dream of Digital India. The more technology we infuse in Governance, the better it is for India,” Prime Minister Modi had told the conference that year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-govt-works-from-home-through-e-office-tool/story-wANWAJFBJriocpamFV0acP.html
25-03-2020||India||Locked down, but job not done||An unprecedented nationwide lockdown is in place in India to control the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. Experts say that this will only buy time by impeding the spread Covid-19, which could be accelerated again once the curbs are lifted. The government needs to use this time well by augmenting its health care infrastructure on a war footing to push back the virus.1) BUILD HOSPITALS, BE BATTLE-READYIf the government relies only on the lockdown and doesn’t take immediate action to build hospitals and have more beds for its citizens, a rapid spread of Sars-Cov-2 when restrictions are lifted may knockout the health care system with surging caseloads and many needing intensive care. India’s overstretched health system is already grappling with shortages of doctors, health workers and hospital beds, especially in rural areas and densely populated states.1.1mn registered doctors as of December 2019; only 926,000 may actually be ready at 80% availability2.05mn registered nurses and midwives, most of whom need infection control training669,600 hospital beds70,000 ICU beds. India has 20% of the number of South Korea’s ICUs1.36bn India’s estimated population1:1,457 is the doctor-population ratio, lower than World Health Organization’s recommended norm of 1:1,0001:10,926 is the ratio in rural areas, where citizens are entirely dependent on government facilitiesGFX: FLATTENING THE CURVE (3 SMALL WORMS): Italy – Has good infra but did not lock down; China -- added makeshift infra and locked down swiftly; South Korea – Aggressively testedLESSON: CHINA MODEL – OVERNIGHT FACILITIESChina’s Wuhan, where the global pandemic is believed to have originated, raised 16 makeshift hospitals within days, adding 13,000 beds and treating 12,000 people. By sending patients to such hospitals in addition to severe lockdown measures, officials were able to reverse the shocking numbers of daily new cases. In the last 72 hours, Wuhan added zero cases of local transmission of Covid-19.2) VENTILATORS: KEEP THE SYSTEM BREATHINGExperts say that the number of ventilators– an urgent equipment to support the breathing of severe Covid-19 cases – in India are simply not enough. The Sars-CoV2 pathogen attacks people’s lungs, in some cases compromising their ability to breathe as they develop pneumonia. Ventilators, which deliver air to the lungs through a tube placed in the windpipe, are crucial to keep these patients alive. Training medical staff to use ventilators and ensuring there are enough skilled operators to run them 24x7 is a bigger challenge than procuring machines.40,000 working ventilators, mostly deployed in government medical colleges and private hospitals in metros, state capitals and semi-metro towns1,200units have been ordered after the Covid-19 outbreak, according to the government8,510 ventilators valued at ₹444.74 crore were bought by public and private hospitals in 20195% Covid-19 patients require ventilator support in ICU. If these patients do not get the device, they are likely to dieLESSON: ITALY HORROR – PEOPLE LEFT GASPINGItaly, which is now the epicentre of the Covid-19 outbreak, has reported about 70,000 cases, with 600-700 people dying every day over the past week. The sickest patients are complaining of severe breathing problems but there are just not enough ventilators to go around. Reports say that in northern Italy, the orders are to not allow those over 60 access to ventilators. In a scary choice they have to make, the health care professionals have to pick younger patients with better chances of survival.3) SAVING THE SAVIOURS: PERSONAL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENTA shortage of personal protective equipment (PPE), which includes masks, respirators, eye shields, gowns and gloves, is limiting health care workers’ ability to battle the Covid-19 pandemic. Doctors and nurses are forced to reuse PPE and in many cases even work without it, putting themselves and patients at high risk. Thousands of workers are reported to have been infected while trying to save others from the deadly pandemic. Doctors at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in New Delhi have flagged heavily depleted stocks of PPE, urging the administration to take immediate action to acquire more equipment.To fight infections in just the next two months, India may need:700,000 body overalls10mn three-ply masks6mn N-95 respirators#GiveMePPE has been trending on social media amid calls by desperate health care workersLESSON: PEOPLE DYING AT THE FRONT LINEThousands of doctors and nurses have contracted the disease while treating patients across the world. In Wuhan, 46 of the thousands of infected workers have died because of the lack of PPE. In Italy, just before he tested positive for Covid-19, a doctor appeared on TV, holding up a bottle of hand sanitiser and showing his face mask. He, however, said about gloves: “They have run out... We were not prepared to face this situation.” Marcello Natali died last Wednesday.4) TEST, TEST, TEST...Unlike the Sars pandemic in 2002-2003, Covid-19 causes mild or no symptoms in some infected people initially. This means that they are capable of spreading the virus unknowingly. Experts say that the only way to stop the disease from spreading undetected is aggressive and random testing of people. Testing has single-handedly defined the effectiveness of the response of several nations. The US government is facing public anger for the slow launch of tests. South Korea, which had the second-biggest number of cases in Asia, has managed to control the outbreak largely through testing thousands every day.20,864 people tested in India till 10am on Tuesday10,000/day is the capacity to test samples in India, highly underutilised300,000+ people have been tested in South Korea, for a per-capita rate more than 40 times that of the US50 drive-through facilities test patients while they remain in their cars in South Korea100,000 kits per day are being currently produced in South KoreaTEST EARLY AND WIDELY, DON’T WAIT FOR CRISISSouth Korea has tested far more people than any other country. This way, it has been able to isolate and treat people soon after being infected, leading to a very low death toll. With the aggressive testing, it was also able to trace the pattern and footprints of the virus.5) ISOLATE, TREAT, DEFEATWuhan in February turned an exhibition and cultural centre into a large isolation facility, with dozens of beds. Similar centres in European countries have also been turned into isolation centres so that Covid-19 spread can be stopped and infected people can be identified early and treated. India has set up several isolation centres, with the Indian Army and the Indo-Tibetan Border Police also pitching in. But many more such centres need to come up. The government is said to be looking at dedicated Covid-19 hospitals in the country to isolate and treat patients.LESSON: CITIZENS HAVE A BIG RESPONSIBILITYThere is currently no vaccine to prevent Covid-19. The best prevention method is to avoid being exposed to the virus. It spreads mainly from person-to-person; between people who are in close contact with one another. Social distancing is the only effective way to control the pandemic. Indians needs to follow the lockdown guidelines as much as possible. If you develop symptoms, call 1075, the national Covid-19 helpline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/locked-down-but-job-not-done/story-wGKVhjKklp4NnDvVonFrcK.html
25-03-2020||India||‘At home listening to Mrs CM, says Maharashtra CM Thackeray on Covid-19 lockdown||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is staying put at home and he has one person to thank.The Maharashtra government had announced a complete lockdown in the state on Monday, a day before the 21-day clamped nationwide by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.As many came out of their house on Tuesday morning, a day ahead of Gudi Padwa, police used force to send them back. The Shiv Sena leader issued a video appeal a day after people came out on the streets to buy food and other things as the state reported the number of Covid-19 jumped to 116.“I am at home listening to Mrs CM and you listen to your home minister. There is no need to panic as essential services are available,” Uddhav Thackeray said in his appeal in Marathi.The state administration has swung into action and urged people to take the clampdown more seriously by not stepping out of their homes. The police were directed to restrain from taking unnecessary action. “As a result of these efforts, we are getting a good response to the ‘curfew’ announced by the state and central government. Very few people have stepped out of their homes despite it being the holy day of Gudi Padwa. There are fewer complaints of police using force or resorting to lathi-charge,” an official from the state control room at Mantralaya said.Many villages have blocked their borders by prohibiting those coming from virus -affected cities to avoid the spread.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-home-listening-to-mrs-cm-says-maharashtra-cm-thackeray-on-covid-19-lockdown/story-EhYYHjmYiLBLTiyRcMZ2fP.html
25-03-2020||India||Mumbai lockdown: Some shopkeepers run out of stock||Several shopkeepers and street vendors across the city ran out of their stocks on Wednesday, as they complained of lack of fresh supplies from Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) markets.Earlier, on Tuesday evening people at Andheri, Bandra and Ghatkopar, among other places across the city, could be seen standing in serpentine queues outside grocery stores to stock up on their supplies in bulk after Prime Minister Narendra Modi in a televised addressed to the nation announced a 21-day lockdown across the country to combat the spread of the coronavirus pandemic (Covid-19).“We ran out of groceries, including food grains and biscuits on Monday evening. But, customers are still coming in droves,” said Ramdas Gupta of Hingwalla Vyapari Mitra Mandal.“Vegetables are in short supply. Only a few essential items such as tomatoes and potatoes are available, but carrots and green leafy vegetables are all out of stock,” he added.Prerak Choudhary, an advocate from Colaba, who went out in the morning to buy flowers for Chaitra Navratri that began Wednesday, had to return home empty-handed. He complained of an inadequate supply of bottled water.“Most things are available in the market. However, you will have to make do with any other brand and can’t afford to be picky because of the skewed demand-supply ratio amid this panic buying. Besides, there shouldn’t be too many people on streets, which defeats the exercise of lockdown,” said Choudhary.Mumbaikars complained across the city that vegetables were being sold at a higher rate than usual, while some of those who had ordered for essentials online were not getting the deliveries.“Total fiasco in Nerul, Navi Mumbai. No grocery shops, no vegetable shops are open and police have forcefully shut each and every shop, despite PM Modi’s assurance of availability of all essential commodities. There is no proper regulation of timing for shopping,” complained Munendra Kumar Jha, a retired naval officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-lockdown-some-shopkeepers-run-out-of-stock/story-qBPk35Ssc6esCbcguBkZnI.html
25-03-2020||India||Panic buying is defeating the purpose of a lockdown: Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal urged people on Wednesday not to crowd grocery and medical stores, saying it defeats the purpose of the 21-day nationwide lockdown announced to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).“It is our responsibility to ensure that all shops selling essential items remain open. We assure you that supplies of commodities of your daily need will not dry up. Do not resort to panic buying,” Kejriwal appealed, holding a digital press conference with lieutenant governor Anil Baijal.Kejriwal also announced an e-pass for those delivering essential services, which are exempt from the lockdown, for movement within and outside the city limits amid stringent travel restrictions.The announcement came in the wake of the government receiving several complainants from medical items, milk and vegetable suppliers, who said they do not have proper documents to prove that they are delivering essential services.“Those who are providing essential services, but do not have a formal ID card to back their claim will be issued an e-pass. Workers at grocery and provisional stores, milk plant and others can avail this,” Kejriwal said.Kejriwal said a separate helpline number for this purpose will be announced. Applicants can also apply on WhatsApp.“Those working in factories making masks, sanitisers and milk will not face any problem once they get the e-passes. They should get the same for their drivers too so that transportation of such items are not affected,” Kejriwal said. An e-pass will be issued to a person by the office of the district magistrate concerned. A government circular issued on Tuesday evening said: “By sending details to the authorised mobile number of the concerned district magistrate [published on the revenue department website] or through email to ddma.delhi@nic.in giving their particulars along with relevant documents of identity and the essential service as the case may be.”Previously, the Delhi Police asked providers of essential services to get “curfew passes” to enter the city. The only way to apply for such curfew passes was to physically go to the offices of deputy commissioners of police and district magistrates and fill up application forms.The e-pass initiative, government officials said, is likely to reduce the burden in these offices.Around 2,400 curfew passes were issued till Wednesday 11 am, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/panic-buying-is-defeating-the-purpose-of-a-lockdown-arvind-kejriwal/story-mdUhQ9w9ZdjPD9KH9pu2aP.html
25-03-2020||India||India condemns ‘cowardly attack’ on Sikh place of worship in Kabul, offers ‘all possible assistance’||The Ministry of External Affairs on Wednesday condemned the terror attack on Sikh place of worship in Kabul, Afghanistan which killed at least 25 people. Describing the incident as a “cowardly attack”, New Delhi extended “all possible assistance to the affected families of the Hindu and Sikh community of Afghanistan,” news agency ANI reported. The Islamic State group has claimed the attack according to the SITE intelligence group, news agency AFP reported. “We convey our sincerest condolences to the immediate family members of the deceased and wish speedy recovery to the injured. India stands ready to extend all possible assistance to the affected families of the Hindu and Sikh community of Afghanistan,” the MEA said in its statement. Such cowardly attacks on the places of religious worship of the minority community, especially at this time of COVID 19 pandemic, is reflective of the diabolical mindset of the perpetrators and their backers: MEA https://t.co/rGxbW2ZR33“Such cowardly attacks on the places of religious worship of the minority community, especially at this time of COVID 19 pandemic, is reflective of the diabolical mindset of the perpetrators and their backers,” it said. Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri also “strongly condemned” the attack.  “These killings are a grim reminder of atrocities that continue to be inflicted upon religious minorities in some countries & the urgency with which their lives & religious freedom have to be safeguarded,” he tweeted.Suicide attack on a Gurudwara Sahib in Kabul needs to be strongly condemned. These killings are a grim reminder of atrocities that continue to be inflicted upon religious minorities in some countries & the urgency with which their lives & religious freedom have to be safeguarded. pic.twitter.com/yQM3u41dVIAt least 25 people were killed and others injured when suspected suicide attackers stormed a Sikh place of worship in the Afghan capital on Wednesday. The attackers targeted a ‘dharamshala’ in Shor Bazar area of Kabul, which has a sizeable population of the Hindu and Sikh minorities. Some reports said the attack began at 7.45 am Afghan time.Leading Afghan news channel Tolo News cited a security source as saying that at least 25 people were killed and 11 others injured in the attack. Three attackers were still fighting with security forces and one had been shot, the channel reported.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-condemns-cowardly-attack-on-sikh-place-of-worship-in-kabul-offers-all-possible-assistance/story-0gO3gn7EChY4lkd3L1FuWO.html
25-03-2020||India||Don’t use air conditioner’: Uddhav Thackeray cites Covid-19 advisory from Centre||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray who had asked people not to panic after Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announced a 21-day lockdown across the country on Wednesday repeated his promise to ensure that supply lines of essential commodities would not be disrupted in the state.Thackeray asked people to stay at home and not step out unless absolutely necessary. He also added another precaution that people must take to stop the Sars-CoV-2 pathogen that causes coronavirus disease from spreading.“Today, we have received a new advisory from the Centre not to use air conditioners if possible. Avoid unnecessary cooling and moisture,” Chief Minister Thackeray said his address to the state via Facebook.Let fresh air come in your homes and avoid unnecessary cooling and moisture, Thackeray said.The chief minister said he compared the present situation to “war-like situation”.“Because the danger is huge especially when you cannot see your enemy (novel coronavirus) and where it is going to attack you. Thus stay at home. If you step out, the enemy can enter into your home,” Thackeray said.Thackeray had spoken to Prime Minister Narendra Modi soon after his televised address to the nation on Tuesday evening to figure out how people would get by. By then, people had already panicked the rushed out to grocery stores before the new lockdown kicked in.Later in the evening, Thackeray’s government underlined that essential and emergency services had been exempted from the lockdown. It was the same kind of lockdown that they had already been under.“There is no difference from the lockdown we imposed on Monday. I have spoken to the Prime Minister. He has assured me… Besides health services, grocery shops, banks and other essential services will continue to operate,” the chief minister said, asking people not to worry themselves about disruptions in supply lines.Maharashtra has 116 Covid-19 patients. Health Minister Rajesh Tope told reporters this included 5 people from one family in Sangli who contracted the infection from a family member.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-use-air-conditioner-uddhav-thackeray-cites-covid-19-advisory-from-centre/story-ERLnR3WhAUQSDIFtCDBMiM.html
25-03-2020||India||With lockdown announcement, PM Modi draws Laxman Rekha||Announcing an unprecedented three-week national lockdown, which will be “akin to a curfew”, Prime Minister Narendra Modi directed citizens to stay at home, and not come out for the next 21 days. If people did not abide by the directive, the PM warned, they risked setting themselves, their families, and India, back by 21 years.In his second address to the nation on the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic in less than a week, Modi underlined the gravity of the outbreak and its rapid spread; emphasised the importance of “social distancing” as the one and only way to break the chain of transmission; acknowledged the economic costs of the lockdown but underlined that the priority was to save lives; announced a ₹15,000 crore fund to strengthen the health infrastructure to deal with the pandemic; and assured citizens that the Centre and state governments were working to ensure adequate supplies, minimise inconvenience, and help the poor.Modi also acknowledged the role of those in the front-line of essential services — doctors, nurses, paramedics, those in hospital administration, ambulance drivers, ward boys, safai karmchari, police officials, and media professionals — that would continue to function through the lockdown, which has been enforced by using the Disaster Management Act, 2005, for the first time at a pan-India level.The PM began by praising the resolve of citizens in observing the “people’s curfew” of Sunday, and said that the pandemic had made the world helpless — and that this was not because of lack of effort or lack of resources. The PM, later in the speech, pointed out that while it took 67 days for the virus to affect the first 100,000 individuals, it took merely 11 days for it to affect another 100,000 cases, and just four days to infect another 100,000 people. “This shows you how rapidly it spreads, and how once it spreads, it is difficult to control.”The PM said that based on the study of all the countries which had got affected in the last two months, there was one, and only one, way to battle the pandemic — social distancing.“Social distancing, which means staying away from each other, staying at home, is the only way to battle the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). If we want to stop the spread, we need to break the chain of transmission. Some people believe that social distancing only applies to the ill — this is wrong. Social distancing is for every citizen, every family, every member of every family, even the Prime Minister.”He underlined that people’s carelessness could put individuals, their families, friends, and ultimately, the nation, in great danger. “If this carelessness continues, India will have to pay a huge price — and it is difficult to assess the extent of this price.”The PM then announced that from midnight on Tuesday, India was going in for a “full lockdown” for three weeks. “To save India, to save Indian citizens, to save yourself, to save your families, there is a full ban on getting out of your homes. All states, all Union territories, all towns and villages will be locked down. This is a curfew in one form. This is a step ahead of the people’s curfew. This will be more strict. This step is essential for a decisive battle against the coronavirus pandemic.”Modi said that while there was an economic price of the lockdown, saving lives was the highest priority for him, his government, and for state and local governments. “I pray to you — with folded hands — that wherever you are in the country, stay there... The next 21 days are critical for all citizens. These 21 days are critical to break the chain of transmission. If we can’t control it in these 21 days, then we will slide back by 21 years. Many families will get ruined forever. I am saying this not as PM but as a member of your family. Forget what it means to get out for 21 days. Stay at home, just stay at home.” The PM added that the lockdown had created a “Laxman Rekha” — or a strict boundary, a classical allusion to the Ramayana — in front of one’s home. “One step outside your home will bring the corona inside your home.”Explaining the asymptomatic nature of the disease, the PM said that it often takes several days for an infected person to show symptoms. “In this process, consciously or unconsciously, he transmits it all those who he comes in contact with. According to the World Health Organization (WHO), this one person can transmit it to hundreds.” Modi gave the examples of China, the United States, France, Germany, Italy and Iran to show the rapid spread of the disease, despite their well developed health infrastructure.“The only ray of hope comes from those countries which have controlled it to some extent. In these countries, people did not come out for weeks, listened to the government, and they are now emerging out of it. We cannot exit our homes, come what may. From the PM to the villager, everyone has to practice social distancing. We have to break the transmission. We have to break the chain.”The PM emphasised that the Central and state governments were working together to minimise inconvenience, ensure adequate supply of essentials, and minimise the pain of the poor who are suffering. This was coupled with the effort of the Centre to strengthen health systems. The PM announced a special allocation of ₹15,000 crore, with a focus on quickly enhancing testing facilities, personal protective equipment, isolation beds, intensive care units beds, ventilators and training of paramedical staff.The PM also urged citizens not to fall for rumours as superstition, and avoid taking medicines if symptoms appeared without medical advice, for it could jeopardise lives.Soon after the PM spoke, the Union home ministry issued a notification and a set of guidelines detailing what would be permitted and the penalties for violations. “Hopefully the 21-day lockdown will cut down transmission and flatten the curve, but we should not make the mistake of assuming that the number of cases will not go up. It will,” said MC Misra, former director, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi, and president and vice chancellor of the Mahatma Gandhi University of Medical Sciences and Technology, Jaipur. However, the lockdown could avoid a situation like Italy or Spain, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-lockdown-announcement-pm-modi-draws-laxman-rekha/story-uPxKjDF66rhAjCyGQuVrKN.html
25-03-2020||India||21-day coronavirus lockdown: Key takeaways for Delhi||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal on Wednesday addressed the media over the coronavirus crisis. The press briefing came a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a 21-day long nationwide lockdown in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak. CM Kejriwal reiterated the need to observe social distancing and urged people to stay indoors at all cost. Both Kejriwal and Baijal clarified some of the pressing queries regarding the lockdown in the national capital. Here are key takeaways for Delhi in the wake of the Covid-19 lockdown.Delhi is prepared to ensure essential supplies are available to all during the 21-day lockdown. Important updates on Delhi's effort to contain Covid-19. https://t.co/Ee3qpK28RmNo shortageKejriwal said there is no need to panic and that there will be no shortage of essential commodities and necessities in the market. People must not resort to panic buying. “After PM Modi’s speech, yesterday people started lining up at shops for essential services. I again appeal to people to not do panic buying, I assure everyone that there will be no shortage of essential services,” the CM said.“I assure every person of Delhi that there will be no reduction in the supply of essential items for the next 3 weeks. In this difficult time, your every need will be taken care of,” he had tweeted yesterday.E-passes for essential service providers“We will issue passes for those providing essential services, E-passes will be provided to those who need to open their shops and factories for these services,” Kejriwal said adding that grocery, medicines, medical services and other essential services and operations will continue uninterrupted for the citizens.Delhi government provided free meals at a ‘Rain Basera’ (shelter) on Baba Kharak Singh Marg. Kejriwal and Baijal had assured earlier today that no one will sleep hungry in the city during the lockdown.The e-Pass will be for grocery shops, milk plant workers and others. Kejriwal said once the e-passes are issued, one can open shop related to essential commodities.“A helpline number will be activated for that in few hours.”Helpline numberKejriwal said that the Delhi Police Commissioner has introduced a helpline number at his office. “If you face any difficulty you can call at this number. The number is: 23469536,” he said. The chief minister said that a helpline number will issued for those who need to get their e-passes made. Directive to landlordsDelhi administration has said that it will strict action against landlords and house owners who force doctors, paramedical staff, healthcare personnel to vacate their rented residences in the wake of coronavirus outbreak.The move comes after receiving complaints from healthcare personnel and medical officials.“Such behaviour obstructs amounts to obstructing public servant in discharging their duties,” the order read. Earlier, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal appealed the landlords to be considerate for 1-2 months and accept rents in installments if the tenant cannot instantly make arrangements.इस कठिन समय में जब पूरा शहर और देश लॉकडाउन में है हमने तय किया है की हम दिल्ली में construction का काम करनेवाले हर मजदूर को ₹5,000 देंगे ताकि वो अपना गुजारा कर सके।For those hit by lockdownThe lockdown is bound to hit daily-wage earners. Concerning this, Kejriwal on Tuesday made an announcement stating that the Delhi government will give ₹ 5,000 to every construction worker in Delhi so that they can make a living.The national capital has reported 31 Covid-19 positive cases so far. One person has died from the infection while 6 patients have recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/21-day-coronavirus-lockdown-key-takeaways-for-delhi/story-QmKdtIgODA062CNh67Q91L.html
25-03-2020||India||Should you worry about hantavirus? Explaining its spread||A news report in China’s Global Times sent the world into tizzy on Tuesday. It said that a man has died in the country of hantavirus, in the Yunnan Province.Countries which are already reeling under the coronavirus crisis, this news was enough to create panic. Many users quickly logged on to the internet to find out what hantavirus is and what kind of disease it can cause.It belongs to the family of hantaviruses which is spread through rodents and causes hantavirus pulmonary syndrome or HPS, according to US-based Centre for Disease Control (CDC).So, primarily, this virus is present in rats in China, and it is far from becoming a global pandemic. The disease is transmitted if someone breathes in contaminated air, according to the CDC.It spreads as a result of close contact with rodent urine, saliva and droppings. The CDC further says that the rare virus cannot be transmitted from one human to another.The symptoms of the HPS include fever, muscle ache, fatigue, dizziness - similar to those of influenza. Coughing and shortening of breath can happen later, when the infection reaches the lungs and fills it with liquid, according to the CDC.There is no vaccine for treating HPS, the infected person needs to be immediately rushed to the intensive care unit or ICU of a hospital, the CDC says in its advisory. “The sooner a person gets intensive care, he will get better,” it says.Hantavirus has come at a time when the world is grappling with an outbreak of coronavirus which, after starting in China’s Wuhan in December last year, spread rapidly across the globe. It has infected more than 4,00,000 people, and killed nearly 19,000.Many countries, including India, have imposed lockdown to stop the spread of coronavirus disease Covid-19, which has severely affected Europe and the United States.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/should-you-worry-about-hantavirus-disease-explaining-its-spread/story-mVqQbuOHkm7d2iMYZZrUFN.html
25-03-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: 277 people evacuated from coronavirus-hit Iran reach Army facility in Jodhpur and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion curated for you at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.277 people evacuated from coronavirus-hit Iran reach Army facility in JodhpurA total 277 people evacuated from the coronavirus-hit Iran arrived at the Jodhpur airport in Rajasthan on Wednesday morning. All passengers are coronavirus negative, said Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary, health department. Read morePakistan Covid-19 positive cases rise to 1000, but PM Imran won’t impose lockdownPakistan announced halting of domestic flight operations after number of cases infected with coronavirus disease Covid-19 rose to 1000 in the country. The government said that seven people have died of the disease. Read more11 killed in terror attack on Sikh place of worship in KabulAt least 11 people were killed and others injured when suspected suicide attackers stormed a Sikh place of worship in the Afghan capital on Wednesday, triggering a gun battle with security forces, according to media reports. Read moreAt G-20 meet tomorrow, PM Modi’s push to turn Covid-19 into global fightPrime Minister Narendra Modi wants the G-20 conference tomorrow to turn the battle against the deadly Sars-CoV-2 pathogen into a global fight where participant countries pool in their medical knowledge and resources to block the spread of contagion, people familiar with the developments said. Read more‘He just had a shocker’: Shane Warne, Aaron Finch left ‘confused’ after Australia PM’s Covid-19 presserFormer Australia cricketer Shane Warne and current limited-overs captain Aaron Finch slammed Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison after his ‘confusing’ national address regarding Coronavirus threat recently. Read moreAnushka Sharma, Virat Kohli share urgent message after PM’s addressCelebrity couple Anushka Sharma and Virat Kohli in their second video message in one week have urged their fans and followers to follow government protocols in tackling the coronavirus. In the video, recorded in Hindi, the couple urges people to stay at home, and not crowd the streets. Read moreFacebook sees huge spike in user activity amid Covid-19 lockdown, but ad revenue suffersFacebook is seeing a spike in activity on all its products amid the Covid-19 outbreak. There has been almost a 50% increase in usage of its services like voice and video calling, and Facebook Live. Read moreIs work from home a boon or bane? Here’s how to master itThe scenario for everyone working from home, after the coronavirus alert, looks more or less the same. And like with any new change, this, too, has received varied reactions.Read moreSocial distancing: Video of octopus hiding inside a shell aptly captures its meaningOne of the worst threats of recent times, coronavirus, is upending our way of life. With Prime Minister Narendra Modi announcing total lockdown of the nation for the next 21 days, social distancing is the new way of living. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-277-people-evacuated-from-coronavirus-hit-iran-reach-army-facility-in-jodhpur-and-all-the-latest-news/story-Ee72VoS2M8ZqhvMU7BztXM.html
25-03-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown: In Gurugram, rush at grocery stores, vegetable shops||An overriding fear that the 21-day nationwide lockdown could hit supplies resulted in a scramble at supermarkets and grocery stores across Gurugram on Wednesday morning as residents looked to buy items of daily need in bulk, even at higher rates. Several residents said that they stocked up on vegetables and pulses amid growing uncertainties over whether the supply of goods will take a major hit in the coming days.“The local grocery store in my condominium closed on Tuesday, as the owner couldn’t get his supply from the Azadpur Mandi in Delhi. Even at my sister’s residential complex in sector 47, there was a similar crisis. There is a lot of uncertainty. I’ve purchased ration and vegetables in bulk so that they last over a month if the situation doesn’t improve,” said Anita Kaul, a resident of DLF-Phase 4.Many grocery sellers have raised the prices of their goods on the back of high demand after the lockdown announced by the Centre on Tuesday evening to combat the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Bablu Gupta, president of Sadar Bazar, Vyapar Kendra Association, said queues outside the vegetable mandi in the city’s oldest market were twice as long and prices increased by up to 30%.“Around 150 vendors sell vegetables in the mandi, and each of them is catering to at least 12 buyers at any given point of time. Some people bought around 15 kilograms of onions and some purchased vegetables worth over Rs 5,000, despite the fact that the prices have gone up to 30% over the last two days,” said Gupta.“The supply of goods to the mandi is yet to be hit significantly, as most of the trucks that come from Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh come to Gurugram bypassing Delhi, where the borders are sealed,” he added. Residents found many retail shops, supermarket and stores selling essential items shut, despite the central government’s order that they would remain open.“I left my house around 10 am and found two supermarkets on the Golf Course Road were closed. I found a private grocery shop open near DLF-Phase 1, where there were queues of around 20 people waiting to get inside even though only five were allowed entry at a time. I managed to enter after a 20-minute wait, but by then, the entire stock of onions, and potatoes was exhausted,” said Rakesh Kapoor, a resident of DLF-Phase 5.Prices have soared significantly at Khandsa Mandi as well.“The vegetables at Khandsa Mandi were selling at least 50% higher than compared to last week. The vegetable vendors are making a killing by flouting the strict warning of the Gurugram district administration,” said Hemant Kumar, a resident of Sector 37D.Rajbir Singh, a civil defence member, said that he visited Khandsa Mandi and warned shop owners not to sell at inflated prices. He said that the district administration has been informed about the malpractices.“The district administration is looking at inflated prices of vegetables and all other essential items on a priority basis and appropriate action will be taken all violators,” said Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner, Gurugram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-in-gurugram-rush-at-grocery-stores-vegetable-shops/story-AU3gQPc7dumnJf9JBas3kM.html
25-03-2020||India||Delhi to issue e-pass for Noida, Gurugram travel amid Covid-19 lockdown||The Delhi government has made arrangements for issuing electronic curfew pass, or e-pass, for individuals who may have to travel between the national capital and adjoining satellite towns such as Noida, Gurugram, Ghaziabad and Faridabad on emergency work during the 21-day nationwide lockdown announced to combat the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).“The e-pass will be issued to the person by the office of the district magistrate concerned. The applicants can apply for such an e-pass on WhatsApp via an authorised mobile number of the district magistrate [published on the revenue department’s website] concerned or through email to ddma.delhi@nic.in while sharing their credentials along with relevant documents of identity and the essential service as the case may be,” said the Delhi government in a circular issued on Tuesday evening.“Such an e-pass received on the applicant’s mobile through WhatsApp or via e-mail shall be valid,” it added.The government, however, clarified on Wednesday that the e-pass is needed for those engaged in providing essential services (such as those transporting food, medicines and medical equipment) but don’t have the proper documents or a formal identity card to prove they are exempt from the restrictions. “Those who are providing essential services, but do not have a formal ID card to back their claim will be issued an e-pass. Workers at grocery and provisional stores, milk plant and others can avail this,” Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said at a press conference.Before this, the only way to apply for a curfew pass was to physically go to the offices of deputy commissioners of police and district magistrates and fill up application forms. This new initiative, government officials said, is likely to reduce the burden on these offices.Around 2,400 curfew e-passes were issued till Wednesday 11 am, the Delhi Police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-to-issue-e-pass-for-noida-gurugram-travel-amid-covid-19-lockdown/story-wwNC8ZzakPdSnoLuzhBmIO.html
25-03-2020||India||Attorney General KK Venugopal creates online access to antiquarian book collection||The Centre’s top law officer, attorney general KK Venugopal, digitally scanned 591 of his antiquarian book collection dating from the 17th century and uploaded them on the website www.kkvlibrary.com to make it available to everyone.The books cover a wide range of topics from religion, mythology, Vedas, Indian art and sculpture, historical battles, travel and British Empire in India. The oldest book in the collection, ‘Some years travels into the diverse parts of Asia and Africa’ by Sir Thomas Herbert, dates back to the year 1638.The books are not protected by copyright in India, either because their copyright has expired or because the books are not covered under the Indian copyright laws. Anyone located in India may read and download them.However, the website makes it clear that readers who are not in India must check the laws in their territory before downloading any of the content on the website.The website also states that the books have been uploaded for personal or research use only, and not for commercial use or exploitation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/attorney-general-kk-venugopal-creates-online-access-to-antiquarian-book-collection/story-sndUcMMD78EeSh6tYIUBWL.html
25-03-2020||India||Come what may, please don’t step out: Arvind Kejriwal repeats request to Delhi residents||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday asked the residents of the national capital to keep themselves inside their homes as he assured them essential supplies will be available for everyone during the 21-day lockdown announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Arvind Kejriwal and Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal announced a few measures the Delhi government will take during the nationwide lockdown to contain Covid-19 disease in the Capital during a press conference.They said the government is doing everything to ensure there is an effective implementation of the lockdown without adversely impacted people’s need, especially the poor. During the lockdown, the government would assure that essential supplies are maintained, they added.“There are two things all of us need to do after the Prime Minister’s speech yesterday. The first is that we have to make sure that we do not step outside our homes at any cost,” Kejriwal said.“We make all kinds of excuses to get out. We will have to try to stay in,” he added.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader pointed out that people started lining up at shops for essential services right after PM Modi announced the complete lockdown.“I again appeal to people to not do panic buying, I assure everyone that there will be no shortage of essential services,” he said.The chief minister pointed out that crowding defeats the purpose of social distancing, which was the main motive of the Prime Minister’s decision to clamp the lockdown.Thirty-seven people have contracted the Covid-19 disease in the national capital—including one foreigner—according to the Union ministry of health. One person has died after being infected by the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/come-what-may-please-don-t-step-out-arvind-kejriwal-repasts-request-to-delhi-residents/story-Eih8JRit3NYed2a1FNivSN.html
25-03-2020||India||Nurse attacked by man in Covid-19 isolation ward in hospital. His tea was late||A nurse was beaten by a man at a Covid-19 isolation ward in south Kerala’s Kollam this week because his tea was late. The nurse, who had been working without a break for two weeks at the quarantine facility, was later admitted to the hospital with injuries, police said on Wednesday.A case was registered against the accused who had recently returned from Muscat and was forced into the facility after violating the home-quarantine order. But the assault on the healthcare professional in Kerala wasn’t a one-off incident. There have been several incidents of such attacks in the state, prompting the state government to order the police to take strict action against the accused in such cases.A senior police officer said they had started filing FIRs against people who attack or misbehave with nursing staff and other officials for doing their job. Like the ones deputed to ensure that people have been ordered to stay at home-quarantine don’t step out.In Kozhikode, former MP AK Premajam is accused of misbehaviour with staffers who came to inquire about her son who was ordered to be quarantined at home. The former CPM MP denied the charge, insisting that she only intervened when “they behaved with her son like a convict”.In another case, a 27-year-old man, who had also returned from a Gulf country, barged into the house of an Asha (social worker accredited with the health ministry) worker in Malappuram and attacked her. The man was angry that she had reported him to the authorities for flouting quarantine norms. The woman has been admitted to hospital. Police said the man had been arrested and sent to a quarantine facility at the medical college hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nurse-attacked-by-man-in-covid-19-isolation-ward-in-hospital-his-tea-was-late/story-ywrVvy1VVkTgKRrQeZPXeP.html
25-03-2020||India||RSS chief Bhagwat calls for social distancing amid Covid-19 outbreak||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat said on Wednesday Sangh volunteers should ensure that the government’s call for maintaining social distancing to prevent the spread of coronavirus (Covid-19) is adhered to.In his address to the cadre, Bhagwat said, in these unprecedented times, when the entire world is grappling with the pandemic, volunteers must ensure that they do not break the protocols announced by the government.A day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a 21-day lockdown, Bhagwat said India is also fighting the war with other countries and the Sangh volunteers are duty-bound to contribute to the steps being taken to combat the spread of Covid-19.“We have to continue our work, but also stick to the rules. In the past, shakhas were closed for two years, but work went on. The 21-day lockdown has to be adhered to and our work can also go on,” he said.The RSS has called off its shakhas, or daily units, where volunteers congregate for prayers and other activities because of the pandemic.Bhagwat suggested that prayers can be held in smaller groups of five-seven within families. “In such unprecedented times, we can do this. We will adhere to the steps being taken by the administration in the fight against the pandemic,” he said.The RSS chief also said Sangh’s volunteers are already helping the government in relief work. “It may be possible that we will be required to scale up our efforts; whatever is required wherever will be done in keeping with the rules,” he said.Sangh volunteers in several districts have begun helping distribute masks, clean up hospitals and distribute food to the poor and needy.“Medicines and other essential items are there, but to break the chain of spread we need to make social distancing a success. It is the responsibility of society, it is the duty of the Sangh to stick to discipline and we have to follow this as well,” Bhagwat added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rss-chief-bhagwat-calls-for-social-distancing-amid-covid-19-outbreak/story-SBJwWkuYRev6ipUHuNFHNP.html
25-03-2020||India||Coronavirus: In PM Modi’s cabinet meeting, a glimpse of social distancing||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday chaired the weekly cabinet meeting at 7 Lok Kalyan Marg in Delhi. During the meeting, the ministers were seen seated at a distance from each other, maintaining social distancing as a measure to counter coronavirus. In his address to the nation last evening as well as last week, the prime minister emphasized the need to maintain social distancing to keep coronavirus in check. At least a distance of one metre must be maintained to ensure safety from the infection. “Experts are saying that social distancing is the only way to deal with the coronavirus crisis across the globe. There is no other way to deal with coronavirus and we need to save ourselves. And we have to break the cycle of its infection,” the Prime Minister said yesterday.PM Modi called out people to remove all doubts about who has to follow the practice of social distancing. Social distancing is need of the hour. We are ensuring it... Are you?Picture from today’s cabinet meeting chaired by Hon’ble PM @narendramodi ji.#IndiaFightsCorona pic.twitter.com/Lr76lBgQoa“Some people are under the impression that social distancing is only for Covid-19 patients — it is for every member of the family and even the prime minister. And the wrong impressions and thoughts can bring a lot of trouble to their families, friends and even the entire country,” he said.“People will have to pay dearly and it will be unimaginable,” he warned.Over 500 people have been infected by Covid-19 in the country while 10 people have lost their lives. The prime minister has announced a 21-week long nationwide lockdown to break the cycle of coronavirus infections in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-in-pm-modi-s-cabinet-meeting-a-glimpse-of-social-distancing/story-qvesfa2ngRFrV2EWFEx5MK.html
25-03-2020||India||‘Allow interstate movement of goods, shops to open and staff to move’: Centre to states||The Union Government has advised all states to allow movement of goods and essential items and functioning of factories, units, especially those producing essential commodities without hindrance to prevent panic buying and possible shortages.In separate advisories, the Commerce Ministry asked States and Union Territories to allow food processing companies, retail grocery, retail cash and carry and wholesale, chemists and pharmacies, transport vehicles and interstate movement of good to function unhindered. The Union Home Ministry has asked all States and Union Territories to set-up control-rooms to ensure “seamless” movement of goods.The orders follow reports of shops especially medicine, grocery and those dealing with other essential commodities being closed down by local police to ensure a lockdown. The Commerce Ministry has underlined “inconvenience to consumers” must be avoided to “prevent panic buying”. It has also asked states to issue “clear guidelines” to ensure that workers, operators of retail outlets, manufacturing units can travel to “discharge” their “national duty.”The Union Home Ministry has also asked all states to issue “standard operating protocol” for “unhindered operation” to ensure essential goods and establishments. “This is necessary to ensure continuity of supply chain for essential commodities, several of which may be perishable in nature,” the Ministry of Home Affairs has said.Finally, the Union Home Ministry has asked all States and Union Territories to set up 24/7 control rooms, helplines, appointing of nodal officers at the state and district levels to ensure there is no hindrance in the movement of goods, transport vehicles and workers.Earlier on Tuesday evening in a televised address, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a complete lockdown of the entire country, as part of the government’s stringent efforts to tackle the Covid-19 disease.The lockdown will be in place for 21 days and will be more stringent than the Janta Curfew observed on Sunday.This was the second time in a week when PM Modi addressed the country on the fast-spreading disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-lockdown-allow-interstate-movement-of-goods-shops-to-open-and-staff-to-move-centre-to-states/story-M6nGDdRqgtzkr8s28O57iO.html
25-03-2020||India||Act against landlords harassing health care personnel over Covid-19 spread fears: Delhi govt||The Delhi government allowed district magistrates and zonal officers on Wednesday to take “strict penal action” against landlords who are forcing doctors, paramedical staff and healthcare personnel treating suspected or positive coronavirus cases to vacate their rented homes.“Such behaviour amounts to obstructing public servants in discharging their duties,” said the order, which HT has seen.The order came a day after Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said he was hurt by news of harassment of health care officials from across the city.Wednesday’s order said district magistrates, zonal deputy commissioners of municipal corporations and the deputy commissioner of police are “directed to take strict penal action against such landlords and house owners under the relevant provisions of law”.These officials have also been asked to submit an action-taken-report on a daily basis to the office of the additional chief secretary of the Delhi government’s home department.Resident doctors of India’s premier hospital, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), sought the government’s intervention on the matter on Tuesday, saying their colleagues were facing harassment by their landlords, who fear medical professionals at the forefront of the fight against the Sars-Cov-2 virus could be infected and spreading the pathogen.In a letter to home minister Amit Shah, the resident doctors’ association said many staffers were “stranded on roads” with all their luggage, and urged him to immediately release an order, prohibiting landlords from evicting health care professionals.Shah has spoken to the Delhi Police chief and asked him to take immediate action to ensure the security of doctors facing harassment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/act-against-landlords-harassing-health-care-personnel-over-covid-19-spread-fears-delhi-govt/story-CTCAbAi1n5lkykpKX5OJgP.html
25-03-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Bihar reports fourth case of Covid-19||Bihar has reported its fourth case of Covid-19, the coronavirus disease, as a 29-year-old man tested positive for the virus after coming back from Bhavnagar in Gujarat, officials said late on Tuesday.The man is a resident of Patna City and has been kept in the isolation ward of the Nalanda Medical College Hospital (NMCH), which has now been converted into a special hospital for Covid-19 in Bihar.Sources said the man, who came to Patna on March 9, initially underwent treatment at a private health facility in Patna City and was referred to the NMCH only a couple of days ago. His sample was then sent to the Rajendra Memorial Research Institute of Medical Sciences (RMRIMS) at Agamkuan in Patna. RMRIMS director Dr Pradeep Das confirmed the man has tested positive for the virus.A 38-year-old man from Munger, who came back from Qatar, died after contracting the virus in the first known fatality in the state linked to the Covid-19 disease on Sunday, when the state reported its first three cases of the fast-spreading contagion.The other two Covid-19 cases are of a 45-year old woman and a 25-year-old man—both from Patna. While the woman, whose son had returned from Italy earlier this month, is undergoing treatment at the All India Institute Of Medical Sciences (AIIMS)-Patna, the man who returned from Scotland, is at NMCH.RMRIMS has screened 192 samples of which four tested positive for Covid-19 so far.The number of cases across the country has risen to 562, including foreigners, people who have recovered and those dead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-bihar-reports-fourth-case-of-covid-19/story-Eih221m6iUvdRACBYKztNL.html
25-03-2020||India||Gurugram: Two more from Palam Vihar family test positive||Gurugram: Two more members of a family at Bestech Park View in Palam Vihar tested positive for coronavirus on Tuesday, taking the total count of Covid-19 patients in the city to 10. This is the first case in the city in which four members of one family have contracted the infection. Last week, two siblings—a 22-year-old woman who returned from London on March 15 and her 18-year-old brother—tested positive within a span of two days. On Tuesday, their 55-year-old father and 70-year-old maternal grandmother were confirmed to have Covid-19. Their mother’s report had earlier come out negative. “It is the first such case of Gurugram, where four members from the same family have been diagnosed Covid-19 positive,” said Dr Jaswant Singh Punia, chief medical officer. “Our team has visited the society and sprayed disinfectant in their flat. Our teams will now reach out to the other families in the society to check community transmission. If required, we will ask the society for self-quarantine as a preventive measure against transmission of the virus,” he said. On Tuesday evening, the father and the grandmother were still at home with the mother in attendance. Their children were admitted to a private hospital last week. “I am already bed-ridden due to a fracture in my leg. My son was sharing the room with us and we were in close contact before he was diagnosed. I received a call from the Civil Hospital to inform me but no one has guided us to get admitted or approach some hospital,” said Shelly Kumra, the father. “Both the patients are under home quarantine and will be shifted to the civil hospital tomorrow,” said Punia. After Kumra’s daughter returned from abroad, she had complained of cough and fever. She was tested positive on March 19. After her brother was found to be infected too, the RWA of the condominium had sought the intervention of the district administration, alleging that the family was breaking quarantine protocol. Kumra, however, said that they were feeling mentally harassed because even their daily supplies had been stopped. He said the house was sanitised by the MCG officials three days ago and since then they have not moved out except for his wife who has to go the hospital where the two siblings are admitted.Vikas Dhull, general secretary of the condominium, said they were concerned about the spread of the virus now. “We are concerned that now more people will test positive. Now it is important that three domestic helps and people who visited them are tested,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gurugram-two-more-from-palam-vihar-family-test-positive/story-eJqogjcAv2eJrstT7Jxf6O.html
25-03-2020||India||With nearly 200 deaths, New York hardest hit by Covid-19 in US; visitors told to self-quarantine||US authorities on Tuesday urged anyone who has travelled to and from New York City metropolitan area in recent days to self-quarantine for 14 days and closely monitor their condition. This comes over concerns of people carrying coronavirus and “seeding” outbreaks in other parts of the country.President Donald Trump has, at the same time, doubled down on his resolve to roll back restrictions and have the country “raring to go” by Easter, April 12. The move has fanned a debate that he started on Monday by first suggesting the country could be ready to get back to business. A decision is expected next week.More than 700 people have died of coronavirus and more than 55,000 people have tested positive in the United States so far, according to Johns Hopkins University data. The continuing surge in cases has prompted the WHO to acknowledge that the United States could potentially be the next epicentre of the outbreak.New York City has been hit the hardest with 15,597 confirmed cases and 192 deaths, and it is now in danger of “seeding” outbreaks in other parts of the country through travellers.“For anyone in the New York metropolitan area who has travelled, our task force is encouraging you to monitor your temperature, be sensitive to symptoms,” Vice President Mike Pence, who heads the Trump administration’s coronavirus task force, said at a White House news briefing. “And we are asking anyone who has travelled out of the New York City metropolitan area to anywhere else in the country to self-isolate for 14 days.”Two leading medical experts on the task force had first made that case citing high incidence of new cases and the danger of travellers and New Yorkers leaving the city for their own safety, carrying it to other areas. There have been cases that suggested infected people have left the city.Deborah Birx, coordinator of the task force, said because of the high incidence of cases in New York City — 56% of all US cases and 60% of all new cases, 31% mortality — there was a likelihood of people being exposed before leaving the city and they should self-quarantine themselves for the next 14 days “to ensure that the virus doesn’t spread to others, no matter where they have gone, whether it’s Florida, North Carolina, or out to far, far reaches of Long Island”.Anthony Fauci, the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Disease and a member of the task force, added that self-isolation for these people was necessary “because we don’t want that to be another seeding point to the rest of the country, wherever they go”.These warnings and appeals to people travelling out of New York run contrary to President Trump’s apparent eagerness to end the restrictions and put the country back in business. Trump is getting a push from the experts on the team, including Fauci, who has emerged as the most respected member of the task force.“You can look at a date, but you got to be very flexible,” Fauci said when asked to comment on the president’s plan to roll back restriction by Easter. “And on a literally day-by-day and week-by-week basis, you need to evaluate the feasibility of what you’re trying to do.”Stay-at-home orders are in effect in 17 states, affecting 175 million people to slow down and prevent the spread of the virus. All non-essential services have been shut down. People can go out to get grocery, food and medicine or to exercise as long as they maintain safe social distance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-with-nearly-200-deaths-new-york-city-hardest-hit-by-covid-19-in-us-visitors-old-to-self-quarantine/story-gKOYRspVu5U9hzZ5dc6LsL.html
25-03-2020||India||At G-20 meet tomorrow, PM Modi’s push to turn Covid-19 into global fight||Prime Minister Narendra Modi wants the G-20 conference tomorrow to turn the battle against the deadly Sars-CoV-2 pathogen into a global fight where participant countries pool in their medical knowledge and resources to block the spread of contagion, people familiar with the developments said.Rather than be confined to the 15-member UN Security Council currently headed by China, the G-20 is a representative body of 46 countries (if the European Union is divided into individual entities) with a large number of them battered by the rampaging infection. The expected G-20 call will be for member nations to ramp up their medical infrastructure capacities to handle the worst-case scenario and pool scientific effort towards prevention and treatment of the virus.Although PM Modi announced the historic 21-day nationwide lockdown on Tuesday evening, he had taken the first decisive step towards it by stopping long-distance trains on the north-south corridor on March 18.The decision was clearly designed to contain the virus that causes Covid-19 to big metros such as Mumbai and Pune, where the medical infrastructure was better. The effort was to minimise the possibility of immigrants from states such as Bihar and Uttar Pradesh spreading the disease to their remote villages that have virtually non-existent medical facilities.The Janta curfew on March 22 was a test run to calibrate the Indian response to combat the virus and plan for the degree of enforcement required for the worst-case scenario. At the same time, PM Modi was keeping a very close watch on the ramping of medical capacities such as manufacture of ventilators, masks, hazmat suits and preparation of isolation wards.PM Modi had thrown the “wait and watch” option out of the window early in the day as it would be impossible to contain the disease if it moved into the community transmission stage. The assessment was that the lockdown was the best option, particularly given how the virus had multiplied in geometric progression in countries such as Italy, France, Spain and the US.The prime minister fronted the bitter pill of lockdown given his huge following in the country.With hardly any vaccine for Covid-19 on the horizon in the next two to four months, India hopes to contain the virus spread till April 15. The dry April heat in the Indian sub-continent would help slow down the virus. But it could continue to be spread by droplets. It is still early to figure how the weather plays out, particularly since the western disturbances are highly active with intermittent rains and have lowered the temperature of Gangetic plains.India’s approach on Covid-19 has contrasted sharply with the one adopted by the US’ Donald Trump that has been needling China over its origin in Wuhan. Instead, India has kept all its lines open to talk to all countries to ensure that medical help is available in case the worst-case scenario plays out. The fact is that China, where the virus first surfaced in November 2019, has utilised the past three months to really ramp up its medical capacities and adopted unconventional methods to contain the spread of Covid-19. In fact, both the countries have decided to beef up bilateral efforts to contain the disease.Even though the virus has led to a forced shutdown of the world economy’s most prominent economies, the first priority has been to save lives with the economy taking the second place. This is the only option.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-at-g-20-meet-tomorrow-pm-modi-s-push-to-turn-covid-19-into-global-fight/story-aQldesBaxFNl6XatEvSb5K.html
25-03-2020||India||The Covid-19 lockdown logic and science behind it||As India goes under a lockdown with new coronavirus cases becoming a steady stream, it’s important to assess the role that lockdowns and strict social distancing can play in controlling the outbreak.The objective of any lockdown or social distancing mechanism is the reduction in the rate of infection. Health experts say that social distancing is the best way to prevent hundreds of thousands of cases appearing in batches, overwhelming a country’s health care system.When unchecked, the overwhelming nature of Covid-19 was seen in the initial outbreak of the disease in China’s Hubei province through January and February, in Italy through the end of February and early March, and New York state most recently. In all three cases, governments eventually resorted to lockdowns with varied levels of success.What is the science behind lockdowns?TARGET R0<1Any lockdown targets a reduction in the basic reproduction rate of an infection or to reduce the number of people each confirmed case infects, according to a study published by the Imperial College London Covid-19 Response Team on March 16.Scientists use a basic reproduction number, R0 or ‘R naught’, to indicate how contagious a disease is. R0 is the number of people who can contract a disease from one infected person. The R0 of Covid-19 remains a matter of research, but a study titled ‘Early Transmission Dynamics in Wuhan, China, of Novel Coronavirus–Infected Pneumonia’ published in the New England Journal of Medicine, determined a baseline assumption of R0=2.4.The larger goal for any government is to keep R0 below one – that is each confirmed case infects fewer than one person.Here’s what happens with various scenarios. 1: NO CURBSIn this case people are free to move around and interact. Based on R0=2.4, research in Wuhan finds that each infected person will infect 2-3 people on average.As the first case is reported, the infected person passes it on to a second wave of two or three more people who are also moving without restrictions. The newly infected people again infect the same number of people creating a cycle. This leads to a very abrupt rise of cases as seen in both China and the US before any lockdowns were placed.Given an estimated R0 of 2.4, researchers at Imperial College London predicted 81% of the population would be infected over the course of the epidemic. The biggest issue was that most of these cases occurred at the same time, causing a spike in the epidemic curve, overburdening health care systems.2: LOCATION-WISE LOCKDOWNIn this case, a region with a high number of cases is locked down -- as in China’s Hubei .In a study titled ‘The effect of travel restrictions on the spread of the 2019 novel coronavirus (COVID-19) outbreak’ published in the journal Science by a group of American, Italian and Chinese researchers on March 6, scientists found that travel restrictions in Wuhan slowed the spread. While the model output showed no noticeable differences in the epidemic in Wuhan, it showed a delay of about three days for other locations in China.This strategy focuses on slowing down, not necessarily suppressing the epidemic. This flattens the curve slightly, buying time to strengthen health care facilities. It also means a reduction in peak health care demand, freeing up hospital beds and protecting those most at risk.3 : LOCKDOWN AND HOME-QUARANTINEIn this case, extensive social distancing is applied throughout the populace by limiting people’s movement through both home-quarantines and lockdowns over a period of time.The aim is to reduce R0, to below 1 and take case numbers to low levels or eliminate human-to-human transmission.In the Imperial College model, this required social distancing for the entire population, over a long period of time.“It is likely such measures will need to be in place for many months, perhaps until a vaccine becomes available,” one of the study’s researchers, Neil Ferguson, said in a written statement issued by the college. “The effects on countries and the world will be profound.”This strategy yields the best results so far as the virus spread ends up being a trickle.By closely monitoring rise in the infections, governments may be able to lift curbs temporarily, and reinstate them if numbers began to rise.This is the kind of lockdown India has enforced for three weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-covid-19-lockdown-logic-and-science-behind-it/story-wZ7jwJh8hUkutFrflkUT5K.html
25-03-2020||India||Govt asks private security agencies to pay workers during coronavirus lockdown||With reports of a large number of private companies, cinema halls and hotels terminating private security guards or keeping skeletal staff, the government has written to several industry bodies associated with private security asking them to adopt a “humane approach” and protect its workers amid layoffs during the lockdown across the country. The ministry of home affairs wrote to the Central Association of Private Security Industry (CAPSI), Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (Ficci) , Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India (Assocham), Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), International Institute of Security and Safety Management (IISSM) and Security Association of India (SAI).PC Guite, deputy secretary, said in his letter on March 23 to these bodies that the private security agencies may have been hit after malls, shops and other such establishments were closed.“I would, therefore, urge the industry for empathy with its workforce, vital to its functioning and ensure that these workers continued to be treated on duty and paid accordingly,” Guite said.CAPSI chairperson Kunwar Vikram Singh had shot off a letter to the Prime Minister in this regard, saying it would be unethical on part of private companies to lay off their security guards hired through private security agencies as it may lead up to the tremendous amount of restlessness and frustration. “Despite notifications and guidelines issued by the home ministry and department of labour, security guards are being terminated. For example, if a mall had 200 guards, they are now just keeping five to six for outer periphery security,” Singh said while speaking to HT.“The security providing companies are being threatened that if they will terminate the contract with them if they don’t listen and remove them. But these guards need to run their households. Private security agencies cannot take the burden alone,” he said.“Subsequently, the police are stopping the guards if they aren’t in uniform. A guard usually goes to his duty in civilian clothes. They are facing a lot of harassment,” added Singh. India has been put under a 21-day complete lockdown across the country to stop the deadly coronavirus from spreading and closed down several public and private organisations. Among them are commercial, industrial and private establishments with certain exemptions.Private security agencies have been exempted but with the closure of malls, shops and other places where private security is deployed, several people have been asked to stay home or even fired.The government has made several such requests to companies to continue paying their staff throughout the lockdown period.Sandeep Kumar, a security guard who was deployed in a mall in Ghaziabad, said he has been lucky so far.“I am still here but a lot of my colleagues have been removed from the job for now without pay. I don’t know when will this end. I cannot go to my home in Allahabad also because there are no trains or buses,” Kumar said while speaking to HT. According to FICCI, there are around 8.9 million private security guards in India managed by over 22000 private security agencies who are engaged in a range of public or private sector entities and residential complexes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-asks-private-security-agencies-to-pay-workers-during-coronavirus-lockdown/story-kyL5DCbIG2BLtkZt62StmJ.html
25-03-2020||India||Record drop in NO2 levels due to Covid-19 janata curfew: Analysis||The nationwide “janata curfew (people’s curfew)” on Sunday has resulted in the lowest average level of nitrogen dioxide (NO2) ever recorded in the January-March period in since 2017, according to an analysis released by the Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air (CREA).According to Sunil Dahiya, an analyst at CREA, the fall in NO2 levels show that city-based transportation is completely dependent on fossil fuels.“We have to work on delinking them. That’s our lesson from the lockdown,” he added.Concentrations of PM2.5 and PM10 have also dropped steeply but have not broken records, according to an analysis which sourced data from the government’s real time air quality monitors. The main source of NO2 emissions is fuel combustion by vehicles and industries. NO2 emissions are responsible for a large number of child asthma cases and 16,000 premature deaths per year in India. It is also a key contributor to PM2.5 formation, according to a study by IIT Kanpur. “The COVID-19 crisis is resulting in widespread human suffering around the world. Air pollution levels are plummeting in many countries as an unintended result of measures against the virus; this should not be seen as a “silver lining”, but it does show how normalised the massive death toll from air pollution has become. Once the COVID-19 crisis is over, there are far more effective ways for governments to address air pollution than shutting down large parts of the economy, such as enforcing emissions standards for large polluters,” the analysis said.HT reported on Monday that there has been a general improvement in the air quality, including in India, amid lockdowns imposed across the world to check the spread of the coronavirus pandemic (Covid-19) , with the European Space Agency (ESA) releasing satellite images showing NO2 levels have plummeted drastically.The levels of NO2 went down drastically during the lockdown period in parts of China, where the pandemic originated, and then gradually rose again in the past few days when the restrictions were eased.In India, several cities otherwise known to record high pollution levels have recorded an improvement in air quality since Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/record-drop-in-no2-levels-due-to-covid-19-janata-curfew-analysis/story-082W1xpm6F05lAbX8IhmDJ.html
25-03-2020||India||Covid-19: Delhi govt’s warning to landlords asking medical staff to leave||In an order dated March 24, 2020, the Delhi administration has said that it will strict action against landlords and house owners who force doctors, paramedical staff, healthcare personnel to vacate their rented residences in the wake of coronavirus outbreak.The move comes after receiving complaints from healthcare personnel and medical officials.“Such behaviour obstructs amounts to obstructing public servant in discharging their duties,” the order read. District Administrations and Police are directed to take strict action against such landlords/house owners who are forcing doctors/paramedical staff/ health care personnel to vacate their rented residences: Govt of Delhi #COVID19 pic.twitter.com/UjROkZACucAll District Magistrates, Zonal Deputy Commissioners of Municipal Corporations, Deputy Commissioners of Police are directed to take strict “penal” action against violators and also submit an ‘Action Taken’ report to the office of Additional Chief Secretary (Home), Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi. This comes after Home Minister Amit Shah on Tuesday spoke to Delhi Police chief S N Shrivastava and directed him to ensure security of doctors in the wake of complaints of harassment for treating coronavirus patients, officials said.Shah also spoke Resident Doctors’ Association (RDA) of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) following their complaint.“Home Minister Shri.Amit Shah personally called RDA AIIMS and assured that any such issue of ostracisation will be taken seriously and action will be taken immediately,” Dr. Srinivas Rajkumar T, General Secretary of the RDA told members of the association.Earlier in the day, the RDA had written to the home minister complaining of discrimination and unfair behaviour by landlords.“…..Doctors, nurses and other healthcare workers involved in COVID care are being asked to vacate their rented homes and some have even been forcefully evicted by landlords and house-owners due to the fear that those healthcare professionals make them more susceptible to coronavirus infection. Many doctors are now stranded on the roads with all their luggage, nowhere to go across the country,” the RDA had complained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-delhi-govt-to-take-strict-against-those-who-force-medical-staff-to-vacate-house/story-UexhYwnYJUMu2YVJN22wPK.html
25-03-2020||India||Stay away from indiscriminate use of anti-malaria drug: Experts on Covid-19||The government has warned people against the indiscriminate use of anti-malaria drug hydroxychloroquine after reports that there has been a rush to buy the medicine, which India has approved as a prophylaxis (a treatment to prevent a disease) in the fight against the deadly coronavirus infection (Covid-19).With the medicine proving to show some effect against Sars-Cov-2, the virus that is causing the fast-spreading disease, India has also banned the export of this drug. To be sure, large, controlled clinical trials are needed to come to a conclusion on the efficacy of the drug.“We are giving hydroxychloroquine to a specific section of the population on an experimental basis, and it must not be taken over-the-counter by all. After a thorough study, we have selected the category (of people who will be administered the drug); that number is small and can be closely monitored. This is not for everyone,” said Raman R Gangakhedkar, chief, epidemiology division, India Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The use of the drug for prophylaxis of the infection with flu-like symptoms has been recommended for two categories --- asymptomatic (not showing symptoms of the disease) healthcare workers involved in the care of suspected or confirmed cases of Covid-19, and asymptomatic household contacts of laboratory confirmed cases that live in close proximity with patients.“...it (the drug) is not supposed to be given to children below 15 years of age or people above 60 years of age, for example, because of the known side-effects. Self-medicating is an absolute no,” he said.The Union health ministry also issued directives on Tuesday to states to curb the misuse of prophylactic drugs, including hydroxychloroquine.“Since news that health workers and the direct contacts of Covid-19 patients are being given hydroxychloroquine came out, people have been going to chemist shops to purchase these. Everybody doesn’t need it. So we had to issue an advisory reiterating that chemists should refuse to sell the medicine without a prescription. These drugs anyway...cannot be sold without a prescription,” said Atul Nasa, Delhi’s drug control officer.In a related development, in order to tide over the problem of shortage of ventilators and hand sanitisers in the country, India has also banned their export.The ministry of commerce and industry issued a notification on the amendment in the export policy of ventilators, including any artificial respiratory apparatus or oxygen therapy apparatus or any other breathing appliance/device and sanitisers falling under the ITCHS Code (Indian Trade Clarification based on Harmonized System), which prohibits their export with immediate effect.The government is also encouraging Indian manufacturers to create ventilators under make in India. In a recent review meeting held by cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba, the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL) and other main organisations of the government that are research-oriented were consulted on ways to promote indigenous manufacturers.“We are evaluating preparedness levels at the highest level on a daily basis, and as and when the situation arises, the government is taking action such as curbing exports etc. We are working with Indian manufacturers so that sufficient ventilators can be provided to the country. For the AIIMS ventilator prototype, minor changes have been suggested before it can be taken up for use,” said Lav Aggarwal, joint secretary, health ministry.To ramp up the production of hand sanitisers, the Centre has asked states to direct distilleries to either start manufacturing sanitisers themselves or provide companies that manufacture the product with the raw material in order to enhance access to the product. Distilleries supply extra neutral alcohol (ENA), a raw material used in the manufacturing of sanitisers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stay-away-from-indiscriminate-use-of-anti-malaria-drug-experts-on-covid-19/story-UY2zFNCcWivkdw7zToWHcI.html
25-03-2020||India||After 27 years, Ram Lalla shifted out of makeshift temple in Ayodhya||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday attended a ceremony at the Ram Janmabhoomi in Ayodhya when the deity Ram Lalla was relocated from the makeshift temple to a pre-fabricated one within the premises.The ceremony took place at around 4.30 am on Wednesday, on the first day of nine-day-long Navratri festival.Ram Lalla, the presiding deity of the Ram Janmabhoomi, was shifted from sanctum sanctorum of the temple after 27 years (December 6, 1992). On the occasion, members of the Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust were also present. Adityanath led the ceremony along with several priests from New Delhi, Ayodhya and Varanasi.The deity was shifted in a palanquin from the makeshift temple on an auspicious time decided by priests. The chief minister was among four people who carried this palanquin to new location which is few metres from the existing makeshift temple.  The shifting of the deity is part of the plan to construct grand temple at the Ram Janmabhoomi.Vedic rituals had started at Ram Janmabhoomi on Monday morning ahead of the shifting of Ram Lalla and continued till Tuesday.Priests from Andhra Pradesh, New Delhi, Haridwar, Mathura, Varanasi and Ayodhya took part in the auspicious rituals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-27-years-ram-lalla-shifted-out-of-makeshift-temple-in-ayodhya/story-EP7Q0PfyeP2cLPFXQ0272H.html
25-03-2020||India||People asked to defer funeral rites amid Covid-19 lockdown in Haridwar||People coming to Haridwar from across India funeral rituals of their loved ones are being asked to defer the rites amid a Covid-19 lockdown in Uttarakhand and unavailability of priests in the sacred city. Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a complete 21-day lockdown on Tuesday evening across the country as the number of Covid-19 cases went beyond 530. Before India’s complete lockdown, 32 states and Union territories had already announced stringent restrictions till March 31 to deal with the pandemic.Amid the state government orders, local priests or pandas had urged people to come later and when it is safe to conduct the rituals properly.Shri Ganga Sabha, the top body of priests, and the local administration also asked people to refrain from coming to Haridwar and to defer the rituals.“It’s a tough and testing time for the whole world so we should be more patient as well as adhere to the preventive measures that have been suggested by medical experts,” said Ganga Sabha president Pradeep Jha said.Jha said the ashes can be immersed later and suggested that people can keep the ashes in a safe and secluded place or in a temple, ashram premise or as per the suggestion of their respective family priest.“Later, after the waiver of the restrictions imposed by respective states and central government post-March 31 one can come to Haridwar for ritual ash immersion. Our teerth purohits will duly perform the rituals for peace and salvation to the deceased souls,” Jha added.With a lockdown in the state, there has been a sharp dip in the arrival of people for the funeral rituals at the Ganga. Many have even immersed the ashes without rituals.Barely a dozen-odd people have come to the sanctum sanctorum of Brahmkund for rituals in the past two days, with Ganga Sabha, the managing body of Har-Ki-Pauri, urging people to defer the rituals till March 31.On Monday, due to the restrictions and sealing of border with neighbouring states, only a few who had arrived earlier in the city for ashes immersion were seen at Ganga ghats.But they too had to perform the rituals between 7am to 10am as the state government has allowed people’s movement during this period only with Section 144 imposed.The unavailability of priests is also emerging as the major issue as they have decided to refrain from any mass rituals on the ghats of the Ganga barring the morning and evening Ganga aartis at Brahmkund, which is observed daily.A police officer had a heated argument with a man who had come for funeral rites of his father at the Khadkhadi cremation Ganga ghat.Haridwar city magistrate Jagdeesh Lal said that as Section 144 had been imposed in the city, not more than five persons were allowed at one place and people should keep in mind that movement during current time may prove detrimental for the whole society.Religious and akhada related matter expert Mahesh Parikh pointed that immersion of ashes is an important ritual, which needs to be performed only under the guidance of teerth purohits.“So under present circumstances, when there is a prohibition on movement and gathering, it is better that ashes are kept safely somewhere and later brought for immersion after the current situation normalises,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/people-asked-to-defer-funeral-rites-amid-covid-19-lockdown-in-haridwar/story-YQlZZeVNHl0Ac5kNWiTZQM.html
25-03-2020||India||Govt to spend Rs15,000 crore to ramp up health care infra to combat Covid-19||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday announced the allocation of Rs 15,000 crore to strengthen the country’s health infrastructure to combat Covid-19 — the second part of an approach whose first part is the 21-day lockdown starting Wednesday.The money will be used to set up isolation wards and intensive care units (ICUs), procure ventilators and personal protection equipment (for doctors), and train health workers to fight coronavirus disease, Modi said in an address to the nation. Already, dedicated hospitals have been identified in many states to deal with Covid-19 cases. “Central and state responses will be strengthened by this infusion. More may be needed in the coming months but this is a good energiser to galvanise the health care response,” said Dr K Srinath Reddy, president, Public Health Foundation India.India has an estimated 40,000 working ventilators, a number that experts said would be inadequate in case there is a surge in Covid-19 infections which crossed 520 on Tuesday; 10 people have died of Covid-19 in India.The financial package was desperately needed to boost ICU infrastructure, said an expert. “It is needed by many under-served states that don’t have adequately-equipped district hospitals and state medical colleges. Most Covid-19 deaths are from severe respiratory illness, and when ICU care is not adequate, the mortality rate is higher. This badly-needed push will help build an intensive care set up across states and help in disease management in the long run,” said Dr Randeep Guleria, director, All India Institute of Medical Sciences who is part of the national task on Covid-19.In around 81% Covid-19 cases, patients recover on their own, according to a study of the first 44,672 cases confirmed by the Chinese Center for Disease Control published in the Journal of the American Medical Association. Around 14% people have severe disease, including pneumonia and shortness of breath, while the virus causes critical disease including respiratory failure, septic shock and multi-organ failure in about 5% of patients who need ICU care to survive.“The priority is to save lives, the PM has made that clear. At least 5% of Covid-19 patients will require ventilators, and in the Indian context that’s a lot of numbers. We have to step up,” said Dr Amit Singh, associate professor at the Centre for Infectious Disease Research at Bengaluru’s Indian Institute of Science.Cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba directed all states on Sunday to identify at least one hospital to exclusively treat coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases. Nine states have submitted a list of dedicated public hospitals and isolation wards across both public and private hospitals to the Centre.Instead of building new hospitals, strengthening existing health services and filling in the gaps in staff, equipment and medicines would appear to be the focus. “We may not be able to build new hospitals, but we are exploring the model of (creating) a low cost ICU with a cardiac monitor, ventilator, pulse oximeter, and oxygen cylinder to treat people if cases rise very quickly,” said Dr Dilip Mavlankar, director of Gandhinagar’s Indian Institute of Public Health.Public health economists say the money may not be enough, but it’s a start. “If the number of cases and death go up exponentially, then ₹400-500 crore per state is not going to be enough. I would take this more as an emergency fund at the moment to be distributed to states to put in place preventive measures. If we manage to contain the disease then this might be enough but not if the numbers increase exponentially. India doesn’t have the resources to cope in case we go the China way,” said Dr Sakthivel Selvaraj, director, health economics, financing and policy, PHFI.India’s low doctor-population ratio of 1:1,457, against the WHO recommended norm of 1:1,000, also needs to be improved, said experts. “We need a lot of part-time staff and general physicians. There are lots of private doctors who do not have enough work, we need them on an ad hoc basis. We needed nurses too, many trained nurses don’t work because of low pay. We need human resources,” said Dr Mavlankar.“Buying equipment is easy, what is much harder is building human resources trained in intensive care and use of personal protection equipment. ICUs are both equipment intensive and human resource intensive. You need to have good high-end ventilators, good monitors and the people — nurses, paramedics and technicians — to manage it. Ideally, there should be one nurse for every ICU bed, it is not just about putting a person on a bed,” said Dr Guleria.Prime Minister Modi also urged the private sector, including private labs and private hospitals, to work with government in this time of crisis. Private labs have begun testing for Covid-19, and many private hospitals are setting up isolation wards to treat Covid-19 patients.“I don’t think the money is sufficient, but it is much needed. It will largely go towards augmenting infrastructure. They have also announced Covid-19 hospitals and this money will be needed to create the space, get equipment and manpower. In case a situation arises where the public-sector facilities falls short, the government can very well commandeer private hospitals,” said Dr MC Misra, former AIIMS director and president and vice chancellor Mahatma Gandhi University of Medical Sciences and Technology, Jaipur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-to-spend-rs15-000-crore-to-ramp-up-health-care-infra-to-combat-covid-19/story-6ott3j0u6HII6jxIj5ak9M.html
25-03-2020||India||Meet Psychs, the rapper ‘Spreading’ awareness about coronavirus pandemic||“It feels good to hold the light, when there’s a lot of darkness around,” says the 18-year-old rapper Rashid, aka Psychs, whose recent music single, Spreading, which talks about the ‘virality’ of the ongoing Corona pandemic, has gone, ‘viral’. The single, which has the Britisher rapping about everything related to the disease has already crossed 1.2 million views on Twitter, and close to three million views on YouTube alone, ever since its release last week. “I am completely shocked by the sort of response I have got so far. The idea was to engage with people of my generation, the ones on social media. And to give them some information about this thing, that they can consume in a medium they like. It feels great when people are messaging me and telling me that they have learnt a lot from the song, and how it has helped them sort of cope with all of this,” he adds.  The song, as Psychs puts it, is a mix of “things that people could relate to” and “something that creates awareness” on a social level. “The lines about the football or the NBA being called off. Or the bits about schools getting shut down and things like that, were all written so that people could relate to it,” he says. “ But at the same time, the message of social distancing, which is the most important message right now had to be conveyed as well. Hence, the bits about don’t touch me, maintain a distance and things like that,” he adds. However, perhaps, the most important bit in the entire song is the part where Psych sends “love to the families, who have been infected”. “It is very important to not discriminate those who have been infected with this. You can’t even imagine what they must be going through. Even those, who are helping, and doing their bit to combat this situation. We have to send our love to them and their families as well,” he says. Interact with the author on Twitter/@sammysamarth||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/meet-psychs-the-rapper-spreading-awareness-about-coronavirus-pandemic/story-ugnTsuxgmU7Pot3qfAqvuO.html
25-03-2020||India||No one will go hungry during 21-day lockdown in Rajasthan: CM Ashok Gehlot||HighlightsRajasthan has reported 32 cases of coronavirusAshok Gehlot issued a series of tweets to assure people He also held a review meeting with officials, asked political leaders for helpRajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot has assured people in the state they will not face any problem during the unprecedented 21-day complete lockdown across the country announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to fight Covid-19.The chief minister, in a series of tweets, said he supported the Prime Minister’s lockdown decision and called for people to fight and defeat the coronavirus pandemic.“No prohibition on opening of shops selling essential commodities and no time limit had been fixed for these. Supply chain would remain smooth with opening of shops and there would be no crowd while buying items of daily use, which is the main objective of the lockdown (sic),” Ashok Gehlot tweeted.“During the #21daylockdown due to #CoronaPandemic, our foremost priority would be to ensure nobody goes hungry in #Rajasthan. We will do everything possible so that all poor, deprived & daily wagers get food and rations,” he said.The chief minister said stores should use vans for home delivery of necessary items so that people do not have to go to market frequently.“#Coronavirus can be kept at bay only through #Social_Distancing. The objective of lockdown is that people stay in their houses. Supply of essential services should be smooth during the #lockdown,” he said.Gehlot stressed the responsibility for the effective implementation of the three-week lockdown is on the police and district administration. “The District Collectors and the Superintendents of Police should ensure that the directions given for lockdown are completely followed, otherwise we will have to impose curfew in the state,” he said.“The common man should not face any kind of problem for the important works. For this, the system of issuing permit should be made online, for which Mobile Application or Email Id could be used,” he said in another tweet.The chief minister said district collectors should ensure that the poor, street vendors, rickshaw-pullers, labourers and other such people get food and rations. “For this, the Collectors should take help of voluntary organisations, philanthropists and others.”Gehlot also appealed to leaders of all political parties to ensure that food, ration and other essential commodities reach the poor, destitute and helpless people during this lockdown. Gehlot, during a meeting at his residence on Tuesday evening, urged NGOs, civil society organisations, patwari, gram sevaks, block development officers (BDOs), sub-divisional officer (SDOs) and beat constables to ensure people living in slums and those who collect rags or are destitute get food and ration.“The MPs and MLAs should use their local development fund for this,” he said. He said a state-level war room has been set up in Jaipur and more will come in all districts to be manned by senior officials to “to solve problems of people immediately and with sensitivity” around the clock.No new case of Covid-19 was reported Rajasthan on Tuesday with 32 coronavirus disease patients across the state in hospitals.The number of Covid-19 patients went up to 562 in India on Wednesday morning as at least 10 people were killed by the respiratory disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-one-will-go-hungry-during-21-day-lockdown-in-rajasthan-cm-ashok-gehlot/story-44r46uZPdKRFF4smWdNuAK.html
25-03-2020||India||Quarantine life sees a surge in online gaming||As the majority of the world, including India, self-isolates to stop the spread of the ongoing Corona pandemic, people are figuring out ways to pass these trying times at home. One of the industries to have benefitted from all the social distancing and self-isolation is the online gaming industry, which has seen a massive surge in the number of hours spent by Indian users in the world of online gaming. “Due to the current situation, staying indoors leaves one with plenty of idle time. This has resulted in more and more people indulging in online gaming. In the past few weeks, online gaming operators have seen an uptick in the number of downloads. This has led to the robust growth of 10-12% increase in user engagement in India during this pandemic,” says the CEO of All India Gaming Federation, Roland Landers. “We had a user base of 5,000 before the Coronavirus outbreak and now there are 6,000-6,500 people playing on our platform daily. Earlier time spent was two-and-a-half hours a day, now it has increased to somewhere around four hours. It is too early to comment on the overall impact, but we are looking at a 50-100% increase in the coming quarter,” says Varun Mahna, Founder and CEO of online video game Poker Dangal. Read| Katrina Kaif, Lisa Haydon, Kapil Sharma have hopeful messages for their fans amid Covid-19 outbreakFrom online games such as space warrior and bubble shooter to games which involve betting real time money such as adda 52 rummy and teen patti are being downloaded by more and more users every day. Industry experts say that the number of hours spent playing online and the number of games played online has grown to an all-time high.“During the weekend we observed the gameplay increase three folds on our platform! This trend is only increasing. We experienced a 30% surge in T1 traffic over the last week. The number of games played and time spent on the app grew to almost three times, recording an all-time high,” says Saumya Singh Rathore Co Founder of the vernacular social gaming platform WinZo. Outside of India too, the situation is similar, and according to a report in the British tabloid Independent, the massive spike online has even led to crashes and malfunctions across a number of gaming platforms and gaming websites. According to a popular video game analyst Daniel Ahmad, “Mobile games have also been impacted with Honor of Kings experiencing downtime recently as more than 100 million people try to log in each day, up from 60 million or so, prior to the lunar new year period”. Indian gaming companies are ready for the challenge, and are also trying to attract more users in the wave of the ongoing pandemic, which shows no signs of disappearing. “We are doing our bit to help people stay mentally fit in the wake of this crisis by creating better products and exciting tournaments on our platform,” says Ashish Bhakuni, the Head of Marketing at Adda52Rummy. “Companies are likely to come up with scenario-relevant content to drive engagement with players. This could mean new updates and features, new gaming variants etc, that grab user attention. Some companies may increase spends to on-board players, but if this goes on long-term then most changes will take place in-app as a way to maintain the active user base. We are currently doing something similar with limited-time promotions that will provide players with maximum value,” says Varun Ganjoo, the Co Founder of Baazi Games.Interact with the author on Twitter/@sammysamarth||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/quarantine-life-sees-a-surge-in-online-gaming/story-4Q3mJUchyZ2KtNmcYrdDnJ.html
25-03-2020||India||‘Little humour doesn’t hurt’: Omar Abdullah shares a meme on 21-day lockdown||After tweeting to offer tips on surviving a quarantine or lockdown, former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Omar Abdullah has a meme for “serious & scary times” up his sleeve.The National Conference leader has been tweeting regularly after he was released from detention on Tuesday after nearly eight months.And in one of them, he said he would do everything to help the authorities overcome the challenge coronavirus disease. He also tweeted about his “months of experience at my disposal”, saying he could even write a blog about it.On Wednesday, he tweeted a meme. “These are serious & scary times so a little humour doesn’t hurt,” Omar Abdullah tweeted. These are serious & scary times so a little humour doesn’t hurt. pic.twitter.com/V0NA7tb0sUThe meme shows him with his hand on his forehead and a text saying, “When you spend 236 days in lockdown, and on the day you get out, the govt imposes 21-day national lockdown.”He was referring to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement for the complete lockdown for three weeks on Tuesday evening across the country as the number of Covid-19 cases went beyond 530. In his first remarks after his release from detention, Omar Abdullah had asked the government to restore mobile data connectivity in the state so that the people could be made aware of the precautions to be taken to avoid coronavirus disease. Abdullah, who turned 50 earlier this month, said while speaking to reporters that he would speak on the scrapping of Article 370 at some point but for now, the immediate priority was to fight coronavirus disease.He asked people to take the precautions to avoid contracting this disease. “We’re fighting a battle of life and death,” Omar Abdullah said. Omar Abdullah was detained hours before the Centre moved Parliament to scrap Article 370, divided the state into two Union Territories and imposed restrictions in the Kashmir valley.He was initially detained under Section 107 of the Code of Criminal Procedure that empowers an executive magistrate to order a person to execute bonds “for keeping the peace”. Just before his detention was to expire in February 2020, the government invoked the Public Safety Act to hold him. This law empowers authorities to hold any person for two more years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/little-humour-doesn-t-hurt-omar-abdullah-shares-a-meme-on-21-day-lockdown/story-wOGLyLdcohoRCurWAs1TjI.html
25-03-2020||India||Coronavirus update: PM Modi to interact with people of Varanasi via video conferencing today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be interacting with the people of his parliamentary constituency, Varanasi, via video conferencing today on the issue of coronavirus. The PM’s interaction will take place today at 5 pm. “I will interact with the people of my constituency of Varanasi on the situation arising out of coronavirus. You can join this conversation through video conferencing at 5 pm on March 25. If you have any suggestion or question, can share it by going to the comment section of the NaMo app,” his tweet read. Will be interacting with the citizens of Varanasi via video conferencing on the 25th at 5 PM. Join the interaction directly via the NaMo App. Do also share your ideas and suggestions for it. #IndiaFightsCorona https://t.co/Q1F43UjeBsEarlier today, the prime minister took to social media and extended greetings in the event of the beginning of Navratri. The prime minister said that these festivals are being observed in testing times and called for everyone to celebrate inside their homes while following the lockdown directions. “We are celebrating various festivals across India and also the start of a New Year as per our traditional calendar. Greetings on Ugadi, Gudi Padava, Navreh and Sajibu Cheiraoba. May these auspicious occasions bring good health, happiness and prosperity in our lives,” PM Modi tweeted out. We are celebrating various festivals across India and also the start of a New Year as per our traditional calendar. Greetings on Ugadi, Gudi Padava, Navreh and Sajibu Cheiraoba.May these auspicious occasions bring good health, happiness and prosperity in our lives.“We are marking these festivals at a time when our nation is battling the COVID-19 menace. The celebrations will not be like they are usually but they will strengthen our resolve to overcome our circumstances. May we keep working to fight COVID-19 together,” another tweet read.On Tuesday evening, in his address to the nation of coronavirus, the prime minister called for a 3-week nationwide lockdown and urged people not to step out of their homes. PM Modi said the country will have to bear the economic cost of lockdown but saving the life of every citizen is his priority and the priority of the Central and state governments as also of local administrations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-pm-modi-to-interact-with-people-of-varanasi-via-video-conferencing-today/story-YIZHoXCiWiYVAJO5RCICtL.html
25-03-2020||India||‘May we keep working to fight Covid-19 together’: PM tweets as India marks festival under lockdown||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday extended his greetings to people celebrating several festivals and traditional New Year as he once again called for a united effort in fighting the Covid-19, the coronavirus disease that has infected more than 530 people and killed at least 10.The Prime Minister’s tweets came after he announced a 21-day lockdown on Tuesday evening, saying it was the only way to save people from the coronavirus and that “whatever happens, we stay at home”. Modi also tweeted in several languages to wish people as they marked these festivals.“Greetings on Ugadi, Gudi Padava, Navreh and Sajibu Cheiraoba. May these auspicious occasions bring good health, happiness and prosperity in our lives,” Modi tweeted.“We are marking these festivals at a time when our nation is battling the COVID-19 menace. The celebrations will not be like they are usually but they will strengthen our resolve to overcome our circumstances. May we keep working to fight COVID-19 together,” he added.As the nine-day festival of Navratri began on Wednesday, the Prime Minister also said he will pray for all those who have been working to help others during the coronavirus pandemic.“Navratri is beginning from today. I have been worshipping the Mother for years. This time I will dedicate my prayers for the health, safety and accomplishment of all the nurses, doctors, medical staff, policemen and media workers who are engaged in the fight against Corona who worship humanity,” he tweeted in Hindi.In his address to the nation on Tuesday evening, the Prime Minister had urged people to follow social distancing as the coronavirus-related disease cases and deaths mounted.“Experts are saying that social distancing is the only way to deal with the coronavirus crisis across the globe. There is no other way to deal with coronavirus and we need to save ourselves. And we have to break the cycle of its infection,” the Prime Minister said.He called out people to remove all doubts about who has to follow the practice of social distancing.“Some people are under the impression that social distancing is only for Covid-19 patients — it is for every member of the family and even the prime minister. And the wrong impressions and thoughts can bring a lot of trouble to their families, friends and the even the entire country,” he had said.“People will have to pay dearly and it will unimaginable,” he had warned.Hundreds of people had flocked to shops in several cities and towns across Karnataka on Tuesday to shop for Ugadi festival despite the government’s lockdown orders to prevent the spread of coronavirus. It came despite the stringent measure put in place across the state prompting police to cane-charge people in several places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/may-we-keep-working-to-fight-covid-19-together-pm-tweets-as-india-marks-festival-under-lockdown/story-A99RyHnqJopNhciYrpydSJ.html
25-03-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: States enforce coronavirus lockdown norms and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion curated for you at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.States enforce coronavirus lockdown norms, stay home or face a prison termHundreds of people were booked across the country for violating states’ lockdowns, with many being told to do sit-ups and squats on roads and some being cane-charged. There were also arrests for spreading rumours about Covid-19. Read more54-yr-old man with no travel history dies of Covid-19 in Tamil NaduA 54-year-old man, who had no recent travel history, died in Tamil Nadu’s Madurai after contracting Covid-19, the state’s health minister C Vijayabaskar said on Wednesday. Read moreCovid-19: What you need to know todayThe virus continues to rage through Italy, with 602 people dying on Monday alone. That number is lower than the 651 deaths seen on Sunday and the high of 793 on Saturday, but it is not clear whether the country has seen the worst. Read moreIn phone call with S Jaishankar, China makes a request on Covid-19During a phone conversation on Tuesday, state councilor and foreign minister Wang Yi told counterpart S Jaishankar that China hopes that India was “opposed” to the “narrow mindset” of using the phrase “China virus”. Read moreExclusive: No preparation, no talks; IPL unlikely till end of AprilEven if the nation-wide lockdown is lifted after April 14 and visas are granted to foreign cricketers a day after, it will take around 12-14 days for the grounds to be ready for hosting a tournament as big as IPL. Read moreIs coronavirus airborne? Does heat kill it?: Priyanka Chopra asks WHO chiefs questions about Covid-19Priyanka Chopra conducted an Instagram live conversation with WHO’s Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus and Dr Maria Van Kerkhove, and asked them the most pressing questions about the coronavirus. Read moreFlipkart temporarily suspends its services amid COVID-19 lockdownWalmart-owned Flipkart on Wednesday announced that it has temporarily suspending its services in India due to the coronavirus outbreak. Read moreGudi Padwa 2020: History, Significance and how the Maharashtra New Year celebrations will be different this timeGudi Padwa, also called Samvatsar Padvo, is celebrated on the first day of the Chaitra month of the Hindu calendar. It is the first day of the year for people of Maharashtra and Konkan region. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-states-enforce-coronavirus-lockdown-norms-and-all-the-latest-news/story-uw9SMAXTZhdm302ImYTCsL.html
25-03-2020||India||21-day nationwide lockdown, Disaster Management Act invoked: Key Covid-19 developments||In a bid to break the cycle of Covid-19 infection in the country, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday called for a 21-day long nationwide lockdown to fight coronavirus. Before India’s complete lockdown was announced by the PM on Tuesday evening, state governments warned those violating partial restrictions that they would be jailed for up to two years and their vehicles would be confiscated if they didn’t stay indoors.Here are key developments. 1. India has reported 536 coronavirus infections, 10 deaths. The 3-week lockdown in India aims to break the infection transmission chain2. Government to spend Rs 15,000 crores to ramp up healthcare infrastructure to face infection surge in the coming monthsAlso Watch l ‘Type of curfew’: PM Modi declares 21-day lockdown over COVID-19 3. Centre has issued guidelines on essential services, what people can and cannot do during the lockdown. Violators will be punished, can face prison time.4. National Disaster Management Act, 2005 has been invoked for the first time.5. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Tuesday announced a relief package for businesses, easing tax compliance and bankruptcy rules. 6. For half an hour after trading started on Tuesday, nobody bought or sold a bond on Reserve Bank of India platform. 7. Vegetable prices see a spike in most cities due to lack of connectivity, hoarding and panic buying.8. Centre has put a ban on the export of hydroxychloroquine with an immediate effect. The agent is used for the prevention and treatment of certain types of malaria.9. In his nationwide address on Tuesday, PM Modi said the country will have to bear the economic cost of lockdown but saving the life of every citizen is his priority and the priority of the Central and state governments as also of local administrations.10. Noting that the virus spreads like fire, the prime minister said that if care is not taken for 21 days, the country, a family can go behind by 21 years. Hundreds of people were booked across the country for violating states’ lockdowns, with many being told to do sit-ups and squats on roads and some being cane-charged. There were also arrests for spreading rumours about Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-21-day-nationwide-lockdown-disaster-management-act-invoked-key-covid-19-developments/story-2F4vi9K3mfKrqYhv5MA9sL.html
25-03-2020||India||RSS calls off shakhas, day after PM Modi’s message on social distancing over Covid-19||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat on Wednesday said Sangh volunteers should ensure that the government’s call for maintaining social distancing to prevent the spread of novel coronavirus (Covid-19) is adhered to.In his address to the cadres, Bhagwat said, “In these unprecedented times, when the entire world is grappling with the pandemic, volunteers must ensure that they do not break the protocols announced by the government.”A day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a 21-day lockdown, Bhagwat said India is also fighting the war with other countries and the Sangh volunteers are duty bound to contribute to the steps being taken to combat the spread of Covid-19.“We have to continue our work, but also stick to the rules. In the past, shakhas were closed for two years, but work went on. The 21-day lockdown has to be adhered to and our work can also go on,” he said.The RSS has called off its shakhas, or daily units, where volunteers congregate for prayers and other activities because of the pandemic.Bhagwat suggested that prayers can be held in smaller groups of five-seven within families. “In such unprecedented times, we can do this. We will adhere to the steps being taken by the administration in the fight against the pandemic,” he said.The RSS chief also said that Sangh’s volunteers are already helping the government in relief work. “It may be possible that we will be required to scale up our efforts; whatever is required wherever, will be done in keeping with the rules,” he said.Sangh volunteers in several districts have begun helping distribute masks, clean up hospitals and distribute food to the poor and needy.“Medicines and other essential items are there, but to break the chain of spread we need to make social distancing a success. It is the responsibility of society, it is the duty of the Sangh to stick to discipline and we have to follow this as well,” Bhagwat added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rss-calls-off-shakhas-day-after-pm-modi-s-message-on-social-distancing-over-covid-19/story-YhD6KI5uZQBPwBxsr9waiM.html
25-03-2020||India||Coronavirus Update: 54-yr-old man with no travel history dies of Covid-19 in Tamil Nadu||Tamil Nadu health minister Dr C Vijaya Bhaskar said early on Wednesday a 54-year-old man, who had not travelled abroad, died in a hospital after contracting the coronavirus disease, Covid-19.The patient was admitted at Rajaji Hospital in Madurai and had a history of prolonged illness with steroid-dependent chronic obstructive pulmonary disease COPD, uncontrolled diabetes and hypertension, Vijayabaskar said.“#update: Despite our best efforts, the #COVID19 +ve Pt at MDU, #RajajiHospital, passed away few minutes back. He had a medical history of prolonged illness with steroid dependent COPD, uncontrolled Diabetes with Hypertension.@MoHFW_INDIA @CMOTamilNadu (sic),” he tweeted. Madurai district collector TG Vinay said the man had shown symptoms of Covid-19, later tested positive and was on a ventilator for the last two day. Also Watch l ‘Type of curfew’: PM Modi declares 21-day lockdown over COVID-19 But the minister said the man had been in contact with a group of Thai nationals who came for a religious pilgrimage. Later, two of these pilgrims were tested positive and quarantined.The minister had said earlier that three new cases of Covid-19 disease were reported in the state and that the patients have been kept in isolation.“#coronaupdate: 3 new cases for #covid19 in Chennai. 65Y M return from New Zealand at Pvt.Hosp, 55Y F Saidapet at #KMC. 25Y M return from London at #RGGH. Patients are in isolation & under treatment.@MoHFW_INDIA @CMOTamilNadu (sic),” Vijayabaskar tweeted.Tamil Nadu, like Kerala, was one of the first states to take drastic measures to control the spread of the deadly virus. It has reported at least 15 Covid-19 cases till date.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had earlier reported 10 coronavirus-related deaths in India and about 536 confirmed cases across the country.Prime Minister announced a complete lockdown for three weeks on Tuesday evening across the country as the number of Covid-19 cases went beyond 530. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-54-yr-old-man-with-no-travel-history-dies-of-covid-19-in-tamil-nadu/story-GYNptVLD5O63zvu6SVoBIK.html
25-03-2020||India||Podcast: Author Madhuri Vijay on Her Award-Winning Book, “The Far Field”||In the wake of her mother’s untimely death, a young woman from Bangalore--born into a life of privilege--drops everything and travels to the opposite end of India--to the state of Jammu and Kashmir--to search for a long-lost figure from her childhood--an enigmatic Kashmiri man named Bashir Ahmed. What follows is a tale of romance, intrigue, conflict, politics, self-discovery, and tragedy. Readers will find this and much more in the best-selling novel, The Far Field, written by author Madhuri Vijay. The book won the 2019 JCB Prize for Literature, one of India’s most prestigious literary awards. The Washington Post book critic Ron Charles says that The Far Field “offers something essential: a chance to glimpse the lives of distant people captured in prose gorgeous enough to make them indelible — and honest enough to make them real.”This week, Milan Vaishnav (Director of the South Asia programme at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace) speaks with Vijay from her home in Hawaii. They discuss Vijay’s journey as a writer, her decision to set her book in Kashmir, and the surprising connections between her idyllic adopted home of Hawaii and the conflicted state of Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/author-madhuri-vijay-on-her-award-winning-book-the-far-field/story-maPb7M3foA65QUzW6C5a7J.html
25-03-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||How many people will die from Covid-19?And why is the range of any study reporting deaths so wide?For instance, the US Centre for Disease Control and Prevention estimates deaths between 200,000 and 1.7 million in that country. There are other estimates as well – and all with ranges as wide. There are no studies for deaths in India yet (and if there are any, they are premature and based on insufficient data – which means neither this writer nor this newsroom will consider reporting on them). There will be, but perhaps when the number of infections and deaths rises substantially. I say “when” although I very much want to say “if” – but it is always best to expect and prepare for the worst even as one hopes for the best.As of Tuesday, India has 536 infections, and ten deaths.Click here for complete coverage on coronavirus pandemicIf the experience of epidemic hotspots such as Italy’s Lombardy and New York City (and state) are any indication, this is the number at which things start to get hairy. But it isn’t necessary that the virus will follow the same trend everywhere. For instance, the New York Times, quoting Dr Deborah L Birx, who is coordinating the White House’s response to coronavirus, said that in NYC, 28% of tests are returning positive results, while in the rest of the country the rate is “less than 8%”.The virus continues to rage through Italy, with 602 people dying on Monday alone. That number is lower than the 651 deaths seen on Sunday and the high of 793 on Saturday, but it is not clear whether the country has seen the worst. Total deaths in Italy stood at 6,077 as of Monday night. On Tuesday, the total number of infections in the world were over 400,000, and deaths more than 18,000.The lockdown was smoother across India on Tuesday. And Prime Minister Narendra Modi extended it to the entire country for 21 days, effective midnight. That means it will last till April 15. Grocers and greengrocers, pharmacies and medical centres, continue to stay open – and the newspaper continues to be printed in most parts of the country. Many are concerned that the newspaper could transmit the infection. That seems unlikely . Most newspaper presses, including Hindustan Times’s are operations with a high-level of automation. And most are regularly fumigated and sanitised. All distributors and delivery people have also been made aware of the need to wash hands regularly, use sanitisers (which are provided), and gloves. Given all this, the chances of contracting the virus from the newspaper are actually lower than the chances of contracting it in some other way. And no doctor or health agency anywhere in the world has so far termed newspapers unsafe. People who are still not convinced (although there is no reason for them not to be) should ask for deliveries to be stopped – an additional point of stress of anxiety is something all of us can do without at this time – but continue to follow the websites or read the electronic (e-paper) version of newsrooms such as Hindustan Times, which they can trust. The university of WhatsApp can be diverting at normal times, but it isn’t a great source of factual information – especially at times such as these.Speaking of lockdowns, the one in Wuhan, the city in China’s Hubei province where the virus was first reported, will end on April 8, the Chinese government has announced. The city was put under a lockdown on January 23. The world will never know the true extent of the damage in the city. Nor will we ever know whether the pandemic could have been averted had China and the World Health Organization acted differently in December.And speaking of lockdowns, the big question to ask, in India and anywhere else where a lockdown has been enforced, is this: How should the government be using the time it has bought through a lockdown?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-Wc7TOJ7r3WEwD3iMlnr0nI.html
25-03-2020||India||Doctor couple resign over Covid-19 ward duty, get 24 hours to re-join or face action||A doctor in a government hospital in Jharkhand’s West Singhbhum district has resigned along with his doctor wife over his deployment in a coronavirus isolation ward through WhatsApp message and then an email, an official has said.Dr Manju Dubey, West Singhbhum civil surgeon, said on Tuesday she has served a 24-hour ultimatum on Dr Alok Tirkey asking him to re-join duty immediately following state health secretary Dr Nitin Madan Kulkarni’s directive in the morning.“As per health secretary’s directive, I have asked Dr Tirkey to join duty within 24 hours or else FIR will be lodged against him under Jharkhand Epidemic Disease (Covid-19) Regulation-2020 and Epidemic Disease Act, 1897. He may also face cancellation of his Medical Council of India (MCI) registration if he fails to join back duty immediately,” Dr Dubey said.She said they received Dr Tirkey’s resignation on WhatsApp on Monday night and on email on Tuesday morning. “He was earlier in the district under district mineral fund trust but had resigned to join newly-started Dumka Medical College Hospital (DMCH). He resigned from DMCH and re-joined here (Sadar Hospital) a few days ago and was deployed in coronavirus isolation ward three days ago,” said Dr Dubey.“Barring the couple, none of the other 23 doctors here in the Sadar Hospital has resigned or sought leave as of now,” she added.The civil surgeon said Dr Tirkey has cited health problems of his wife, Dr Soumya, in his resignation letter. Dr Tirkey is a specialist physician.Dr Tirkey, on the other hand, said he was a victim of ‘office politics’. “My wife and sister are in an immunosuppressive state and run a high risk of contracting an infection. Hence, we have sought to resign from our posts. My sister recently had a renal transplant,” Dr Tirkey said.“Anyway, I am not an escapist and will give my services for the time being. But will resign and leave this job after Covid-19 crisis is over in a month or so,” he added.He said people of Chaibasa know how he served them during his last tenure in the city. “I had re-joined here four days ago in non-communicative disease department but was deputed alone in corona isolation ward the next day. Why other doctors were not posted in the isolation ward and how could I manage the rush of patients alone,” alleged Dr Tirkey.“I took care of the isolation wad from 10am to 1pm on the first day without a protective kit. So was the scene in DMCH, where most of the medicines were not available to treat patients coming in,” he said.India is under a complete nationwide lockdown for 21 days as the number of coronavirus disease, Covid-19, cases in India crossed 530 and the death toll rose to 10. The eastern state has not reported any Covid-19 cases so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/doctor-couple-resign-over-covid-19-ward-duty-get-24-hours-to-re-join-or-face-action/story-gfr5i3mwxmxwhffSHCWewM.html
25-03-2020||India||Covid-19: Govt’s Plan B to keep working during lockdown||It was an office memorandum with an innocuous title: “Preventive measures to contain the spread of Covid-19”. In reality, though, it was a critical notice — of curtailed but effective government functioning that applied not just to ministries but all public-sector undertakings and autonomous institutions. And it detailed the government’s Plan B to keep the business of governance going. In these uncharted times, when whole communities have been shut down and the Union government itself is hunkering down, the country’s leaders and bureaucrats are not flying blind in the fog of a globally unprecedented pandemic. In running a nation of its size and to remain effectively in charge, while enforcing social distancing within the government, the Centre is working off the plan. The plan, which enforces social distancing, was vetted at multiple levels and signed off on by the two top bureaucratic establishments, the Cabinet secretariat and the ministry of personnel, according to details provided by at least five government officials, all of whom spoke on condition of anonymity. HT reviewed some routine tasks, such as agenda-setting and approvals, performed during normal times by departments, but more onerously now, to gauge how a heavy-set central government is still running its business.The “highest priority” in day-to-day administration is to “assist states”, keep some of the largest federally funded “national programmes running” and run all divisions involved in financial decision-making, one official said. Steering schemes, such as PM-KISAN in agriculture (a cash transfer scheme aimed at farmers) and metro rail under urban development ministry, has been classified as “essential”.As the lockdown became certain, the National Informatics Centre worked urgently to configure software and fix remote access to dedicated management information softwares (MIS), the massive IT platforms that run the largest national schemes, such as PM KISAN, direct benefit transfers, subsidies and national pensions. Lockdown or no lockdown, people dependant on such payments have to get them. The remote access is through internet connections from state-owned telecom firms, but private-owned leased lines have been kept as back-up, a second official said.In India’s federal structure, subjects are divided by the country’s Constitution to be divided between states and the Centre. It’s the official work on the long list of “central subjects”, from aviation to national security, that various ministries and their line departments must keep going. Yet, in important fields with a dual Centre-state jurisdiction, such as agriculture and health, Centre’s role is no less critical. “Information during this critical time may be imperfect. Working hours may be longer. Staff may be less. But the government is not flying blind,” a third official, at the additional secretary-level, said. The first step in devising the plan mentioned above, which was given shape starting March 14-15, was to prune the “unessential” or “non-critical”, a fourth official said. One example is tasks that don’t involve financial approval. Second, each ministry communicated its own plans to the Cabinet Secretariat; these were vetted several times before the final roadmap was sent to the “highest levels” for approval, the second official said. On March 20, the ministry of personnel (order no. “F.No. 11013/9/2014-Estt A-III), following up on two trial orders issued by it on March 17 and 19, asked a set of intermediate-level employees known as group B and C to be rostered in alternating batches. This was the start of a trial in social distancing within the government. In that notice, all consultants, who provide critical inputs for decision-making and many of whom are retired bureaucrats, above the age of 60 (and therefore considered vulnerable to the disease), were asked to work from home. Finally, came the definitive notice to all ministries, the Prime Minister’s Office and the National Informatics Centre, the government’s IT arm, was sent out from North Block on March 22. Sujata Chaturvedi, who is “additional secretary to the government of India”, signed off on it. This was the Plan B. It asked heads of departments to “draw up a roster of staff (all officers and employees, including consultants/contract and outsourced employees) who are required to render essential services within each department”. “They alone may be asked to attend office from 23rd March to 31st March, 2020”. What is considered “essential” was the discretion of each secretary of departments functioning under each Union minister, who was also required to approve it. The order did not apply to any employee on the Centre’s rolls tasked with any activity directly or indirectly related to fighting the coronavirus outbreak. What the rest of India didn’t know at the time was that this notice would be followed by a similar “advisory” to all states through chief secretaries from the Centre. It is this advisory that became the basis of many states going into nearly simultaneous lockdowns till March 31, the federally determined cut-off date for the first phase of the shutdown, the third official said. So, how has government day-to-day functioning changed and how are decisions being taken now in a rapidly alarming public-health scenario?A mandatory daily task in all ministries, critical because it involves agenda-setting, decision-making and review, is a conference known as “senior officers’ meeting”. The jargon for it in ministries is SOM. Usually, it’s one of the first businesses in a ministry although it can be held any time of the day. Decisions taken there are passed down to line units and departments.These meetings are usually called by the secretary or sometimes delegated to additional or special secretaries. One ministry usually has several departments under it. For example, the agriculture ministry also has the department of agri-research. The finance ministry has the departments of economic affairs and revenue, among others. These meetings are taking place as usual but with some participants on video call, depending on who has been allotted “work from home”. In every room, entry gates and conference halls, sanitisers have been placed and it is mandatory to use them before any meeting. A fifth official, at the joint secretary level, said he was dictating decisions and minutes of meetings to be “put up” on file over the phone for note-making and drafting. In normal times, he would summon the note-taker into his room. The government already runs fully on e-governance platforms, but a crucial rule requires that all decisions are physically signed. This practice hasn’t changed because government memorandums (as decisions are formally known) mandatorily require the hand and seal of the competent authority according to central office rules. “Functioning will not be affected at all because of the rostering. About 90% of decisions are usually in the nature of approvals, financial or otherwise. These can still be taken via emails and the sign can be put on a later date. That’s no issue,” said SK Pattanayak, former agriculture secretary who is currently the director of the Hyderabad-based Administrative Staff College.“Video-conferencing is the key know. When the final matter is ready, it is printed, signed physically and then faxed and mailed to relevant officials,” the fifth official added. Some practices are so ritualistic and a legacy of the colonial British era that e-governance doesn’t mean everything. Each decision has to be manually filed in paper and a “true physical copy” still needs to be sent out to each recipient, whether downwards to a junior official or to a higher authority in the same building or in other establishments within the capital. This means that essential vehicles, drivers and courier personnel are functioning as they otherwise do, but only in a limited number. “The current staff strength is down to about 15%,” the second official said, but most secretaries heading departments are attending their offices.“Understand that government people are working, whether in office or from home, just like you,” Pattaniak said.The lockdown may be on, but the state is working.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-govt-s-plan-b-to-keep-working-during-lockdown/story-IJ0aZcgEOVRhBwjMmzdLMI.html
25-03-2020||India||Coronavirus Update: UK extends visa of stranded Indians until May 31||The Boris Johnson government on Tuesday evening granted visa extension until May 31 of Indian citizens currently in the UK who are unable to travel to their destinations in India and elsewhere due to travel bans in various countries.The extension comes as some relief to Indians whose visas were about to expire in the near future but were stranded due to the inability to travel out of the UK. These include some Indians who were transiting through the UK to India. Many had booked tickets on flights that were cancelled.The extension will apply to anyone whose leave expired after January 24 and who cannot leave the country because of travel restrictions or self-isolation; it lasts until May 31 but will be kept under regular review in case further extensions are needed, the Home Office said.Several Indians had approached the Indian high commission to resolve the impasse in recent days. Some Indian students also demonstrated in the mission, while officials arranged their accommodation in hotels and worked with British officials to ensure that such individuals are not penalised and the visas extended.India has similarly extended the visas of UK and other foreign nationals currently in India for tourism and other purposes but are unable to leave the country due to airlines stopping flights out of India.The Home Office said a dedicated Covid-19 immigration team has been set up for the purpose, and asked anyone with expired or expiring visas to contact it, via email CIH@homeoffice.gov.uk. They will then be issued with the extension, it added.To help those who want to apply for visas to stay in the UK long-term, the Home Office is also temporarily expanding the in-country switching provisions. This will mean people can apply to switch routes, such as from Tier 4 (student) to Tier 2 (General Worker), whilst remaining in the UK.Home secretary Priti Patel said: “The UK continues to put the health and well-being of people first and nobody will be punished for circumstances outside of their control. By extending people’s visas, we are giving people peace of mind and also ensuring that those in vital services can continue their work”.Those who contact the Home Office for the visa extensions will be expected to return to their home countries as soon as possible once flight and border restrictions are lifted. No action will be taken during this time for those who email the Home Office for the extension.In light of the current advice on self-isolation and social distancing, the Home Office is also waiving a number of requirements on visa sponsors, such as allowing non-EU nationals here under work or study routes to undertake their work or study from home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-uk-extends-visa-of-stranded-indians-until-may-31/story-gTIbBdxtwR3lu45rY4pcqJ.html
25-03-2020||India||Covid-19: States start earmarking special hospitals and expanding ICUs||New Delhi: Several states have begun making special arrangements for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients, earmarking special hospitals, designating schools to be turned into isolation wards and expanding regular and Intensive Care Unit (beds) in existing facilities in order to brace for a possible surge in numbers.The move came two days after cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba suggested in a meeting with officials from all Indian states to have a hospital earmarked for the disease and to step up surveillance and contact mapping. Eight states – Uttarakhand, Maharashtra, Assam, Punjab, Chandigarh, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka – either named government or private facilities to be turned into dedicated isolation beds. Some other states, such as Rajasthan, announced sweeping plans to turn village panchayat buildings and schools into temporary hospitals.“Many states have informed us that they have begun work on keeping a dedicated hospital ready to manage only Covid-19 cases. These facilities will be equipped with all necessary items such as personal protection equipment, including N-95 masks, gloves and glasses, ventilators etc,” said Lav Aggarwal, joint secretary, Union ministry of health.As many as 22 private super speciality hospitals have agreed to provide 1,000 beds, including 300 beds in separate rooms. All of them will be equipped with ventilators and monitors.Apart from these states, the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi, has also readied its 800-bed National Cancer Institute in Jhajjar to be used as an isolation facility in case Covid-19 positive cases were to go up.“We have to stay prepared,” said Aggarwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-states-start-earmarking-special-hospitals-and-expanding-icus/story-YmCUU5EZwFoRGrCgbpSJtN.html
25-03-2020||India||Covid-19 awareness: DD, AIR to air special bulletins||New Delhi: Public service broadcasters Doordarshan (DD) and All India Radio (AIR) will air special bulletins on the coronavirus (Covid-19) outbreak while other programmes and services like the ones meant for other countries will be put on the back burner.According to a plan devised by Prasar Bharati, which oversees DD and AIR’s functioning, the bulletins will be telecast live on the AIR, DD National, DD News, and DD .DD News and DD India will also have bilingual hour-long morning and evening shows in Hindi and English dedicated to the outbreak. The slots will be widely advertised. A “good news segment” will be focussed on recoveries and fight back against the virus.Channels like DD Bharati, DD Kisan, DD Sports will no longer have live shows. DD Urdu will simulcast DD News, according to the plan. Regional channels will have a mix of programmes, which would include the ones being telecast nationally and those relevant to particular regions and states.“It is important for the public broadcaster to disseminate accurate information, keep the mood positive and also counter misinformation. As most stations are working below normal strength, it is a challenge,” said an official. DD and the AIR are functioning with reduced manpower in view of measures put in place across the country to halt the spread of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-awareness-dd-air-to-air-special-bulletins/story-6OaypolA3kJBGmepyayMbI.html
25-03-2020||India||To cut losses, tourism min suggests revision of GST||New Delhi: The Union tourism ministry may ask for a revision of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) for the tourism industry, and that earnings of the sector be made tax free for the next six months in view of the losses it has incurred due to the global coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, according to officials familiar with the matter. The ministry had sought recommendations for the sectory from industry bodies, including the Indian Association of Tour Operators (IATO), Federation of Associations in Indian Tourism and Hospitality (FAITH), World Travel & Tourism Council, and the Confederation of Indian Industries on March 19. The ministry will send these recommendations to the Union finance ministry’s task force with a request to include tourism as one of the sectors that need a financial bailout, said a ministry official requesting not to be named.The foreign exchange earned by the sector in March 2017 was Rs 14,667 crore, Rs 17,222 crores in March 2018 and Rs 16,125 crores in March 2019. April forex figures for the years 2017 was Rs 14,260 crores, Rs 15,620 crores for 2018 and 17,061.In the domestic trade, which accounts for the major chunk of the trade, over 1.5 billion tourist visits are clocked in annually. In 2016 there were 1.61 billion domestic visits, 1.67 billion in 2017, and 1.85 billion in 2019.In 2019, 10.89 million foreign tourists visited India as per tourism ministry data. And forex earning in 2019 stood at Rs 2,10,981 crore.The GST Council tweaked tax slabs for the industry in September last year. The GST for rooms with tariffs of Rs 7,500 and above was brought down from 28% to 18%, and for rooms that cost between Rs 1,000 and Rs 7,500 from 18% to 12%. According to FAITH, around 4,500 hotels are being unable to run because of the pandemic. Subhash Goyal, chairperson of industry body Assocham’s Tourism Council and honorary secretary of the FAITH, said that the estimate is from members of hotel consortiums. Of the 4,500 hotels, 3,500 have shut down completely, he said, while many of the rest are running with skeletal staff. “Of those that still have jobs, most are working without pay,” said Goyal, warning that there may be massive layoffs unless a bailout package is announced. Pronob Sarkar of IATO said that since April-July are low months, the industry depends on earnings made between December and March. “With closedowns in March, people are functioning with reduced pay. If there is no bailout, we are staring at job losses of lakhs,” said Sarkar.The associations have written letters to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman last week seeking an immediate intervention. They have estimated losses in excess of Rs 5 lakh crore to the tourism industry and almost twice that allied economic activity.“As a result of this pandemic, the Indian tourism industry is looking at pan-India bankruptcies, closure of businesses and mass unemployment. It is believed that around 70% out of a total estimated workforce of 5.5 crores (55 million direct and indirect) could get unemployed,” the letter written to the PM reads.In the letter, the industry bodies have asked for a moratorium of 12 months on EMIs and interest on loans from all financial institutions, as well as the doubling of working capital limits. They have demanded a deferment by a year for payment of all dues such as GST, advance tax payments, Customs duties, and a fund to support salaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-cut-losses-tourism-min-suggests-revision-of-gst/story-6bg8DIv8Ld56XmiwY931gO.html
25-03-2020||India||First private lab starts testing, 28 samples screened on Day 1||On Tuesday, Dr Lal PathLabs became the first private lab in India to begin testing for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) after receiving approval from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to do so on Monday. Since Sunday, ICMR has approved 26 private labs for testing and sample collection of Covid-19.Dr Lal PathLabs tested 28 swab samples on Tuesday despite movement of people being restricted with the city being in lockdown.“The samples have been received both from private hospitals and individuals. While hospitals are sending us samples directly, we send teams for home collection to individuals. The restriction in movement has made it a bit difficult for our handlers who are facing problems in commuting, but we still managed to get 28 samples,” said Vandana Lal, director, Dr Lal PathLabs.Indraprastha Apollo Hospital, which also received permission from ICMR to start testing on Monday, will begin testing on Wednesday in a separate sample-collection isolation facility it has created away from the main hospital building.“This has been done to ensure there is no possibility of intermingling of patients. Ideally, we would want people to call the hospital before coming in but even for walk-ins who want to consult a doctor for Covid-19 symptoms, the hospital staff have been trained to direct them towards the isolation facility. We are going to start by Wednesday as last minute things are being sorted out ,” said Dr Anupam Sibal, group medical director, Apollo Hospitals.Only those people who fulfil the government of India’s criteria for Covid-19 testing will be tested, said the labs and hospitals doing the testing.Private hospitals have been inundated with queries since Sunday about where and how to get tested. Dr Lal Pathlabs has created a separate helpline (011-3988-5050) to handle the rush of queries related to Covid-19 testing on Tuesday.“We already have about 30-40 queries from people interested in getting tested. We have created a list of FAQs to inform people who is eligible to be tested. It is important for people to know it is not a walk-in facility,” said Lal.To be eligible to get tested, labs are asking for a duly filled form by a qualified physician, along with signature and stamp and government identity card to support the current address and contact number of the suspected case at the time of sample collection.“The number of queries is huge, and we are telling everyone that it is not a walk-in test. People must know that the criteria have been very clearly laid out by the ICMR, and those criteria will be strictly adhered to. Those who do not meet the criteria will not be tested,” said Dr Sibal.The testing criteria remain the same: symptomatic people with a history of international travel, or those with close contact with a laboratory positive case even though asymptomatic, and symptomatic health care workers. Those showing symptoms will be given priority.Ten more private laboratories were approved for testing on Tuesday, taking the total number to 26 across India.Of the 10 new laboratories approved on Tuesday, three are headquartered in Maharashtra (A.G. Diagnostics, Pune, Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani Hospital, Mumbai, InfeXn Laboratories, Mumbai), two from Telangana (Vijaya Diagnostic Centre, Hyderabad, Vimta Labs, Hyderabad), two from Karnataka (Kasturba Hospital Lab Services, Manipal, Cancyte Technologies, Bengaluru), one from Gujarat (SN GeneLab, Surat), one from Tamil Nadu (Neuberg Ehrlich Lab, Chennai) and one more from Delhi (Max Super Speciality Hospital, Saket). To test in the government sector, two more laboratories have been added, taking the number of government labs to 118.“Together we have scaled up the testing capacity to 12,000 tests per day. The 26 lab chains that have been approved have about 15000 collection sites across India, which effectively means access to testing has increased by nearly double,” said Dr Raman R Gangakhekar, epidemiology head, ICMR, in a briefing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-private-lab-starts-testing-28-samples-screened-on-day-1/story-kPsMb0wARIlXcf1b8Y4gHL.html
25-03-2020||India||Covid-19: Students stranded in Bangladesh told to return to hostels||New Delhi/Kolkata: A group of some 100 Indian students from medical colleges in Bangladesh will not be allowed to enter the country through a border crossing in West Bengal in view of restrictions in movements from other countries and within India, people familiar with developments said on Tuesday.The students, mostly from Kashmir, have been stranded on the Bangladeshi side of Benapole border crossing since Monday evening following the sealing of the frontier. The students posted a video on social media on Tuesday asking the external affairs minister and home minister to allow them to enter the country.“We are 70 Kashmiri students. We study in various medical colleges across Bangladesh. We are stuck at the Benapole border since 6 pm on Monday. Our colleges and hostels are closed and we were asked to vacate the hostels and go back home. But the borders are closed and we are not allowed to enter. We are hungry and will wait at the border till we are allowed to enter,” one of the students said in the minute-long video.DIG SS Guleria of the Border Security Force (South Bengal frontier headquarters), or BSF, said the number of students at the Benapole crossing had increased throughout Tuesday to 100.“But the BSF has nothing to do with it. The Bureau of Immigration will have to take a call,” Guleria said.A person familiar with developments in New Delhi said: “The students are advised to go back to their hostels in the interest of their health and safety and also of the community.”The people cited above, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the principals of the concerned colleges in Bangladesh had denied reports that the students were asked to vacate their hostels and confirmed they would be accommodated in the hostels.“The students reached the border despite advice to the contrary from the Indian high commission in Bangladesh and knowing full well the restrictions in force in India due to Covid-19,” the person cited above said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-students-stranded-in-bangladesh-told-to-return-to-hostels/story-yrMlriHN5WYqYcBBV1MDGM.html
25-03-2020||India||Govt’s Plan B to keep working during lockdown||It was an office memorandum with an innocuous title: “Preventive measures to contain the spread of Covid-19”. In reality, though, it was a critical notice -- of curtailed but effective government functioning that applied not just to ministries but all public-sector undertakings and autonomous institutions. And it detailed the government’s Plan B to keep the business of governance going. In these uncharted times, when whole communities have been shut down and the Union government itself is hunkering down, the country’s leaders and bureaucrats are not flying blind in the fog of a globally unprecedented pandemic. In running a nation of its size and to remain effectively in charge, while enforcing social distancing within the government, the Centre is working off the plan. The plan, which enforces social distancing, was vetted at multiple levels and signed off on by the two top bureaucratic establishments, the Cabinet secretariat and the ministry of personnel, according to details provided by at least five government officials, all of whom spoke on condition of anonymity. HT reviewed some routine tasks, such as agenda-setting and approvals, performed during normal times by departments, but more onerously now, to gauge how a heavy-set central government is still running its business.The “highest priority” in day-to-day administration is to “assist states”, keep some of the largest federally funded “national programmes running” and run all divisions involved in financial decision-making, one official said. Steering schemes, such as PM-KISAN in agriculture (a cash transfer scheme aimed at farmers) and metro rail under urban development ministry, has been classified as “essential”.As the lockdown became certain, the National Informatics Centre worked urgently to configure software and fix remote access to dedicated management information softwares (MIS), the massive IT platforms that run the largest national schemes, such as PM KISAN, direct benefit transfers, subsidies and national pensions. Lockdown or no lockdown, people dependant on such payments have to get them. The remote access is through internet connections from state-owned telecom firms, but private-owned leased lines have been kept as back-up, a second official said.In India’s federal structure, subjects are divided by the country’s Constitution to be divided between states and the Centre. It’s the official work on the long list of “central subjects”, from aviation to national security, that various ministries and their line departments must keep going. Yet, in important fields with a dual Centre-state jurisdiction, such as agriculture and health, the Centre’s role is no less critical. “Information during this critical time may be imperfect. Working hours may be longer. Staff may be less. But the government is not flying blind,” a third official, at the level of additional secretary-level , said. The first step in devising the plan mentioned above, which was given shape starting March 14-15, was to prune the “unessential” or “non-critical”, a fourth official said. One example is tasks that don’t involve financial approval. Second, each ministry communicated its own plans to the Cabinet Secretariat; these were vetted several times before the final roadmap was sent to the “highest levels” for approval, the second official said. On March 20, the ministry of personnel (order no. “F.No. 11013/9/2014-Estt A-III), following up on two trial orders issued by it on March 17 and 19, asked a set of intermediate-level employees known as group B and C to be rostered to work in alternating batches. This was the start of a trial in social distancing within the government. In that notice, all consultants, who provide critical inputs for decision-making and many of whom are retired bureaucrats, above the age of 60 (and therefore considered vulnerable to the disease), were asked to work from home. Finally, came the definitive notice to all ministries, the Prime Minister’s Office and the National Informatics Centre, the government’s IT arm, was sent out from North Block on March 22. Sujata Chaturvedi, who is “additional secretary to the government of India”, signed off on it. This was the Plan B. It asked heads of departments to “draw up a roster of staff (all officers and employees, including consultants/contract and outsourced employees) who are required to render essential services within each department”. “They alone may be asked to attend office from 23rd March to 31st March, 2020”. What is considered “essential” was the discretion of each secretary of departments functioning under each Union minister, who was also required to approve it. The order did not apply to any employee on the Centre’s rolls tasked with any activity directly or indirectly related to fighting the coronavirus outbreak. What the rest of India didn’t know at the time was that this notice would be followed by a similar “advisory” to all states through chief secretaries from the Centre. It is this advisory that became the basis of many states going into nearly simultaneous lockdowns till March 31, the federally determined cut-off date for the first phase of the shutdown, the third official said. So, how has government day-to-day functioning changed and how are decisions being taken now in a rapidly alarming public-health scenario?A mandatory daily task in all ministries, critical because it involves agenda-setting, decision-making and review, is a conference known as “senior officers’ meeting”. The jargon for it in ministries is SOM. Usually, it’s one of the first businesses in a ministry although it can be held any time of the day. Decisions taken there are passed down to line units and departments.These meetings are usually called by the secretary or sometimes delegated to additional or special secretaries. One ministry usually has several departments under it. For example, the agriculture ministry also has the department of agri-research. The finance ministry has the departments of economic affairs and revenue, among others. These meetings are taking place as usual but with some participants on video call, depending on who has been allotted “work from home”. In every room, entry gates and conference halls, sanitisers have been placed and it is mandatory to use them before any meeting. A fifth official, at the joint secretary level, said he was dictating decisions and minutes of meetings to be “put up” on file over the phone for note-making and drafting. In normal times, he would summon the note-taker into his room. The government already runs fully on e-governance platforms, but a crucial rule requires that all decisions are physically signed. This practice hasn’t changed because government memorandums (as decisions are formally known) mandatorily require the hand and seal of the competent authority according to central office rules. “Functioning will not be affected at all because of the rostering. About 90% of decisions are usually in the nature of approvals, financial or otherwise. These can still be taken via emails and the sign can be put on a later date. That’s no issue,” said SK Pattanayak, former agriculture secretary who is currently the director of the Hyderabad-based Administrative Staff College.“Video-conferencing is the key know. When the final matter is ready, it is printed, signed physically and then faxed and mailed to relevant officials,” the fifth official added. Some practices are so ritualistic and a legacy of the colonial British era that e-governance doesn’t mean everything. Each decision has to be manually filed in paper and a “true physical copy” still needs to be sent out to each recipient, whether downwards to a junior official or to a higher authority in the same building or in other establishments within the capital. This means that essential vehicles, drivers and courier personnel are functioning as they otherwise do, but only in a limited number. “The current staff strength is down to about 15%,” the second official said, but most secretaries heading departments are attending their offices.“Understand that government people are working, whether in office or from home, just like you,” Pattaniak said.The lockdown may be on, but the state is working.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-s-plan-b-to-keep-working-during-lockdown/story-O9gIMA8D2e1yHxsQXhBwBP.html
25-03-2020||India||Coronavirus pandemic: PM lauds print media’s credibility||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday stressed on the importance of tackling the spread of pessimism, negativity and rumour mongering while fighting the coronavirus pandemic and specifically asked the print media, which he said has “tremendous credibility” to act as a link between government and people and provide continuous feedback, at both national and regional levels to help in the fight against COVID-19.At an interaction with stakeholders from print media from across the country through video conferencing, the Prime Minister urged media houses to not only ensure their credibility is maintained by reporting facts, but also give a platform to efforts being made to control the spread of the global pandemic that has led to nine deaths in India.Union minister for information and broadcasting, Prakash Javadekar, was also present on the occasion.According to a statement issued by the government, the PM said that while the media has played a praise-worthy role in disseminating information about the pandemic to every nook and cranny of this nation, it needs to take the message to micro levels. He reminded the media of its social responsibility towards the less privileged and said it is critical to improve social cohesion to safeguard our national security, said the statement issued by the government. According to a person aware of what transpired at the meeting, the Prime Minister asked print media to provide readers with news they could use.While the PM, in his address to the nation on Thursday, urged people to follow the protocol of social distancing, on Tuesday he underlined the need to inform the public about the steps being taken to ensure health checks and the protocols to be followed to stem the virus from spreading. Citizens need to be assured that the government is committed to countering the impact of COVID-19, he said.The PM said it is imperative to keep the fighting spirit of the people up; and pointed out that newspapers carry tremendous credibility. The local pages are widely read, he added. It is therefore imperative that awareness about coronavirus is spread through articles published on this page, the statement said.The statement further said, the PM also asked newspapers and their websites to carry essential information about where the testing centres are, who should get tested, whom to contact to get tested, and how to follow home isolation protocols.He also suggested that information about the location of availability of essential items during the ongoing lockdown should be shared on the regional pages. To step up measures to create awareness about the virus, he said media should highlight the impact of spread of the virus, through inclusion of international data and case studies about other countries in the papers.“The PM also took suggestions from the participants who joined the video conference from across the country. There were over 20 participants from 14 locations and represented both national and regional media, representing 11 different languages,” said a second person familiar with what happened at the meeting.The second person said that media representatives apprised the PM of various concerns including the difficulties being faced by newspaper vendors and deliver people in collecting and distributing newspapers and in combating rumours that papers can be carriers of the virus. It was suggested that the government make it easier for the newspaper vendors and delivery people to move around during a lockdown.“They also suggested that in this time of crisis, the government should organise regular briefings and have systems in place for information dissemination,” the person quoted above said.Some of the media representatives also apprised the PM about the steps being taken by them to convey information to the masses such as focused coverage on the local pages; highlighting the protocols for social distancing to be followed and highlighting success stories and efforts being undertaken by healthcare workers.“The stakeholders from print media appreciated the role played by the Prime Minister in communicating effectively and leading the country from the front. They said that they will work on the suggestions of the Prime Minister to publish inspiring and positive stories. They also thanked him for reinforcing the credibility of print media and noted that the entire nation has followed his message of coming together to face this grave challenge,” the statement said.The PM, who is scheduled to address the nation at 8pm on Tuesday, also met stakeholders from electronic media channels through video conference on Monday and spoke about the emerging challenges in the wake of COVID-19 spread.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-pandemic-pm-lauds-print-media-s-credibility/story-KeWsaJyyuhqpqZXSJM8XWL.html
25-03-2020||India||Covid-19: Scientists dispel fears on safety of newspapers||New Delhi: No one has been infected by coronavirus (Covid-19) through newspapers or packages with scientific research showing the virus does not survive on porous surfaces. The particular sterility of newsprint makes newspapers safe, the world’s top scientists and researchers have said.A study published in the New England Journal of Medicine, the world’s most-cited research journal, on the varying stability of the coronavirus on different surfaces found that the lowest transmission possibilities were through copper because of its atomic makeup and cardboard because of its porous texture. The transmission was highest through aerosols and higher through plastic and stainless steel, the study found.The coronavirus loses half its potency every 66 minutes and is only one-eighth as infectious three hours after landing on a surface, and has 2% potency after six hours, researchers found. It lasts longest on smooth, non-porous surfaces , and can stay live on plastic and stainless steel with steadily lowering potency for two to three days. The virus does not last on cardboard after 24 hours, and lasts even less on newsprint, which is far more porous than cardboard.Experts have dismissed the misinformation that newsprint can cause Covid-19 across continents. “Newspapers are pretty sterile because of the way they are printed and the process they have been through. Traditionally, people have eaten fish and chips out of them for that very reason. So all of the ink and the print makes them actually quite sterile....,” Prof George Lomonossoff, a project leader in the Department of Chemistry at the John Innes Centre, Norwich, told BBC.Leading experts, including from apex health research and public health organisations, as well government centres tasked with tracking and containing infections in India, have also dismissed misinformation regarding newspapers as potential carriers of Covid-19, saying it has no scientific basis.National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) director Dr Sujeet K Singh said it is untrue that newspapers can be a source of Covid-19 infection. ”There is no evidence to suggest that. If it was happening, we would have said so to stop the infection. What we know about the virus, for sure, right now is that it spreads largely through droplets and fomites [infected surfaces], not newspapers,” said Singh.The NCDC (Delhi) and Pune’s National Institute of Virology are two premier labs that have been testing samples for Covid-19 since the first two cases from Delhi and Hyderabad were reported on March 2.Dr BK Tripathi, a medicine professor at Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital, where 14 Covid-19 and 50 suspected cases are in an isolation ward, echoed Singh, saying that claims of newspapers being able to transmit the infection is misinformation. “Towels, doorknobs, handles, plastic objects are known as fomites... But all [other[ articles we use in our daily lives will not transmit the infection. Newspapers do not transmit the infection,’’ said Tripathi. Tripathi underlined the virus cannot survive in the open air for more than four to five hours. “In closed humid areas, the virus can survive for days as is the case with doorknobs, car keys etc. There is no recommendation to stop reading or getting newspapers. They [newspapers] are providing very important information,” he said. Nivedita Gupta, a senior scientist with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)’s epidemiology division, said they have no evidence to suggest the virus can be spread through newspapers or items like milk packets. “I do not think we should stop getting these things...,” said Gupta, whose organisation is tasked with tracking and documenting Covid-19 cases.Dr Amit Singh, an associate professor with the Centre for Infectious Disease Research at Bengaluru’s Indian Institute of Science, cited a 2011 study on the 2009 H1N1 virus outbreak and added that a virus does not survive on porous surfaces like paper, cloth or tissue, but stays up to 48 hours on surfaces like steel, plastic, glass, aluminium etc. “This is simply because the protein envelope of a virus disintegrates easily in dry, porous surfaces. The viruses may last only for about four hours on such surfaces. This is based on evidence from the H1N1 flu epidemic.”The World Health Organization, in the myth busters section on its website, addresses the question on whether it is safe to receive a package. “Yes. The likelihood of an infected person contaminating commercial goods is low and the risk of catching the virus that causes Covid-19 from a package that has been moved, travelled, and exposed to different conditions and temperature is also low.” Dr T Jacob John, an emeritus professor at Vellore’s Christian Medical College, said newspapers are not the probable source of any infection. “A few human hands touch newspapers before they reach our homes. If one of these people are infected, there is a chance that some viruses may be deposited on the paper. But they will not jump out of the paper at you. They do not survive in the air. You do not need to stop newspapers. All you need to do is wash your hands after reading them and that is something you should be doing anyway,” said John, who is also a former head of the ICMR’s Centre for Advanced Research in Virology. Dr Dilip Mavlankar, the director of Gandhinagar’s Indian Institute of Public Health, said there are no infections reported because of newspapers. “I think it is too much of a stretch of the imagination. What are the chances that somebody will cough on your newspaper? If people are very concerned, they can keep newspapers out in the sun for an hour. The virus would not survive in the open in the heat,” he said. Dr Gupta said the survival of a virus depends on many factors like the type of surface, temperature, and humidity, among others. “Now, in the Indian context, we do not have data on how long the virus may survive on different kinds of surfaces because there is no rampant community transmission. So far, in all cases, people were infected either when they travelled abroad or when they came in contact with a Covid-19 positive person.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-scientists-dispel-fears-on-safety-of-newspapers/story-mTDz6MKjPmVWU2Pt7TR5OP.html
25-03-2020||India||After three-week national lockdown, will Census 2021, NPR be deferred?||The 21-day national lockdown announced on Tuesday has thrown into doubt the 2021 Census and updating of the National Population Register (NPR) that was scheduled to begin on April 1, with officials saying a final call is yet to be taken on the exercise. The first phase of Census 2021 – the house listing phase – and the updating of NPR database was to start in New Delhi area, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Lakshadweep and in Meghalaya from April 1. The process was to also to be carried out in other states in a phased manner, as per the convenience of and as notified by states and completed by September 30.“It is an emergency situation and we will wait and watch on how to proceed. No final decision has been taken,” said a senior government official on condition of anonymity. The Union home ministry, however, did not officially clarify. The National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) – that functions under the Union Home Ministry – will be issuing “necessary guidelines” to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), a statement of the ministry said.India’s fight against Covid-19 was so far being led by the Union health ministry in coordination with other arms of the government. By invoking the Disaster Management Act 2005 the government has consolidated the efforts under the NDMA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-three-week-national-lockdown-will-census-2021-npr-be-deferred/story-cth0QflOWrSsakPI9LF0pO.html
25-03-2020||India||Covid-19: Cops get more power to stop rule-breakers||New Delhi: Minutes after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a 21-day nationwide lockdown, Union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla issued directions saying anyone found violating the containment measures will be punishable by jail terms of up to two years under the National Disaster Management Act (NDMA) and the Indian Penal Code (IPC).In an order, Bhalla listed essential services and people who are exempt from the restrictions imposed. “Any person violating these containment measures will be liable to be proceeded against as per the provisions of Section 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, besides legal action under Section 188 of Indian Penal Code,’’ the order said. Under the IPC’s Section 188, people found flouting the lockdown may face jail terms up to six months or fine up to Rs 1,000 or both. The Sections 51 to 60 of the NDMA deal with obstructing government servants in performing their duties, making false claims while seeking any relief, misappropriation of money or goods, creating false alarm, or government servants failing to follow the guidelines, companies violating the orders. Under the NDMA, a person refusing to abide by the directions of the government can be jailed for one year in first instance and up to two years in the second offence. For spreading rumours, the law provides for jail term of up to a year or fine of Rs 1,000 or both. The law also provides for taking action against government officials and corporates for failing to comply with government directions. The Centre has also authorised the district magistrates to implement the lockdown orders. Former Uttar Pradesh police chief Prakash Singh said these provisions are deterrents because they give powers to police to tell people that they have to go indoors and follow government directions else action will be taken against them. “Police won’t be interested in arresting hundreds of thousands of people.”LN Rao, a retired Delhi police officer, said the law says that if anyone violates any government notification, then police have discretion to arrest or warn that person. “A person is eligible to get bail from the police station for this violation but such notifications should not be violated, particularly in a situation like this...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-cops-get-more-power-to-stop-rule-breakers/story-20SiyL4B3rVhSpcjt5KcjI.html
25-03-2020||India||Covid-19: Disaster Act invoked for the 1st time in India||New Delhi: The 21-day national lockdown imposed by the Narendra Modi government to combat the spread of Covid-19 , and which starts at 12.01 am Wednesday is the first time provisions of the National Disaster Management Act, 2005, are being invoked. In an order issued by the home ministry, the home secretary as chairperson of the National Executive Committee of the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) issued guidelines for the national lockdown for 21 days. The guidelines allow for essential services such as food, utilities, health care, and law and order. Many parts of the country were already under a lockdown till March 31. A home ministry statement said the decision for a national lockdown was taken at a meeting of the NDMA chaired by the Prime Minister on Tuesday to ensure”uniformity in the measures adopted” and their implementation. As on Monday evening, 32 states and Union Territories had enforced lockdowns with some ordering a curfew as well, leading to some confusion over what is allowed and what is not.The lockdown means all rail and air services will also be suspended till April 15. The statement said the uniform lockdown guidelines would ensure “effective measures” for social distancing needed to contain the spread of the pandemic. “The implementation of the orders will be monitored by MHA,” the statement said. This marks the first time, since the law came into being after the 2004 Tsunami that hit the eastern coast of India killing about 10,000 people, that the NDMA has invoked it . The sections 6 and 10, under which the lockdown order was issued, give the NDMA powers to prepare national plans for disaster management and ensure its implementation through the state disaster management authorities in a uniform manner. By invoking this provision, the authority will become the nodal central agency for coordinating with all state governments to contain the pandemic, ensure uniform disaster management plans, and provide relief funds to the states for disaster management. “The invocation of the act will ensure better coordination between the Centre and the states and create health infrastructure to cope with community spread, if it happens very fast. The National Disaster Management Act has more clarity than the Epidemic Disease Act, 1897, a colonial era law,” said former NDMA vice-chairperson MS Reddy. Reddy termed the national lockdown as important decision and said invoking the law will give the government much more power than the Epidemic Act does; the health ministry and several state governments had issued lockdown orders under the latter. He said the disaster law empowers the Centre to take action against anyone obstructing implementing of national plans, including government officials. “The National Disaster Management Act has much more clarity about various issues related to any calamity including health pandemic,” he said. The law provides a wide range of powers to the NDMA chairperson, the PM, to seek any “men or material resources” for the purposes of emergency response across the entire country or any specific part of the country. It gives emergency powers to the chairperson to deal with the disaster doing away with bureaucratic processes. The law also allows state disaster management authority chairpersons to exercise similar powers within the state jurisdictions. Subhash Kashyap, former secretary general of Lok Sabha, said the powers under the disaster law could create a parallel system of disaster management to help doctors and paramedics and can augment government services. The Constitution does not provide the Centre direct powers to declare a national emergency for medical and pandemic reasons.There are three types of national emergencies --- national security (Article 352), state (Article 356) and financial (Article 360) defined under the Constitution. While national emergency has been invoked thrice, state emergencies have been imposed several times. Financial emergency has never been imposed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-disaster-act-invoked-for-the-1st-time-in-india/story-EN3YGrEuxhnl6EzqrlreWM.html
25-03-2020||India||States enforce coronavirus lockdown norms, stay home or face a prison term||The number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in India crossed 500 and the death toll rose to 10 as more regions came under the shadow of the Sars-CoV-2 pathogen, prompting the government to scale up its response by announcing a complete nationwide lockdown on Tuesday, even as hundreds were booked for violating restrictions.A 65-year-old Covid-19 patient, who recently returned from the United Arab Emirates (UAE), died in Mumbai, taking the number of deaths in Maharashtra to three. Across India, the case count went up to 536, with 10 fresh cases on Tuesday.Before India’s complete lockdown was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday evening, state governments warned those violating partial restrictions that they would be jailed for up to two years and their vehicles would be confiscated if they didn’t stay indoors.Hundreds of people were booked across the country for violating states’ lockdowns, with many being told to do sit-ups and squats on roads and some being cane-charged. There were also arrests for spreading rumours about Covid-19. In Jharkhand, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Haryana, violators could be seen with posters stuck on their bodies that said “they were enemies of society and did not stay at home”. In Kanpur, the police made several violators stand with their hands raised for over 30 minutes.Earlier in the day, the Centre asked the states and Union territories to clamp curfew wherever necessary in the wake of people defying lockdown orders.Thirty-two states and Union territories have announced complete lockdowns till March 31 to deal with the pandemic. About three quarters of the country was under lockdown till Tuesday before the Prime Minister announced that the country was going into a complete lockdown for 21 days.The 65-year-old who died of Covid-19 had returned from the UAE to Ahmedabad. He complained of fever, cough and difficulty in breathing, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said. He was brought to the Kasturba Hospital in Mumbai on March 20 for treatment, but his condition deteriorated. He had pre-existing ailments, including high blood pressure and diabetes, the statement said.The earlier nine deaths have been recorded in Maharashtra (2), Bihar, Karnataka, Delhi, Gujarat and Punjab, West Bengal and Himachal Pradesh.According to latest data of the Union health ministry, the total number of Covid-19 cases is 536. Thirty-seven people have recovered, as per the official data. As cases of the viral infection surge, authorities have banned gatherings and suspended road, rail and air traffic in unprecedented steps till March 31.Top officials of the central government spoke to chief ministers on Tuesday and told them that large gatherings could lead to an escalation of the crisis.Police enforced lockdowns across large parts of India as health officials warned that the coronavirus was slowly spreading from big cities to small towns.Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said those violating the lockdown in the state will be booked for offences leading to jail term between six months and two years. The Punjab government announced jail term of up to one year and a fine for violating curfew conditions. The Chandigarh administration will detain all those who venture out of their homes without a valid reason. It also issued orders to convert a cricket stadium in Sector 16 and the Manimajra sports complex into temporary jails for violators.State governments in Odisha, Punjab and Rajasthan have also started initiating action against those ostracising people who are in quarantine. People who have recent travel history for affected countries like Italy, the US and China have been put in mandatory home isolation or at government-run quarantine facilities.“We have put up quarantine slips clearly stating that people will be booked for ostracization,” said an order issued by the Odisha government, which also warned against spreading rumours about Covid-19. Similar orders were also issued by state governments of Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan and Karnataka. In Uttar Pradesh, the police registered at least 350 FIRs, issued about 5,000 fines and seized about 250 vehicles in 17 districts where the lockdown was announced on Sunday and Monday. On Tuesday, the lockdown was extended to all 75 districts.The police used public address systems to ask people to stay at home . In Gujarat, 426 people were detained for flouting quarantine norms and another 238 people were booked for violating lockdown, said Gujarat director general of police Shivanand Jha.In Rajasthan, the police booked 148 people for spreading Covid-19 rumours and another 28 for violating the lockdown.“It is the need of the hour that all the people who are either in home or facility quarantine, need to maintain strict vigil, and practise social distancing, and personal hygiene. Special care needs to be taken of the elderly, pregnant women and children,” Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-enforce-lockdown-norms-stay-home-or-face-a-prison-term/story-cNpetIADKpRmUTIAZBUp9J.html
25-03-2020||India||In phone call with S Jaishankar, China makes a request on Covid-19||Beijing has urged India not to use “China” to describe the novel coronavirus, saying it could stigmatise the country and would be detrimental to international cooperation.During a phone conversation on Tuesday, state councilor and foreign minister Wang Yi told counterpart S Jaishankar that China hopes that India was “opposed” to the “narrow mindset” of using the phrase “China virus”.The coronavirus outbreak, or the Covid-19 disease, first emerged from the central Chinese city of Wuhan in December.The Chinese government has lately argued that it might have been found first in central China but there was no proof it originated there.Also Watch l ‘Type of curfew’: PM Modi declares 21-day lockdown over COVID-19  Chinese diplomats have led a worldwide campaign to convince host governments not to use the phrase “China virus”.“Wang Yi said it’s not acceptable and detrimental to international cooperation to label the virus and stigmatise China, hope India oppose such a narrow mindset. Dr. Jaishankar agreed not to label the virus and the international community should send a strong signal of solidarity,’’ the Chinese envoy to India, Sun Weidong said in a tweet on Tuesday evening.The Chinese foreign ministry spokespersons in Beijing have also been vocal in its opposition against the use of the phrase, and have strongly criticised the US for using it.“China has repeatedly reiterated that some individuals in the US have deliberately linked the new coronavirus to China and constantly stigmatised China. The Chinese people are strongly indignant and resolutely opposed to this. Both WHO and the international community are clearly opposed to linking viruses to specific countries and regions, and against stigma,” the Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson, Geng Shuang said at the regular ministry briefing on Tuesday.Tweeting about the phone conversation between Wang and Jaishankar, Ambassador Sun quoted the Chinese minister as saying that China was “…confident that India can handle and win the battle against Covid-19. China and India should support each other, and jointly safeguard global public health.Wang expressed sympathy and solidarity with India in the fight against Covid-19. “China is ready to share our experience, provide assistance within our capacity and open its channel for procurement to India,” Wang was quoted as telling Jaishankar by SunJaishankar thanked China for its sympathy message and assistance of medical materials to India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-outbreak-in-phone-call-with-s-jaishankar-china-makes-a-request-on-covid-19/story-EnVHkTnK1bXFGCHR8XgZGP.html
25-03-2020||India||As Covid-19 cases rise in Kerala health workers face patients’ fury||Angry at the delay in being served tea a Covid-19 patient, allegedly attacked a nurse in the isolation ward on Tuesday while another health worker was slapped by a man for reporting authorities about his violation of quarantine norms.In Kozhhikkode former MP AK Premajam of the CPI (M) allegedly misbehaved with workers who came to inquire about her son who had returned from abroad and was quarantined at home. Premajam refuted the allegations saying she only questioned them when “they behaved with her son as if he was a convict”. Police said in all three cases accused were booked and said strict action will be taken against those who attack or insult health workers who are working overtime in the fight against coronavirus. Kerala which reported India’s first three cases of coronavirus in January, is now struggling with a constantly rising number of infected people this month.Police said a man who had returned from Muscat and was quarantined in Kollam (south Kerala) after local people complained about his free run, got furious when his tea was delayed. Since he insisted on home-cooked food his family was sending him food packets. Though the nurse informed his kin about his demand for tea, he was angry when it was delayed and attacked her.Also read: PM Modi announces all-India lockdown over Covid-19, will be in place for 21 daysThe nurse who had been working at the isolation ward without any break for two weeks, was injured and was admitted to the same hospital, police said.In another case a 27-year-old man, also returned from the West Asia, barged into the house of an Asha (social worker accredited with health ministry) worker in Malappuram and attacked her saying she had informed health officials about him flouting quarantine norms. The woman who was seriously injured was hospitalised. The man was later arrested and quarantined at the medical college hospital. Follow coronavirus live updates hereSwimming against the tide the state government has given instructions to police to deal with such persons sternly. In worst-hit Kasaragod (north Kerala) police have seized the passports of two persons who slipped out home quarantine and transmitted the virus to many others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-covid-19-cases-rise-in-kerala-health-workers-face-patients-fury/story-O9u3YCbpb4cNAfq5p6HeBI.html
25-03-2020||India||In warning to lockdown violators, KCR threatens shoot-at-sight orders||A furious Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Tuesday threatened to impose round-the-clock curfew, bring in the army and issue shoot-at-sight orders, if the people continue to violate the lockdown orders. The chief minister held a high-level review meeting in the evening following reports of six more positive cases for Sars-Cov-2 virus, taking the overall positive cases in the state to 39.There was widespread violation of lockdown restrictions in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh on Monday.The meeting took place shortly before Prime Minister Narendra Modi in an address to the nation announced a countrywide lockdown for three weeks from Tuesday midnight. The Centre also invoked the Disaster management Act to enforce the lockdownAccording to the latest official bulletin released by the Telangana medical and health department, a 49-year old man, resident of Kokapet in Rangareddy with travel history from London reported positive for coronavirus. The second patient is a 39-yr old woman from Chandanagar in Ranga Reddy district with travel history from Germany.Follow coronavirus live updates here.And the third patient is a 61-yr old housewife from Begumpet in Hyderabad with travel history from Saudi Arabia. “All of them are undergoing treatment in the hospital and their condition is stable,” the bulletin said.Speaking to the media after the review meeting, KCR, as Rao is better known, regretted that many people were not taking the lockdown seriously. “See what has happened in the US? When the people did not take the lockdown seriously, the US government had to hand over the entire country to the Army. I request the people of Telangana not to give scope for such a situation. Please don’t force the government to impose 24-hour curfew and issue shoot-at-sight orders,” he said.He announced that there would be a virtual curfew in the entire state from 7 pm to 6 am every night. “If people have any emergency situation, they can dial 100 and the government would extend all help,” he said.The chief minister also warned the traders against raising prices of essential commodities by taking advantage of the lockdown. “We shall cancel their licences and invoke preventive detention act to prosecute them,” he said.He also called upon all the elected representatives to enforce the lockdown.In Andhra Pradesh, there was one fresh case of Sars-Cov-2 virus on Tuesday – that of a 25-year old man who came from London to Srikalahasti in Chittoor district via Chennai on March 19. He was admitted to Ruia Hospital in Tirupati, where he tested positive.An official bulletin by AP government said so far, 76 samples had been tested in the state of which 61 were negative and results of 14 other samples were pending.“In all, 14907 people returned from abroad since March 1 and of them, 13290 are in home isolation and 84 are still in hospital quarantine,” the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-pm-s-covid-19-lockdown-order-telangana-cm-threatened-24-hr-curfew/story-84UrfXKGF5nTxAzV0jgceM.html
25-03-2020||India||Indian students from Bangladesh ignored high commission’s advice, won’t be allowed to cross border||A group of some 100 Indian students from medical colleges in Bangladesh will not be allowed to enter the country through a border crossing in West Bengal in view of restrictions in movements from other countries and within India, people familiar with developments said on Tuesday.The students, mostly from Kashmir, have been stranded on the Bangladeshi side of Benapole border crossing since Monday evening following the sealing of the frontier. The students posted a video on social media on Tuesday asking the external affairs minister and home minister to allow them to enter the country.“We are 70 Kashmiri students. We study in various medical colleges across Bangladesh. We are stuck at the Benapole border since 6 pm on Monday. Our colleges and hostels are closed and we were asked to vacate the hostels and go back home. But the borders are closed and we are not allowed to enter. We are hungry and will wait at the border till we are allowed to enter,” one of the students said in the minute-long video.DIG SS Guleria of the Border Security Force (South Bengal frontier headquarters) said the number of students at the Benapole crossing had increased throughout Tuesday to 100.“But the BSF has nothing to do with it. The Bureau of Immigration will have to take a call,” Guleria said.A person familiar with developments in New Delhi said: “The students are advised to go back to their hostels in the interest of their health and safety and also of the community.”The people cited above, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the principal of one of the concerned colleges in Bangladesh had denied reports that the students were asked to vacate their hostels and confirmed they would be accommodated in the hostels.“The students reached the border despite advice to the contrary from the Indian high commission in Bangladesh and knowing fully well the restrictions in force in India due to Covid-19,” the person cited above said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-students-from-bangladesh-ignored-high-commission-s-advice-won-t-be-allowed-to-cross-border/story-wOYKP8nTKJqXDckZiCzVfO.html
25-03-2020||India||Pakistan goes AWOL from Saarc’s list of contributors for Covid-19 fund||Pakistan is the only member of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (Saarc) that hasn’t contributed to the Covid-19 Emergency Fund for the grouping that has already received commitments worth $18.8 million. The fund, created with an initial contribution of $10 million from India, was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi during a video conference of leaders of the eight Saarc states on March 15 to forge a coordinated approach to tackling the Coronavirus outbreak.So far, the other contributions to the fund include $1 million from Afghanistan, $1.5 million from Bangladesh, $100,000 from Bhutan, $200,000 from the Maldives, $1 million from Nepal, and $5 million from Sri Lanka.Also Watch l Coronavirus: Pakistan minister raises J&K at SAARC meet; Gautam Gambhir slams “It [the contributions] truly reflects the deeply shared sense of determination in the participating countries to act together,” the external affairs ministry said in a statement.People familiar with developments said there had been no pledge for the fund so far from Pakistan, which was the only country that wasn’t represented by a head of government at the March 15 video conference.Prime Minister Imran Khan had stayed away from the conference. Islamabad was instead represented at the video conference by its de facto health minister Zafar Mirza. The minister had also created a flutter by raising the Kashmir issue during the video conference, prompting Indian officials to say later that Pakistan had sought to politicise a humanitarian issue.The people cited above, who spoke on condition of anonymity, noted that even a country such as Afghanistan, with its limited resources and budgetary constraints, had pledged $1 million.The Pakistan government’s approach to tackling the Covid-19 outbreak has been deeply criticised within the country by experts and commentators. The Pakistan Army deployed its troops and medical resources on Monday after the civilian government dithered on the issue of a lockdown.The Covid-19 Emergency Fund has been operationalised and is being used to meet the costs of immediate actions. The requirements of urgent medical supplies and equipment in Saarc countries are being met through the fund.The Saarc Disaster Management Centre in Gandhinagar has created a website on Covid-19 for shared use by member states. The website aims to disseminate reliable information and updates on the evolving situation in the region and best practices with the active participation of member countries.“The numbers of Covid-19 cases in all Saarc countries have been growing steadily, further reinforcing the need for all to act in fullest solidarity to address the challenge and mitigate its impact,” the statement said.A video conference of senior health professionals of Saarc states is scheduled for March 26 so that they can exchange experiences in combating the spread of Covid-19, including specific protocols dealing with screening at entry points, contact tracing, quarantine and isolation facilities.The discussions in this conference will also focus on practical joint action on online training capsules for emergency response teams, setting up an “integrated disease surveillance portal”, creating a common research platform and coordination of research on controlling epidemics within South Asia.“It is India’s belief that sharing of resources, expertise, best practices and capacities in these challenging times would go a long way in bringing the countries in the Saarc region closer together,” the statement said.The March 15 video conference was the first Saarc-related initiative by India since a summit of the grouping scheduled to be held in Pakistan in 2016 was called off after a terror attack on an army camp at Uri in Kashmir. Since then, India has expended more diplomatic capital in shoring up alternative groupings such as Bimstec.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-goes-awol-from-saarc-s-list-of-contributors-for-covid-19-fund/story-wcXAA4CREdY3mUgz35fqkO.html
