26-03-2020||India||Shut illegal meat markets, animal rights bodies to govt amid Covid-19 pandemic||Five national animal protection organisations have asked Union health minister Harsh Vardhan to shut illegal meat markets, unlicensed wildlife and pet markets with immediate effect.In a joint letter to the minister, the People for Animals (PFA), Humane Society International/India (HSI/India), Mercy for Animals India Foundation (MFA), Federation of Indian Animal Protection Organizations (FIAPO) and Ahimsa Trust, said there are “unhygienic conditions” in which animals are raised and slaughtered/sold for food.The letter also said the government should take “immediate action” against markets that do not follow food safety guidelines (FSSAI guidelines) to prevent the emergence of novel diseases and spread of the current coronavirus disease.The outbreak of Covid-19 is said to have emerged from a meat and wildlife market in Wuhan, China, in December 2019, it said. In just a few months, the virus has infected half a million people and killed over 22,000 people world over.Gauri Maulekhi, Trustee, People for Animals, said, “Increase in industrial slaughter and factory farming of animals, the unchecked trade in wildlife and crowding of various species of animals in close confinement has been an invitation to deadly epidemics. The connection is unmistakable. Let’s learn from our mistakes. We are hopeful that the Ministry of Health undertakes the suggested measures to rectify this crisis and safeguard this country’s health.”The letter also said while regulations for slaughtering and transport of animals are unimplemented, there is no protocol for trait selection and housing of poultry or swing rearing. It also cited a Food and Agriculture Organisation report released in 2007 to say unsanitary and intensive confinement of animals grown for meat, the slaughterhouses, are fertile grounds for pathogen evolution and zoonotic transfers.The novel virulent strains emerging from such conditions can result in pandemics that claim human & animal lives alike, the letter said, citing various research papers published on the subject in the past two decades.“The science is clear, unless we act now on and end intensive confinement in animal agriculture, shut down live animal/meat markets, such disastrous pandemics will continue to be commonplace,” said Maulekhi, in the letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shut-illegal-meat-markets-animal-rights-bodies-to-govt-amid-covid-19-pandemic/story-MYGWzNg3IGHkxEg9U4DOUL.html
26-03-2020||India||Researchers race to get new, repurposed drugs approved||Researchers are racing to get approval for new and repurposed drugs and treatments that protect against severe forms of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) with no hope for a vaccine before 2021, . Infusing the antibody-rich blood plasma of people who have recovered from Covid-19 was approved for use as a treatment for critically ill patients in the US on Wednesday.Two New York city hospitals, Mount Sinai and Albert Einstein College of Medicine plan to start plasma — the liquid component of the blood that contains antibodies — therapy early next week, even as three protocols for clinical trials were submitted for approval to the US Food and Drug Administration.Most recently used in China to treat Covid-19 patients, plasma or antibody therapy has been used to treat infections since the 1890s. A Lancet report said that during the Spanish Flu pandemic in 1918, it lowered death rates by 21%, according to a meta-analysis of eight studies involving 1,703 patients from 1918-1925. In China, seven of 10 patients given antibody therapy recovered with their viral loads going to undetectable levels, according to preliminary findings published in medRxiv, the preprint server for health sciences. The results of several other studies from China on this are yet to come.“It (antibody therapy) has been used against other viral infections with varying success. It lowered viral load and deaths in people with severe acute respiratory infections during the H1N1 (swine flu) pandemic of 2009-10, and improved survival in patients with severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) not responding to treatment,” said Dr G C Khilnani, chairman of PSRI Institute of Pulmonary and Critical care in New Delhi, and former head of pulmonology at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) New Delhi. The WHO has recommended its use against Ebola virus disease during outbreaks, and issued protocols for its use to treat Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS).India, along with the rest of the world, has fast-tracked approvals of repurposed drugs and therapies to lower severe disease and death till a vaccine for Covid-19 is available. “The goal is to speedily take research to implementation by facilitating collaborations for new tests and diagnostics, re-purposing drugs approved for other purposes, and testing for effectiveness against Sars-CoV-2,” said K VijayRaghavan, the principal scientific advisor to the government of India and the co-chair of Empowered Committee for Covid-19 Response.“It’s too early to say how well re-purposing will work, there are some early leads, but outcomes of rigorous tests are yet to come,” he added.On average, it takes a decade to develop a new drug, with only one in five experimental molecules to treat infectious disease treatments reaching the clinical trials stage, according to data from the Biotechnology Innovation Organization, the world’s largest biotech trade association.India this week approved the use of anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine in treatments against Covid-19, to protect people at high risk of infection and banned the export of finished drug and its component ingredients, of which it is the world’s largest manufacturer.“The Indian Council of Medical Research approved hydroxychloroquine as a prophylaxis for people at high-risk, such as health workers and immediate contacts of a positive case, after a small study in France found it led to significant reduction in viral load in Covid-19 patients. I have to caution that it is not a prophylaxis for the general population and must not be used as such,” said Dr Khilnani, who is also a member of Delhi government’s committee on Covid-19 response.India has so far approved the combination of two antiviral drugs used to treat HIV, lopinavir and ritonavir (400 mg and 100 mg, respectively) to treat Covid-19. The first major study of Covid-19 treatments found it did not work on severely ill patients in China, according to a randomised, controlled trial on 199 hospitalised patients in China published in The New England Journal of Medicine on Wednesday.The experimental antiretroviral remdesivir, which failed as an Ebola treatment, successfully prevented disease in rhesus macaques infected with Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (Mers-CoV), according to a new study by scientists at the US National Institutes of Health. Remdesivir prevented disease when administered before infection and improved the condition of macaques when given after infecction, said the study published in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. Six large studies are in progress, with the first, in severely ill patients in China, due next month.A repurposed commonly-used clot-busting drug may also work as an emergency measure for novel coronavirus (Covid-19) patients suffering from acute respiratory distress when ventilators are not available or not all that effective, according to researchers at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) and the University of Colorado at Denver, Colorado. Emerging data from China and Italy showed that Covid-19 patients have severe blood-clotting disorders that lead to respiratory failure and death. The clot-busters made from a protein called tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) that is given intravenously to people after a cardiac arrest or stroke to dissolve blood clots, and is easily available across India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/researchers-race-to-get-new-repurposed-drugs-approved/story-esYIozbd9ulPic4DHRIb1K.html
26-03-2020||India||Day 2 of lockdown: Supply of essential goods improves, but deficit raises prices||New Delhi: On Thursday, Day 2 of the 21-day lockdown, the supply of essential goods was better than on Wednesday, although there were complaints of shortage of medicines, milk, vegetables and also a spurt in the prices of essential food items because of supply constraints. The police continued to arrest and book people who came out in violation of the lockdown regulations.While Amul (The Gujarat Co-operative Milk Marketing Federation) and Mother Dairy, in separate statements, said their supply was at par with normal days at most locations, smaller dairy companies expressed apprehension of disruption in supply if the shortage of raw material and workers continued in the absence of curfew passes.Milk supply in cities such as Mumbai, Pune, Patna and Lucknow may get affected as supply from villages has fallen. Local district officials said instructions were being issued to police to allow vehicles carrying milk from villages to local milk collection centres.“As per our information, the milk supply from villages was less today and we have only seven days stock of coal needed for processing of milk. If the situation continues, it will be difficult to supply milk to cities,” said DV Ghanekar, managing director of Gokul Milk, which supplies a million liters of milk to the Mumbai Metropolitan Region every day.In cities such as Delhi, Dehradun and Mumbai, the Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) wholesale market started full operations on Thursday, albeit with reduced inflows of fruits and vegetables. There were also very few workers to unload the few trucks that arrived.Vishal Sethia, a wholesale pulse trader in Mumbai said, “There is panic and many of the labourers have left for their villages. Only one-sixth of the workforce I have reported for work today.” In Delhi’s Azadpur wholesale fruit and vegetable market, more trucks arrived (than on Wednesday) although the offtake was not high because of mobility restrictions for fruit and vegetable vendors, said commission agents at the market.In Goa, there was no supply of milk and bread because of a complete lockdown. Chief minister Pramod Sawant’s plan to home-deliver food, including milk, proved to a non-starter. For Panaji, having population of 150,000, there are only three phone numbers listed for home delivery of milk. “I am also attentive to the fact that people are not getting things on time. We will take about two days to put systems in place,” Sawant said. However, residents have approached Bombay high court at Goa seeking directions to the state government to ensure supply of essential goods.In Punjab and Chandigarh, the administration reported that they have received requests for curfew passes for calling a barber to home, to take dogs for morning walks, and from VIPs seeking curfew passes for their gunmen and cooks. The Punjab government, in a statement, said most of the essential goods were being supplied adequately.In Odisha, the main vegetable market of Bhubaneswar, which operates in a congested space, was relocated to a thoroughfare with traders and shoppers asked to line up while maintaining distance. The state police also started a helpline for goods truck drivers carrying essential goods in case they faced problems.In Uttarkand, the state government started home delivery of food and medicines for senior citizens and students, who live alone. The government also announced that it would soon notify regulations to penalise shopkeepers hoarding essential items as complaints of price spikes were reported from various parts of the state. The state also issued orders that all essential goods also be sold in fair price shops. The state government also assured people that they have stock of pulses and cereals for three months. In Jharkhand and Bihar, people faced problems in getting cooking gas cylinders and there was rush at the local cylinder distribution centres. In order to prevent chaos, the two state governments announced doorstep delivery of LPG gas cylinders. The Ranchi administration also issued phone numbers and mobile applications for doorstep delivery of ration and vegetables.In Assam, one of the very few states not to report any Covid-19 positive case, the state government has set up a 1,000-bed quarantine facility at Sausajai stadium in Guwahati; a similar one in another stadium within the city is also planned.The government has also taken on rent an apartment complex near the quarantine facility where nearly 200 doctors can stay. It will become operational within the next few days. Health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said there was no shortage of essential goods in the state.The Confederation of Indian Industry in a letter to the consumer affairs ministry has said that there is ambiguity in the lockdown orders issued by various local authorities, with the term grocery not clearly defined, resulting in short supply of items such as floor cleaners and toiletries and oral hygiene products such as tooth paste and toothbrushes. “As you know that at present personal and home hygiene has become extremely important to fight the Covid 19 Virus,” the letter said, seeking necessary clarification to the states from the government.(With inputs from state bureaus)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/day-2-of-lockdown-supply-of-essential-goods-improves-but-deficit-raises-prices/story-ycRRx8MITRtpcdEKm70GAK.html
26-03-2020||India||In Odisha, 12 migrant workers set an example; stay put in self-quarantine||When Bhajaman Nayak of Kumbharapipiliguda village in Kalahandi district boarded the Alappuzha-Dhanbad Express from Thrissur in Kerala on March 21 along with 11 others including his brother Harikanta, little did he know of the hardships that awaited him. Nayak, who works in a firecrackers factory of Thrissur since 2012, was packed off by the owner of the factory as coronavirus positive cases started being reported in the state.“Though our district had not reported any positive cases, my factory owner asked us to go back to Odisha. Luckily we could hop onto the train and found a berth before all train movements were stopped. We reached Kesinga railway station of Kalahandi and took an auto-rickshaw to the government hospital in Jaypatna for a medical check-up. Though we did not show any symptoms, the doctor said we had better go on quarantine,” Bhajaman, who was among the 84000-odd migrant workers who returned to the state in the last few days, said.Subroto Bagchi, chief spokesperson for Covid-19 (health) on Thursday said to prevent any secondary transmission of the Covid-19 virus, gram panchayats and zilla parishad authorities have been asked to detect and ensure 14-day home quarantine for these migrant workers. He said the state government has created isolation centres at the level of gram panchayats having a bed capacity of 7,276.But on March 22, Bhajaman and others realised they were in trouble after discovering that there is no quarantine facility available either in the local hospital or their panchayat. Someone in the group suggested that they stay at least 200 metres away from habitation.On March 22, the 12 including Bhajaman pitched a tent near the paddy field and stayed there for 2 days after which they shifted to a school building near the village. “When we stayed in the tent we were scared of getting bitten by snakes at night as there have been cases of snakebites. So we shifted to a school building, but we faced problems with cooking. It was cumbersome for our families to carry food from homes to the school building,” Bhajaaman said.So on Thursday, all the 12 moved to their homes, but confined themselves to a room and continued to maintain social distance with their family. “I have not studied beyond Class 6. But all I know that the disease is fatal and there is no cure as yet. So we thought why not maintain a safe distance from our family members. After all, we are going out of our homes for them,” said Harikanta, who has a son and a daughter.Ashok Patnaik, who works in a local NGO in Kalahandi, said that the 12 workers who have returned from Kerala have shown much wisdom despite having little formal education. “While more than hundred people who had returned to Odisha from abroad are under the scanner for violating home quarantine conditions, these 12 have shown exemplary behaviour,” he said.The Odisha government has so far lodged 14 cases against people defying home quarantine conditions.Nayak and others from Kalahandi are maintaining social distance after reaching their village, but over 200 people from Bolangir and Nuapara districts of the state are stuck at a brick kiln in Shamshabad area of Telangana and Thiruvallur of Tamil Nadu. Dayasagar of Aide-at-Action, an NGO working for migrant workers in Odisha, said that the families working in big brick kilns could not return as train movements were stopped. “At least 30 per cent of them are children and need milk and food. As the shops are closed, they are unable to buy ration. Besides, the brick kiln owners are making them work at night when there is little police inspection,” he said.Odisha labour commissioner Tirumala Nayak said in 2019-20, at least 1.35 lakh labourers from Odisha had gone to other states for working after registering their names with local labour offices under the Inter-State Migrant Workman’s Act. But sources said the number of people who have gone to other states for working in spinning mills and other factories may be much higher.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-odisha-12-migrant-workers-set-an-example-stay-put-in-self-quarantine/story-4Bo6MkT8OBdOS6OVuC1QnO.html
26-03-2020||India||Telangana dedicates hospital for Covid-19 patients as infections rise to 45||Telangana reported four more positive cases for Sars-Cov-2 virus – none with travel history to foreign countries, taking the total number of cases of secondary infection to nine and overall number of positive cases to 45 in the state on Thursday.On the other hand, Andhra Pradesh reported one more positive Covid-19 case on Thursday – that of a 28-year old man who returned from Stockholm in Sweden to Vijayawada on March 18 and was admitted to the local government hospital with symptoms on Wednesday. The total number of positive cases in AP went up to 11 by Thursday night.The detection of four more cases of secondary infection on Thursday kept the Telangana government on tenterhooks. One of the four new cases was that of a 49-year old man from Qutbullapur of Medchal district who returned from Delhi in Sampark Kranti Express on March 14, along with 13 Indonesians, 10 of whom tested positive for the virus.low coronavirus live updates here.The other two cases are that of a 36-year old female doctor and her 41-year old husband from Domalguda in Hyderabad. And the fourth one was a 45-year old man from Boudhanagar in Secunderabad who also tested positive for Sars-Cov-2 virus on his return from Delhi recently.Telangana had already reported five such cases of secondary infection in the last one week. Two of these cases include a deputy superintendent of police of Bhadradri Kothagudem district who contracted the virus from his Australia-returned son and an old female cook in his house.Health minister Etala Rajender, who reviewed the alarming rise of secondary infections of Covid-19, declared that the virus had already entered the second stage in Telangana and directed the authorities to take all possible steps to see that it did not enter the third phase.The minister directed the Telangana Vaidya Vidhana Parishad authorities to take steps to convert the entire Gandhi Hospital at Secunderabad into an exclusive hospital to deal with only Corona virus-related cases and all the other departments should be shifted to Osmania Hospital.“Already, all major surgeries in Gandhi Hospital have been referred to Osmania. In the next few days, all the other departments, too, should shift to Osmania Hospital, so that Gandhi Hospital can be dedicated only to Corona virus patients,” he said.Rajender also asked the medical infrastructure development corporation to acquire as many equipment as possible, including ICU facilities and ventilators, at the earliest to brace for the situation in the event of the disease enters the third phase.Meanwhile, the situation turned tense at the Telangana-Andhra borders, where hundreds of students and employees evicted from hostels in Hyderabad, found themselves following a categorical announcement by Andhra chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy that it was not possible to allow the stranded travellers to enter the state.“It is very painful to see so many people being held up at borders and I am not in a position to welcome my own state’s people. But I am helpless in allowing them into the state because of the grave situation prevailing on account of Coronavirus,” he said, and appealed to the people to stay wherever they were.At Vadapalli check-post on Telangana-Andhra border on Nalgonda-Guntur state highway, scores of people who had been waiting to get into AP border since Wednesday night, turned violent and pelted stones at the police, injuring at least five constables. The police resorted to lathi charge to disperse the protestors.The AP government told them that they would be allowed into the state only if they agree to be quarantined for 14-days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-dedicates-hospital-for-covid-19-patients-as-infections-rise-to-45/story-uxE9CirZGd8dtRimvLEBRL.html
26-03-2020||India||First coronavirus case reported from Baghpat, number of infected in UP now 43||Five new coronavirus positive cases were reported in Uttar Pradesh on Thursday, including the first case from Baghpat district, which took the total number of cases in Uttar Pradesh to 43.The 32-year-old Baghpat man had returned recently from Dubai and felt discomfort in breathing after which he contacted the district hospital. His sample was taken and it tested positive for coronavirus.“He is presently admitted to hospital in Baghpat,” said Dr Sudhir Singh, spokesperson of King George medical University (KGMU), where the samples of all five positive cases were tested.Follow coronavirus live updates here.“Another positive case is a 24-year-old man from Agra. He has a travel history from a foreign country,” said Dr Vikasendu Agrawal, state surveillance officer in the health department. This is Agra’s ninth case.“The number of corona patients who have been cured has gone up from 11 to 14 as three more in Noida were declared recovered,” said Dr Agrawal.“A 21-year-old woman from Noida also tested positive. Her parents had tested positive earlier this week,” said Dr Singh.Another 33-year-old woman and a 39-year-old man from Noida, stated to be relatives and contacts of an old case, tested positive. This takes the total number of cases in the state to 43. The patients are admitted to hospitals in Noida, from where maximum 14 cases in Uttar Pradesh have been reported.Over 30,000 people are under surveillance in the state, which has eight testing labs. In all 1,937 samples have been tested in the state till now and positive cases have been reported from Agra (9), Ghaziabad (3), Noida (14), Lucknow (8), Lakhimpur-Kheri (1), Pilibhit (2), Kanpur (1), Moradabad (1), Shamli (1), Jaunpur (1), Baghpat (1) and Varanasi (1).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-coronavirus-case-reported-from-baghpat-number-of-infected-in-up-now-43/story-QukIdE2kBBQi4BtuNOkvgL.html
26-03-2020||India||No positive case yet, but Assam gears up to face Covid-19 head on||Assam is one of the very few states in the country not to have recorded any positive case of Covid-19 till date. The state government though is gearing up to face the health crisis head on.On Thursday, work started on setting up a 1000-bed quarantine facility at a stadium in Guwahati, a similar one in another stadium within the city has also been planned.“The facility at Sausajai stadium will be completed within a week and necessities like food, lodging and other facilities will be taken care of by the government. If needed, we will construct a similar facility with additional 1000 beds at Nehru Stadium,” health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said.Initially, the facility will be used to house nearly 700 residents of the state who came back from other states but are stranded at the inter-state borders due to the lockdown. They will be brought by special buses to Guwahati and quarantined for at least two weeks.The government has also taken on rent an apartment complex near the quarantine facility where nearly 200 doctors can stay. It will become operational within the next few days.Earlier this week, Sarma had said that Assam might need around 20,000 isolation beds if the disease spreads. He admitted the state’s healthcare sector might not be able to take the burden of a large scale outbreak.The state government is in talks with construction firms to set up a large hospital exclusively for Covid-19 patients. In the meantime, there is a plan to convert all major government hospitals in the state into exclusive facilities to treat Covid-19 patients.Talks have taken place with private hospitals to take the load of all other patients--for which the state government will compensate private players as per existing government rules.“I suggested that while government hospitals can be restricted for Covid-19 patients, regular patients can be sent to them (private hospitals) for which we will reimburse,” Sarma tweeted on Wednesday.Private hospitals in the state have already started responding positively. On Thursday, GNRC, one of the biggest private hospital groups in the state, announced that it will place all 500 beds it has in the state at the disposal of state government to treat non-Covid-19 patients.“This is the most appropriate step under prevailing circumstances. I appeal to owners of other private healthcare institutions in Assam to join hands with the government at this hour of crisis,” tweeted Dr Nomal Chandra Borah, founder chairman, GNRC Hospitals.The state government is also planning to take services of nearly 700 final year medical students in the state and around 2,000 final year nursing students to tackle Covid-19.“We have prepared a training module on coronavirus for them which will be imparted from this week,” Sarma said.Recruitment process of ward boys and girls is being speeded up so that around 400-500 of them can start work soon.Till date 210 samples have been tested in four accredited government labs in Assam. Results of all have come negative thus far.One positive Covid-19 case each has been found in Manipur and Mizoram while the other states in the region-Meghalaya, Nagaland, Arunachal Pradesh and Tripura-are yet to record any positive case.The state government has asked district officials to take stern action against those who are violating lockdown norms. Videos have surfaced on social media platforms of people crowding market places and also of security personnel baton-charging violators.“I appeal to people to follow lockdown rules and not spread misinformation. We have also asked police to register criminal case against those who mistreat healthcare workers,” Sarma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-positive-case-yet-but-assam-gears-up-to-face-covid-19-head-on/story-cTWJ4wwgDFxF2WcO5BKRcI.html
26-03-2020||India||On Day 2 of Covid-19 lockdown, essential goods supply still a worry||On the second day of the 21-day lockdown on Thursday, the supply of essential goods seemed better than on Wednesday even as there were complaints of shortage of medicines, milk, vegetables and spurt in the prices of essential food items because of short supply. The police continued to arrest and book people who came out in violation of the lockdown regulations.While Amul and Mother Dairy, in separate statements, said their supply was at par with normal days at most locations, smaller dairies expressed apprehension of disruption in supply if the shortage of raw material and workers, in absence of curfew passes, continued.Milk supply in cities such as Mumbai, Pune, Patna and Lucknow may get affected as supply of milk from villages because of restriction on movement has dipped. Local district officials said instructions were being issued to police to allow vehicles carrying milk from villages to local milk collection centers.Follow coronavirus live updates here.“As per our information, the milk supply from villages was less today and we have only seven days stock of coal needed for processing of milk. If situation will be continued it will difficult to supply milk to cities,” said DV Ghanekar, Managing Director of Gokul Milk that supplies a million litres of milk to Mumbai Metropolitan Region every day.In places such as Delhi, Dehradun and Mumbai, the Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) wholesale market started full operations on Thursday even as lesser amount of fruits and vegetables reached these markets. There were very less workers to unload the few trucks that arrived.Vishal Sethia, a wholesale pulse trader, in Mumbai, said “There is panic and many of the labourers have left for their villages. Only one-sixth of the workforce, I have, reported for work today.” In Delhi’s Azadpur wholesale fruit and vegetable market, more trucks came though the off-take was not high because of mobility restrictions for fruit and vegetable vendors, said commission agents at the market.In Goa, there was no supply of milk and bread as state government has enforced 100% lockdown. Even chief minister Pramod Sawant’s plan to home deliver food, including milk, proved to a non-starter. For Panaji, which has a population of 1.5 lakh, there are only three phone numbers for ‘home delivery of milk.People could be seen protesting against the complete lockdown. “I am also attentive to the fact that people are not getting things on time. We will take about two days to put systems in place,” Sawant said. However, residents have approached Bombay High Court at Goa seeking directions to the state government to ensure supply of essential goods.In Punjab and Chandigarh, the administration reported that they have received requests for curfew passes for calling a barber to home, to take dog for morning walk to VIPs seeking curfew passes for their gunmen and cooks. Punjab government, in a statement, said most of the essential goods were being supplied adequately.In Odisha, the main vegetable market of Bhubaneswar which was operating from a congested space was relocated to a thoroughfare with traders asked to line up while maintaining distance. The state police also started a helpline for truck drivers carrying essential goods in case they faced problem.In Uttarkand, the state government started home delivery of food and medicines for senior citizens and students, who live alone. The government also announced that they will soon notify regulations to penalise shopkeepers hoarding essential items as complaints for price increase was reported from various parts of the state. The state also issued orders to sell all essential goods from fair price shops. The state government, however, assured people that they have stock of pulses and cereals for three months. In Jharkhand and Bihar, people faced problem in getting cooking gas cylinders and there was rush at the local cylinder distribution centers. In order to prevent chaos, the two state governments announced doorstep delivery of LPG gas cylinders. Ranchi administration also issued phone numbers and mobile application for doorstep delivery of ration and vegetable.In Assam, one of the very few states not to report any Covid-19 positive case, the government has set up a 1000-bed quarantine facility at Sausajai stadium in Guwahati. A similar one in another stadium within the city is also planned. The government has also taken on rent an apartment complex near the quarantine facility where nearly 200 doctors can stay. It will become operational within the next few days. Health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said there was no shortage of essential goods in the state.The Confederation of Indian Institute in a letter to Consumer Affairs ministry has said that there was ambiguity in lockdowns orders issued by various local authorities saying meaning of grocery is not clearly defined resulting in short supply of items such as floor cleaners and toiletries and oral hygiene products such as tooth paste and tooth brush. “As you know that at present personal and home hygiene has become extremely important to fight the Covid-19 virus,” the letter said, seeking necessary clarification to the states from the government.(With inputs from state bureaus)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-day-2-of-covid-19-lockdown-essential-goods-supply-still-a-worry/story-2hgUocLjfM4z4Ed57WMtnN.html
26-03-2020||India||Rising coronavirus cases no cause for panic, will fall by April end: Dr Reddy||Locking down 1.35 billion people for three weeks to enforce social distancing will prevent community transmission of Covid-19 and buy India time for public health measures and potentially, summer heat, to slow the epidemic. India will continue to report more cases, but it’s no cause for panic as all countries experience an upswing before cases plateau off and subside, said Dr K Srinath Reddy, president, Public Health Foundation of India.The lockdown will help reduce the rate of the increase and get it to plateau as soon as possible, he said in an interview to Hindustan Times. Covid-19 is likely to become a seasonal virus like the flu and common cold viruses, said Dr Reddy, but by then, we would have the tools like adequate health systems and potential drug therapies or a vaccine to help us live in spite of Covid-19. Edited excerpts:.Q. Do we really need a lockdown at this stage in India? The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) numbers are nowhere as high as China, Italy, Iran or the United States?A. We have to take this precaution because this is a highly infectious virus, the likes of which has never been seen before. If it goes into a community at multiple locations, it can engulf the whole country. We have to seal as many points of exit as possible to prevent its entry into the community. This lockdown is necessary to reduce this kind of person-to-person transmission, and ensure that the spillage in the community is greatly reduced. It also gives us the time to trace the cases and contacts and isolate or quarantine them effectively, so they don’t become sources of fresh infection.Q. What’s ahead for us? Can we stop the virus? Or can we slow its spread?A. We have to look at the possible factors that can help us. Firstly, strong public health measures that are already being taken and can be further intensified to strengthen the healthcare system to cope with the serious cases that may need admission and intensive care, which some of them will need.It is also possible that the advent of summer – we do not know yet for sure – could help us in some ways if the virus is actually heat sensitive. There are some reports emerging that the virus is likely to be thermo-sensitive.So hopefully our public measures and potentially some help from the climate will help slow down the epidemic by the middle of April, or by the end of April. But certainly we have to be on our guard for at least a month or two and hope we can contain the epidemic by then. And then prepare for winter, in case it comes back, but by then we will have enough time for preparation.Q. Do lockdowns work in the long term? Is there evidence it slowed transmission of other viruses in the past?A. The speed of transmission of this virus is unprecedented, it has not been seen before. For less agile viruses, we have past experience with some partial success. But this is a virus with a greater speed of transmission, and there is greater need for such containment measures. The Imperial College of London, which actually models many of the public health measures to counter epidemics, has given a considerable amount of credit to lockdown as a potential public health measure that will bring success.Q. Does it spread faster than H1N1 (swine flu)?A. Yes, it’s certainly spreading faster than H1N1.Q. What precautions should we take, during the lockdown and once it is over?A. During the lockdown, we must ensure we stay secluded as much as possible and avoid all social contact. If we do have to have social contact, maintain a safe distance and ensure the hygiene precaution of washing hands. The most important measure is to avoid travel within the city, town or neighbourhood, and have no person-to-person contact except with (immediate) family. Even at home, there should be a certain degree of social distancing.Q. How worried should we be?A. All countries have experienced an upswing of the epidemic, which lasted for a varying number of days in each country before it started plateauing off and subsiding. So India will also experience an upswing and the cases will increase, but we should not be panicking because that is the experience of every single country. Our task is to reduce the slope of the upswing and try to get it to plateau as soon as possible. So even if we see more cases in the next two or three days, that does not signal a huge wave of the epidemic sweeping us out.Q. Do we need hand sanitisers to protect ourselves, or is soap and water enough?A. Soap and water is actually better than hand-sanitisers, which is useful when we don’t have ready soap and water, as in offices or while travelling. Otherwise, soap and water is preferred. Handwashing for 20-30 seconds is more helpful rather than rubbing our hands with hand sanitiser.Q. Do most people recover from coronavirus disease? What is the threat to life?A. It appears that while the coronavirus spreads very rapidly, it is relatively a mild virus. The mortality rates are variably reported to be between 1% and 3%, so probably it’s somewhere around 2%.It’s lower in countries where effective measures have been taken early on, as in South Korea, where it’s 0.6% mortality. So let us say between 1% and 2% is the likely mortality if adequate public health measures are taken.Deaths too are likely to happen in older people above 60, with risk rising further above 70 and 80 years. But people with co-existing disease conditions like diabetes, heart disease or respiratory disease, people who are immune-suppressed or smokers with some degree of lung damage, all these people are at higher risk at younger ages. But taking the overall population into consideration, the risk appears to be 2% or lower.Q. Are children safe?A. Children somehow appear to be protected. There have been a few cases of children being affected in a few countries, but there is virtually no fatality. They seem to escape with minor illness even if they are infectedQ. Is there a danger of migrants carrying the infection to rural areas?A. It will be a problem if migrants from urban areas go back to rural areas carrying the virus with them, but since there is no evidence of major community spillover, these migrants would not be infected in the first place. They pose no danger. Those who pose a danger are people who have come home from abroad or their immediate contacts, if they have got infected and they are travelling back to their village or visiting relatives in rural areas.Migration itself is not a threat, it is the nature of the migrant that is the issue that needs to be considered.Q. And that’s why all overseas travellers, even without symptoms, must stay home-quarantined for two weeks?Absolutely. We have not been able to test everybody at the airport. That has not been logistically possible. They have tested for fever but even people without symptoms have been asked to isolate themselves at home on the grounds that if they are carrying the virus, we will know in two weeks time when they become symptomatic. And if at the end of two weeks they appear to be safe, then they pose no threat.A. It is good advice for everybody back from travel to follow, but sometimes people don’t accept it and common sense fails.Q. Is coronavirus disease here to stay? Will it become a seasonal infection, like H1N1, and the seasonal coronaviruses that cause symptoms of the common cold?A. I don’t think it’s a casual visitor. Like most of the influenza viruses and the seasonal coronaviruses that have been around for a while, this new entrant will possibly also gain a foothold over a period of time. A large number of people across the world who would be exposed, most of them innocuously without ill effects. By that time our public health measures, as well as potentially a vaccine and possibly an effective drug, would have come into play to prevent a large number of deaths.I have a feeling that once it has been released into our environment, it is bound to be a permanent visitor. But by then, we would have possibly learnt from the visit and lived in spite of it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-effect-rising-coronavirus-cases-no-cause-for-panic-will-fall-by-april-end-dr-reddy/story-i8iahoVLS0FEVmZc1RocIO.html
26-03-2020||India||Assam lawmaker writes to CM on ‘police atrocities’ during lockdown||Congress legislator and leader of the opposition in Assam Assembly Debabrata Saikia on Thursday wrote to Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal on alleged atrocities committed by the police on people during the ongoing lockdown.In a letter, Saikia brought to Sonowal’s notice several news reports and videos showing police personnel assaulting and harassing people who had ventured out during the 21-day nationwide lockdown.He pointed out that both the central and state governments have allowed citizens to venture out in small numbers for emergency purposes like procuring grocery and medicines during the lockdown.“Unfortunately many personnel of the Assam Police are displaying a tendency to beat up and/or humiliate people first and ask questions later,” Saikia wrote in his letter to Sonowal who heads the home department.There were reports that a pharmacy owner in Golaghat district was caned by the police when he was going to open his establishment. In another instance, a newspaper vendor was reportedly assaulted by police in Nalbari.“Even a national emergency cannot justify such blatant violation of a civilian’s basic human right of living with dignity. If anyone is found to be loitering in the streets without due cause, then that person should be booked and the courts of law should be allowed to penalize him,” Saikia wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-lawmaker-writes-to-cm-on-police-atrocities-during-lockdown/story-SQLlHXB3d10RTyHd7cDLAI.html
26-03-2020||India||Time for youth to take responsibility, says Kerala CM as state raises Covid-19 task force||:With a sharp rise in Sars-CoV-2 cases Kerala has decided to raise a voluntary Covid-19 task force and set up many temporary hospitals across the state to fight the pandemic, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said Thursday.Nineteen new cases were reported on Thursday taking the total number of infected people in the state to 126.Though the state is yet to report community or mass infection, it is preparing itself for such an eventuality. “We are ready for a long haul. Disturbing reports from some of the affected countries are warning for us. We will fight it out,” said the Chief Minister adding the government will raise a task force to deal with the situation.People aged between 22 and 40 years will be enrolled in the task force and they will be provided proper training by health officials. A portal has been set up for this and volunteers can apply online.“This is the time for youth to shoulder responsibility. We are planning a volunteer force of 2 lakh members. Food supply to hospital work they will be trained. Their expenses will be met by local and civic bodies,” Vijayan said.Also read: Declaration of emergency sought for coordinated fight against Covid-19Many volunteers have already registered. He said the government has taken over many vacant buildings, hostels and other institutions and they will be converted as temporary hospitals.He said community kitchens have started functioning in many areas. ““The total shutdown is likely to lead to starvation among poor and aged people. We will not allow this to happen. Our community kitchens will feed them,” he said.Also read: Covid-19 lockdown turns Kerala into nightmare for tipplersThe CM said migrant labourers from other states will also be taken care of.The government has also decided to enforce the lockdown strictly. At least 1147 vehicles were seized and 2334 people booked in the state so far. Despite the government’s repeated warning prices of many essential commodities went up sharply in the state and wholesale dealers blamed it on short supply triggered by transportation glitches. At least 28 shopkeepers were booked across the state for overcharging and hoarding.The state government has decided to enact a new law, the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Control Act, to give sweeping powers to the district collectors and others to enforce disease-control measures effectively. Since the legislative assembly is not in session, the government will issue an ordinance under which there will be a three-year imprisonment and fine for offenders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/time-for-youth-to-take-responsibility-says-kerala-cm-as-state-raises-covid-19-task-force/story-UyBIsJZfqBbMYSZbiFguFP.html
26-03-2020||India||Uttarakhand warns shopkeepers against hoarding during Covid-19 lockdown||The Uttarakhand government said Thursday it will make hoarding of essential items by shopkeepers a criminal offence and ensure that there is an adequate supply of food and essentials during the lockdown over Covid-19.Subodh Uniyal, minister for agriculture in the state said that chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat will soon announce steps to check the hoarding of essential items by shopkeepers.“We are trying everything possible to check that there is ample supply for food grains in the state As a step towards this, the chief minister who also holds the portfolio of food and civil supplies will soon issue an order making hoarding or overpricing by shopkeepers a criminal offence,” said Uniyal.The Assembly session ended yesterday and Uniyal did not say whether the government will issue an ordinance.Pointing out challenges in ensuring food supply in the Himalayan state amid the Covid-19 pandemic, Uniyal said that initially when the state announced a lockdown till March 31, trucks with essential food items were being stopped at the Uttar Pradesh border.“After the janta curfew, trucks carrying essential food supplies entering the state from Udham Singh Nagar district were being stopped by officials at the Uttar Pradesh border. The matter was then raised at the chief secretary level and then orders were given to the concerned district magistrates to coordinate. Trucks are now being allowed to enter the state,” added the minister.Officials from the department of food, civil supplies and consumer affairs said that the state has enough rice for the next three months.Distributing items like rice, wheat, pulses to 23 lakh ration card holders among other things, the state approximately needs 1,83,000 quintal of wheat and 2,34,000 quintals of rice and around 18,000 quintals of pulses (lentils and split Bengal gram) for one month.At present, the Uttarakhand government has around 7,70,000 quintals of rice which is sufficient for three months, while there is enough wheat for one month.A senior official from the department of food, civil supplies and consumer affairs who did want to be named, said, “We have enough rice and pulses for the months of April-June. We also have enough wheat for the month of April and order and payment has been done with the Food Corporation of India to procure more wheat for May and June. The wheat will be delivered to the state within one week.”Chief minister Rawat took stock of the situation from all district magistrates on Thursday and asked them to ensure the availability of essential goods for common people in the lockdown period.“People should be assured that there is no shortage of any essential items. The common people should be motivated to stay at home and follow social distancing,” Rawat said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-warns-shopkeepers-against-hoarding-during-covid-19-lockdown/story-IBWb2xLpyEnbkDnLgEl0NK.html
26-03-2020||India||Covid-19 Outbreak: Mamata requests CMs of 18 states to take care of migrants stuck in lockdown||Migrant workers from other states, who are stranded at different locations in Bengal and local people stranded in other states have become a cause of concern for chief minister Mamata Banerjee in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak.On Thursday, Banerjee wrote to the chief ministers of 18 states, urging them to provide basic shelter, food and medicine to migrant workers from Bengal. “We, in Bengal, are taking care of such stuck people in our state,” wrote Banerjee.While the state government is providing food to people stranded at bus terminus and railway stations the government has so far succeeded in sending back people only to Assam. The rest are stranded.Around 170 labourers from Bihar’s Bhagalpur are stranded outside the railway station at Katwa in East Burdwan district since the movement of trains stopped.“Acting on the decision of the state government the state railway police made an attempt to send back these people in trucks but the vehicles were stopped at the Jharkhand border and sent back,” said Bikash Dutta, officer-in-charge, Katwa police station.There are many women in this group which is now dependent on supplies provided by the state administration. “Please do something to reunite us with our families. We cannot live here forever,” said Meena Devi, a labourer.At Kankinara in North 24 Parganas, where the majority of labourers working in the local jute factories are from Bihar and have permanently settled down in Bengal, some are migrants. “I am stranded. Luckily, I have relatives there and hence not facing many problems,” said Sudharshan Shaw, a migrant.For those who hail from Bengal, buses are being provided to take them to their home districts. A group of 52 people from Murshidabad district, who were stuck in West Midnapore were sent home on Wednesday.State transport secretary N S Nigam said migrant labourers from Assam, hundreds of whom were stranded at Howrah station, were sent home in buses. However, Bengalis stranded in other states are not so lucky. Samudra Saikat Dey, a resident of Hakimpara in Siliguri, his wife and their seven-year-old daughter went to Chennai for the child’s treatment. The family is now stranded in a hotel. “We are helpless. Many people in Bengal spend a lot of money and sometimes go beyond their means to come to Chennai for treatment. There are migrant labourers as well. Many hotel owners are asking people to vacate,” said Dey. Bipul Dutta, a daily wage earner from Assam’s Bhujai is also stranded in Chennai where he went for the treatment of his 11-year-old daughter. “We have exhausted all resources and cannot sustain for long. We will die if this crisis continues,” said Dutta.On Thursday Banerjee wrote to the chief ministers of Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Kerala, Delhi, Odisha, Karnataka, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Chhattisgarh, Andhra Pradesh, Telengana, Goa, Jharkhand, Bihar, Rajasthan, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand.“We have received information that many such workers who are residents of Bengal are stuck in your state too. We are getting SOS calls from them. They are generally in groups of 50 to 100 can be easily identified by the local administration,” the letter said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-outbreak-mamata-requests-cms-of-18-states-to-take-care-of-migrants-stuck-in-lockdown/story-Ar3YivGSoCkNfHlH76vqiJ.html
26-03-2020||India||Covid-19 economic assistance package: Full breakup||The Centre has announced the first installment of a fiscal relief package worth Rs 1.7 lakh crore to deal with the immediate economic distress born out of the coronavirus crisis. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced this during a press conference held on Thursday afternoon.Rs 50 lakh insurance cover per health worker fighting Covid-19 under insurance scheme. 2.2 million people will be covered800 million poor people to get 5kg wheat or rice and 1kg of preferred pulses for free every month for the next three months. Each one of them will be provided double of their current entitlement over next three months free of cost200 million women Jan Dhan account-holders to get Rs 500 per month for the next three monthsRs 202 a day under MGNREGS, up from Rs 182 to benefit 136.2 million familiesRs 1,000 ex gratia to 30 million poor senior citizens, poor widows and poor disabled87 million farmers will get the first installment of Rs 2,000 due in 2020-21 in April 2020 under the PM KISAN YojanaRs 31,000 crore Building and Construction Workers Welfare Fund to be used by states to provide relief to construction workersWhat other nations have doneUS: $2 trillion disaster aid billUK: £330 billion rescue packageGermany: $610 billion lending to firmsFrance: $335 billion of bank loansSpain: $220 billion stimulus packageAustralia: $84 billion stimulus package||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-first-installment-of-economic-relief-package-announced/story-Mp5xH8mPegpcINweBPIxHO.html
26-03-2020||India||Plea in SC wants financial emergency declared to fight Covid-19||The 21-day lockdown imposed across the country has effectively led to the suspension of fundamental rights of citizens and the same can be done only through an imposition of emergency as per the Constitution and not an order under the Disaster Management Act (Act) as was done by the central government, a petition filed before the Supreme Court on Thursday argued.The petition filed by Centre for Systemic Accountability and Change claimed that the divergence in steps taken by various state governments have led to confusion and lawlessness in the country and a unified command between central and state governments is required to deal with the situation.“This is the biggest emergency in independent India and it must be addressed as per Constitutional provisions through unified command between Central and State Governments”, the petition stated.It, therefore, sought imposition of financial emergency under Article 360 of the Constitution, a step, the petitioner argued was essential to tackle the threat of coronavirus and to ensure the recovery of the Indian economy after the lockdown is lifted.As an interim measure, the petitioner prayed for directions to suspend the collection of utility bills (electricity, water, gas, telephone, internet) and EMIs liable to be paid during the lockdown period. The petitioner also asked for directions to be issued to state police and local authorities to comply with the instructions of the union home ministry so that essential services are not disrupted.The central government on March 24 invoked the provisions of the Disaster Management Act to impose a three-week lockdown in the country. The National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) under the chairpersonship of Prime Minister Narendra Modi exercised its powers under Section 6(2)(i) of the Act and passed an order directing various departments and ministries of the central and state governments to take measures to prevent the spread of Covid 19. Pursuant to such direction from the NDMA, the National Executive Committee which assists the NDMA to execute its functions, invoked its powers under Section 10(2)(l) to issue detailed guidelines to be implemented by the departments and ministries of central and state governments and union territories.The petitioner submitted that even after the announcement of lockdown, different states and police authorities were continuing to take their own actions under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, in the guise of orders issued by the central government. This, it was claimed, amounts to a “constitutional fraud”.It was the petitioner’s case that since the country is going through a pan-India epidemic, it must be addressed jointly by the whole nation without internal geographical restrictions and by employing a unified strategy.“Divergence of steps, taken by different authorities, is causing confusion and lawlessness (and) in no way can be (a) solution to a problem as grave as COVID-19”, the petition said.Further, the petitioner also claimed that due to the lockdown, economic activities have come to a standstill.“Though essential services are ordered to be running, many difficulties are being reported across the country, be it the running of shops or delivery of newspapers…situation is so dire that thousands of daily wage labourers, who are now without a job, are walking for hundreds of kilometres to reach their destinations”, the petition pointed out.The petitioner also submitted that almost all the fundamental rights such as freedom of movement under Article 19 of the Constitution and right to liberty under Article 21 have been practically suspended during the lockdown. Besides, it was also argued that the public doesn’t have access to newspapers, which is happening for the first time after independence. It also argued that the closure of courts has affected the right to justice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/declaration-of-emergency-sought-for-coordinated-fight-against-covid-19/story-CiWqEWkH8jwPgGzj9mDdPO.html
26-03-2020||India||India pulls out all stops to combat Covid-19 pandemic||India is pulling out all the stops to fight the coronavirus pandemic by drafting in state-owned facilities and production units and private companies to boost manufacture and supply of medical equipment and setting up quarantine facilities. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday asked Central government ministries to look for innovative ways of using their resources to set up manufacturing of medical equipment like ventilators and scaling up their production to check the spread of coronavirus that has now affected over 650 people in the country and taken more than 10 lives so far.The country is currently under a 21-day lockdown to break the chain of transmission of coronavirus.The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) has also joined the fight against Covid-19.“Some time back DRDO developed a ventilator along with Society for Biometrical Technology (SBMT), its technology has been transferred to the industry. An industry in Mysore is producing the secondary version of that ventilator now,” DRDO chairman D R G Sateesh Reddy said according to ANI.“DRDO scientists are working on the development of many products to tackle Covid_19. Sanitizers developed by us have been distributed to many people. In the last 15-20 days we have supplied more than 20,000 sanitizer bottles to various agencies,” Reddy said. Follow coronavirus live updates here.The chief of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) said it is ready to act any time. “12 battalions and 50 sub-units deployed across country on standby. 400 personnel geared with Personal Protective Equipment (PPEs) are present in every battalion. We are ready to act anytime if states need,” ANI quoted NDRF Director General SN Pradhan as saying. The government has tasked the Railways with using its large manufacturing and locomotive production units and workshops for manufacturing essential medical equipment such as ventilators, hospital beds, and stretchers, among others, on a war-footing. Ventilators will be a key determinant in India’s success to keep the mortality rate of Covid-19 patients down if community transmission sets in. India needs around 2.1 ventilators per 10,000 patients to battle the Covid-19 outbreak, according to medical experts. The government has also tapped automobile manufacturers for utilising their manufacturing facilities for production of ventilators. The ministry has written to automakers seeking their help to aid the government.RC Bhargava, Chairman at Maruti Suzuki India Limited, said the carmaker is looking at manufacturing ventilators following a meeting of government representatives.The ministry of railways is also considering using the national transporter’s vast pool of coaches as isolation wards. The textile ministry has set up an emergency control room to monitor production and supply of medical textiles including N-95 mask, body coveralls and melt-blown fabric for healthcare staff. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh who chaired a high-level meeting Thursday to review overall preparedness of the defence ministry in containing the spread of coronavirus, asked the armed forces, defence public sector undertakings and other military organisations to provide all possible assistance to civilian authorities in the fight against the pandemic, PTI reported.Various quarantine facilities of the armed forces have handled 1,462 evacuees and discharged 389. Currently, 1,073 people are being provided care at the facilities in Manesar, Hindon, Jaisalmer, Jodhpur and Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-pulls-out-all-stops-to-combat-covid-19-pandemic/story-qllAuq2bT3HpIHXZI8QFZP.html
26-03-2020||India||Deeply concerned, says Jaishankar on Kabul blast near cremation site of Sikhs||An explosive device went off a short distance from the site where the cremation of the Sikhs killed in yesterday’s terror attack was underway in Kabul on Thursday, according to media reports. There were no casualties.The device exploded in a house in Qalacha area, not far from the spot where members of the Sikh minority were cremating those killed in the attack on a Sikh place of worship at Shor Bazar on Wednesday. A second explosive device was defused by Afghan security forces in the same area, the media reports said.People familiar with developments confirmed on Thursday that an Indian national named Tian Singh, a resident of New Delhi, was among the 25 people killed in the attack. Singh’s wife, in a letter sent to the prime minister, requested the repatriation of his body.Click here to read the Hindustan Times epaperExternal affairs minister S Jaishankar tweeted: “Deeply concerned at the blasts reported near the cremation site of those killed during the attack on Gurudwara Sahib in Kabul.” He added the Indian embassy was in touch with Afghan authorities to “ensure adequate security onsite as well as safe return of families to their homes”.Jaishankar also said the Indian embassy was working to repatriate the body of Tian Singh. Though Singh’s wife, in her letter, had also called for those wounded in Wednesday’s attack to be shifted to New Delhi, Jaishankar said medical opinion was “against moving [the] injured at this stage”.The external affairs minister said there was “understandable grief and anger” over the terror attack and the Indian embassy was in touch with the families of those killed and injured.Indian ambassador Vinay Kumar visited the Sikh place of worship and met community leaders and families of the victims on Thursday. He was told the injured were receiving satisfactory treatment.The Islamic State claimed the attack, though Afghan officials said the Pakistan-based Haqqani Network was behind it. In a statement issued late on Wednesday, the Islamic State claimed the attack was “revenge” for developments in Kashmir and that it was carried out by an attacker using the “kunya” or assumed name of “Abu Khalid al Hindi”, suggesting that he was of Indian origin.The Islamic State provided no other information about the attacker or his origin. Afghan officials have said four suicide attackers were involved in the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deeply-concerned-says-jaishankar-on-kabul-blast-near-cremation-site-of-sikhs/story-isLchr2SWX0n6IshRcd2tM.html
26-03-2020||India||Alarming loss of habitat makes it difficult for wildlife to adapt||A new study has found that the capacity of a majority of wild species to adapt to environmental changes is threatened because of their habitat loss. The findings are crucial because scientists are trying to unravel how the SARS-CoV-2 pathogen that causes the Covid-19 disease may have jumped from bats to humans. The bats are considered to be the most likely reservoir of the virus, according to the latest research. Several scientists have flagged the role of the wild species’ habitat loss behind zoonotic (illnesses that arise from human contact with animals) outbreaks.The study published in “Nature”, the world’s leading multidisciplinary science journal, on Wednesday has stated that many wild species need to adapt to survive. But because of the loss of their “niche” habitat, their capacity to evolve is gravely threatened. The global protected area network, which implies forests or other ecosystems protected under law, don’t cover the environmental or climatic conditions required by a majority of 19,937 vertebrate species assessed in the study.For example, the representation of niche habitat in the protected areas globally is inadequate for 93.1% of amphibian; 89.5% of bird and 90.9% of terrestrial mammal species, the study said. An ecological niche is a role a certain species plays in its environment. The climatic conditions of that place determine how well the species can survive but their capacity to adapt diminishes when they are not connected with their niche.Inger Anderson, executive director, United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), tweeted on Wednesday, connecting the linkage between pandemics and habitat loss. “Our immediate priority is to prevent spread of Covid-19. In the long term its important to tackle habitat and biodiversity loss. Never before have so many opportunities existed for pathogens to pass from animals to people,” he tweeted.The reason for such alarming habitat loss is because international conservation policies have neglected considering niche habitats of species when setting targets for the expansion of protected areas, the study pointed out.The authors from the School of Biological Sciences at the University of Brisbane; RSPB Centre for Conservation Science in the United Kingdom and Global Mammal Assessment Programme at the University of Rome among others have assessed the representation or coverage of various climatic niches of around 2,000 species by protected areas globally by overlaying maps.“In summary, we found that existing protected areas are not adequate for conserving habitats that promote evolutionary processes. Later this year, signatories of the Convention on Biodiversity are meeting again to shape conservation policies for the coming decade—providing a golden opportunity to improve protection of such habitats,” Jeffrey Hanson, co-author of the study, wrote in “Nature”. The study also flagged that immune response of many species are affected due to loss of habitat but didn’t link it explicitly with disease outbreaks.The team identified priority areas for expanding the protected area network globally to include niches of species. These priority areas stretch over 33.8% of earth’s land and inland water area compared to 17% which is the present target under the Convention of Biological Diversity.Some of the priority areas for conservation include the tropical Andes—where steep environmental gradients and complex topographies have driven evolutionary processes; Cape floristic region and Madagascar; the Himalayas, an evolutionary epicentre for bird species among others.The UNEP had recently also said on their website that “Habitat destruction can increase the exposure of humans to zoonotic diseases. Scientists suggest that degraded habitats may even encourage more rapid evolutionary processes and diversification of diseases.”“In a previous study on six different populations of the Giant Panda in China, variations in genes related to the immune system, unique to each population, were found. The destruction of habitat that supports any of these populations will result in the loss of those adaptive genes and, consequently, can be detrimental to the survival of the species. For example, think of all individuals of human population cramped into one region. If a pathogen, such as Covid-19, infects that population, then the game would be over for the human species. However, certain remote human populations, which are exposed to the less pathogenic forms of this virus, may carry protective genes against them, and could survive even if the virus wipes out the rest of us,” explained Kartik Sunagar, assistant professor at Evolutionary Venomics Lab, which is part of the Centre for Ecological Sciences at the Indian Institute of Science (IISc) in Bengaluru.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/alarming-loss-of-habitat-makes-it-difficult-for-wildlife-to-adapt/story-YGc5iCFIXbvyd3Ku04R6ZO.html
26-03-2020||India||Didi’s lessons on social distancing: Mamata Banerjee takes to Kolkata streets to fight Covid19||West Bengal chief minister is leading people in her state by example and demonstrating how to observe social distancing, while in public spaces, to prevent coronavirus from spreading further in the state that has reported 10 positive cases so far.A three-minute video of Banerjee instructing vegetable vendors to ensure their customers maintain necessary distance from each other while shopping was posted by news agency ANI. The video also shows Banerjee herself marking the spots where each person should stand in a queue to buy vegetables.Banerjee is seen with a cloth wrapped around her face with several state and police officials in toe along with media personnel eager to take a picture or film her during the act.Several onlookers were also eagerly trying to take pictures of the chief minister, who seemed to have stepped out for an unannounced inspection on the streets of a Kolkata market.Banerjee’s intervention follows reports of violation of social distancing norms from across the country, mostly by people engaged in panic buying of essentials while the country is in lockdown mode for a three week period, hoping to break the chain of Covid-19 infections.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday reiterated the need to maintain a distance of at least one to 1.5 metres when in the company of people on the streets. Experts have also repeatedly stressed that coming in close proximity to an infected person can lead to disease transmission.Banerjee seemed to be making a similar point in Bangla as she addressed the vendors and also the onlookers standing behind them. #WATCH West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee seen directing officials and vendors to practice social distancing, in a market in Kolkata. #COVID19 pic.twitter.com/dwkDbvcraRA health ministry advisory on social distancing defines it as a “non-pharmaceutical infection prevention and control intervention” implemented to avoid contact between those who are infected with a disease-causing pathogen and those who are not, so as to “stop or slow down” the rate and extent of disease transmission in a community. This, the ministry adds, “eventually leads to a decrease in spread, morbidity and mortality” due to the disease.Even on Thursday, several reports of people violating social distancing rules were received. Police in Karnataka was seen forcefully disbursing a gathering at a Mosque in Belgaum and in Uttar Pradesh, police were seen punishing people violating the lockdown orders.Mamata Banerjee government also requested chief ministers of several other states to take care of the stranded migrant workers from the state who are facing hardships due to the lockdown||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/didi-s-lessons-on-social-distancing-mamata-banerjee-takes-to-kolkata-streets-to-fight-covid19/story-oMNOulx2aPn1i2bbpjvwrO.html
26-03-2020||India||No milk, bread, or medicines: Goa reels under CM Sawant’s 100% lockdown stance||Anger is simmering in Goa, India’s smallest state, whose chief minister is keen to ensure a 100% lockdown including cracking down on the supply of daily essentials like milk and bread as the lockdown has begun to affect not just stranded tourists and homeless but even middle class households. With Chief Minister Pramod Sawant’s grand plan for home delivery proving to be a non-starter, the opposition has approached the Governor’s office seeking his intervention. A group of residents has approached the High Court while still others are baying for the Chief Minister to resign. A flustered Goa administration has assured the Bombay High Court at Goa that it will put in place “some plan of action” by Thursday evening to supply essentials like groceries, etc. to the people. Goa has been under a virtual lockdown since Sunday when the Prime Minister announced a 14-hour Janta Curfew. Before the curfew ended, Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant announced that the curfew would be extended by another three days in Goa. On Tuesday, the Goa Chief Minister announced that he was tightening measures and announced “a 100% lockdown and a 100% curfew” which would cover all establishments including grocery stores and milk booths as well as pharmacies with the only exception being government vehicles belonging to essential departments like the police, health department, fire, emergency services and power and water supply. Markets have been closed and hapless residents have been left without milk and bread for two consecutive days with households fast running out of food and police forcibly closing those shops that open and booking the owners.Sawant’s enthusiasm for the lockdown is puzzling especially since until five days ago, he was insisting that local body elections that were initially scheduled for March 22, but later postponed by a mere two days after the Prime Minister announced a Janta Curfew for Sunday, would go ahead. Sawant said he didn’t realise the severity of the pandemic until a conference call with the Prime Minister. “We did not gauge the severity of this earlier. On the 21st that is after the video conference with Modiji on the 20th, then [we] began to realise the severity of it,” Sawant told a press briefing on Monday.Goa was ‘late to the party’ in terms of registering cases of coronavirus with the first three cases being confirmed positive on Wednesday night. “I understand that there will be trouble, I am aware of this. I am also attentive to the fact that people are not getting things on time. We will take about two days to put systems in place. People have begun to experience difficulties in getting their daily necessities. I request those fair price shops to request permission from the deputy collector for home delivery of essential goods. The shops should be closed but home delivery can begin. The customers should call the stall owners and book their orders,” Sawant had said on Wednesday. The chief minister also announced a helpline for food to help those going hungry to call the authorities and inform them about their plight and volunteers would deliver food. A similar number was launched for medicines. However, even by the end of the second day, no workable system was in place. As an example, for the ‘home delivery of milk’ only three phone numbers of distributors were provided for the capital city Panaji that were expected to cover a population of 1.5 lakh people. Left without food and daily needs a resident has approached the Bombay High Court at Goa and the court agreed to hear the matter on priority. “I am compelled to move the high court on account of the scarcity of essential commodities and lack of organization to provide basic food supply… the Prime Minister solemnly assured the nation that essential commodities and groceries would be made available to all. The people of Goa are struggling to find even basic food to sustain themselves in the days of the curfew,” Advocate Rohit Bras de Sa who has approached the High Court said. The advocate general told the High Court that “all steps are being taken and will be taken to ensure that there is supply of essentials to the people.” The matter has been posted for Friday. Understandably, residents are furious. “The CM should handover charge to a competent person until the crisis is over or before the people spill out on the roads for want of essentials... Already the food supply chain is disrupted,” Jesuin Fernandes said. “Municipalities and panchayats have struggled with managing garbage and cleanliness for years. Now, the Goa CM wants them to take up added responsibilities of handling food delivery systems when they have absolutely no experience in doing so. Why can’t they just do what other states are doing? Goa, being geographically small and with a lesser population, should have been far easier to manage. Why is the Goa Government so hell bent on making things difficult for itself, and for the people?” Sandeep Heble, a resident of Panaji, said. “I have not gone out of my house for the last five days since Saturday supporting the home quarantine drive. I have seen and heard on prudent media CM’s speech informing people not to panic and that all of us would be supplied essential commodities and that pharmacies will remain open. Today’s situation at my home is that we are in urgent need of grocery items and also in need of some medicines for my small children. I tried calling all possible numbers for home delivery, the numbers which were in circulation just a few days back only to be found either “number doesn’t exist” or “can’t get through” or Whatsapp messages not seen/not replied,” José Pereira another resident said. The opposition has now approached the Goa Governor seeking his intervention.“I have requested the Hon’ble Governor of Goa for his intervention on the issue of supply & availability of essential commodities. I am confident his intervention will bring relief to the people of Goa,” Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-milk-bread-or-medicines-goa-reels-under-cm-sawant-s-100-lockdown-stance/story-YNoFRUEyLMfauXzyhE5acK.html
26-03-2020||India||Young politicos using social media to connect with public during Covid-19 lockdown||From learning to make rotis to issuing appeals to their constituents to stop community hookah sessions or playing cards, young politicians are using novel methods to spend their time during the 21-day coronavirus lockdown period.With social distance being the byword, politicians are leveraging social media to stay connected with people.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Jyotiraditya Scindia has been releasing videos to communicate with the people of Madhya Pradesh.Scindia keeps repeatedly tweeting and reassuring the people that although he cannot meet them in person due to restrictions, he and his party workers are ready to address their problems. कोरोना महामारी और लॉक डाउन के चलते आमजन को हो रही परेशानियों से अवगत हूँ। लेकिन इस महामारी से निपटने के लिए विभिन्न विशेषज्ञों और स्वयं प्रधानमंत्री @narendramodi जी द्वारा की गई सोशल डिस्टेंसिंग रखने की अपील और अनिवार्यता की वजह से आप लोगों के बीच नही आ पा रहा हूँ। pic.twitter.com/rQK2p8ABh2Rajasthan Congress president and the deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot’s hands are full. Along with chief minister Ashok Gehlot, he has to oversee the preparations to tackle the pandemic and does not have much spare time. But he does make it a point to share “valuable recommendations” on Twitter.“Use your non-dominant hand (left hand for right handed people) for door-knobs, handles and bathroom, because it is much more difficult for you to touch your face with that hand. In Korea they widely spread this premise, and it worked,” read one of his tweets. Sharing a valuable recommendation:Use your non-dominant hand (left hand for right handed people) for door-knobs, handles and bathroom, because it is much more difficult for you to touch your face with that hand. In Korea they widely spread this premise, and it workedBJP Lok Sabha member and former union minister Rajyavardhan Rathore said he has been monitoring the situation on the ground in his constituency through video and telephone chats.“I have been releasing videos on why we cannot be complacent and how serious this virus is and how quickly it spreads. I have also released Rs 16 lakh to the collector’s office to use this for feeding daily wagers and those living in shelters,” Rathore said. Kudos to PM ⁦@narendramodi⁩, ⁦@drharshvardhan⁩ and AIIMS to start ‘Doctor on call’: Govt issues guidelines for telemedicine https://t.co/9LDIycbBPB pic.twitter.com/6QWCe3Zg16An Olympian and a fitness enthusiast, Rathore has also been preparing a team of volunteers across his constituency who can assist the administration in carrying out food distribution and other relief measures.While urging youngsters to stay indoors, in a chat with cricketer Suresh Raina, Rathore gave an example of how he won a competition without any active shooting practice, and advised India’s budding athletes to use this downtime in a productive manner.Congress leader Deepender Hooda, who last week got elected unopposed to the Rajya Sabha from Haryana, communicated in his native language Haryanavi to suggest some do’s and don’t’s to the people to stay safe from coronavirus.In Haryana, the tradition of people belonging to 36 biradari (social groups) sharing the hookah is on since decades. He urged them to renounce this practice temporarily or have hookahs separately.“Another of our favourite pastimes is playing cards. Please avoid for the time being,” he made an appeal through Twitter. कोरोना बचाव को लेकर हमारे ग्रामीण आँचल के लिए मेरी दो विनती है-1. 36 भाईचारे के भाइयो के साथ बैठ हुक्के की सदियो पुरानी परंपरा है।लेकिन स्थिति देखते हुए इसमें कुछ दिन ब्रेक लगाए या न्यारा हुक्का रखे।2. ताश की बाज़ी भी हमारा ग्रामीण पासटेम है। फ़िलहाल इससे भी बचे व सावधानी बरते pic.twitter.com/3QgkgKkgJPBJP MP from Pilibhit Varun Gandhi utilises his time in addressing the problems of his constituents.“We have to reach out to local authorities and intervene to address the issues of kirana stores closing, warehouses being closed down and deliveries being stopped,” he said.Congress spokesperson Jaiveer Shergill took to Twitter to post a video of him learning how to make ‘gobi ka parantha’. He said he would learn to cook 21 dishes in the 21 days of lockdown. “My biggest handicap is not knowing how to cook-so I have taken it upon myself to learn how to cook 21 Dishes in 21 Days starting with my favourite “Gobi Ka Parantha” & my tutor being Gopal Ji who has been our family member for past 36 years,” Shergill tweeted. Day 1-Lockdown-My biggest handicap is not knowing how to cook-so I have taken it upon myself to learn how to cook 21 Dishes in 21 Days starting with my favourite "Gobi Ka Parantha" & my tutor being Gopal Ji who has been our family member for past 36 years !! #Lockdown21 pic.twitter.com/7oMRRS2butNizamabad MP Arvind Dharmapuri has been organising help for people stranded in other states. “I get calls from people that they need to be rescued or moved. I have also been catching up on films, listening to inspirational speeches and playing cricket with my kids,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/young-politicos-using-social-media-to-connect-with-public-during-covid-19-lockdown/story-aMHv0PbrsrLKBndkNIIdMI.html
26-03-2020||India||While world battles coronavirus, Pakistan busy violating ceasefire in Jammu and Kashmir||Pakistan violated the ceasefire agreement yet again on Thursday while the rest of the world is busy battling the deadly coronavirus contagion. Indian troops said they retaliated to Pakistani firing at the Line of Control in north Kashmir’s Uri sector on Thursday afternoon.Locals said the firing went on for a couple of hours in the afternoon and damaged a house which was hit by a shell fired by the Pakistani side, however, no loss of life was reported.The Indian Army blamed Pakistan for the ceasefire violation and said the Indian forces manning the LoC retaliated to Pakistani firing.The locals claimed that several mortar shells landed in the villages of Mothal, Silikote, Hatlthanga and Churunda, all located on the zero line.The latest ceasefire violation spread panic in the villages in Uri, especially those close to the LoC.Irshad Ahmad, a resident of Uri said the firing continued for two hours. “The fresh firing has spread panic in the villages, unfortunately when the world is engulfed in disease Covid -19 and fighting it out to save mankind, here Pakistani soldiers are targeting pickets,” said Ahmad. Since the revocation of article 370, Pakistan has regularly violated the ceasefire agreement with an aim to push militants into the valley, the Indian Army has said on several occasions.Indian intelligence authorities also suspect the involvement of Pakistan’s intelligence services in the attack on a Gurdwara in Kabul early Wednesday morning that killed at least 28 people. The involvement of the ISI backed Haqqani network has not been ruled out despite the banned Islamic State (IS) taking the responsibility for the attack.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/while-world-battles-coronavirus-pakistan-busy-violating-ceasefire-in-jammu-and-kashmir/story-YWC4eqUA23UbdhVH6mFgEK.html
26-03-2020||India||Clot-busting drug may work in Covid-19 emergency: Researchers||A repurposed clot-busting drug may work as an emergency measure for Covid-19 patients suffering from acute respiratory distress when ventilators are not available or not all that effective, according to researchers at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) and the University of Colorado at Denver, Colorado.The drug is the widely used protein called tissue plasminogen activator (tPA), which is administered to people who have suffered a cardiac arrest or stroke to dissolve blood clots.Emerging data from China and Italy showed that Covid-19 patients have severe blood-clotting disorders that lead to respiratory failure and eventually death. Covid-19 patients suffer from inflammation-linked tissue damage, showed autopsy reports from China and Italy.Past research also showed that blood clots often form in the lungs during respiratory failure, and tiny clots called microthrombi also form in the blood vessels of the lungs. These tiny clots prevent blood from reaching the airspaces of the lungs.“If this were to work, which I hope it will, it could potentially be scaled up quickly, because every hospital already has it in their pharmacy. We don’t have to manufacture a new drug, and we don’t have to do the same kind of testing that you would have to do with a new agent,” said Michael Yaffe, a David H. Koch Professor of Science at MIT, who is the senior author of the study, which was published in the Journal of Trauma and Acute Care Surgery on Thursday.While 81% of Covid-19 positive patients have mild disease, 5% of the patients need intensive care, including a ventillator to assist them to breathe as their lungs pack up.Three hospitals in Massachusetts and Colorado in the United States of America are looking to test this therapy in critically ill Covid-19 patients.India has an estimated 40,000 working ventilators for a population of around 1.4 billion people. Most ventillators are installed in government-run medical colleges and private hospitals located in metropolises and state capitals, but certainly will not be enough if there is a sudden spike in Covid-19 positive cases.The blood-clotting drug, tPA, is available across India. “It is a natural protein found in the body and works by converting plasminogen to an enzyme called plasmin, which breaks down blot clots. It is very effective when administered between three and four and half hours into people who have suffered an acute ischemic stroke, provided they have no internal bleeding, including gastric haemorrhage,” said Dr. Pushpendra Renjen, senior consultant neurologist, Indraprastha Apollo Hospitals.“The recommended dose for stroke is 0.9 mg/kg body weight, with 10% of it being injected and the rest given as an infusion over an hour. Depending on the patient’s weight, the drug costs between Rs 40,000 and Rs 50,000,” said Renjen.The researchers plan to test tPA in patients under the US’s Food and Drug Administration’s “compassionate use” programme, which allows experimental drugs to be used in cases where there are no other treatment options.The group plans to deliver the drug both intravenously or administer it directly into the airways. One dose will be given rapidly, say over a two-hour period, followed by an equivalent one given more slowly over 22 hours. Applied BioMath, a company spun out by former MIT researchers, is working on computational models to refine the dosage schedule.“What we are hearing from our intensive care colleagues in Europe and in New York is that many of the critically ill patients with Covid-19 are hypercoagulable, meaning that they are clotting off their intravenous therapies, and having kidney and heart failure from blood clots, in addition to lung failure. There’s plenty of basic science to support the idea that this concept should be beneficial. The tricky part, of course, is figuring out the right dose and route of administration,” said Yaffe.India has reported 649 Covid-19 positive cases and 13 deaths to date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/clot-busting-drug-may-work-in-covid-19-emergency-researchers/story-0EYv4MLz7mn1eh0wa0bRZI.html
26-03-2020||India||Virus vicissitudes and cross-balcony chit-chat||Except honeymooners, no one else seems to be enjoying this lockdown business. After all, how much binge-watching can you do on Netflix, how many WhatsApp messages can you forward, how many pakoras can you eat, and how many new recipes can you try?If you’re me, you’re done trying your hand at white-sauce pasta which you ended up burning! And what do you do for the meal that you had so proudly announced that you would cook? There’s no Swiggy, Zomato or Uber Eats whom you can dial an SOS to? Well, you feed the family burnt white-sauce pasta!But the mohalla women have it best! It’s back to the good old days of chatting across balconies and windows about ‘Pappu ke papa ne kaha...’ And you know these cross-balcony conversations are hot and spicy when the tones go conspiratorially low, followed by incessant giggling.Out to prove who has the spiciest bit of news: the excitement naturally raises volumes, and subsequently, the reach of the ‘news’! In fact, quite a few fights have been averted what with ‘news’ being broadcast of whose husband was caught feeding ice-cream to whose maid. Talking of maids, there’s another contentious issue to them.While the maid has been told to sit home and take her salary, all the work has fallen on the lady of the house. While she goes about it, stomping around the kitchen, banging the pots and pans (not only at 5 pm), others shrink into corners, praying her eyes don’t fall on them.Naturally that precious hour or two on the balcony, provide her and others big relief.Meanwhile, the men folk, having suffered enough heartache counting losses in the stock market slide, have even thrown in the hat to playing referee to Guddu and Pappu. I have a nagging suspicion that them not getting that morning fix of stylish skirts in the sport section of the newspaper, is the reason for them being so cantankerously cranky.But I was wrong! Only when I stole to my mohalla liquor vend and downed shutters greeted me, did the real reason for the men being on such a short leash dawn on me. A harried-looking man approached me with a very pertinent question: ‘Why does the administration grudge my 60 ml of appetiser?’ All I could do was nod my head sympathetically.Further ahead, I found a childhood friend – happily married and a doting father – sleeping in the shade on a raised platform by the road. Shocked, I shook him awake and asked him what he was doing there? He just said, ‘Bahut bolti hai, yaar’, turned over and went right back to sleep.The other day, someone told me how his neighbours trooped in, armed with brooms and whatever else they could lay their hands on, when he was trying to learn how to play the guitar and his wife tried to sing to the tune.And yet, these are just the first few days of the lockdown. Buckle-up people, the road ahead is long and bumpy!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/virus-vicissitudes-and-cross-balcony-chit-chat/story-uhcXNTsm6vLInbaJ8aYqPK.html
26-03-2020||India||Paramilitary forces can arrange beds in Covid-19 emergency: Officials||Five central paramilitary forces such as the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), Border Security Force (BSF), Indo-Tibet Border Police (ITBP), Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) and Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) have a combined strength of 7,500 hospital beds, where Covid-19 patients can be treated as a contingency measure if the country faces a surge of positive cases, officials told HT.The Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) had on March 23 asked the paramilitary forces, also called Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs), to provide a list of their 32 “composite hospitals” -- located across the country -- for Covid-19 patients and also ordered them on March 9 to make adequate arrangements for isolation facilities.These composite hospitals and isolation facilities are located in Delhi, Greater Noida, Hyderabad, Guwahati, Jammu, Tekanpur in Gwalior, Imphal, Dimapur, Nagpur, Silchar, Bhopal, Kolkata, Pune, Bengaluru, Chennai and Jaipur among other areas. One of the biggest facilities of the forces is ITBP’s Chhawla Camp in Delhi, where several batches of evacuees, who arrived from different Covid-19-affected countries such as China and Iran, have been treated since early February.A CRPF officer, who didn’t wish to be quoted, said, “We have arranged around 2,000 beds for quarantine in several locations, and more may be arranged. The medical staff in our camps has been sanitised and necessary equipment and masks are in place.”The Centre is also making arrangements for specialist doctors and medical tools such as ventilators and personal protective equipment (PPE) as many of these forces’ facilities are not equipped with adequate medical staff.The forces have already been told that contingency measures should be in place for troops or their family members already admitted to these facilities be shifted to another location if there is a spurt in the number of Covid-19 patients.The CAPFs are holding their key meetings via video-conferencing, convoy movements have been halted in sensitive areas such as Jammu & Kashmir and troops have been asked to stay put in their respective bases.The government had last week ordered the forces to go into a battle mode to combat the Covid-19 outbreak, which has claimed 20,000 lives across the world.The rotational deployment of paramilitary troops at the United Nations’ missions has also been put off for now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/paramilitary-forces-can-arrange-beds-in-covid-19-emergency-officials/story-inOtHsyrGjk1hwTGvNtAiN.html
26-03-2020||India||Covid-19: 2 new coronavirus cases, one death in Rajasthan||Two more coronavirus cases were reported from Jaipur and Jhunjhunu in Rajasthan on Thursday, taking the total number of cases in Rajasthan to 40. A 73-year-old comatose man who was suffering from multiple ailments man and had also tested positive for coronavirus, died in Bhilwara on Thursday.In a statement, Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary, health department said a 45-year-old male from Jaipur and a 35-year-old male from Jhunjhunu had tested positive.He said both the persons had a travel history to the Middle East. Extensive contact tracing has been started in both the places, he said.Follow coronavirus live updates here.Singh said the senior citizen who died in Bhilwara had been suffering from chronic kidney disease and diabetes. He used to undergo haemo-dialysis.On March 3, he had a brain stroke and slipped into coma after which his family admitted him to the Bangar hospital.He was admitted in the hospital from March 3 to 11 but seeing no improvement in his position, doctors asked his family to take him home.After some doctors from the Bangar hospital tested positive for coronavirus, the health department began intensive screening of the people and contact tracing. During the survey, since the deceased had been admitted in Bangar hospital, his sample was also taken though he was in coma.His sample tested positive for Covid-19. Singh said it would be incorrect to say that the man died due to Covid-19 as he was already suffering from kidney failure and had suffered a brain stroke after which he went into coma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-2-new-coronavirus-cases-one-death-in-rajasthan/story-y9FBF0wveZlAVzhGegzztJ.html
26-03-2020||India||Coronavirus growth rate appears to be stabilising in initial trends, says government||The government on Thursday said there was no hard evidence of coronavirus pandemic having reached the community transmissions stage in India and added that the rate of expansion of the disease appeared to be stabilising in the country.The statements made in the routine press conference by the officials of the health ministry are the first official acknowledgment of positive outcomes in the fight against the disease that has taken 13 lives nationally and infected 649 people so far.The government official was quick to add that these were only the initial trends.Watch | Covid-19 growth rate in India appears to be stable in initial trends: Health Ministry “While the numbers of #Covid19 cases are increasing, the rate at which they are increasing appears to be relatively stabilizing. However, this is only the initial trend,” said Lav Agarwal, Joint Secretary, Union Health & Family Welfare Ministry.“There is still no hard evidence to say there has been community transmission of coronavirus in India,” he further added.Agarwal added that 42 fresh cases of coronavirus had been reported along with four deaths in the last 24 hours.The government also expressed confidence in the measures implemented during the lockdown to prevent further transmissions and said that if followed properly, it should result in effective containment of the contagion.“The steps taken by the government are so effective that if we follow them strictly, the #coronavirus cases will hardly increase in the country,” said R Ganga Ketkar from the Indian Council of Medical Research.Agarwal further added that coordinated efforts by the government and the people at large to honour the principle of social distancing can prevent the community transmissions—considered the most fearful stage, when infections grow exponentially, overwhelming a country’s health infrastructure and seriously jeopardizing containment efforts as contact and source tracing become nearly impossible, resulting in the further explosion of the contagion-- as evidenced in Italy.“Community transmission phase of #Covid-19 will start if the community & we (the government) don’t work collectively & follow guidelines. But it would never happen in India if we follow social distancing & treatment properly,” Aggarwal added.The officials also said that the government was taking steps to ensure that production, supply or distribution of essential goods & services do not get affected during the 21-day lockdown.The central government on Thursday announced a comprehensive financial aid package worth Rs 1.7 lakh crore to help the vulnerable sections of the society hit by the cessation of economic activity in the aftermath of Covid-19 outbreak and subsequent 21-day national lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-growth-rate-appears-to-stabilising-in-initial-trends-says-government/story-uDplPq7hxt5NUTD4W5yZQK.html
26-03-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown turns Kerala into nightmare for tipplers||The lockdown to fight the spread of coronavirus has turned Kerala from a tipplers’ paradise into a nightmare and has flooded the government with complaints of irrational behaviour and violent withdrawal symptoms of regular drinkers, say officials.The government has decided to open more de-addiction counters at state-run hospitals amid fears that the alcohol and drug mafia may step in to cash in on the demand for intoxicants.“We admit it is a social issue. But our hands are tied now. We can only open more de-addiction wards in the hospitals at this juncture. We will provide them free treatment,” said Excise Minister T P Ramakrishnan. Amid the all-out drive to rein in the coronavirus pandemic, the state excise department has also started a vigorous campaign to make use of the opportunity to wean away regular drinkers from alcohol. Follow coronavirus live updates here.The government had earlier listed alcohol among essential items and exempted wine shops from the lockdown. The wine shops were allowed to remain open till March 31. But by 11 am on Tuesday, wine shops were shut down as part of the countrywide lockdown.State Excise Commissioner G Anantha Krishnan has directed officials of the department to raise awareness about de-addiction campaign vigorously and keep a tab on spurious liquor mafia. Kerala had witnessed many hooch tragedies when the government restricted the supply of alcohol.The government had explored ways to distribute alcohol it online but it was not feasible in the present scenario (lockdown). “We have no such plan now. It seems more cumbersome at this juncture,” the excise minister said.The growth of the drug mafia is another headache, say excise officials. State Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran also said that the sudden closure of wine shops has created a big social problem. “The government always insisted abstinence, not a blanket ban. Regular drinkers will go to any extent to get their usual kick. We are worried about the social ramifications the closure has created,” he said. Health workers say they are flooded with complaints of violent behaviour and withdrawal symptoms from regular tipplers.The government had anticipated such problems and had exempted wine shops from the lockdown and pushed it to essential list inviting much criticism from the opposition and prohibition activists. While announcing the opening of outlets run by state-owned Beverages Corporation, the government had set guidelines on social distancing and hygiene that entailed customers keeping a safe distance from each other and wearing masks. But these instructions were quickly ignored when shutters opened.The loss of revenue is another cause of worry for the government as liquor remains one of the highest revenue earners and its sudden closure will choke the treasury.On an average the government-owned Beverages Corporation sells liquor worth Rs 40 to 45 crore a day and in 2018-19 it sold alcohol worth Rs 14,508 crore. Excise duty on liquor is between 300 per cent and 500 per cent in the state which means a Rs 100 bottle of rum in the brewery will cost in the Rs 400-500 in the market. The closure of wine shops is a double whammy for the government - drying up its revenue and sparking social problems. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-turns-kerala-into-nightmare-for-tipplers/story-KXiEtY0l1ABRf6U5qdoleM.html
26-03-2020||India||ICMR fast-tracks validation of commercial testing kits for Covid-19||In order to fast-track the validation of commercial testing kits, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has allowed four labs to evaluate the kits that various manufacturers are offering to create on a large scale to test the coronvirus disease (Covid-19).Apart from its apex virology laboratory, National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune, the ICMR has identified three more of its laboratories from national institutes to conduct evaluation of commercial testing kits for use in Covid-19 testing across India.“Testing of kits is being fast tracked by ICMR as ICMR-certified testing kits can also be used for testing,” said Dr Balram Bhargava, director-general, ICMR.The three newly identified laboratories of ICMR are: the National AIDS Research Institute (NARI) in Pune, the National Institute of Pathology in New Delhi, and the National Institute of Cholera and Enteric Diseases (NICED) in Kolkata.The ICMR had initially allowed only the use of United States Food and Drug Administration (US FDA) and European Union certification ((EUA/CE) ) approved testing kits for in-vitro diagnostics (IVD), meaning tests done on samples such as blood or tissue that have been taken from the human body to detect diseases or other conditions(IVD) for Covid-19 testingThe use of these kits was made mandatory for the private labs to test for Covid-19. As the numbers started to rise, the research council last week also allowed use of testing kits validated by the NIV.Apart from the 118 government laboratories that are approved to test for Covid-19, the government has allowed 29 private labs across India.From the start of the outbreak in India, the NIV had been approached by various commercial testing kits manufacturers for validation, and had begun the process of evaluation some time in February. Three commercial assays (testing kits) have been approved by the NIV, including one from an Indian manufacturer. Pune-based molecular diagnostics company, Mylab Discovery Solutions Pvt Ltd, that developed first Made in India Covid-19 testing kit has announced that it is ready with the first batch of test kits and will start supplying to the government and private labs.In the first batch, it will supply testing kits to conduct 15,000 tests, and can ramp up capacity from 20,000 to 50,000 kits a day. ICMR has identified seven locations for storage of testing kits as it has procured one million kits from Germany and is expecting one million more kits from the World Health Organisation to strengthen its testing capacity.As researchers suggest blood tests as a strategy to combat Covid-19 outbreak as the results are quicker and the presence of antibodies against the virus in the bloodstream can also suggest past infection, the ICMR is also looking at including blood tests, and has also asked for quotations from manufacturers of antibody based test kits.The ICMR has estimated the tentative requirement of 10,00,000 tests kits.India so far has tested 25,144 samples for Covid-19, and has the capacity of testing 12,000 samples in a day in its government laboratories alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-fast-tracks-validation-of-commercial-testing-kits/story-8O75LZIw3DjGMmPhLcYPaK.html
26-03-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Delhi notifies rules for handling bodies of Covid-19 casualties and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion curated for you at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi notifies rules in handling bodies of coronavirus casualtiesThe Delhi government has notified guidelines for handling bodies of patients who died of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The notification, issued late on Wednesday under the Epidemic Diseases Act of 1897, implies that legal action can be taken against those who don’t follow the guidelines.Read MoreEight big announcements made by Finance Minister in Covid-19 relief packageFinance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday announced a relief package worth Rs 1.70 lakh crore for various sectors to help them tide over the coronavirus crisis. She announced a series of measures for different sectors, especially the poor and vulnerable ones, and praised the doctors and nurses involved in treating the patients of Covid-19.Read MoreIndia to push for coordinated, forward-looking approach to Covid-19 at G20 meetIndia is expected to push for a coordinated and forward-looking approach at the extraordinary G20 virtual leaders’ summit to be held on Thursday evening against the backdrop of a divide in the G7 over US efforts to label Covid-19 as the “Wuhan virus”, people familiar with developments said.Read MoreCoronavirus Relief: Kapil Sharma donates Rs 50 lakh, Kylie Jenner USD 1 millionThe stars are digging deep into their pockets for the relief measures towards those affected by the coronavirus pandemic. Celebrities are donating big sums to coronavirus relief fund. Stars such as Kapil Sharma, Pawan Kalyan and Ram Charan have contributed Read MoreMichael Vaughan speaks out on fate of T20 World Cup amid coronavirus pandemicFormer England captain Michael Vaughan has said one shouldn’t get hopes up regarding the ICC T20 World Cup which is scheduled to take place in Australia this year. The showpiece event involving 16 teams is to be played between October 18 to November 15, however it’s fate has been put in jeopardy due to the outbreak of coronavirus. Vaughan believes these are unprecedented times and the T20 World Cup could also be hit later in the year.Read MoreZomato, Swiggy ready to deliver but most restaurants are ‘unserviceable’With most restaurants and cloud kitchens going temporarily out of service, both Zomato and Swiggy have been having a tough time figuring things out. In cases where food outlets were open, delivery boys were turned back by local authorities once the 21-day lockdown directive came into force.Read MoreService to mankind in the time of corona lockdownCovid-19 pandemic has affected everyone, but acts of kindness are winning over this crisis. Even with limited ration in their homes, during the country-wide lockdown, people are trying their best to feed the less privileged in their localities, while ensuring all necessary precautions.Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-delhi-notifies-rules-in-handling-bodies-of-coronavirus-casualties-and-all-the-latest-news/story-cdLBQ04f2drn0VX5avlvgL.html
26-03-2020||India||In Kabul gurdwara attack, India was real target; Islamic State just a front: Intel||Security at the Indian Embassy in Kabul and consulates in Jalalabad and Kandahar has been put on highest alert with Indian and western intelligence confirming that Haqqani network and Lashkar-e-Tayyeba (LeT) terrorists chose to hit Guru Har Rai Gurdwara at Shor Bazaar due to heavy troop deployment at the Indian mission.As many as 28 Sikh worshippers have been killed, eight are injured and another 85 were rescued during the shoot-out at the gurdwara, three kilometres away from the Indian mission.According to information reaching Delhi from Afghan and western security agencies, the strike was ordered by Quetta Shura of Taliban at the behest of Pakistani deep state with the larger motive of driving out India from Afghanistan.The entire operation was code-named Blackstar by the Pakistan intelligence, which used the Haqqani network led by Taliban’s deputy commander Sirajuddin Haqqani and elements of LeT.Also Watch l ‘Saddened to hear about terror attack on gurudwara in Kabul’: PM Modi As many as 4 attackers armed with AK-47 rifles were part of the strike team of terrorists who struck at the Gurdwara. The Afghan security forces managed to kill one of the terrorists; the rest escaped.A senior official in the Indian security establishment said there was recognition in New Delhi that the terrorists probably attacked the gurdwara because it was a soft target. There have been alerts about a terror attack on the Indian embassy in Kabul and the consulate at Jalalabad for quite some time. It wouldn’t have been an easy target since the security had been beefed up and more troop firewalls deployed.Even while the grieving Afghan Sikhs were cremating the victims on Thursday afternoon, a bomb exploded nearby creating further scare in the area.Since the US announced a deal with the Taliban on February 29, there has been a spurt in violence in Afghanistan with resurgence of the Haqqani network and relocation of terror camps of both LeT and Jaish-e-Mohammed from Pakistan.According to counter-terror analysts, the Haqqani network comprises mainly of Zardan tribe based in Nangarhar, Khost, Nuristan and Kunar provinces, which is in direct conflict with the miniscule Sikh community over land in Jalalabad and trade in Kabul.On July 1, 2019, the Haqqani network targeted the Sikh community in Jalalabad as they came to meet President Ashraf Ghani during his visit to Nangarhar province. In both cases, the Islamic State was allowed to take credit for the attack.However, the play is much deeper with Pakistan setting sights on forcing India out of Afghanistan post withdrawal of the US forces from Afghanistan. With Taliban, Haqqani network, LeT and JeM all under control of the Pakistani deep state, Afghanistan again will provide strategic space to its terrorist arm for controlling Kabul and hitting at Kashmir.Already there are inputs from western agencies about JeM and LeT moving their training camps to eastern borders of Afghanistan with Kashmir in the crosshairs. The Taliban, with their sword arm Haqqani network, will handle Afghanistan while the Islamic State and Al Qaeda would be their digital fronts in the social media space.After the Gurudwara attack, the Indian security agencies fear that Indian consulates in Jalalabad and Kandahar will be targeted by the Haqqani network and associates in coming days.“While the world is grappling with the Covid-19 virus, the Pakistani deep state continues to push jihad against minorities in Afghanistan,” said a senior official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-kabul-gurdwara-attack-india-was-real-target-islamic-state-just-a-front-intel/story-CUieYCQRwiUeA2mWHw9n7H.html
26-03-2020||India||‘Indian govt helped a lot’: Israel praises India for evacuations||Israel thanked the Indian government for the evacuation of over 500 Israeli nationals from India, in two trips, one each on Thursday and Friday. A special Air India flight was to fly 317 Israeli back home on Thursday followed by another 200 on Friday, said ambassador Ron Malka.“Today, we’are evacuating 317 Israelis. In another flight tomorrow, 200 more Israelis to be evacuated. Indian govt has helped us a lot, I want to thank them; Israel took drastic measures to fight Coronavirus, the situation there is under control,” he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The flight carrying the Israelis is to leave from New Delhi’s IGI Airport for Tel Aviv, however, it will not carry any passengers back on the return flight, said another news agency.The evacuation of Israelis comes close on the heels of similar missions to fly out over a thousand foreign nationals including the Japanese and the Germans on five special flights from Delhi.Over 150 Japanese nationals were flown out on a special flight that flew in from Tokyo, while four other flights flew out 500 people to Germany, 120 to Ukraine and 240 to two Baltic nations.Officials said two more special flights to Frankfurt (Germany) and Austria were scheduled from the Delhi airport on Thursday to evacuate 750 people.The United States and France are also in talks with the Indian government to evacuate their citizens from the country. Over 2000 French nationals are currently staying in India. The exact number of stranded Americans could not be ascertained, but it is believed to be in hundreds.The US on Wednesday said it was in contact with the Indian government to help find accommodation for American citizens stranded in the country because of the Covid-19 lockdown till the time it can arrange flights to evacuate them. It also advised them to adhere to the lockdown norms during their stay in the country and said it hopes it will be able to arrange for a safe passage for them with the Indian government once the flight arrangements have been made.The Indian government has imposed a 21-day lockdown from Tuesday midnight to prevent the spread of coronavirus, severely restricting the moments of people and transport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-govt-has-helped-a-lot-israel-praises-india-for-evacuations/story-K7aXRCamygJaAQk7V3GkTM.html
26-03-2020||India||‘First step in right direction’: Rahul Gandhi on govt’s Covid-19 aid package||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi who has been critical of the government’s handling of the coronavirus pandemic so far, said that the financial assistance package announced by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday “is the first step in the right direction”.“The Govt announcement today of a financial assistance package, is the first step in the right direction. India owes a debt to its farmers, daily wage earners, labourers, women & the elderly who are bearing the brunt of the ongoing lockdown,” Gandhi tweeted.Sitharaman announced a comprehensive Rs 1,70,000 crore economic package for the urban and rural poor to deal with the impact of the coronavirus pandemic.“The government has been working to reach out to women, migrant workers, and the disadvantaged section of the society. We have come out with a package that will address concerns of these people. We are looking at two aspects: Cash transfer and food security related measures,” Sitharaman said while announcing the package.“We don’t want anyone to remain hungry, or without money. So we will be giving enough,” she said.The lockdown which will be in force till April 15 has begun to hurt low income groups the most with daily wage earners such as construction workers suddenly becoming jobless. Earlier this month, Rahul Gandhi had warned that India should be prepared not just for coronavirus but for an impending economic devastation which he compared to a tsunami.“The Indian economy is going to be devastated. You have no idea the painful thing the country has suffered and it is coming. It is like a tsunami is coming,” Gandhi had said.The conronavirus pandemic continues to expand its footprints across India and now affected almost 650 people. Fourteen have died so far of the disease that it causes – Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-step-in-right-direction-rahul-gandhi-on-govt-s-covid-19-aid-package/story-UXEyEd2Iap8ingkP5LsytK.html
26-03-2020||India||Sitharaman unveils Rs 1.7 lakh crore package for poor amid Covid-19 crisis||To address the immediate economic distress in the wake of the lockdown prompted by the Covid-19 pandemic, and ensure food and cash reaches the marginalised segments of society, the government announced a Rs 1,70,000 crore package, under a new scheme, the Pradhan Mantri Gareeb Kalyan Yojana (PMGKBY), on Thursday.Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, at a press conference in the capital, announced a series of measures, which focused on additional food transfers at no cost, additional cash for vulnerable segments, concessions on government schemes aimed to help households reduce their expenditure, and support those in the frontline of the battle against the pandemic. The primary beneficiaries of these measures include those below the poverty line, farmers, women, elderly citizens, the physically challenged, and workers in both the unorganised and organised sectors.Sitharaman underlined that within 36 hours of the lockdown — Prime Minister Narendra Modi directed a national lockdown for three weeks on Tuesday night — the government had come up with measures to immediately take care of welfare concerns of the poor. She, however, did not address questions about the fiscal implications of the scheme, or announce measures for other economic sectors which have also got severely affected in the wake of the restrictions and the lockdown. Sitharaman announced a medial insurance cover of Rs 50 lakh per person for doctors, health care personnel and sanitation staff, acknowledging their contribution at this crisis hour.The PMGKY had two broad components — the first was centred on ensuring food availability and support, and the second was centred on income support.On food, Sitharaman said 800 million people — two-thirds of the country’s population — would now be eligible for, in addition to the existing allocation of five kg of wheat or rice, another five kg of wheat or rice per month, for the next three months, for free. They would also get one kg of pulse, according to the specific regional variant of the pulse in their geographical area, in this period. “This is meant to ensure that no one stays hungry,” emphasised Sitharaman.In terms of direct financial support, the FM announced support under eight distinct categories using the direct benefits transfer framework.The first was targeted at farmers, who get direct cash support of ₹6,000 annually under the PM-Kisan scheme. Sitharaman said that the first instalment of the money — ₹2000 — would be “front-loaded” and given immediately. “This will benefit 86.9 million farmers,” said the FM.The second was for workers under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MNREGS). From a daily wage of ₹182, they would now be entitled to get ₹202. “This will benefit 50 million families. It will help increase the income to ₹2,000 per worker,” emphasised Sitharaman.The third measure was for economically poor widows, elderly citizens above the age of 60, and the physically challenged. “They will get an ex-gratia amount of ₹1,000. The measure will benefit 30 million poor citizens,” the FM said. The amount is to be given in two instalments.The fourth measure was targeted at women who held Jan Dhan Accounts. “There are 200 million women Jan Dhan account holders. The government will give them ₹500 per month, for three months, to ensure they can run their households in this period of disruption.” A related announcement was for the beneficiaries of the PM Ujjwala scheme, where over 83 million households got gas cylinders. “For three months, these households will get free cylinders.” Anecdotal evidence suggests that many households have found the cost of refilling their gas cylinders burdensome. Minister of state for finance, Anurag Thakur, sitting alongside Sitharaman, underlined that with these measures, the government was seeking to ensure that poor families had access to food, to incomes, and to cooking gas.The fifth measure was targeted at women self-help groups (SHGs). Sitharaman pointed out that there were 6.3 million SHGs in the country, with members from 70 million households being members of these groups. “They were eligible for collateral-free loan up to ₹10 lakh till now. This amount will now go up to ₹20 lakh. Self-help groups are eligible for increased collateral free loans, which will give more money in their hands,” said the finance minister.The sixth measure was targeted at organised workers. This had two components. The government, the FM announced, would contribute both the share of the employee and the employer of the Employer Provident Fund for the next three months. “The government will give both the 12% share of the employees, and the 12% share of the employers — so a total of 24% per month for three months, to ensure there is no break in the continuity of EPFO contributions. This will apply to establishments which have less than 100 employees, where 90% of the employees earn less than ₹15,000 per month.” The second inter-related measure was the government’s decision to amend the provident fund regulation scheme, to allow employees to withdraw, on a non refundable advance basis, 75% of the amount, or up to three months of wages, whichever is lower, from their accounts.The seventh announcement was for construction workers. The FM said that there already existed a fund for the welfare of construction and other workers. This had, at the moment, ₹31,000 crore and 35 million workers were registered under it. “We have given directions to state governments to utilise the funds to provide assistance to construction workers to protect them.” And the final announcement was with regard to district mineral funds, with the FM requesting state governments to utilise these funds to supplement medical testing and screening activities to fight the coronavirus.Congress parliamentarian Rahul Gandhi said the government’s announcement “of a financial assistance package” is the first step in the right direction. “...India owes a debt to its farmers, daily wage earners, labourers, women & the elderly who are bearing the brunt of the ongoing lockdown,” he tweeted.Trinamool Congress MP Derek O’Brien said the measures were similar to what states have already announced. “Centre takes cue from relief plans already rolled out by state governments like West Bengal a week ago— free six months ration for the poor, health insurance for champion frontliner’s fighting corona and Rs 1000 for daily wagers under new Prochesta scheme,” he said, adding that the Centre’s move will supplement state efforts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sitharman-unveils-1-7-lakh-crore-package-for-poor-amid-covid-19-crsis/story-mBs2BpCdlCnd6CXZeCKKvL.html
26-03-2020||India||Prime Minister Gareeb Kalyan Scheme: All you need to know on Centre’s economic package||Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday announced a Rs 1,70,000 crore economic package for the poor, migrant workers and for those sections of society who need help to tide over the challenge of the nationwide lockdown and job losses during the outbreak of the coronavirus.Called the ‘Prime Minister Gareeb Kalyan Scheme’, it will address the concerns of the poor and all those medical and paramedical staff who are in the frontline of the coronavirus crisis tackling the pandemic.Besides food, the package includes a cash component that is divided into eight heads that cover all sections of society, including pensioners, women and the specially abled, Sitharaman said. Here’s all you need to know about the Centre’s economic bailout package:* The Pradhan Mantri Gareeb Kalyan Yojna will be applicable for the next 3 months.*It will cover an estimated 80 crore poor people about two-thirds of the Indian population.* In addition to already allotted 5 kg of rice/wheat per person, an additional 5 kg will be free. An additional 1 kg of pulses (according to regional preference) will be given, the finance minister announced.*A special Rs 50 lakh medical insurance cover is being offered to the frontline medical workers working to avert the huge health crisis - the doctors, nurses and their support medical staff.*Increase of wages in MGNREGA: Five crore families will be benefited and it will translate into an increase of Rs 2000 per worker on average as additional income.*The government has increased the wages under the rural job guarantee programme MGNREGA to Rs 202 from Rs 182. This will be for five crore workers.*There will be Rs 50 lakh insurance per health care worker as a medical insurance cover for them for three months.*Around 8.69 crore farmers will be immediately benefited through Direct Cash Transfers. An instalment of Rs 2000 will be sent in the first week of April.*Women Jan Dhan account holders will get ex-gratia payment of Rs 500 per month for the next three months. This will benefit over 20 crore women who have Jan Dhan accounts.All over the country, three crore widows, pensioners and the specially abled would receive a one-time ex-gratia payment of Rs 1,000.*Nearly 8.3 crore families who are below poverty line will get free cooking gas cylinders for the next three months.*Those under the women self-help groups under the Deen Dayal Yojana who are eligible for collateral-free loans of up to Rs 10 lakh can now get Rs 20 lakh.*For the organised sector, Sitharaman announced a hike in provident funds and withdrawal limits.*The Centre will pay PF for both the employee and employer for the next three months for firms that have up to 100 employees and 90 per cent of the employees earn less than Rs 15,000 per month. These employees would be able to get non-refundable advance to 75 per cent from the fund or three months’ wages -- whichever is less -- from their EPFO.Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman is heading the task force which is evaluating the financial fallout of the coronavirus pandemic. The Central government on Thursday outlined an initial bailout package for the people and industry as the number of positive coronavirus cases touched 649 with India reporting 10 deaths so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prime-minister-gareeb-kalyan-scheme-all-you-need-to-know-on-centre-s-economic-package/story-sAKW3I1mh7NXQqcJu5e8rI.html
26-03-2020||India||Two coronavirus patients successfully treated at Greater Noida hospital||A 22-year old woman and a 27-year old man have both recovered from coronavirus and will be discharged from the Government Institute of Medical Sciences in Uttar Pradesh’s Greater Noida by Thursday evening, said officials. The woman is a student from Jharkhand who is pursuing medical studies in Georgia and the man is an engineer from Sector 41 in Noida.The medical student was found positive for the virus after she returned to Noida from France, where she had gone on a trip before returning to India as her college extended the break amid Covid-19.“I had flown down with my sister and two friends. I had no symptoms at the airport but we were given a toll-free number to inform if we develop any. After reaching home, on March 14, I developed dry cough and blockage of the nose after which I called on the toll-free number who then directed me to GIMS,” said the 22-year-old discharged patient.She was full of praise for the medical staff at the hospital and said she had volunteered to stay at the hospital even when initially presented with the option of home quarantine.“They asked me if I want to go under home quarantine or get admitted and I chose to stay in the hospital. I have been in the isolation ward for 10 days and the medical staff has done everything possible to cure us,” added the medical student.But her experience of the infrastructure at the hospital was not so great.“The doctors and the medical staff have been working really hard but there is a need to improve the infrastructure. I haven’t taken bath since I was admitted on March 15. There were no separate bathrooms for women and men. The existing bathroom was also not in a running condition as the water pipes were leaking. I was using wet wipes sent by my father to clean myself. People were scared to come close to us, so we had to clean ourselves. Following the lockdown, my father couldn’t send wet wipes since yesterday,” said the medical student.The head of department, medicine and the head of the medical team treating Covid-19 patients said that initially few arrangements were missing as the isolation wards were set up on an emergency basis but things have improved now.“We are happy that two more patients are ready to get discharged after two of their reports have come negative for the infection. Initially, there was a problem of the bathroom as the arrangements were made in an emergency. Now we have separate bathrooms for women and men. There was Covid-19 ward set up in the hospital so it took some time to put things in place,” said Dr Saurabh Shrivastava, HOD, medicine.On Wednesday night a 23-year-old patient from sector 78 was discharged from the hospital. Doctors said the only way to avoid Covid-19 infection was to maintain social distancing.“It is important for people to follow the guidelines of the health department to maintain social distancing. There is no fixed treatment for Covid-19 till now but the antimalarial medicines which have been used all over the world have shown results in the case of these three patients,” added Shrivastava.The discharged medical student says that it is important for people to behave responsibly without panicking.“People need to follow the proper protocol of informing officials if they have any symptoms. Once I realized that I have got symptoms, I stayed away from my sister and two friends who were later found negative for the virus,” she said.She added that patients undergoing treatment need to trust the nursing staff and shouldn’t question the treatment.“There were many patients who were questioning the medical staff which only makes their job difficult so it is necessary to maintain your calm and to have faith that you will be cured,” said the 22-year-old.Another discharged patient, a 26-year-old resident of Sector 41, had travelled to Indonesia via Malaysia with his wife and returned to India on March 3. He was admitted on March 18 in the isolation ward of GIMS after his reports confirmed him positive for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-coronavirus-patients-successfully-treated-at-greater-noida-hospital/story-SjWohxB5AR0oDSaKMkBhQL.html
26-03-2020||India||Delhi govt issues guidelines for handling bodies of Covid-19 casualties||The Delhi government has notified guidelines for handling bodies of patients who died of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The notification, issued late on Wednesday under the Epidemic Diseases Act of 1897, implies that legal action can be taken against those who don’t follow the guidelines.Delhi has so far reported 36 Covid-19 positive cases and one death.The guidelines say when a Covid-19 patient dies in a hospital, trained staff will pack the body, disinfect it and store it in the mortuary. A body will be carried in a hearse, accompanied by the health staff, to the crematorium or burial ground.The hearse carriage must be disinfected after the last rites are carried out. The hospital, where a Covid-19 patient dies, can also decide whether a post-mortem is needed to be conducted or not.There was confusion over a patient who died in a Delhi on Tuesday. The Union health ministry website initially cited the 60-year-old man’s case as Delhi’s second coronavirus death, but later it was clarified that he did not die due to Covid-19.“In the case of the person...the confirmatory Covid-19 test came negative...But we did ask the deceased’s family members to maintain some social distance as a precautionary measure,” said an official from the hospital on condition of anonymity.The notification also lists protocols in case a Covid-19 patient dies at home. To be sure, patients found to have contracted the deadly, contagious disease are treated at government-run isolation facilities. It was immediately not clear if the guidelines talked about suspected patients (or who they are) in this case.The guidelines say the relatives of the deceased should immediately inform the district magistrate, who will then inform either Lok Nayak Hospital or Rajiv Gandhi Super-specialty Hospital.The hospitals will provide trained staff to pack, disinfect and handle the body. The hospital will also provide a hearse carriage to carry the body to the crematorium or burial ground.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-notifies-rules-in-handling-remains-of-coronavirus-deaths/story-acleMWf4fCwmFKog9ba65I.html
26-03-2020||India||India to push for coordinated, forward-looking approach to Covid-19 at G20 meet||India is expected to push for a coordinated and forward-looking approach at the extraordinary G20 virtual leaders’ summit to be held on Thursday evening against the backdrop of a divide in the G7 over US efforts to label Covid-19 as the “Wuhan virus”, people familiar with developments said.Members of the G20, which includes 19 of the world’s largest economies and the European Union, are engaged in hectic negotiations to finalise a joint communique to be issued after Thursday’s meeting, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity.The members will also outline their individual positions in separate statements during the video conference that has been convened by G20 president Saudi Arabia to discuss a joint response to the Covid-19 pandemic.“India’s approach will be to have a positive and forward-looking outcome. This is a global challenge and requires a coordinated global response,” a person who declined to be named said.The people said Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in his statement, is expected to refer to India’s role in forging a coordinated response through the video conference of leaders of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (Saarc) on March 15 and how this could be replicated by other countries.On Wednesday, other members of the G7 spurned the US state department’s push to include the phrase “Wuhan virus” in a joint statement that was to be issued after a video conference of the grouping’s foreign ministers. The members issued separate statements that reflected the divisions within the G7.The person cited above said: “India doesn’t want to get into a blame game. The priority for us is to tackle the Coronavirus and to forge a coordinated global response to it.”“What the US state department has suggested is a red line,” an unnamed European diplomat was quoted as saying by CNN. “You cannot agree with this branding of this virus and trying to communicate this.”The proposed draft statement by the US also blamed China for the pandemic’s spread, the diplomat told CNN. The US was responsible for framing the draft statement as it is the current president of the G7, which includes the UK, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and Canada.The division within the G7 was reflected in a statement issued by French foreign minister Jean-Yves Le Drian, which said he had “underscored the need to combat any attempt to exploit the crisis for political purposes and expressed the view that the unity of all to effectively combat the pandemic must now take precedence over any other considerations”.The US leadership, including President Donald Trump, has repeatedly referred to Covid-19, which was first reported in the Wuhan region of China last December, as the “Chinese virus” or “Wuhan virus”.Asked by journalists about a media report that the draft statement of the G7 had contained a reference to “Wuhan virus”, US secretary of state Mike Pompeo did not deny it. “There was a lot of discussion today amongst the G7 about the intentional disinformation campaign that China has been and continues to be engaged in,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-push-for-coordinated-forward-looking-approach-to-covid-19-at-g20-meet/story-4SuF5JbAQOvfhyU93xthUP.html
26-03-2020||India||Thousands stranded at borders as Andhra refuses to honour Telangana travel permits||Thousands of people who left from Hyderabad for their native places in Andhra Pradesh after taking no-objection certificates from the Telangana government are stranded on the Telangana-Andhra Pradesh border for the last 12 hours, as the Andhra government has refused to allow them into its territory.Nearly 6,000 people, mostly students, working men and women in various private organisations and youth preparing for various competitive examinations, staying in various hostels and paying guest accommodations, were virtually thrown out on the streets on Wednesday by the hostel managements, which announced closure of hostels and mess facilities following the lockdown.The people thronged their respective local police stations in large numbers requesting that arrangements be made to send them to their native places. “The owners are asking us to leave for our hometowns. We are not able to find any sources of travel to get back to our native places. Please help us in this situation,” a hostel inmate P Santosh Kumar tweeted, tagging municipal administration minister K T Rama Rao.Following the intervention of higher authorities, the police in Hyderabad, Cyberabad and Rachakonda police commissionerates issued no-objection certificates and travel permits to them. “We have issued passes to more than a thousand hostel inmates after verifying their credentials including Aadhar card details,” Hyderabad police commissioner Anjani Kumar said.The police strictly instructed the passholders not misuse the permits and display the same at the check posts so that they could have smooth passage. Accordingly, the hostel inmates left for their native places in whatever mode of transport they could get.However, as they reached the Andhra borders at Garikapadu on Hyderabad-Vijayawada national highway, Dachepally on Hyderabad-Nadikudi-Guntur state highway and at Kurnool borders, they received a rude shock.The Andhra police at these check posts did not permit the students and employees, saying that they had no communication from the Telangana government about large scale influx of people near their borders. They declared that the passes issued by Telangana police were not valid in Andhra Pradesh.The stranded travellers, including a large number of women, faced severe hardship on the highways, as they had no food or water at the check posts. As it was late in the night, they had no place to sleep either. Many of them were seen sleeping on the roadside.“We can’t even attend nature’s call, as all around are men up to two to three kilometres. It is so inhuman,” lamented a young womanWith several of them sending SOS to officials in Andhra, chief secretary Neelam Sawhney had a telephonic talk with her Telangana counterpart Somesh Kumar and other senior officials of the CMO, requesting that all the people who were stranded at the borders be taken back.She also asked Hyderabad city police commissioner and Mayor to get in touch with the hostels, PGs, and messes and ensure that they remain open, as it was not safe for the people to come out or travel to their native places during the pandemic, an official release from the Andhra CMO late on Wednesday said.Adding to the confusion, Telangana director general of police M Mahender Reddy declared that all the travel permissions given by the state police were not valid and the travellers could come back to Hyderabad to stay in hostels, where facilities would be provided.But the commuters who were stranded at the borders preferred to go back and pleaded with the authorities to help them reach their native places.On Thursday morning, the Andhra Pradesh government made it clear that only those who would agree for a 14-day quarantine in various isolation rooms in Andhra would be allowed into its territory.“The problem has appeared only due to lack of communication. Anyway, those who are ready to be quarantined instead of going home will be allowed into AP. We shall resolve the issue after talking to our counterparts in Telangana,” Guntur range Inspector General of Police Prabhakar Rao told reporters.The police rejected the request of some people who asked for home quarantine orders. Some of them opted for quarantine at government designated centres and were sent accordingly.Telangana Information Technology minister K T Rama Rao said Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao had spoken to his AP counterpart Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy in this regard. “The matter should be resolved soon and everyone will be taken care of,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thousands-stranded-at-borders-as-andhra-refuses-to-honour-telangana-travel-permits/story-isBjPDmfWB1ubOhVM2zUBP.html
26-03-2020||India||8 big announcements made by Finance Minister in Covid-19 relief package||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday announced a relief package worth Rs 1.70 lakh crore for various sectors to help them tide over the coronavirus crisis.She announced a series of measures for different sectors, especially the poor and vulnerable ones, and praised the doctors and nurses involved in treating the patients of Covid-19.“We responded within 36 hours of the announcement of a lockdown,” said Sitharaman.Here are some of the eight big announcements made by Sitharaman today under the Pradhan Mantri Gareeb Kalyan Yojana:For farmers: 8.69 crore farmers will be benefited through the announcement of direct cash transfers. Installment of Rs 2000 will be transferred in their account in the first week of April, said Sitharaman.Also Watch l Modi govt announces 50 lakh insurance cover for coronavirus warriors For MGNREGA workers: The government today increased wages under the scheme by Rs 2000 per worke on average as additional income. This will benefit five crore families.For poor widows/pensioners/divyang: One-time ex-gratia additional support of Rs 1000 announced. This will be given through direct benefit transfer (DBT) in two installments in three months. This will benefit three crore widows, pensioners and divyang. For women Jan Dhan account holders: A support of Rs 500 per month for the next three month, so that these women are able to run their household in this hour of crisis. This will benefit 20 crore such women. The money will be transferred through DBT.For those covered under the Ujjwala scheme: The nearly 8.3 crore BPL families, who were benefited by the scheme, will be provided three cylinders for the next three months.For women self-help group (SHGs): There are 63 lakh SHGs which benefit seven crore households in the country. The finance minister today announced doubling of collateral-free loans (from Rs 10 lakh to Rs 20 lakh) for the SHGs.For organised sector workers: Government of India will pay the EPF controbution - both for employer (12%) and employee (12%) - for the next three months so that nobody suffers due to loss of continuity in the EPFO contribution. This is for all those establishment who have upto 100 employees, and 90 per cent of who draw Rs 15,000 salary per month. The second announcement will benefit 80 lakh employee - the EPFO scheme’s regulations will be amended to allow non-refundable advance of 75 per cent of the amount standing to the credit of the member (for contingency expenditure), or three-month wages, whichever is lower. This will benefit 4.8 crore workers.For construction workers: There is a welfare fund for construction workers. Sitharaman said today that the central government will direct the state governments to utilise Rs 31,000 crore in that fund to and protect thse workers against any economic disruption. This will benefit 3.5 crore workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/8-big-announcements-made-by-finance-minister-in-covid-19-relief-package/story-uPpO9yTsWIzYxu2bpG3wxJ.html
26-03-2020||India||‘All students passed except…’: Jamia teacher tweets a row on CAA, suspended||A social media post by a Jamia faculty member that spoke about failing students who did not back the protests against the amended citizenship law has led to a huge controversy. On Wednesday, Delhi’s Jamia Millia Islamia university announced that the faculty member had been suspended and an inquiry ordered.AP Siddiqui, registrar of the university, issued the suspension order for the teacher. It said the faculty member had tweeted that all students “except 15 non-Muslims have been passed as they did not support” the Citizenship Amendment Act protests.The university authorities felt that the social media post incited communal disharmony which is unbecoming of a teacher and against the spirit of the code of conduct. It classified the tweet as a case of serious misconductAlso Watch | ‘No resistance by people’: Delhi Police commissioner on clearing anti-CAA protest sites Siddiqui’s order said that the vice chancellor had decided to place Ahmad under suspension with immediate effect pending an inquiry.Abrar Ahmad, an assistant professor in the department of electrical engineering, however, insisted that his post had been misunderstood and was only meant as satire and not a factual assertion.Ahmad turned to Facebook to argue that it was a satire to explain how minorities were targeted by CAA and he couldn’t have failed anyone since there were no exams.“It was a satire, parody, a co-relation to explain how minorities are being targeted by CAA and it would be as bad as a teacher saying all minority students are failed and have to reappear,” he wrote.He added that no such examination had taken place and thus failing non Muslim students was out of question.The assistant professor claimed that in a career spanning over a decade there was no case of discrimination against him. He added that the limitation of characters on Twitter may have led to misinterpretation of his post.“Now, since the university has ordered an inquiry in this issue, everything will be clear soon,” he added in the Facebook post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-students-passed-except-jamia-teacher-tweets-a-row-on-caa-suspended/story-4MvXZzWrhVlgRGYCadDFHO.html
26-03-2020||India||‘Don’t want anyone to remain hungry’: Sitharaman announces Covid-19 relief package||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday announced a comprehensive economic package to deal with the impact of coronavirus disease Covid-19.“The government has been working to reach out to women, migrant workers, and the disadvantaged section of the society. We have come out with a package that will address concerns of these people. We are looking at two aspects: Cash transfer and food security related measures,” Sitharaman said at a press conference. “We don’t want anyone to remain hungry, or without money. So we will be giving enough,” she added announcing Rs 1,70,000 crore relief package for urban and rural poor.More on Covid-19:• Your guide to staying safe• Covid-19: What you need to know today• Covid-19: How difficult it is to maintain 1-metre distanceThe finance minister also expressed gratitude for all those “frontline warriors” who are dealing with patients affected by coronavirus disease.“They could be ASHA workers, nurses, doctors. They are being referred to as ‘God in white costumes’. For them, we are providing an insurance cover of Rs 50 lakh per person,” said Sitharaman.Earlier this week, the Finance Minister had said a package is under works and will be announced.Prime Minister Narendra Modi last week had constituted a task force headed by the Finance Minister to work out package for economy hit by coronavirus and reeling under a 21-day lockdown.The lockdown means that India won’t meet its five per cent growth target this year; it also means that India will miss its 10 per cent nominal growth target next year (2020-21).Investment and consumption will both fall. There will be job losses. More people will be pushed back into poverty. The crisis in the banking sector, both a cause and effect of the pre-coronavirus slowdown in India, will become worse.The worst affected will be the informal sector - hit hard by 2016’s demonetisation and further weakened by 2017’s implementation of a unified Goods and Services Tax - but a three-week suspension of economic activity will hit just about every business.The total number of Covid-19 cases in India has risen to 649, including 593 active cases and 42 people who have been cured or discharged from hospitals, the Ministry of Health said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-want-anyone-to-remain-hungry-sitharman-announces-covid-19-relief-package/story-kA2BIBkq5WsarkGnjVEO4K.html
26-03-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: More than 1,000 stuck at Telangana-Andhra border over Covid-19 lockdown and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion curated for you at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.More than 1,000 stuck at Telangana-Andhra border over Covid-19 lockdownMore than 1,000 people who set off from Hyderabad, the capital of Telangana, to various districts in Andhra Pradesh were stranded on Wednesday at the Garikapadu border check-post as the police refused to allow them passage due to lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus disease Covid-19.Read MoreCovid-19 lockdown: Essential services allowed, mohalla clinics won’t be shut, says KejriwalDelhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said that all the essential services will remain open during Covid-19 lockdown, and assured that people who are involved in delivering these services will be allowed.Read MoreFor IPL’s young aspirants, a cancelled season is a great lossMany young players, or those just looking to be noticed, dream of taking the IPL route to national selection. This year, they fear missing out, with no guarantee what the next season will bring up.Read MoreZomato employees take deep salary cuts amid COVID-19 lockdownThe coronavirus outbreak has forced a lockdown in countries across the globe. All but essential services have been suspended in order to contain the spread of coronavirus. Amid the present circumstances, Zomato CEO Deepinder Goyal has announced that hundreds of employees have taken a deep voluntary salary cuts to help the company maintain a steady cash flow. Read morePM Modi asks ‘bal sena’ to ensure adults stay home, shares this videoPrime Minister Narendra Modi called for a complete nation-wide lockdown during an address to citizens on Tuesday. He said that the lockdown will be in place for 21 days and has advised everyone to follow it in order to fight coronavirus. Read moreHow to cope with lockdown: Fix routine, stay connectedLiving in lockdown can expose people to stress, anxiety and boredom, especially when the lockdown period is a few weeks long, shows research on the psychological impact of pandemics. Read moreBooks, shows, films that chillingly predicted coronavirus pandemic, from Big Bang Theory to creepy K-dramaFrom a novel that spoke of ‘a severe pneumonia-like illness’ that would sweep the globe in 2020 to an episode of a Korean drama in which the characters speak about weaponising coronavirus, multiple pop-culture works are seeing a resurgence for unwittingly ‘predicting’ the ongoing pandemic. Read moreHow to cope with lockdown: Fix routine, stay connectedLiving in loc||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-more-than-1-000-stuck-at-telangana-andhara-border-over-covid-19-lockdown-and-all-the-latest-news/story-OFexA5zjGS18WUue1kTJvJ.html
26-03-2020||India||Covid-19: Sonia Gandhi writes to PM Modi, pledges support to govt; lists 8 suggestions||Congress president Sonia Gandhi has written a letter to Prime Minister, suggesting steps to the government to tackle the spread of coronavirus disease Covid-19. She also welcomed the 21-day lockdown announced by PM Modi.HighlightsSonia Gandhi welcomed the 21-day lockdown announced by PM ModiShe gave 8 suggestions to the government to tackle the coronavirus crisisThis is Gandhi’s second letter to the Prime Minister in four days“The 21-day nation-wide lockdown announced by you as a measure to fight the coronavirus is a welcome step. As president of the Indian National Congress, I would like to state that we will support and collaborate fully with every step taken by the Union government to ensure the containment of the pandemic,” Gandhi wrote in her letter.“It is in the spirit of solidarity and cooperation therefore, that I would like to suggest some measures that I believe will help us to address the massive health crisis we are about to face and to ameliorate the immense economic and existential pain that vulnerable sections of our society will soon be subject to,” she further said in the letter.More on Covid-19:• Covid-19: Your guide to staying safe• Covid-19: What you need to know today• How coronavirus is different from seasonal flu and common coldShe then sought measures to protect doctors, paramedics and ease the supply chain so that the health care professionals do not contract the virus.“I sincerely believe that implementing ‘NYAY yojana’ is the need of the hour. At this time of immense distress for the poor who are going to weather the major economic fallout of this pandemic, it will give them a basic economic resource to fall back on,” she said.This is Gandhi’s second letter to the Prime Minister in four days, urging him to roll out emergency welfare measures.In her eight suggestions, Gandhi demanded a dedicated Web portal with information about designated hospitals and construction of intensive care units and ventilators. She also requested the Prime Minister to put in place broad based social protection measures, including direct cash transfer, for daily wagers, MGNREGA workers, factory labour, construction and unorganised workers, fishermen, farm labourers and other vulnerable sections of the society.She has also demanded deferring all EMIs for six months, and waiving of interest to be charged by banks during this period. The Congress president also suggested a comprehensive sector-wise relief package, including necessary tax breaks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-sonia-gandhi-writes-to-pm-modi-pledges-support-to-govt-lists-8-suggestions/story-KxTYgjTdJHQD97RqyS7zBN.html
26-03-2020||India||Loss of smell, diarrhoea, vomiting seen in some Covid-19 patients||Fever and a dry cough are the most common symptoms of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) .The Sars-Cov-2 virus, which that causes Covid-19, enters the human body by attaching to receptors in the respiratory tract. Initially, the virus attacks the back of the throat and then trickles down to inflame the lungs. Covid-19 has afflicted over 471, 790 people across the globe and claimed more than 21,290 lives since last December. In India, the total number of Covid-19 positive cases stands at 649 and 13 reports have been reported to date.Fever is the first sign of the disease and starts showing after an average five-day of the incubation period, showed an analysis of the disease progression in 191 hospitalised patients from central China’s Wuhan, the epicentre of the initial outbreak, in February. It found that 94% of patients developed a fever of 37.3 degrees Celsius or more, 79% had a cough, 23% reported fatigue, and 15% muscle pain.How it spreadsDuring the first three days of the symptoms showing up, the virus uses a spike-like protein to bind with a receptor called angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE-2) found on the respiratory cells at the back of the throat, which leads to a dry cough.Between day four and nine of the onset of the symptom, the virus starts attacking the lungs, causing laboured breathing and may lead to pneumonia, inflammation in the alveoli or lung sacs filled with fluid and pus.“The current advice is to watch out for these initial symptoms – fever, dry cough, and breathing difficulties. Patients might experience a variety of symptoms including gastric symptoms such as diarrhoea, but these appear later in the course of the infection. It is important that we detect the cases early on to ensure that they don’t spread it to others,” said Dr Raj Kumar, director, Vallabhbhai Patel Chest Institute, Delhi.Doctors from the United Kingdom have warned that a sudden loss of a sense of smell or taste could be a new marker of the Covid-19 disease.Gastrointestinal signsHospitalised patients may also develop gastrointestinal symptoms, as around 5% may suffer from diarrhoea, and another 4% experience nausea and vomiting, according to a study conducted on 191 patients in Wuhan. A newer pre-print version of another study of 204 patients from central China’s Hubei province, whose capital is Wuhan, released on March 23 pegs the gastrointestinal symptoms as high as 50% of all the Covid-19 positive cases studied.“In India, diarrhoea has been recorded in a few patients but it does not seem to be a predominant symptom. Predominant symptoms are fever, cough and shortness of breath. A sudden loss of a sense of smell or taste has not been recorded. But I cannot rule it out because that history is being taken,” said Dr Nivedita Gupta, a senior scientist with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), which is spearheading the Covid-19 diagnosis efforts.Of the patients who experience gastrointestinal symptoms, about 79% complain of a lack of appetite, 34% diarrhoea, 4% vomiting, and 2% abdominal pain.“It does look from the emerging data that more people have gut symptoms. This is not at all surprising as the ACE 2 receptor that the virus uses to enter the host cells are most highly expressed in the small intestine along with the respiratory tract. The numbers reported initially must have been lower because the patients would have been more critical due to severe respiratory symptoms, and doctors would be worried about tackling those complications,” said Dr Gagandeep Kang, director, Translational Health Science and Technology Institute.So, should we be worried about diarrhoea? “When you have a viral illness, you tend to suffer from viral prodrome – fatigue, aches, loss of appetite etc. So watching out for diarrhoea does make sense, especially in a situation where you are out and about and can pass on the infection to others. If you have such symptoms, it is better to either isolate yourself or get tested,” said Kang.The higher rates of gastrointestinal symptoms may lead to scientists to research more on whether they could be a mode of transmission, she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/loss-of-smell-diarrhoea-vomitting-seen-in-some-covid-19-patients/story-ccK7QBzbj2T8h13I5JLogK.html
26-03-2020||India||Coronavirus Update: ‘Using terms like Wuhan Virus absolutely wrong’, says Chinese envoy||China on Wednesday said it has neither created the coronavirus nor intentionally transmitted it and that usage of terms like “Chinese virus” or “Wuhan virus” is wrong. Ji Rong, spokesperson for the Chinese Embassy here, said the international community should focus on China’s “swift response” to the pandemic rather than “stereotyping the Chinese people”.Elaborating on the cooperation between India and China in efforts to fight the disease, Ji said both countries have maintained communication and have lent support to each other in coping with the pandemic through difficult times. He said the Indian side has provided medical supplies to China and supported its fight against the contagion in various ways. “We express appreciation and thanks for that,” Ji said. Pointing out that the WHO has stressed that linking China and Wuhan with the virus must be corrected, the spokesperson said, “Those people who are trying to stigmatise China’s efforts have ignored the huge sacrifices the Chinese people made in safeguarding the health and safety of all mankind”. Ji added that although Wuhan city in China first reported the outbreak, there is no evidence that China is the source of the virus that caused COVID-19. He stressed that the origin of the novel coronavirus is a matter of science that requires professional and scientific assessment. “China has neither created the virus nor intentionally transmitted it. The so-called ‘Chinese virus’ is absolutely wrong,” Ji said.Earlier this month, China had condemned US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo for branding the COVID-19 as “Wuhan virus”, terming his remarks as “despicable behaviour” and an attempt to stigmatise the country. There is a clear consensus by the World Health Organisation (WHO) that a virus should not be linked to any specific country, region or ethnic group and such stigmatisation should be rejected. Instances have been reported in some countries including India and the USA where numbers of people, especially of Chinese origin or Chinese-looking, have been harassed and have even faced racially-motivated attacks amid the coronavirus pandemic.“The US Centre for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) estimates that the seasonal flu starting from September 2019 has so far sickened more than 30 million people and killed more than 20,000, and CDC Director Dr. Robert Redfield admitted some were actually COVID-19 (cases),” Ji said.He said after the outbreak, the Chinese government has timely adopted in an “open, transparent and responsible manner” the “most comprehensive, rigorous and thorough measures” to control the epidemic, provided updates to WHO and the international community and shared experiences in diagnosis and treatment. “At the early stage of the outbreak, China took decisive decision to lock down Wuhan and cancel outbound tourist groups to prevent the spread of the epidemic,” Ji said. The spokesperson said that China has timely shared its experience in epidemic prevention and control and diagnosis and treatment since the beginning of the outbreak. Since January 3, China has been regularly notifying WHO and relevant countries and regions about the outbreak, and on January 12, it had already shared with WHO the genetic sequence of the novel coronavirus, he added.On Tuesday, China’s National Health Commission reported 78 new confirmed cases of coronavirus, including 74 imported infections, while the death toll from the novel coronavirus increased to 3,277 after seven more fatalities.The overall confirmed cases on the Chinese mainland reached 81,171 on Monday. This included 3,277 people who died of the disease, 4,735 patients who were still being treated and 73,159 patients discharged after recovery.Recently, China held an online video conference to brief 19 Eurasian and South Asian countries including India on China’s experience, the spokesperson added. “The Chinese enterprises have started to make donations to India. We stand ready to provide further support and assistance to the best of our capability in light of the needs of the Indian side. We believe that the Indian people will win the battle at an early date,” he said. “China will continue to fight the epidemic together with India and other countries, enhance cooperation in multilateral platforms such as the G20 and BRICS, contribute our wisdom and strength to better addressing global challenges and promoting the health and well-being of all mankind,” Ji added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-using-terms-like-wuhan-virus-absolutely-wrong-says-chinese-envoy/story-QQ3xRQ2zN2wd1crj7PCaNK.html
26-03-2020||India||Amid Covid-19, govt plans advance cash payout for PM-Kisan beneficiaries||The Narendra Modi government will make an advance payout of its universal cash-for-farmers programme, PM-KISAN, between April 1, 2 or 3, rather than in June, responding to the coronavirus epidemic, which could upend agriculture, the country’s largest employer. Under PM-KISAN, the government provides an income support of Rs 6000 a year to farmers with a valid enrolment, paid in three equal cash transfers of Rs 2000 -- one every four months. It was launched by the Prime Minister on February 24, 2019, when the first instalment was paid.Nearly 80.5 million farmers will be paid about Rs 16000 crore in all, an official requesting anonymity said, adding that the Centre is gearing up to pay advances of all federally funded and partially-federally-funded cash and in-kind subsidies, such as old-age pensions and ration. Small agri business owners will need access to emergency grants and millions in loans, analysts say. Additional money needs to be set aside for the rural unemployed too, according to them.The cash transfer under PM-KISAN is an unconditional handout, meaning that it doesn’t require any proof of how recipients use it, but payments are usually timed with sowing seasons to help finance agricultural inputs. Inputs refer to all materials needed for cultivation by farmers, from seeds to fertilisers. The proposal for the advance payment of the PM-KISAN tranche, the first this financial year, from the agriculture ministry, has been approved by the Prime Minister. The finance ministry is ready to release the amount to the agriculture ministry and so are all states to facilitate it, the official cited above said.The World Health Organization has lauded India’s efforts to curb the pandemic shrivelling Asia’s third largest economy, apart from devastating lives. The current 21-day lockdown period, however, has walled off the rural sector from the urban, from where rural incomes flow. India’s has recorded more than 600 cases of Covid-19.All chief secretaries have finished providing the Centre with their respective “lots” for the PM-KISAN tranche, a jargon for payout data of each eligible farmer, statewise, such as land-holding, biometric and bank account details. The cash transfer takes the direct benefit transfer, or DBT mode. This means all 80.5 million farmers will simultaneously get Rs 2000 each in their bank accounts through electronic release by federal authorities.There could still be challenges. Aadhaar-based enrolment and cash transfers, slow internet connections in many rural centres and messy land records have slowed the PM-KISAN programme, the farm ministry told a parliamentary panel in January.When teething problems began showing, the government relaxed the requirement of Aadhaar till November 30, 2019. But all farmers must complete their Aadhaar details after this date to get cash transfers. The government has made Aadhaar compulsory for all welfare handouts to plug leakages.Eligible farmer families are identified on the basis of operational land holding data according to the agricultural Census Data 2015-16, which is then extrapolated to 2018-19, an official said. It is the job of state governments to provide accurate beneficiary data and payments are continuously updated.The country has 140 million operational land holdings, which refers to the number of land parcels owned by total households. The eligible farmer count shows that registrations of about 59 million farmers are yet to be authenticated.“This decision is obviously welcome. We also need income lifelines for all vulnerable sections, such as the urban manual workers who have migrated out and also agricultural labourers,” said Manoj Kumar Panda of the Institute of Economic Growth, Delhi University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-covid-19-govt-plans-advance-cash-payout-for-pm-kisan-beneficiaries/story-YcDprAaZRSV8DuifSYtvgP.html
26-03-2020||India||‘Looking at repurposed drugs for Covid-19, vaccines take time’: Renu Swarup||Indian companies and researchers are in the race to develop testing kits, vaccines and molecules for treatment of Covid-19, said Renu Swarup, secretary, department of biotechnology under the science ministry, but even the first global vaccines will be available only next year. Swarup is also the chairperson of the Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council (BIRAC), which serves as a bridge between research laboratories and industry. BIRAC is also helping start-ups in scaling up their manufacturing facilities to help in management of Covid-19, Swarup said in an interview. Edited excerpts: .Where are we at with a vaccine for the disease? Vaccines take time. Even the vaccines that are in the most advances stages globally – there are some that might reach phase III in human trials -- will not be available before next year. Indian researchers and companies are also working towards development of the vaccines. There are several activities going on right now, not just for vaccine development but also for re-purposed and novel drugs for treatment and diagnostic kits.A couple of Indian companies and research groups are working on vaccines in India but they do not need funding from us but support for navigating regulatory frameworks.One Indian diagnostic kit was approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research for commercial use yesterday. Are there other companies working on this? It was very good news, a home-grown company, MyLab Discovery Solutions, has been approved to manufacture Coovid-19 diagnostic kits for commercial use. There were, of course, others who did not qualify in the validation process against existing test kits.Two Covid-19 testing kits developed by Indian start-ups and supported by DBT were sent for validation. DBT has identified eight others that are in various stages of development and are being supported too.Currently, Indian start-ups are mainly working on testing kits and, now, ventilators.Is DBT also supporting work on ventilators? Yes, we are supporting two to three indigenous companies in scaling up their manufacturing capacity at the Andhra Medtech Zone (an Andhra Pradesh government medical device manufacturing enterprise) in Visakhapatnam. We are also looking at boosting manufacturing of other respiratory devices and masks too.What about medicines for Covid-19? Re-purposed and new molecules against Covid-19 are two of the priority areas for the research consortium along with developing novel diagnostic kits and vaccines.As for re-purposed drugs, several DBT institutes are looking at various available formulations to see what can work. Re-purposed drugs can be quickly put through the regulatory system to be tested. Not just the repurposed drugs, the researchers are also going through the libraries of small molecules to look for novel antivirals that can work against Covid-19.For testing, we need access to patients, so we are already working with the hospitals to get the ethical clearances etc. Researchers will need access to samples. NIV is studying the virus and will share information with us as part of our sample exchange activity.When will the Covid-19 research consortium start working? A call for proposals for the consortium is still in the public domain, it will end on the 30th of this month. This will not mean we will stop accepting other proposals, all we want to do is process the first lot and get to work quickly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/repurposed-drugs-being-tested-vaccines-take-time-renu-swarup/story-qNZkuzr7qzRY7Y4pEB1OBK.html
26-03-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown: Hyderabad students throng police stations, seek passes to go home||Hundreds of students, working men and women staying in private hostels in and around Hyderabad thronged various police stations on Wednesday seeking permission to go to their native places in view of the three-week nationwide lockdown imposed by the Centre.The students and employees, who were virtually thrown on roads by the hostel managements which announced closure of the premises following the lockdown, approached the police stations in large numbers requesting that arrangements be made to send them to their native places.Long queues of students and employees working in various private organisations were witnessed at several police stations like Punjagutta, S R Nagar, Jubilee Hills, Banjara Hills, Kukatpally, Madhapur, Raidurgam, Uppal and Gachibowli.“Many people got stuck in our paying guest accommodation. In this situation, the owners are asking us to leave for our hometowns. We are not able to find any sources of travel to get back to our native places. Please help us in this situation,” a hostel inmate P Santosh Kumar tweeted, tagging municipal administration minister K T Rama Rao.Another women hosteller, who was standing in queue at S R Nagar police station, said she was forced to vacate the hostel soon after the Prime Minister announced nationwide lock down for three weeks. “There is no way I can go now, as the hostel mess is closed since Wednesday morning. I want the police to help me go to my native place in Guntur,” she said.Responding to the tweets immediately, KTR asked Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation authorities and senior police officials to take up the issue with all hostel and PG accommodation managers to see that all guests were supported.However, with the hostel inmates preferring to go to their native places, the Hyderabad, Cyberabad and Rachakonda police commissioners swung into action and started arranging passes for them. “We shall issue passes to all of them after verifying their credentials including Aadhar card details,” Hyderabad Police Commissioner Anjani Kumar said.He said all the students staying in hostels preparing for competitive examinations, software employees and private firm employees could go home in vehicles to be hired by them, along with valid passes.“The vehicles which drop them at their native places should show the same passes while returning to the city. Under any circumstances, they should not misuse the passes,” Anjani Kumar warned.He said nearly 3,000 passes would be issued to various hostel inmates. “They don’t have to come on the roads and stand in front of police stations. They can apply online at covid19.hyd@gmail.com or give a message to the local police on WhatsApp to obtain passes,” the commissioner said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-closes-hostels-hyderabad-students-throng-police-stations-demanding-passes-to-go-home/story-AOqHer44qQoMW14RC57vSO.html
26-03-2020||India||India to announce Covid-19 relief package, Spain toll surpasses China’s: Coronavirus updates||India is under a lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus disease Covid-19, as announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his address to the nation on Tuesday.There is chaos at several inter-state borders and people try to go to their homes; in fact, the labourers have to walk hunderds of kilometres in order to reach home as train and bus services are suspended.Not just India, more than three billion people around the world are living under lockdown as governments stepped up their efforts against the coronavirus pandemic which has left more than 20,000 people dead.As the number of confirmed cases worldwide soared past 450,000, UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres warned that only a concerted global effort could stop the spread of the virus.Here are the latest developments in India as well as the world:• In India, the total number of Covid-19 positive cases crossed 600 on Wednesday. 10 people have died so far of the disease in the country.• India struggled to enforce complete lockdown on Wednesday as people crowded markets trying to stock up and police allegedly being high handed in several states• With borders shutting, thousands of migrant workers tried to find shelter and food in the national capital• Drug distributors are unable to maintain their supply chains due to lockdown• Government has issued guidelines on telemedicine to tide over lockdown• E-commerce giant Flipkart has announced it will resume sale of essential products• Indian doctors are being evicted from their homes in many parts of the country of Sars-CoV-2 transmission fears• India likely to announce economic stimulus package of about Rs 1.5 trillion to tide over the crisis• The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has authorised 29 private labs to conduct testing for Covid-19Global:• The total number of Covid-19 infections across the world stand at 416,686 infections. More than 18,000 people have died• More than three billion people are under lockdown globally• New York Governor Andrew Cuomo has said that the restrictions imposed in the city are slowing the spread of the virus• Of the 30,800 people infected in US, 17,800 are in New York City. So far, 285 deaths have been reported by the state• All bars, entertainment areas are going to be closed in Singapore which has over 500 infections• US Senate and White House have agreed on a $2 trillion rescue package for the American economy battered by the coronavirus outbreak • Prince Charles tests positive for Sars-CoV-2 virus• Death toll in Spain reached 738 on Wednesday, surpassing China and second to Italy• Thousands have been laid off in the US due to economic slowdown following the coronavirus outbreak• Chicago is using hotels to ease quarantine demands||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-announce-covid-19-relief-package-death-toll-in-spain-surpassed-china-latest-coronavirus-updates/story-ODl3NLD94ZGq8bznyRszQM.html
26-03-2020||India||Coronavirus Update: Indian High Commission in Canada deploys chatbot to answer queries on Covid-19||Given the deluge of queries coming in from Indians and those of Indian origin in Canada, the Indian High Commission in the country has deployed cutting-edge IT tool in the form of a chatbot to address concerns over the Covid-19 crisis.The chatbot, called CANbot, has natural language conversation capabilities in English, Hindi and Punjabi and allows those seeking answers urgently to get them “safely and securely”, either through a chat function on the High Commission’s website or on a dedicated WhatsApp number.The ability to quickly respond to the frantic questions relating to Covid-19, public safety measures taken in India and Canada and restrictions on international travel, has become particularly critical given the impact the pandemic has had, especially with nearly 1.6 million persons of Indian-origin living in Canada.Among them are nearly 200,000 Indian students at Canadian colleges and universities, and since such institutions have closed, there have been concerns about this matter among their families in India, not to mention the issue of flying them back at a time when flights between the two nations are non-existent for the time being. This move comes even as the foreign ministers of the two countries discussed ways of dealing with the crisis of nationals seeking to return home.The effort behind launching the chatbot was because the High Commission “wanted to create a service that can assist people in this emergency,” India’s envoy to Ottawa Ajay Bisaria said. The High Commission as well as the Indian consulates in Toronto and Vancouver have witnessed “a massive surge in queries received due to the situation arising from Covid-19 pandemic, including the disruption in international travel.” Bisaria said, “We empathize with people’s concerns in these troubled times and the need to receive immediate and accurate information wherever they are.”The bot has been developed for the High Commission of India by the Indian conversational platform Verloop.io and home healthcare company Portea Medical.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-indian-high-commission-in-canada-deploys-chatbot-to-answer-queries-on-covid-19/story-me7yiTBxPGMoKWT3dHy8XO.html
26-03-2020||India||More than 1,000 stuck at Telangana-Andhra border as Covid-19 lockdown dash hopes to get home||More than 1,000 people who set off from Hyderabad, the capital of Telangana, to various districts in Andhra Pradesh were stranded on Wednesday at the Garikapadu border check-post as the police refused to allow them passage due to lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus disease Covid-19.Deputy Superintendent of Police Ramana Murthy said since the lockdown was in force and the inter-state borders have been sealed, no vehicle or person could be allowed into the state.The panic-stricken passengers were huddled in a group as they awaited some intervention from authorities to end the impasse.More on Covid-19:• What you need to know today• Your guide to staying safe• How coronavirus is different from seasonal flu and common cold• How difficult it is to maintain 1-metre distanceThe passengers, including students, women and children, set off from Hyderabad in cabs after obtaining special travel permits from the local police.After a smooth ride up to Garikapadu, the vehicles were stopped around 3.30 pm, leaving the passengers stranded.A person said he was travelling with his wife, who was nine months pregnant, after a medical check-up in Hyderabad.“Despite our situation, the police are not willing to let us travel to our destination,” he said.The Andhra Pradesh government or the police were yet to take a decision on the stranded passengers when reports last came in on Wednesday night.Meanwhile, two fresh cases of Covid-19, including a three-year-old boy, have been reported in Telangana, taking the total number of people infected with the virus in the state to 41, according to a government bulletin on Wednesday.The other case is a 43-year-old woman from Hyderabad city who is “the family/primary contact of a previous positive case”, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-than-1-000-stuck-at-telangana-andhra-border-as-covid-19-lockdown-dash-hopes-to-get-home/story-ulQa0cc2teUq8gjR7L0nbM.html
26-03-2020||India||65-year-old religious preacher dies of coronavirus, first death in Kashmir||A 65-year-old religious preacher who had tested positive for the coronavirus disease this week died in a Srinagar hospital early Thursday, the first Covid-19-linked death in Jammu and Kashmir.A government official said the man died at Srinagar’s Chest Disease (CD) hospital.Srinagar Mayor Junaid Azim Mattu confirmed the death on Twitter minutes later. “As we share the sad news of our first #Covid19 fatality, my heart goes out to the family of the deceased. We stand with you and share your grief,” he tweeted, reminding people that they need to cooperate to break the chain of the infection.Before returning to Jammu and Kashmir recently, the religious preacher had extensively travelled in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Samba, Jammu, Srinagar and Sopore to participate in religious events.Health officials who have been tracing the movements of Jammu and Kashmir’s 11 coronavirus patients have found that 5 of them had attended a religious event where the religious preacher was also present.Four people, all of them from Bandipore district 30 km north of Srinagar, had tested positive on Wednesday.Jammu and Kashmir government spokesperson Rohit Kansal said the four had contracted the infection from the 65-year-old.After the man tested positive two days ago, authorities in Kashmir had placed scores of people including a dozen doctors and paramedics who had examined him earlier, under quarantine. The colony where he stays in Srinagar was also sealed.Officials haven’t yet revealed how the religious preacher had picked up the infection. There have been contradictory reports that the preacher from a sect that emphasises on converting non-believers had travelled abroad or came in close contact with some people who had travelled abroad.“He wasn’t very forthcoming… not cooperative,” said a government health department official.However, family members of the preacher contradicted the claims that they had concealed his travel history and said he didn’t have any international travel.“On 18th I had a discussion with a senior specialist of SKIMS hospital, his advice was medication and isolation. As my uncle wasn’t improving, we took him to JVC hospital and again revealed the travel history. Then we took him to Covid clinic, I requested them to screen him for Covid-19 which was refused. It was only on 22 March that he was referred to chest disease hospital where he was screened and found to be a positive case,’’ said Zaffar Ahmad his nephew, who is himself a medico.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/65-year-old-religious-preacher-dies-of-coronavirus-first-death-in-kashmir/story-cC1FvbQVLuhTobUoVxmGjK.html
26-03-2020||India||Panic buying to mitigation efforts: Covid-19 news from India||Cities across India saw a rush to buy grocery and other essential items on the first day of a nationwide lockdown on Wednesday even as Covid-19 infections rose to 606, including 10 deaths. With stories of hardship and anxiety pouring in — of the plight of migrant labourers and of apprehensions that some pharmacies in Delhi might run out of stock — the government stepped in to ensure essential services are not interrupted.Coronavirus update: Scramble for supplies on Day 1 of three-week lockdown in IndiaLong queues, crowded markets, and harassment of e-commerce and food delivery people by police departments seemingly unaware of what was allowed and what wasn’t, marked the first day of the three-week lockdown to cease the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), although by Wednesday evening, some sense of order emerged. Read moreCovid-19: What you need to know todayThe US finally agreed on a deal on a $2 trillion stimulus package, the largest ever in the country’s history – for comparison, India’s GDP is roughly $2.7 trillion – to help individuals and companies affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. Read moreCoronavirus update: Containing spread of Covid-19 in clusters could help flatten the curveSince March 2 when the second wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases was reported in Delhi and Hyderabad, India has not reported any case of community transmission, but the government is working to control cases of focal outbreaks in some states. Read moreCoronavirus update- Take care of 9 families in 21 days: PM Modi’s appeal to citizensPrime Minister Narendra Modi appealed to citizens on Wednesday to help to nine families during the 21-day national lockdown and warned of strict action against those misbehaving with people on the front lines of the fight against the coronavirus pandemic. Read moreIndia under Covid-19 lockdown: All about the disaster management lawPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday announced a 21-day national lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19 by invoking the Disaster Management Act, 2005. The law gives the Central government powers to take quick policy decisions and impose restrictions on people to manage a disaster. Here’s an explainer on what the law entails for people and governments in these difficult times. Read moreCoronavirus update: ICMR nod to 3 more private testing labs, total 29 nowNew Delhi The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the country’s apex biomedical research body, on Wednesday approved three more private laboratories to test for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), taking to 29 the number of private facilities that can collect samples at 16,000 centres. Read moreCoronavirus update: Delhiites rush to buy essential items, queue up outside shopsIt took Ravi Kumar, a resident of Mayur Vihar Extension in east Delhi, nearly two hours to buy groceries at a retail chain store in the neighbourhood on Wednesday. The long wait was not due to the crowd but due to the safety and social distancing measures being taken by store in-charges in view of the Covid-19 outbreak. Read moreGhazipur slaughterhouse shut, Delhi zoo scouts for other supplierThe Delhi zoo may have to look for alternative sources for procuring meat meant for its animals, after the 21-day nationwide shutdown announced Tuesday pulled the shutters down on the Ghazipur slaughterhouse, which supplies meat to the zoo daily. Read more 5 more coronavirus cases in Delhi, says Arvind Kejriwal; follows up with a requestFive more people have tested positive for the SARS-CoV-2 pathogen in national capital Delhi, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Wednesday evening, reiterating his appeal to people to stay at home as part of the nationwide lockdown. Read moreGovt announces e-passes for essential services, helpline for harassment complaintsWith long queues at police stations for “curfew pass”, the Delhi government on Wednesday announced it would issue e-passes to those delivering essential services within and outside city limits. It also announced a helpline for those who have been “harassed” by state enforcement agencies, including police, to register their complaint. Read moreSmoother delivery across Delhi, cops assure e-tailers amid Covid-19 pandemicDelivery of essential items ordered online could become a reality once again after days of customers having to put up with abrupt cancellations and e-commerce ground staff facing harassment at check posts where police personnel seemed unaware of who was allowed to function despite the lockdown and who wasn’t. Read moreCoronavirus update: Delhi’s Mayur Vihar had locked its gates after first Covid-19 caseFor nearly a week, the neighbourhoods of east Delhi’s Mayur Vihar Phase-1 have locked their gates to outsiders. The security guards of all apartments have been given strict instructions to not allow in any visitors, house helps or vendors distributing newspapers. Read moreCoronavirus update: Borders shut, migrant workers look for refuge in shelter homesWith rail and interstate bus services suspended due to Covid-19 outbreak, these labourers – most of them migrants – can neither return to their villages and towns, nor afford to pay for their food and shelter without work. Read moreCoronavirus update: Police up vigilance, say fewer trying to enter, leave DelhiA day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi declared a “complete lockdown” in the country for 21 days to prevent the spread of the coronavirus infection, Delhi Police fanned out across the city on Wednesday in an attempt to keep people indoors. Read moreCoronavirus update: Supply chain hit, medicines might run out due to lockdown, says pharmaciesSmall pharmacies in the city may soon run out of medicines and other essential medical supplies, say drug distributors in Delhi, who are unable to maintain a continuous supply chain since the lockdown has been imposed in phases since Sunday. Despite the government saying that people working in essential sectors be allowed to travel, staff from warehouses and stores have not been able to reach their workplace. Read moreHow to cope with lockdown: Fix routine, stay connectedLiving in lockdown can expose people to stress, anxiety and boredom, especially when the lockdown period is a few weeks long, shows research on the psychological impact of pandemics. While the disruption of routine exposes most people to anxiety, among the most vulnerable are front-line health workers who work through the lockdown and can develop depression, anxiety, hostility and somatisation (physical symptoms associated with mental distress). Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/panic-buying-to-mitigation-efforts-covid-19-news-from-india/story-2aiNdCmn2GSTXGoRFtpJXL.html
26-03-2020||India||Self-styled godwoman defies Covid-19 lockdown in UP, brandishes sword||Defying the Covid-19 lockdown, a self-styled godwoman, Maa Adi Shakti, refused to call off a religious gathering and brandished a sword when police personnel rushed to the site in the Mehwa Pudwa area of Deoria district in eastern Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday morning.The so-called godwoman and 12 others were arrested after the incident, the police said.The religious gathering was convened to mark the nine-day Navratri festival, which began on Wednesday.Deoria Superintendent of Police Sripat Mishra said, “In the morning, we received a tip-off that a religious gathering was underway for Navratri and some people were doing faith healing there.”“On reaching the spot, the police appealed to the crowd to return home, telling them that Section 144 (of the CrPC) was in force across the state. But the self-styled godwoman became aggressive,” he said.“She refused to call off the gathering and started brandishing a sword to stop the police. The police then used force to disperse the crowd and arrested 13 people, including the woman and her husband. FIRs (first information reports) under relevant sections have been lodged against all of them and they will be sent to jail,” Mishra added.The entire country is under 21-day lockdown, put in place after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced it in his address to the nation on Tuesday.The sweeping government restrictions affected trucks ferrying essential supplies and Indian Railways staff handling cargo operations as police within states and at borders restricted their movements. “Our staff across all zones are facing difficulties in reaching the terminals as they are being stopped by the local authorities. In many cases zonal divisional railway managers (DRMs) have had to call the police and ensure staffers are allowed. As transportation has not been provided, they have had to walk and some cycled,” a government official aware of the developments said on condition of anonymity.In Delhi, serpentine queues could be seen outside Mother Dairy outlets. At many grocery shops, people were told that essential items were in short supply. Many could also be seen queuing outside gas cylinder agencies to purchase cooking fuel.In five days, the number of Covid-19 cases has jumped from about 200 to 606, and experts say the number could surge if more people are tested. Five fresh cases were reported in the national capital in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/self-styled-godwoman-defies-covid-19-lockdown-in-up-brandishes-sword/story-IIJZyp8OiWqHZpGinSrTuJ.html
26-03-2020||India||People’s movement needed against Covid-19, just like Swachh Bharat mission, says Amitabh Bachchan||The deadly Sars-CoV-2 virus can stay in the human excreta much longer than in respiratory samples, a Lancet study has said on spread of Covid-19.“Evidence has shown that the SARS-CoV-2 can be found in faeces, and that stool samples can remain positive for the virus even when it is no longer detectable in the respiratory tract, suggesting the possibility of a faecal–oral route of transmission,” the study, published on March 16, said.“This concept is supported by the presence of gastrointestinal symptoms in some patients affected by Covid-19,” it further said.More on Covid-19:• Your guide to staying safe• What to keep in mind for your money• How difficult it is to maintain 1-metre distance• How coronavirus is different from seasonal flu and common coldThis study was quoted by actor Amitabh Bachchan who posted a video on Wednesday and said that house flies, who sit on the excreta, can further transmit this disease. The video was retweeted by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.“If the house fly sits on this excreta and then on some food articles and spread the disease. So, it is very important that we start a people’s movement against this, just like we did under the leadership of the Prime Minister to make the country open defecation free,” Bachchan said in the video. T 3481 - A study in the @TheLancet shows that coronavirus lingers on human excreta much longer than in respiratory samples. Come on India, we are going to fight this! Use your toilet: हर कोई, हर रोज़, हमेशा । Darwaza Band toh Beemari Band! @swachhbharat @narendramodi @PMOIndia pic.twitter.com/VSMUHdjXKGThe government has imposed a lockdown on the entire country to check the spread of the virus. The 21-day lockdown was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his address to the nation.Long queues, crowded markets, and harassment of e-commerce and food delivery people by police departments seemingly unaware of what was allowed and what wasn’t, marked the first day of the three-week lockdown to cease the spread of the coronavirus disease Covid-19.There were people thronging markets across the country on Wednesday as they stocked up for supplies before sheltering at home for three weeks to guard against the pandemic. In various cities, including in Delhi, people faced trouble reaching stores as policemen refused to let them pass, even beating up some despite the government’s assurances of no curbs on the purchase of essential items.Several other who faced harassment said the police did not appear to be aware of the government’s advisory. People who did manage to reach local stores said they feared a worsening of the situation as stocks appeared to be depleted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/house-fly-can-spread-covid-19-says-amitabh-bachchan-quotes-lancet-study/story-0AqHHWKThAyLl7QcbnIKuI.html
26-03-2020||India||COVID-19: Govt suspends toll collection on national highways to ease emergency services||The government on Wednesday temporarily suspended toll collection on national highways to ease emergency services in view of the coronavirus outbreak.“In view of COVID-19, it has been ordered to temporarily suspend the collection of toll at all toll plazas across India,” Road Transport and Highways Minister Nitin Gadkari announced.This will not only reduce inconvenience to emergency services but also save critical time, he said. The minister said maintenance of roads and availability of emergency resources at toll plazas will continue as usual.Earlier, the road transport and highways ministry had advised the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to follow the home ministry’s guidelines about toll plaza operations following the lockdown in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak in the country.The prevailing condition may be treated as “Force Majeure” of concession or contract agreement in terms of the finance ministry, the road transport and highways said.The NHAI had rolled out the electronic toll collection programme across India in December on its over 500 toll plazas while doubling toll charges from the vehicles entering FASTag lanes without the tag.In order to give prime importance to existing FASTag users, dissuade defaulters and further encourage adoption of FASTags by national highway commuters, vehicles without FASTags entering the FASTag lane were being charged double the toll fee and last month over Rs 20 crore were collected from 20 lakh vehicles encroaching FASTag lanes across India.About two crore FASTags have been issued through multiple Point of Sale (PoS) locations. FASTag transaction by the NHAI last month had crossed four million per day.In order to further increase digital collection of user fee via FASTag at national highways fee plazas, NHAI had also waived off the FASTag cost of Rs 100 for NHAI FASTag.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-govt-suspends-toll-collection-on-national-highways-to-ease-emergency-services/story-Ce34ha0UCLszNoK2hbRQbM.html
26-03-2020||India||Railways mulls offering its coaches, cabins as isolation wards for COVID-19 patients: Report||The Railways is contemplating offering its coaches and cabins as isolation wards for patients found positive for coronavirus, sources said Wednesday.The Indian Railways, which runs 13,523 trains daily, has suspended all passenger services till April 14.Sources said the proposal to offer the empty coaches and cabins to be used as ICU’s for such patients was discussed in a meeting of Railway Minister with Chairman Railway Board VK Yadav, General Managers of all zones and Divisional Railway Managers over video conferencing on Wednesday. In the meeting it was discussed how railways’ production units could be used to manufacture essential commodities for fighting the contagion like ventilators, beds, trolleys along with the proposal of using these coaches which are equipped with toilets as isolation wards, sources said.Sources say the idea was mooted after Prime Minister Narendra Modi told his cabinet colleagues to look for innovative ways to boost its medical facilities in view of the virus spreading rapidly.As per the 2011 Census, WHO estimated that India had only 0.7 beds per 1,000 people. While India has targeted to increase this to two beds, WHO mandates for at least 3 beds per 1,000 people in the country.Sources say these coaches and cabins could be used as hospitals on wheels with consultation rooms, medical store, ICU and pantry.With the rail network spread across the country, sources say these hospitals could be set up anywhere where clusters of such infected patients are found but didn’t have adequate facilities.The source also said that to start with railways’ production units could be put into action to make modifications to make the coaches ready to serve as medical units.Railways also has a slew of Accident Relief Medical Equipment Vans (ARME) — or rail ambulances — which could be offered to the government.These vans are usually used to treat passengers in case of rail accidents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-mulls-offering-its-coaches-cabins-as-isolation-wards-for-covid-19-patients-report/story-iOR3GO4b8A50UGB4YAO0aN.html
26-03-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Government puts Census 2021, NPR on hold in view of Covid-19||Census 2021 and the updation of the National Population Register (NPR), a biometric database of all persons living in India, have both been put on hold indefinitely because of the Covid -19 pandemic, according to a statement from home ministry. The first phase of Census 2021 and updation of NPR, which was to begin in April and May “are postponed until further orders” the ministry’s statement said. “Despite the delay because of Covid-19, the data will be available to the government faster than previous census,” a senior government official said.Calling the NPR undesirable, experts said its postponement should not bother anyone. “The Census, on the other hand, is very important...Hopefully, the government will understand that it should drop the NPR entirely,” Professor Reetika Khera of the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-government-puts-census-2021-npr-on-hold-in-view-of-covid-19/story-8kk6qOVJW9RdAqujVgh3DM.html
26-03-2020||India||Coronavirus update- Take care of 9 families in 21 days: PM Modi’s appeal to citizens||Prime Minister Narendra Modi appealed to citizens on Wednesday to help to nine families during the 21-day national lockdown and warned of strict action against those misbehaving with people on the front lines of the fight against the coronavirus pandemic. In a video interaction with the residents of Varanasi ahead of the Hindu festival of Navratri, the constituency the PM represents in Parliament, Modi responded to several queries related to the pandemic and the government’s response to it.“Whoever has the capability, take the pledge to take care of 9 families for 21 days. It will be a true ‘Navratri’. Due to the lockdown, animals are also facing trouble. I appeal to the people to take care of the animals around them,” said Modi. Invoking the Mahabharata, he said the epic war was won in 18 days and his government is making the efforts to win this war against the pandemic in 21 days. “Friends, remember the epic war of Mahabharat was won in 18 days. At present, the whole country is fighting a war against coronavirus. In Mahabharat war, Krishna was the charioteer. In this war against coronavirus, 130 crore (1.3 billion) countrymen are the charioteers. With their support and guidance, the country will win the war against the virus,” he said.Asked about reports of misbehaviour with medical personnel and airline crew, he said he has asked the home ministry and state DGPs to take tough action against culprits. If anybody targets doctors, nurses and all those rendering their service, then it will cost them dearly, Modi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-take-care-of-9-families-in-21-days-pm-modi-s-appeal-to-citizens/story-swYvS0omYdFOKqJTfqtRdJ.html
26-03-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||The US finally agreed on a deal on a $2 trillion stimulus package, the largest ever in the country’s history – for comparison, India’s GDP is roughly $2.7 trillion – to help individuals and companies affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. Over the next few weeks, people are expected to start receiving cheques in the mail (those with children will receive more). States and businesses are expected to receive money too.In India, several states and some central government departments have announced similar packages – but for specific worker groups. A larger relief package is expected. More importantly, it is needed. For three weeks starting March 24, India is in a lockdown with almost all economic activity suspended. It will take time to understand the complete impact of this but here’s what we can safely assume: the lockdown will mean that India doesn’t meet its 5% growth target this year; it will also mean that India misses its 10% nominal growth target next year (2020-21). Investment and consumption will both fall. There will be job losses. More people will be pushed back into poverty. The crisis in the banking sector, both a cause and effect of the pre-coronavirus slowdown in India, will become worse (unless the Reserve Bank of India comes up with a very generous forbearance policy). Business and consumer sentiment will decline. The worst affected will be the informal sector – hit hard by 2016’s demonetisation and further weakened by 2017’s implementation of a unified Goods and Services Tax (which, to be fair, is fundamentally reformist, but just proved too painful for some) – but a three-week suspension of economic activity will hit just about every business. And the worst hit will be the poor, including unskilled and semi-skilled migrant workers, thousands of whom are now trying to walk back home after rail and interstate bus services were stopped.Everyone, not just unskilled construction workers or skilled factory workers, is worried about what the lockdown and the crisis will do their careers and finances. The VP of corporate strategy who is working from home is aware that strategy always comes after survival; the general manager of business development, who is also working from home, knows that there is not going to be any business to develop, at least not in the short-term. As an article in Vice magazine earlier this week put it: “This is how we get laid off. At home, alone… Over Zoom or e-mail.” Sure, India won’t be the only country whose economy is affected by Covid-19. The global economy itself could go into recession, the International Monetary Fund has warned.And if the lockdown works, to any extent, it will halt or slow the march of the infection, preventing a repeat of the kind of spread seen in Wuhan, Lombardy, and New York State. As on Wednesday, India had total 606 cases of Covid-19 and had seen 10 deaths. India can then begin the arduous task of putting the pieces together and getting its economic engine chugging. Any relief package announced by the Indian government has to do three things – it should directly transfer cash into the accounts of those who desperately need it (migrant workers would be top of the list in this writer’s assessment). It should focus sharply on sectors that are going to need help and offer this (banking and real estate would be obvious candidates, but just about every business, from auto to media, and textiles to engineering, needs help). And it should involve a huge government-funded (or partially government-funded) infrastructure-building exercise – a sort of new New Deal that can create jobs and also increase demand for everything from cement to steel.That’s going to take money. Which is alright. India has to deal with the significant economic challenges posed by the pandemic in addition to the structural and cyclical issues with its economy that it was already dealing with – and if there ever was an opportune time for helicopter money, it is now, it is now, it is now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-CwW3ddR5C2LKtHZ54tni1L.html
26-03-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Nearly 1,000 foreigners evacuated from Delhi in special flights||Around a thousand foreign nationals were evacuated on five special flights from Delhi amid the coronavirus outbreak that has led to suspension of flights and a three-week countrywide lockdown. Officials said over 150 Japanese nationals were evacuated on a special flight that flew in from Tokyo. Four other flights flew 500 people to Germany, 120 to Ukraine and 240 to two Baltic nations. Officials said two more special flights to Frankfurt (Germany) and Austria were scheduled from the Delhi airport on Thursday to evacuate 750 people mostly Germans.“Since one of the three runways at the Delhi airport is being used to park grounded aircraft, another is kept clear to cater to such special flights that are scheduled over the next few days,” said an official, who did not wish to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-nearly-1-000-foreigners-evacuated-from-delhi-in-special-flights/story-iax0WyA3rHac3uvvf22ToL.html
26-03-2020||India||Covid-19 update: Delhi man’s death wrongly attributed to coronavirus||The Union health ministry, on Wednesday morning, reduced the Covid-19 nationwide death toll by one and clarified that the test report of a Delhi man who died Tuesday night was negative for coronavirus infection. The health ministry website, on Wednesday morning, clarified that the “second death reported in Delhi is Covid-19 negative.”“The preliminary test of the Delhi man had come positive for coronavirus infection and the website was updated based on that. However, the later confirmatory test showed that he did not have the disease,” Lav Agarwal, joint secretary, Union health ministry, said.The Tuesday night update had Delhi’s Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) unit frantically calling up its officials and those of the union health ministry to find out who had died. “We had not informed the ministry officials about the death. I do not know how the website got updated,” a senior official from Delhi’s health department, on condition of anonymity, said. The authorities later figured out that a 60-year-old man with Covid-19 like symptoms – fever and cough– whose samples had been collected for tests, had died at the Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital in Tahirpur.“The man had come to us with arrhythmias and needed an angioplasty. However, he had symptoms of mild fever and cough. When the treating doctor took his history, they came to know that one of his family members had just returned from Saudi Arabia. We sent his samples for the Covid-19 test. Before the results could come, he died of complications on Tuesday night,” Dr BL Sherwal, director, Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital, an autonomous institute under the Delhi government, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-delhi-man-s-death-wrongly-attributed-to-coronavirus/story-SUayttHjwAxSxt9L6I1gKM.html
26-03-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Scramble for supplies on Day 1 of three-week lockdown in India||Long queues, crowded markets, and harassment of e-commerce and food delivery people by police departments seemingly unaware of what was allowed and what wasn’t, marked the first day of the three-week lockdown to cease the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), although by Wednesday evening, some sense of order emerged. There were people thronging markets across the country on Wednesday as they stocked up for supplies before sheltering at home for three weeks to guard against the pandemic. In various cities, including in Delhi, people faced trouble reaching stores as policemen refused to let them pass, even beating up some despite the government’s assurances of no curbs on the purchase of essential items. Several people who faced harassment said the police did not appear to be aware of the government’s advisory. People who did manage to reach local stores said they feared a worsening of the situation as stocks appeared to be depleted. To be sure, while some markets were crowded, others saw people shopping in disciplined lines, and maintaining a safe distance from each other. Union food minister Ram Vilas Paswan said the government was monitoring the availability of essential commodities in the market. He warned manufacturers and traders against profiteering during the lockdown period.The Centre is also in touch with the state governments to ensure there is no shortage of essential commodities, he said.In an address to the nation on Tuesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi told citizens to not come out of their houses for 21 days, underlining the gravity of the infectious outbreak that has killed at least 20,000 people worldwide. The Prime Minister did not mention the government’s plan to keep essential supplies running. Later, however, as news of panic buying across the country emerged, he tweeted to say that they would remain available. “No panic buying please,” he said.Notifications issued by the home ministry too said this. Despite Modi’s appeal, chaos was reported at grocery stores, some of which reported depleted stocks owing to restrictions, and services of many delivery outlets and e-commerce retailers remained non-functional. Television visuals showed the police striking people, who later said they were simply out shopping for necessities.Online retailers such as Amazon and grocery delivery services such as Big Basket were cancelling previously placed orders and said they did not have new delivery slots available. This pushed people to go out to shop at local stores, where social distancing was a far cry as people jostled to secure fast-disappearing supplies.The sweeping government restrictions affected trucks ferrying essential supplies and Indian Railways staff handling cargo operations as police within states and at borders restricted their movements. “Our staff across all zones are facing difficulties in reaching the terminals as they are being stopped by the local authorities. In many cases zonal divisional railway managers (DRMs) have had to call the police and ensure staffers are allowed. As transportation has not been provided, they have had to walk and some cycled,” a government official aware of the developments said on condition of anonymity. The official added that freight trains, which remain operational after nationwide suspension of passenger services, are focusing on transporting food grains, vegetables, salt and petroleum products among essential items.In Delhi, serpentine queues could be seen outside Mother Dairy outlets. At many grocery shops, people were told that essential items were in short supply. Many could also be seen queuing outside gas cylinder agencies to purchase cooking fuel.“I cycled for four kilometres to bring some essential items such as noodles and wheat because the police had punctured the tyres of the supplier’s van,” said Rakesh, who is employed at a grocery shop in Govindpuri.In five days, the number of Covid-19 cases has jumped from about 200 to 606, and experts say the number could surge if more people are tested. Five fresh cases were reported in the national capital in the last 24 hours, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said.Of 606 cases, 553 are active cases, 42 patients have recovered and have been discharged from the hospital. Ten people have died. Joint secretary, health, Lav Agarwal said: “There are 29 private laboratory chains, accredited by the Indian Council of Medical Research for conducting tests for novel coronavirus. These labs have 16,000 collection centres across the country, where at least 12,000 tests can be conducted per day.”The Union home ministry asked state governments to check the spread of rumours about shortage of food items. In a communication to chief secretaries and police of all states, the ministry asked them to take action to allay apprehensions and maintain peace, and inform people about the availability of food, medicine and other essential commodities.Kejriwal said authorities will ensure essential services during the lockdown period and requested people not to panic. “We will issue e-passes to vegetable-sellers, grocers among others to ensure essential supplies during the lockdown,” Kejriwal said at a news briefing along with Lt Governor Anil Baijal.Modi said the lockdown “to save India and Indians” would be “total”. Officials subsequently released advisories explaining that medical, law enforcement, media and other sectors were exempted, and that stores selling food and other essentials would remain open.The Union home ministry issued fresh guidelines covering additional people and services that will be exempted from the lockdown. The ministry said Reserve Bank of India and RBI-regulated financial markets, pay and accounts officers and field officers of the CAG, petroleum products ,and supply chain and forest staff will be among those exempted.Those people handling cargo operations in airports and railway stations, coal mining activities, officers and staff of resident commissioners based in Delhi and customs clearance at ports, airports and land borders are also exempted.Responding to reports of shortages on Wednesday, SP Singh, senior fellow at Indian Foundation of Transport Research and Training (IFTRT), said: “There are about 2.5-3 lakh trucks stranded on national highways right now as they are not being allowed to enter cities. There are millions of drivers who are stranded with no food or facilities even as the police have not allowed them to assemble in groups. There could be a big problem as the trucking industry is the lifeline of the economy.” (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-scramble-for-supplies-on-day-1-of-three-week-lockdown-in-india/story-OMB18v6HHL0zcMkLK7qAoL.html
26-03-2020||India||Scramble for supplies on Day 1||New Delhi: Long queues, crowded markets, and harassment of e-commerce and food delivery people by police departments seemingly unaware of what was allowed and what wasn’t, marked the first day of the three-week lockdown to cease the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), although by Wednesday evening, some sense of order emerged. There were people thronging markets across the country on Wednesday as they stocked up for supplies before sheltering at home for three weeks to guard against the pandemic. In various cities, including in Delhi, people faced trouble reaching stores as policemen refused to let them pass, even beating up some despite the government’s assurances of no curbs on the purchase of essential items. Several people who faced harassment said the police did not appear to be aware of the government’s advisory. People who did manage to reach local stores said they feared a worsening of the situation as stocks appeared to be depleted. To be sure, while some markets were crowded, others saw people shopping in disciplined lines, and maintaining a safe distance from each other. Union food minister Ram Vilas Paswan said the government was monitoring the availability of essential commodities in the market. He warned manufacturers and traders against profiteering during the lockdown period.The Centre is also in touch with the state governments to ensure there is no shortage of essential commodities, he said.In an address to the nation on Tuesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi told citizens to not come out of their houses for 21 days, underlining the gravity of the infectious outbreak that has killed at least 20,000 people worldwide. The Prime Minister did not mention the government’s plan to keep essential supplies running. Later, however, as news of panic buying across the country emerged, he tweeted to say that they would remain available. “No panic buying please,” he said.Notifications issued by the home ministry too said this. Despite Modi’s appeal, chaos was reported at grocery stores, some of which reported depleted stocks owing to restrictions, and services of many delivery outlets and e-commerce retailers remained non-functional. Television visuals showed the police striking people, who later said they were simply out shopping for necessities.Online retailers such as Amazon and grocery delivery services such as Big Basket were cancelling previously placed orders and said they did not have new delivery slots available. This pushed people to go out to shop at local stores, where social distancing was a far cry as people jostled to secure fast-disappearing supplies.The sweeping government restrictions affected trucks ferrying essential supplies and Indian Railways staff handling cargo operations as police within states and at borders restricted their movements. “Our staff across all zones are facing difficulties in reaching the terminals as they are being stopped by the local authorities. In many cases zonal divisional railway managers (DRMs) have had to call the police and ensure staffers are allowed. As transportation has not been provided, they have had to walk and some cycled,” a government official aware of the developments said on condition of anonymity. The official added that freight trains, which remain operational after nationwide suspension of passenger services, are focusing on transporting food grains, vegetables, salt and petroleum products among essential items.In Delhi, serpentine queues could be seen outside Mother Dairy outlets. At many grocery shops, people were told that essential items were in short supply. Many could also be seen queuing outside gas cylinder agencies to purchase cooking fuel.“I cycled for four kilometres to bring some essential items such as noodles and wheat because the police had punctured the tyres of the supplier’s van,” said Rakesh, who is employed at a grocery shop in Govindpuri.In five days, the number of Covid-19 cases has jumped from about 200 to 606, and experts say the number could surge if more people are tested. Five fresh cases were reported in the national capital in the last 24 hours, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said.Of 606 cases, 553 are active cases, 42 patients have recovered and have been discharged from the hospital. Ten people have died. Joint secretary, health, Lav Agarwal said: “There are 29 private laboratory chains, accredited by the Indian Council of Medical Research for conducting tests for novel coronavirus. These labs have 16,000 collection centres across the country, where at least 12,000 tests can be conducted per day.”The Union home ministry asked state governments to check the spread of rumours about shortage of food items. In a communication to chief secretaries and police of all states, the ministry asked them to take action to allay apprehensions and maintain peace, and inform people about the availability of food, medicine and other essential commodities.Kejriwal said authorities will ensure essential services during the lockdown period and requested people not to panic. “We will issue e-passes to vegetable-sellers, grocers among others to ensure essential supplies during the lockdown,” Kejriwal said at a news briefing along with Lt Governor Anil Baijal.Modi said the lockdown “to save India and Indians” would be “total”. Officials subsequently released advisories explaining that medical, law enforcement, media and other sectors were exempted, and that stores selling food and other essentials would remain open.The Union home ministry issued fresh guidelines covering additional people and services that will be exempted from the lockdown. The ministry said Reserve Bank of India and RBI-regulated financial markets, pay and accounts officers and field officers of the CAG, petroleum products ,and supply chain and forest staff will be among those exempted.Those people handling cargo operations in airports and railway stations, coal mining activities, officers and staff of resident commissioners based in Delhi and customs clearance at ports, airports and land borders are also exempted.Responding to reports of shortages on Wednesday, SP Singh, senior fellow at Indian Foundation of Transport Research and Training (IFTRT), said: “There are about 2.5-3 lakh trucks stranded on national highways right now as they are not being allowed to enter cities. There are millions of drivers who are stranded with no food or facilities even as the police have not allowed them to assemble in groups. There could be a big problem as the trucking industry is the lifeline of the economy.” (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scramble-for-supplies-on-day-1/story-sKb2K1KHuIOPQMySsHFS2J.html
26-03-2020||India||Mufti’s continued detention during lockdown cruel: Omar||National Conference leader Omar Abdullah on Wednesday called former Jammu & Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti’s continued detention “callous and cruel” and hoped she will be released along with other detainees.He reiterated the demand for the release of political detainees a day after he was released from detention after eight months on Tuesday. “It’s callous & cruel to continue to detain @MehboobaMufti [Mehbooba Mufti] & others at a time like this.There was never much justification to detain everyone in the 1st place & none at all to keep them detained as the country enters a 3 week lockdown,’’ he tweeted, referring to the countrywide lockdown imposed to check the spread of coronavirus pandemic from Wednesday. He hoped the Centre will release them.Three former chief ministers Omar Abdullah, Farooq Abdullah and Mufti were among hundreds of people detained to prevent protests against the nullification of Constitution's Article 370 that stripped Jammu & Kashmir of its special status in August. Farooq Abdullah was released on March 13 while Mufti remains under detention.There was speculation throughout the day on Wednesday that Mufti was going to be released.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mufti-s-continued-detention-during-lockdown-cruel-omar/story-YGAPGha5Dihf64aYUivoRM.html
26-03-2020||India||Padma Shri lensman, Satyajit Ray’s ‘official photographer Nemai Ghosh passes away||Nemai Ghosh, a master lensman also known as Oscar winner Satyajit Ray’s “official photographer” in Kolkata’s film circles, died at his residence in the city on Wednesday after prolonged illness. He was 87.Ghosh, who was the still photographer in 20 of Ray’s 36 films, was awarded the Padma Shri in 2010. He is survived by his wife Shibani, son Satyaki, and daughter Sharmistha.His photographs of Kolkata’s experimental theatre (during 1960s-1990s), capturing moments involving some of the most iconic (BENGALI) actors, have also earned him a place as a photo artiste. Ghosh, whose camera chronicled an important part of Ray’s life, has several books on photography and a memoir of Ray to his credit. His works have been exhibited in India and abroad, and are also in the collection of National Gallery of Modern Art.“He had been unwell for quite some time, but started recovering. On Tuesday evening, he suddenly stopped eating and then developed lung congestions. He died at around 10am this morning. The doctor said he died of cardiac and respiratory failure,” his brother, Chitta Ghosh, said on Wednesday.Ghosh started working with Ray in the late 1960s; their first film together was the iconic Goopy Gyne Bagha Byne (1969). He continued working with Ray till his last film, Agantuk (1991) (He used to take production stills)“For close to 25 years, Nemai Ghosh has been assiduously photographing me in action and repose — a sort of Boswell working with a camera rather than a pen,” Ray wrote of Ghosh in the foreword of the lensman’s first book of photographs (first book; compilation of photos of Ray), while referring to the Scottish biographer, James Boswell.The book, titled “Satyajit Ray at 70”, was published in 1991. Ghosh met legendary French photographer Henri Cartier-Bresson in Paris in 1966 and became friends with him. Cartier-Bresson was also a favourite of Ray.Ghosh’s camera angle, the use of light and the ability to capture candid moments — the last quality is also the one for which Cartier-Bresson is known – earned Ghosh a stature of his own. He had often described theatre as his “first love” and his photographs carried elements of drama as well.Cartier-Bresson, too, wrote a foreword to Ghosh’s book “Satyajit Ray at 70”.“Through his visual gift, Nemai Ghosh allows us to be intimate with filmmaking, and to feel with great fidelity the drive, the alertness and the profundity of this giant of cinema in all his majestic stature,” he wrote. Ghosh’s other books include “Dramatic Moments: Photographs and Memories of Calcutta Theatre from the Sixties to the Nineties” (2000), “Barefoot Light” (2002), “Ray and the Blind Painter: An Odyssey into the Inner Eye” (2004), “Satyajit Ray: A Vision of Cinema” (2005), “Manikda: Memories of Satyajit Ray” (2011), and Nemai Ghosh’s Kolkata (2014).Ghosh also worked with two other masters of Indian “new wave” cinema —in one film with Ritwik Ghatak and in three films with Mrinal Sen.Ghosh was born in Kolkata in 1933 and married in 1957.Ghosh’s son, who too is a photographer in Mumbai, could not come to attend his father’s funeral because of the country-wide lockdown due to Covid-19. Kolkata Police and the local administration helped the family with the cremation.“Legendary photographer Nemai Ghosh is no more. Learnt a lot from Sir. A still from Jana Aranya (a Ray film). This is what we call photography,” filmmaker Kamaleshar Mukherjee wrote on Facebook while sharing one of Ghosh’s still photos from the set of a Satyajit Ray film.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/padma-shri-lensman-satyajit-ray-s-official-photographer-nemai-ghosh-passes-away/story-MHaOpaLVjMxiJBaOAurFOL.html
26-03-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Higher humidity may slow Covid-19 spread, finds study||Warm and humid weather may combat the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), a new study suggests, arguing that Asian countries experiencing monsoon may see a slowdown in the transmission of the deadly infection that has claimed 10 lives in India and almost 20,000 around the world. Analysing Covid-19 infection data from across the world until March 22, two researchers from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) show that the cases have a correlation with two parameters: temperature and absolute humidity, which is a measure of water vapour per square metre of area (more humid countries will have higher absolute humidity). The study finds that 90% of the cases were reported from countries with a range of temperature between 3 and 17 degree C and absolute humidity between 4 and 9g/m3. “The relationship between temperature, humidity and spread is evolving with time. The association between temperature and the spread of coronavirus is looking weak as we have so many new cases coming from warm US states such as Florida and Louisiana and warm countries such as Brazil, India, Malaysia. Absolute humidity might be an important factor as my paper suggests but it needs to be confirmed with laboratory measurements,” said Yusuf Jameel, one of the paper’s authors. Indian authorities don’t measure absolute humidity. The average relative humidity in Delhi this month is 47%, in Mumbai, 60%. Relative humidity is a ratio of water vapour in the air to the maximum amount of vapour it can hold, at a given temperature.Covid-19 is caused by the Sars-CoV-2 virus, which is closely related to the SARS-Cov virus that caused the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome outbreak in 2003 and was shown to lose its ability to survive or infect at higher temperatures. Two previous studies – one from China and another by researchers from Spain, Portugal and Finland – have argued that Covid-19 spread is likely to be constrained by climate and that the virus favours cool and dry climates. But the MIT study is the first one to suggest that temperature alone may not make a dent on the spread of Covid-19 and that humidity also plays a role. Because humidity is a factor, the rise in temperature and approaching summer may not help many regions in the US and Europe because they remain dry.“Our analysis shows that the chances of reduced spreading due to environmental factors would be limited across most of northern Europe and North America (USA and Canada) in summer,” the researchers said.The MIT analysis showed that for each 10 day period between January 22 and March 21, the maximum number of new cases was reported from regions with mean temperature between 4 to 10C and absolute humidity between 3 and 9 g/m3.Between March 11 and 19, a surge was observed in countries with temperature greater than 18C – this coincides with the initial rush of cases in India – but was still much lower than the jump in cases in countries between 8 and 12C.“We believe that the 10,000 cases in regions above 18C in the last week is unlikely due to rapid transmission of the virus in the last few days,” the study says. “Based on the current data on the spread of 2019-nCoV, we hypothesize that the lower number of cases in tropical countries might be due to warm humid conditions, under which the spread of the virus might be slower as has been observed for other viruses,” the study added.What does this hold for India? Jameel said there is a possibility that with monsoon the spread might slow down a bit but that it is too early for the government to rely on such findings. “The government should take appropriate steps assuming that the spread is not going to slow down in the coming days,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/higher-humidity-may-slow-covid-19-spread-mit-study/story-0VhFGGqni6C8t8RqgWGx3J.html
26-03-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Amid nationwide lockdown to curb Covid-19 spread, States asked to allow movement of goods, essentials||The Centre advised all states and Union territories to allow movement of goods, essential items, functioning of factories, units especially those producing essential commodities without hindrance to prevent panic buying and possible shortages as the three-week lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus pandemic began on Wednesday. More industries, professions, trades, ATMs, and people involved in coal mining, cash flow management, pay and accounts, veterinary doctors, social welfare officials have been added to the category of essential services exempt from restrictions imposed in view of the lockdown. Industries linked to food packaging and medicines have also been brought under the ambit of essential services.The Centre has also issued an advisory asking states and Union territories to set-up control rooms to ensure seamless movement of goods. It has directed them to appoint nodal officers to ensure it, along with the functioning of factories, transportation of raw materials and workers.The orders follow reports of medical, grocery and other shop dealing with essential commodities being closed down to enforce the lockdown. The commerce ministry underlined “inconvenience to consumers” must be avoided to “prevent panic” buying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-asked-to-allow-movement-of-goods-essentials/story-gzBjcT6mcR338Rz6mJQg6O.html
26-03-2020||India||Community kitchens set up to feed needy amid lockdown to check Covid-19 spread||State governments across the country have opened subsidised canteens and set up special community kitchens to provide food to the needy left without work because of the countrywide lockdown imposed to check the spread of the coronavirus pandemic. Officials in West Bengal and Delhi said free meals were being provided to all at the night shelters, where the authorities have been asked to gather the needy for food twice a day. The Kerala government said it is providing assistance to local bodies to set up community kitchens. “The prevailing situation is likely to lead to starvation among the poor and aged people. We will not allow this to happen. We will help the local and civic bodies to set up community kitchens to feed them,” said Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan. He warned wholesale dealers of essential goods against raising prices.In states like Punjab, West Bengal and Madhya Pradesh, religious bodies, including gurdwara committees, have started free distribution of food packets for all. The Jharkhand government has opened Khichdi (a mix of rice, pulses and vegetables) centres and has announced it will provide subsidised ration through the public distribution system in advance.In Karnataka, the state government started distributing free food through the day for the poor and needy through 178 Indira canteens. Officials said the police have been asked to distribute free food packets only to the needy. Karnataka chief minister B S Yediyurappa on Tuesday said he is talking to the municipal corporations to see how cooked food can be supplied to homeless, and street vendors who have no fixed addresses and live on streets. In Rajasthan, chief minister Ashok Gehlot said that free food packets will be given to street vendors, daily wage labourers and needy families. The packets are being distributed with the help of police, gurdwara and temple volunteers. The Haryana government has announced financial assistance of Rs 1,000 per week to the poor working in the unorganised sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/community-kitchens-set-up-to-feed-needy/story-cDJ5SZQqDMuhmwUo5383EN.html
26-03-2020||India||Recovering real estate sector slumps again amid lockdown to curb Covid-19 spread||The three-week lockdown to contain the spread of the coronavirus pandemic (COVID-19) will delay residential and commercial properties by three to 12 months depending on the scale, mainly due to acute shortage of labourers in the post-virus era. This would result in real estate developers evoking the ‘force majeure’ clause, experts and developers said.Developers apprehend an acute financial crunch due to disruptions in payment cycles. They are expecting the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to reduce interest rates, the government to give fiscal incentives and the sector regulator to condone construction delays, said executives working with leading developers, requesting anonymity.This is bad news at two levels. One, it adds to the number of stalled projects. In November, while announcing a Rs 25,000 crore alternative investment fund to help such projects, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman put their number at around 1600 and the number of housing units involved at 458,000. Two, it depresses consumer sentiment. Many of the consumers who have bought apartments in these units have invested a substantial amount of savings or taken out loans against them. A recent “Report on COVID-19”, prepared by the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (Ficci), said the pandemic had hit the real estate sector hard at a time when it was hoping to recover from a prolonged slowdown. “The health contagion of COVID-19 disease, however, has the potential to put some brakes on India’s real estate market, given the anticipated slump in demand,” it said.“The real estate sector was already languishing because of delayed projects, inventory overhang, liquidity issues and a trust deficit between builders and customers. Now, construction activity has come to a halt across the country and sales have virtually dried up. Many small and mid-size [real estate] companies will face challenges in servicing debt and managing cash-flows,” an executive working for a leading developer said requesting anonymity.Developers will take resort to the “force majeure” clause of the buyers-seller agreement and the Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA) will have no option but to condone it because the reason for the delay is genuine, he added. RERA is the real estate sector regulator and the “force majeure” clause permits deviation from the agreed contract, particularly from the timeline.“Reorganising construction sites will be done from scratch. Getting labourers will be difficult as most of them have fled to villages. And, getting credit for construction materials will be also difficult,” he added. National Real Estate Development Council (NAREDCO) president, Niranjan Hiranandani, said that with the lockdown in place, home seekers were facing the prospect of delayed possession, work had stopped at construction sites, workers were worried about their financial future, and companies, already facing economic challenges, had to deal with ‘no fresh inflow’ of funds, with sales having dropped to almost zero. “The regulatory aspect of RERA will see developers citing ‘force majure’ as the reason, and ensuring no action on delayed possession,” he said.According to a CRISIL report, the fallout of Covid-19, weak orders spanning the last quarter of 2019-20 and the first quarter of 2020-21, and diversion of state funds towards healthcare, will weigh on demand growth, especially in the first half of the next financial year that would start from April 1. “Weak business sentiment and some issue of labour availability can also derail execution, especially on the urban side during Q1 fiscal 2021,” it said.Gaurav Karnik, National Leader-Real Estate, EY India said that projects would be delayed depending on the level of completion. “RERA authorities need to look at the ongoing situation on projects and evaluate providing an extension for projects in view of current lockdown and the fact that workers at sites may have gone back to their homes and would take time to come back once lockdown lifts,” he said.He added that there would be a host of other issues — from buyers deferring plans to buy houses till confidence returned in the economy to existing buyers, who had taken loans, facing difficulties in meeting their loan commitments. “RBI should also relook at classification of non-performing assets (NPAs) for the sector to tide over this crisis and restart the cycle,” he said.According to Ficci, while the sector was taking all possible measures to mitigate the impact of Covid-19 on business such as deferring the house registrations and moderating sales targets, it needed government support, including concessions on taxes.Global real estate consultant CBRE India, South East Asia, Middle East and Africa chairman Anshuman Magazine, however, said the impact of Covid-19 could be short-lived provided that the virus remains relatively contained in India. “Office leasing demand as of now has been unaffected due to a sustained appetite amongst US and EU based corporates for India as an outsourcing destination. However, the global impact could potentially result into delayed decision-making, curtailed capital expenditures, thereby slowing down portfolio decisions in the short term,” he said.“On the positive side, health and wellness of employees could take centre stage for majority of the corporates; with greater focus on workplace hygiene, remote working policies and increased adoption of flexible space options,” Magazine said.There are some developers who are undeterred by the temporary crisis due to pandemic, one of the experts mentioned above, said giving the example of Godrej Properties Ltd, which on Friday announced its entry into the Faridabad market with its residential plotted development.Ankush Kaul, president-sales and marketing, Ambience Group said there is opportunity for buyers even in this crisis. “Past and current challenges so far have kept the prices under check. This has prompted the smart, discerning buyers and investors to go out in the market and seek deals and reap gains from the offers.”“Amidst these challenges, looking from an investor’s perspective, this is a moment to ponder. Among asset classes, we have real estate as the optimum alternative: real estate still provides the ideal opportunity to grab good investment deals in a tangible asset,” Hiranandani said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-recovering-real-estate-sector-slumps-again/story-QbKOq66g1KZoUD8qKfpzlI.html
26-03-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Containing spread of Covid-19 in clusters could help flatten the curve||Since March 2 when the second wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases was reported in Delhi and Hyderabad, India has not reported any case of community transmission, but the government is working to control cases of focal outbreaks in some states.Almost a dozen technical teams from the Centre have been sent to places such as Agra, Jaipur, Pune, Delhi and Bhilwara in past one month to contain localised focal outbreaks. Focal outbreaks or local clustering of positive cases usually occur when family members, neighbours, friends or colleagues acquire infection from an “imported case”, where a person who gets infected abroad but tests positive after arriving in India. “The local clustering of cases was reported from places such as Agra (Uttar Pradesh), Jaipur and Bhilwara (Rajasthan); we managed to contain both Agra and Jaipur, and Bhilwara is in the phase of containment. We can’t call it community transmission because through successful contact tracing our teams managed to pinpoint the source of infection, the index patient who had a travel history or history of having come in contact with an infected person,” said a senior scientist involved in Covid-19 containment who spoke on condition of anonymity.“We are also investigating Maharashtra and Kerala (for such cluster transmission) as numbers are increasing in these two states; it could also be clustering or probably purely travel-related. As soon as clustering was established, we quickly implemented containment strategies, and it worked,” the scientist added. How does the cluster containment strategy work? The Union health ministry has a “Micro Plan for Containing Local Transmission of Coronavirus Disease (COVID-19)” in a defined geographic area. This involves a focal area and then a buffer area surrounding it where containment measures are put in place.As of now, the government has not begun door-to-door testing to contain the infection, and has largely relied on the Kerala model wherein everyone within a 3km radius (focal area) of a positive case, and buffer area (5km) are screened for symptoms in cases where clustering has been established.“We do random testing in the cluster and testing of all high-risk personnel and pneumonia patients in the area to check for the extent of transmission. Those who show symptoms are usually placed under isolation as suspected cases. This helps break the chain of transmission. Once the transmission link is broken, the localised outbreak is contained,” the scientist said.Pneumonia patients are closely monitored as pneumonia is one of the conditions that severely ill Covid-19 positive patients develop. “Door-to-door testing in a country of 1.3 billion people is not feasible. However, to contain local outbreak of Zika in Jaipur in 2018, random testing was done in the areas from where clustering was reported to contain the spread,” said Dr Nivedita Gupta, a senior scientist with the Indian Council of Medical Research during one of council’s briefings.A Lancet paper published last week on investigation of three clusters of Covid-19 in Singapore showed that 36 Covid-19 cases were linked epidemiologically to the first three clusters of circumscribed local transmission. Direct or prolonged close contact was reported in affected individuals, among 425 people who were quarantined. The median incubation period of SARS-CoV-2 was four days. It did not exclude indirect transmission.The paper added: “SARS-CoV-2 is transmissible in community settings, and local clusters of Covid-19 are expected in countries with high travel volume from China before the lockdown of Wuhan and institution of travel restrictions. Enhanced surveillance and contact tracing is essential to minimise the risk of widespread transmission in the community.”National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) is also keeping an eye open for cases of Covid-19 as a part of its large-scale surveillance under the integrated disease surveillance programme.“ICMR does sample surveillance and our surveillance is on a larger scale, based on clinical signs and symptoms, as our teams are trained to pick up signs of clustering of fever cases in community. Our disease surveillance network is for 33 diseases, including Nipah, Ebola, H1N1, and Covid-19 is now a part of it; the network reaches even the village level through adequately trained ASHA and anganwadi workers,” said Dr Sujeet K Singh, director, NCDC. Close to 2 lakh people are under community surveillance as part of IDSP’s contact tracing efforts, according to data released by the Union health ministry on Tuesday.Experts say country’s IDSP units have wider reach and can be utilised for community surveillance. “IDSP is a very old programme and it has grassroot level reach. We can get very accurate data up to village level. Since in a hugely populated, and resource constrained country like India, it is not possible to test everyone, quarantine is the best option,” says Dr Jugal Kishore, head, community medicine, Safdarjung Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-cases-rise-govt-working-to-control-cluster-outbreaks/story-yFFHT7PTGignt0XZnxqkVJ.html
26-03-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Supply chain hit, medicines might run out due to lockdown, says pharmacies||Small pharmacies in the city may soon run out of medicines and other essential medical supplies, say drug distributors in Delhi, who are unable to maintain a continuous supply chain since the lockdown has been imposed in phases since Sunday. Despite the government saying that people working in essential sectors be allowed to travel, staff from warehouses and stores have not been able to reach their workplace.“People from all over the city – Badarpur, Mandoli... – come to work in the three warehouses I run. But in the last two days most of my staff have not been able to reach the warehouses. The government says the people working in essential sector and those that help with their logistics should be able to move around. But how can I run my business without the staff? Even if I have the medicines and the vehicles, how will I deliver to the stores if my drivers are missing?” said Sandeep Nangia, president of the Delhi Chemists’ Association.There are at least 15,000 neighbourhood drug stores in Delhi, with around 15 pharmacies in and around large tertiary care hospitals like the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, and Indraprastha Apollo open 24*7 to provide medicines in an emergency.Most distributors across the city are facing the same problems. “I am receiving several complaints from across the city. Several of our members say the police are not willing to listen to them, they are just beating them up. I urge the police to tell the people manning the roads to check the ID cards of the people on the road and allow them to reach their work. People are now thinking of shutting shops and there will be a shortage of medicines in the city if this continues,” said Nangia.After receiving complaints from several suppliers of medical items, milk and vegetables, Kejriwal on Wednesday said those who do not have an ID showing the essential service they are catering to will be issued an e-pass for free movement within and outside the city.The government released a helpline number ‘1031’ for those who need e-passes.“Those who are providing essential services, but do not have a formal ID card to back their claim will be issued an e-pass. Workers at grocery and provisional stores, milk plants and others can avail this. Only those engaged with such services without an ID should call on the helpline. Others should refrain form calling on it,” Kejriwal said.One of the warehouse owners from Palam Vihar said the police took away two of his vehicles out on delivery.“Today, I had sent a WagonR out for delivery to the neighbourhood chemist shops. While returning, the police stopped the vehicle and took the driver to the police station despite his having all the documents, including our drug licence. When I went there to check the situation, they took my scooty too before allowing me to go. They told me if they see my car out on the road again, they will impound it,” said Neeraj Agarwal, owner of the warehouse in Palam village.“We have announced that essential service providers should get curfew passes for their employees. Those who have official IDs to prove that they are essential service providers are not being stopped by police personnel. Those who have not got the passes should visit the DCP office of the area where their office or company is located and get them issued,” said a senior police officer.Aggarwal is working on skeletal staff because many are unable to reach work.“How can I continue distribution? I have now asked the owners of chemist shops to come and get medicines from the warehouse if they need it,” he said.Punit Bhatia, who runs a warehouse in Rajouri Garden, said he just has three or four people to manage his warehouse. “The police is just not allowing people to reach here. And, I am not even getting proper supply from the drug companies because of the same reasons,” he said.The owner of a chemist store in Sunlight colony said that they are stocked up, but since the lockdown started they are unable to get medicines from suppliers. Similar problems are being faced by one of Delhi’s oldest pharmacy – Nath Brothers.“I am running on 20 to 30% of my staff. Yesterday, I had only 15% of my staff. They are either being stopped by the police or are unable to get a bus – the conductors are not allowing them to board even after checking their IDs. We have given them a letter on our letterhead stating that they work for us and may please be allowed to reach work even then they are facing difficulties,” said Rippon Nath, owner of the store.“Even a well stocked shop like ours is facing difficulties, I am sure the neighbourhood shops must have started facing shortages. The supply has been slow for nearly four days now with the imposition of Section 144 before and now the lockdown,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supply-chain-hit-medicines-might-run-out-pharmacies/story-sxIFH8HpyBTcJBiF32cqXP.html
26-03-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Hotels turn quarantine centres to stay afloat as tourism takes a hit||New Delhi The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic has battered the travel and hospitality industry, forcing hotels to shut down across the world, but some of them have adopted a model to stay in business – accommodate guests who need to quarantine themselves.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal earlier this month announced that hotels were earmarked to be turned into quarantine facilities in the national capital. In the Capital, five hotels – Red Fox, IBIS, Aloft, Holiday Inn and Pride Plaza — are catering to guests with some key adjustments. Located close to the international airport, they have set aside entries and lifts for those being quarantined. The quarantined people are being kept on dedicated floors and only designated staffers are tending them. The Aerocity hotels also have round-the-clock medical teams and a separate waste management team in place.From just three occupants on the first day, the three hotels now have more than 602 people using the quarantine facility, officials said on Wednesday. Those quarantined are using 492 rooms, records with the city’s revenue department showed.The government arranged 182 hotel rooms initially. “But, the occupancy really picked up on day three, and four. Gauging this, we arranged for a total of 525 rooms in Aerocity. Out of this, 385 are single rooms and 107 are double rooms. This is now the largest quarantine facility (paid or unpaid) in the country, beating the facility available in Jaisalmer, where about 500 people can be accommodated,” said Tanvi Garg, district magistrate (New Delhi).The three hotels, on orders from the Delhi government, are offering rooms for “Category B” or “moderate risk” (an asymptomatic passenger coming from a Covid-19 affected country and/or having other diseases and/or over 60 years of age) passengers at a flat rate of ₹3,100 (plus taxes) each per day. The package includes breakfast, lunch and dinner; two bottles of mineral water per day; tea and coffee and facilities such as WiFi and TV.Wednesday was 27-year-old Sudipto Chakraborty’s third day in quarantine at one of the hotels. “The arrangements are good. The food is delicious, except that it is sometimes delayed – like today. They keep it outside the room on the floor,” Chakraborty, who returned from Miami in the US on March 22, told HT over the phone.Food is being given only in disposal plates and clothes of the quarantined guests are being laundered separately. “But, there is no clarity if the cost also includes laundry service. My 14-day quarantine ends on April 5, but I might have to stay longer since there is no way I can go to my hometown under the lockdown,” he said.While every hotel has a medical team, comprising doctors from the Delhi government and the civic agencies, a clinical psychologist has also been deployed. The teams operate in three shifts to ensure 24-hour presence.Maharashtra chief minister Thackeray, too, has ordered hotel quarantines on terms similar to Delhi. “The government will make hotel rooms available at lower tariff if someone is willing to pay to get quarantined,” he said.Amid global fears of recession, the quarantining of people is acting as a much-needed source of revenue, with some hotels also offering luxury packages. A hotel in Switzerland is offering quarantine facilities, including a $500 Covid-19 test. “In the beginning of March, revenues dropped significantly,” Alexander Hübner, co-founder and chief executive of Le Bijou Hotel & Resort Management AG, told The Wall Street Journal. With the Covid-19 packages, however, the revenue slide has slowed.In the Swiss hotel, according to WSJ, in-room treatments can be purchased a la carte: Covid-19 testing is available for about $500, twice-daily nurse check-in for about $1,800, and the round-the-clock nurse care for about $4,800.DK Aggarwal, president, PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said: “This extended assistance to the government by the hospitality sector will go long way in containing the spread of Covid-19.”Dr Shankar Narang, COO Paras Healthcare, said: “At this time of crisis, the country requires quarantine facilities in large numbers. Hotels can be ideal for that. Some hoteliers have already offered their facilities for this great cause.”With inputs from agencies||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hotels-turn-quarantine-centres-to-stay-afloat-as-tourism-takes-a-hit/story-gmYyna2BpIa86vOyMmXlLL.html
26-03-2020||India||Number of infections cross 600 as Covid-19 footprint expands in India||The number of people infected by coronavirus in India crossed the 600 mark on Wednesday with Maharashtra recording the highest rise of 16 new cases followed by Karnataka with 10 while Mizoram recorded its first positive case.By the end of Wednesday the count of infected people stood at 606. Two casualties were reported – one each from Madhya Pradesh and Tamil Nadu.Follow coronavirus latest updates hereThere were nine new cases in Kerala , seven in Haryana, six in Madhya Pradesh, five in Delhi, four each in Rajasthan, Gujarat and Jammu and Kashmir, two each in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh and one in Uttarakhand.Despite being the state with the highest number of infections, there was some cheer for Maharastra as a Pune couple – the state’s first coronavirus patients - returned home on Wednesday after 17 days of hospitalisation to a rousing welcome from members of their residential society.Also read: 5 more coronavirus cases in Delhi, says Arvind Kejriwal; follows up with a requestPrime Minister Narendra Modi who addressed the people of his constituency in Varanasi through a video link, reiterated that social distancing and staying indoors were the only way out and the best option to deal with coronavirus.“People should focus on how deadly this virus is. This disease doesn’t discriminate between rich and poor,” Modi said, a day after he announced a 21-day nationwide lockdown to break the chain of transmission of coronavirus that has affected more than 4.3 lakh people across the world in three months.Modi underlined the enormity of challenge facing the country. He invoked the Mahabharata, and said the epic war was won in 18 days and his government’s effort is to win the war against coronavirus in 21 days.“The war of Mahabharata was won in 18 days and our effort is to win this war against the coronavirus in 21 days,” he said.In Delhi, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal reiterated his appeal to people to stay at home as part of the nationwide lockdown as five more people tested positive for the SARS-CoV-2 pathogen.In Odisha, the state launched a massive recruitment for thousands of doctors, nurses, paramedics and multipurpose health workers to join the battle against the coronavirus pandemic, while in Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee appealed to NRIs and corporate to donate funds to fight the pandemic.Click here for complete coverage of coronavirus Amid the 21-day lockdown, the Union home ministry has indefinitely suspended the exercise to update the NPR and collection of data for Census 2021.With the lockdown beginning to hit the poor, the Jharkhand government has initiated several welfare measures, including low-price ‘Khichdi’ distribution centres and two months’ ration in advance to beneficiaries of the public distribution system (PDS) to ease the economic burden on them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/number-of-infections-cross-600-as-covid-19-footprints-rise-in-india/story-0cY5uFieTs0cgmEh19PpvJ.html
26-03-2020||India||Yogi promises door to door delivery, bans ‘paan masala’ to fight coronavirus||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday said the state government had worked out an action plan to effectively contain the spread of the Sars-Cov-2 pathogen including a plan for door to door delivery of essential items and a ban on the sale, production and distribution of ‘paan masala and ‘gutkha’ (chewing tobacco) in the entire state.The chief minister held a high-level meeting with the state officials on Wednesday to review steps to contain the spread of the coronavirus and for implementation of the nationwide lockdown announced in its wake.Additional chief secretary Awanish Awasthi said the chief minister directed officers to ensure door-to-door delivery of essential commodities apart from the e-commerce companies and supermarkets that will use their own workforce for the home delivery of essentials. The chief minister has also asked the health department to work out arrangements for the home delivery of medicines. During the meeting, Adityanath said control rooms were being set up in all the districts to coordinate government’s efforts and monitor its implementation. He also said that 112 police response vehicles will be used to rescue stranded people. In other measures taken so far, the state government has already asked the state’s 51 public and private medical colleges to set up 200-300 bed isolation wards and the chief minister said that a sufficient quantity of sanitisers, gloves and masks had been made available to all the districts.The additional chief secretary repeated on Wednesday that the government had banned ‘paan masala’ and ‘gutkha’. “The state government has also decided to ban the sale of paan masala and gutkha in the state. The ban has been imposed to protect the people from infection in these times of coronavirus. People who consume gutkha and paan masala have been seen spitting in public places,” he had said on Tuesday.An order issued by the Food and Drug Administration commissioner said the manufacturing, distribution and sale of ‘paan masala’ and ‘gutka’ is banned in the state till further orders.“Action under the Food Security Act will be taken against the persons and establishments which violate the order. The state government will cancel the licence of the units and close the shops,” the FDA order said.Awasthi said a committee headed by the agriculture production commissioner will ensure the availability of essential commodities in the state during the lockdown. It will also mobilise civil defence volunteers and non-government organizations. The committee will mobilize community kitchens to distribute food packets to the poor, Awasthi said, adding that gurudawaras, maths, temples and social organisations will be motivated to run community kitchens as well.Mobile vans, e-rickshaws, thelas (carts) and other vehicles were being arranged in various districts for door-to-door delivery of essential items, Awasthi said. Total number of coronavirus patients in UP reached 38 on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/paan-and-paan-masala-ban-part-of-yogi-s-coronavirus-battle-plan/story-URKxUFvcL811AUvJSULAhK.html
26-03-2020||India||Covid-19 update: Trucks ferrying essential goods stranded on highways as India locks down||The announcement of an unprecedented three-week lockdown by Prime Minister Narendra Modi has left lakhs of trucks ferrying essential commodities stranded along national highways even as the government has exempted the movement of essential goods during the period. Railways staff including workers involved in the facilitation of cargo along freight trains, which have been allowed by the Centre too are facing issues in being allowed to travel by the local state police causing significant disruption in supply chain for commodities across the country.“Our staff across all zones is facing difficulties in reaching the terminals as they are being stopped by the local authorities. In many cases zonal Divisional Railway Managers (DRMs) have had to call the police and ensure they are allowed. As transportation has not been provided, they have had to walk all the way and some had to cycle. Even during the lockdown, railways have to ensure freight trains are running across the country so that supply is not disrupted. We are focusing mainly on food grains (rice, wheat, etc), vegetables and fruits, coal, cement, Iron, Steel, fertilizer, salt, petroleum products among other which are all essential commodities,” a senior government official said. Allaying apprehensions following his address on Tuesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said people need not panic about availability of essential commodities and medicines during the 21-day nationwide lockdown. Following the announcement on the lockdown people had descended on the streets resorting to panic buying. At present, nearly 75% of total freight carrying fleet is stranded and unable to unload cargo. “There are about 2.5-3 lakh trucks stranded on national highways right now as they are not being allowed to enter. There are millions of drivers who are stranded with no food or facilities even as the police have not allowed them to assemble in groups. There is anarchy on the roads. The drivers are unable to leave the trucks on the road as they are carrying expensive goods; raw material, finished products to workshops etc, but are unable to unload the goods as even the factories have shut down. The owners are also unable to provide any help as there is no transportation possibility. There will be a big problem as the trucking industry is the lifeline of the economy. The government needs to intervene,” SP Singh, senior fellow at Indian Foundation of Transport Research and Training (IFTRT) said. The department of commerce on Wednesday issued an advisory to states to keep units manufacturing food and essential items going and allow transport of intermediary goods. The advisory said states are to allow transport vehicles carrying raw material, allow workers to and from food processing units and facilitate inter-state movement of goods. “Some movement of perishable items like vegetables was allowed slowly after the order came in,” Singh added.While Centre’s order exempts the movement of freight through land, sea and air during the lockdown period, many workers involved even in the aviation sector faced similar issues of being unable to commute and harassed by the local police. The civil aviation secretary late Tuesday wrote to all states asking them to allow the movement of airport and airline staff and crew during this period. “Airlines/airport staff and crew are supposed to maintain specific/minimum facilities and need to be travelling to their working locations. The civil aviation ministry has received grievances from airlines and airports on the same…minimumnumber of functionaries of airports and airlines would also be moving during the suspension of domestic and international flight operations as basic facilities at airports and cargo/ emergency/permitted flight operations (including maintenance) have to continue,” the letter said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-trucks-ferrying-essential-goods-stranded-on-highways-as-india-locks-down-coronavirus/story-QHrN8cmh7LLuP0GjAdwlrO.html
26-03-2020||India||India under Covid-19 lockdown: All about the disaster management law||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday announced a 21-day national lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19 by invoking the Disaster Management Act, 2005. The law gives the Central government powers to take quick policy decisions and impose restrictions on people to manage a disaster. Here’s an explainer on what the law entails for people and governments in these difficult times.What is the Disaster Management Act (DMA)? DMA is a national law that empowers the Central government to declare the entire country or part of it as affected by a disaster and to make plans for mitigation to reduce “risks, impacts and affects” of the disaster. The Epidemic Disease Act, 1897 does not provide such powers. DMA covers all man-made and natural disasters which are beyond the coping capacity of a community. It also provides powers to the government to act against anyone not abiding by government orders and regulations.Why did the government use its powers under DMA? Till Monday, the Central and state governments were notifying Covid-19 management orders under the Epidemic Disease Act, which was envisaged to prevent spread of a disease (and through sea). The epidemic law was enacted to control bubonic plague in Mumbai coming through the sea route and to prevent social gatherings. Thereafter, many state governments have adopted the law and in 2018, the law was enforced in Gujarat to control spread of Cholera. Never before has the epidemic law been invoked to control a pandemic. That’s not surprising. For instance, to act against anyone defying orders under the law a warrant issued by a court is needed. The law also does not have provisions to enforce mandatory quarantines or social distancing, to provide for quick release of money, or to take over government or private buildings to provide relief. It gives powers to health officials but very little to the law enforcement agencies, which are now implementing complete lockdown. That’s why this lockdown had to be under DMA. How does DMA help? MS Reddy, former vice-chairman of National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA), said the disaster law provides all powers to the state to deal with any disaster, including a biological one. The authority can act against any government official or director of a company for defying its orders. The law provides for detaining a person without warrant and a jail term of one year for first offences. It also provides for developing national and state level mitigation plans with a clear chain of command . What were the sections under which Covid-19 was declared a national disaster? Under Sections 6 and 10 of the law, PM Modi, who is also chairperson of the authority, declared Covid-19 as a national disaster so that the entire country has uniform lockdown regulations, which are easier to implement, especially on which services and functions are allowed and what are not. For instance, before the national lockdown was enforced under the law, state specific lockdowns and a lockdown of 82 districts by the federal government -- both under the epidemics law -- were inconsistent about the use of private vehicles. Under DMA, states are required to implement the national plans.Can NDMA help in a tackling a pandemic? Yes, especially with regard to providing relief and rehabilitation. Reddy said the authority has protocols to deal with biological or epidemiological disasters such as Covid-19, for which special isolated health facilities have to be created. The national and state disaster relief forces are trained to deal with biological disasters, especially with regard to immediate evacuation of the people. This may be needed is a major Covid-19 hotspot emerges. The authority has already notified guidelines to provide cash relief and compensation to poor people across the country. The Centre and the state governments can create disaster mitigation funds.How does DMA empower the governments? The law authorises the NDMA’s chairperson, the Prime Minister, to take decisions to deal with the pandemic, including deciding on relief for victims and special measures for the needy. The state chief minister may also invoke special powers under the law for dealing with the pandemic. Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Gujarat are some states that have invoked these powers. The powers of the PM and CMs are the same under the law, except in case of Delhi, where the Lieutenant-Governor, has these powers. The LG is the chairman and Delhi CM is vice-chairman of the state disaster management authority. Are penalties under the law stricter than under Indian Penal Code? Yes, as the law provides for detention of any person for defying government orders including government officials and directors of the private companies. The jail term prescribed is one year for first offence and two years for the second. The officials notified as nodal officers -- district magistrates in this case -- can summon anyone to perform duties for disaster mitigation and relief. A department head could be held responsible for any dereliction of duty by the personnel reporting to him. A complaint against any official can be made only to chairpersons of national, state or district disaster management authorities.Does this provide for taking over powers of the state government by the Centre? No, the disaster law clearly defines the powers of the Central government, states and the districts. It also does not prevent the governments from using other laws such as Indian Penal Code and Code of Criminal Procedure to prevent spread of Covid-19. It, in fact, gives powers to the local authorities to act swiftly in line with national plan and state plans to control impacts of a disaster.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-under-covid-19-lockdown-all-about-the-disaster-management-law/story-i7cjfZrUZcbOxamlEOAoPO.html
26-03-2020||India||Nine of Sangli family test positive, Maharashtra’s Covid-19 cases rise to 116||Five people of a family including a five-year-old have tested positive to the Sars-Cov-2 pathogen that causes coronavirus disease, a health official of Sangli district in Maharashtra said on Wednesday. Four people from the same family who returned from a visit to Saudi Arabia had earlier tested positive.Sangli, a district in central-western Maharashtra, has reported nine cases.The district’s civil surgeon Dr Sanjay Salunkhe confirmed the fresh cases.“The five cases of Covid-19 are from the same family as the early four. The early four members had travelled to Saudi Arabia and these five are the first contacts of the four members. Among the five is a 5-year-old girl. All of them are stable and admitted to the district hospital in Miraj,” Dr Salunkhe said,Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope tweeted that the fresh five cases have raised the count of Covid-19 patients in the state to 116.Pune divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar said the authorities had sent 830 samples for testing. Of this, 737 have come out negative which is over 90% of the samples and is a good sign.“Currently there are 42 positive cases in the division,” he said.Health minister Tope said 14 people who had tested positive earlier had recovered and are in the process of being discharged from the hospitals.The government, concerned at reports that some clinics and chemists had shut down in wake of the lockdown, has told them to stay open.Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, state Congress President and Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat and Rajesh Tope appealed to the people to celebrate Gudi Padva -- the traditional new year festival -- indoors on Wednesday while taking all precautions in view of Covid-19 scare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nine-of-sangli-family-test-positive-maharashtra-s-covid-19-cases-rise-to-116/story-0dfANQHScEDkOlmaksp89L.html
26-03-2020||India||US could be next virus epicentre, as India locks down, global recession looms||The United States could become the global epicentre of the coronavirus pandemic, the World Health Organization said on Tuesday, as India announced a full 24-hour, nationwide lockdown in the world’s second-most populous country.India joined the ranks of Britain and other countries clamping down to hold back the virus as business activity collapsed from Japan to the United States at a record pace in March.The highly contagious coronavirus has caused entire regions to be placed on lockdown. In some places soldiers are patrolling the streets to keep consumers and workers indoors, halting services and production and breaking supply chains. Also Watch | COVID-19 | ‘How many deaths are acceptable to me?’: Watch Trump’s reply to reporter“The global health crisis is rapidly morphing into a global recession, as there is a clear tension between preventing infections and ruining the economy,” said Edoardo Campanella, an economist at UniCredit Bank in Milan.But Wall Street bounced from three-year lows as investors pin their hopes on the U.S. Senate passing a $2 trillion stimulus bill.Confirmed coronavirus cases around the world exceeded 377,000 across 194 countries and territories as of early Tuesday, according to a Reuters tally, more than 16,500 of them fatal.In Geneva, WHO spokeswoman Margaret Harris said infections in the United States had greatly increased.Over the previous 24 hours, 85 percent of new cases were in Europe and the United States, and of those, 40 percent were in the United States.As of Monday, the virus had infected more than 42,000 people there, killing at least 559.Asked whether the United States could become the new epicentre, Harris said: “We are now seeing a very large acceleration in cases in the U.S. So it does have that potential.”Some U.S. state and local officials have decried a lack of coordinated federal action, saying that having localities act on their own has put them in competition for supplies.President Donald Trump acknowledged the difficulty.“The World market for face masks and ventilators is Crazy. We are helping the states to get equipment, but it is not easy,” he tweeted.Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Tuesday the government would impose a nationwide lockdown from midnight for 21 days.Health researchers have warned that more than a million people in India could be infected with the coronavirus by mid-May, prompting the government to shut down all air and train travel, businesses and schools.On Tuesday, Modi, leader of the world’s biggest democracy, went further, saying nobody would be allowed to leave their homes.“The only way to save ourselves from coronavirus is if we don’t leave our homes, whatever happens, we stay at home,” Modi said.India has so far reported 482 confirmed cases of the coronavirus and nine deaths.OLYMPIC ORGANISERS GIVE INOlympic Games organisers and the Japanese government had clung to the hope that the world’s biggest sporting event could go ahead, but finally bowed to the inevitable to make Tokyo 2020 the latest and biggest victim of a ravaged sporting calendar.After a call with International Olympic Committee (IOC) president Thomas Bach, Japan’s Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said the July 24-Aug. 9 event would be rescheduled for the summer of 2021 at the latest - as proof of victory over the coronavirus.“President Bach said he is in agreement, 100%.”It was the first time in the Olympics’ 124-year history that they had been postponed, though they were cancelled outright three times during the two 20th-century world wars.Of the top 10 countries by case numbers, Italy has reported the highest fatality rate, at around 10%, which at least partly reflects its older population. The fatality rate globally - the ratio of deaths to confirmed infections - is around 4.3%, though national figures can vary widely according to how much testing is done.Britain, believed by experts to be about two weeks behind Italy in the outbreak cycle, on Tuesday began curbs on movement without precedent in peacetime after Prime Minister Boris Johnson ordered the country to stay at home.The streets of the capital were quiet as all but essential shops closed and people only went to work if it was unavoidable.Johnson had resisted pressure to impose a full lockdown even as other European countries had done so, but was forced to change tack as projections showed the health system could become overwhelmed.Meanwhile China’s Hubei province, the original centre of the outbreak, will lift curbs on people leaving the area, but other regions will tighten controls as new cases double due to imported infections.The provincial capital Wuhan, which has been in total lockdown since Jan. 23, will lift its travel restrictions on April 8.However, the risk from overseas infections appears to be on the rise, prompting tougher screening and quarantine measures in cities such as the capital Beijing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-could-be-next-virus-epicentre-as-india-locks-down-global-recession-looms/story-geC5xLgoHw7BXJ5eTyuw7K.html
