27-03-2020||India||France, US among other nations to evacuate 14K stranded in India||New Delhi The US, France, Germany and other countries are engaged in hectic efforts to evacuate close to 14,000 of their nationals stranded in India following the suspension of commercial flights around the world due to the Covid-19 pandemic.France and the US are hopeful of organising the first flights for their citizens by the end of this week, people familiar with developments said on Friday. There are nearly 2,000 French tourists stranded in the country while hundreds of American travellers are waiting to fly out, the people said on condition of anonymity.Russia has close to 8,000 tourists in the country, mostly in Goa, while more than 450 were evacuated on Wednesday. Japan, Malaysia and Ukraine have also operated special flights to fly out hundreds of their nationals.About 1,500 Israeli nationals have been evacuated in six flights from New Delhi, Mumbai and Goa since March 21. Two flights – one operated by Air India and another by El Al – with about 600 Israeli citizens took off from New Delhi on Thursday night.An alert posted on the US embassy’s website on Friday said efforts by the state department and airlines to arrange flights from India “are making progress”, with “initial flights most likely to depart New Delhi and Mumbai”.“We will seek to facilitate travel from other cities in India as flights become available,” the alert said, adding US citizens should ensure their travel documents were up to date and be prepared to depart at short notice.German ambassador Walter Lindner has been leading efforts at a 24x7 crisis centre within his embassy to facilitate the evacuation of more than 3,000 German tourists and travellers from other European countries. An avid user of social media, he has been posting regular updates on evacuation flights on his Twitter handle.So far, the German embassy has arranged two flights by Lufthansa from Delhi to Frankfurt using Airbus A380 jets, the world’s largest passenger aircraft, to evacuate 750 Germans and 250 nationals of other European countries such as Sweden. The first flight was operated on March 25 and the second took off on Thursday.Lindner tweeted after the second flight: “Thanks to IND authorities (esp MEA) for helping us doing this amidst lock-down. What an operation!”A person familiar with developments said the German embassy is looking to evacuate 2,500 more tourists in the coming days.Officials from several embassies said arranging the evacuation involved complex logistics, including arranging movement passes and buses for their nationals stranded in tourist destinations such as Goa and Rishikesh and accommodation in the cities from which the flights take off.The embassies have also created special programmes – such as the Smart Traveler Enrollment Program (STEP) of the US – and set up hotlines for registering their stranded citizens for evacuation flights.Efforts are also being made to help the stressed travellers relax. The German embassy, for example, opened up its garden to some of the stranded tourists shortly before their flight for a session of “distance yoga”.There are also reports of Indians stranded in other parts of the world being assisted by authorities. On Friday, 19 Indians stuck at the Dubai airport for several days were provided hotel rooms within the airport, the Indian mission tweeted. They were also provided financial help to buy food.Dubai authorities are also taking care of 10 more Indians, who are residents of the UAE and arrived from different parts of the world at Dubai airport. They have been put in quarantine, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/france-us-among-other-nations-to-evacuate-14k-stranded-in-india/story-wF4Ol7mkwhqfK6WKQ4nByN.html
27-03-2020||India||Saving lives and livelihood in lockdown||The threat from a rapid diffusion of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) initially threatened to become India’s most severe health crisis since the Spanish Flu, which killed almost 15 million people a century ago. Increasingly, however, it is spiraling into an economic crisis and could easily spin out of control into a humanitarian crisis.Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s speech conveyed a clear sense of the gravity of the situation. Give the structural constraints — India’s population density, weak health and sanitation infrastructure, and limited resources more generally — the need to slow the spread of infection is paramount. Whether the decision to lockdown the country for 21 days should have come earlier, should have been made with more preparation, should have been longer or shorter in duration, will be intensely debated, but its need is unequivocal.At the same time, given India’s population density, the cramped and squalid conditions in which tens of millions people live, not only will social distancing have limited effectiveness (household members of every infected person will be at high risk), but the loss of livelihoods and access to basic necessities will impose significant human costs.The short-term tradeoff between lives and livelihoods is manifest and nobody really knows where the precise balance lies. Too limited a lockout period risks the lives of potentially hundreds of thousands of people; too restrictive a lockout could result in the eruption of serious social unrest.The public health challengeThere is little doubt that a lockdown that is somewhat longer than the 14-day upper-limit incubation period of the coronavirus is essential, not because it will annihilate the virus but slow its spread and buy desperate time. But now that the lockdown has begun, what should the State do and what are the instrumentalities of the Indian State to manage its multiple — and conflicting —goals?To save lives, the government has taken the first major step at social distancing, and while this continues, it must heed the advice of the Director-General of the World Health Organisation(WHO), “Test, test, test. All countries should be able to test all suspected cases, they cannot fight this pandemic blindfolded.”This requires ramping up the manufacture and distribution of a) personal protection equipment (from disposable face masks, to eye protection, gloves and gowns); b) lab testing and diagnostics, c) manufacture of medicines needed to treat secondary infections and complications and ventilators and d) rapidly creating dedicated hospitalisation facilities for those with serious infections. The economic challengeBut what about livelihoods? Here, the key lies in not creating anything new, but protecting and ramping up select existing programs and supporting private actors in specific areas. The key is extreme selectivity, knowing that there is little time and limited capacity.The Finance Minister’s proposals are broadly in the right direction, with a mix of cash (PM-Kisan, Jan Dhan) and kind (increased allocations of rice or wheat and free distribution of gas cylinders to beneficiaries under the Ujjwala scheme). Importantly these measures use existing plumbing — the Jan Dhan Account-Aadhar-Mobile (JAM) infrastructure and the Public Distribution System (PDS) — which despite some weaknesses, can ensure rapid delivery at scale. The nearly 60 million ton grain mountain of Food Corporation of India can be rapidly drawn down via free rations through PDS. With the rabi wheat crop about to be harvested, it might be better to draw down rice reserves to a greater extent, else wheat markets could be hit hard.Concurrently, there are three critical supply chains that need to be maintained: energy (electricity, fuel and cooking fuel); delivery services for essential goods; and agriculture harvesting and supply chains.Electricity generation and distribution are not manpower-intensive activities. Distribution is, but hopefully there will be limited disruptions over the next few weeks. The very success of Ujjwala means that dependency on cooking gas has markedly increased, and free delivery to BPL families for a few months will be provide considerable relief.The critical lacuna is agriculture where the government has to be more flexible, whether allowing farmers to sell outside Agricultural Produce Market Committees (and waiving manditaxes), allowing herders to graze their flocks and bring their goats to markets, and critically allow all seed supply operations which are hugely important for the planting of the kharif crop. To manage the conflicting objectives of lives and livelihoods around agriculture, the government needs to work with arthiyas(middlemen) and farmers groups. Instead of farmers coming to the mandi, which then becomes a hotspot for disease transmission, it will be necessary to have the gram panchayats work with arthiyas to bring to the 22,000 Gramin Agricultural Markets and from there (if necessary) to the APMCs. As Mekhala Krishnamurthy argued in an excellent piece in ThePrint, with the rabi harvest in full swing, farmers need to be able to sell their produce and schemes such as Madhya Pradesh’s SMS-based pre-registration systems to try to regulate arrivals and manage logistics, while ensuring some social distancing.Responses cannot be one-size-fits-all and will need to be tailored to local needs. Agriculture is a state subject and states and district administrators should have flexibility and be encouraged to be innovative and not punished for thinking out of the boxDeploying all institutionsBut how should all this be done? What are the instruments the State has at its disposal? The enactment of Disaster Management Act 2005 established the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) in 2005, headed by the Prime Minister. The NDMA is the country’s apex body for disaster management, and is responsible for laying down policies and guidelines for disaster management and ensuring effective responses.In 2009, India adopted a National Policy on Disaster Management. Following the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction 2015-2030 (the first major international agreement of the post-2015 development agenda), the revised National Disaster Management Plan of 2019 recognizes that the State has the primary role to reduce disaster risk but that responsibility should be shared with other stakeholders including local government, the private sector and other stakeholders.While the plan covers a wide range of emergency events, it largely envisaged local or regional effects, not the sort of systemic wide emergency that can bring down critical infrastructure and supply chains and overwhelm health care facilities.With the NDMA acting as coordinator both horizontally (across government departments) and vertically (with states and districts), in addition to the 15 year old National Disaster Response Force (NDRF – a specially trained force which is structured like paramilitary forces for rapid deployment), the government needs to rapidly redeploy the three pan-Indian organizations with the largest human and organizational resources: the military; central armed police forces (CAPFs); and the Indian Railways.The army has the best ability to rapidly scale up quarantine and hospitalisation facilities. The CAPFs need to be deployed in ensuring crucial supply chains (and, where needed, supplemented by the army). The railways have a network of 182 Accident Relief Trains, 165 Accident Relief Medical Vans (ARMVs). Each of these should be dispatched to a poorly resourced district to augment its weak health care facilities.A roadmapConcurrently the government needs to do five things. One, there needs to be clear messaging about behavioral changes aimed not just at the public but also the police. If even the Prime Minster folds his hands, requesting the public to keep indoors, the police should be given stronger guidance and need to be under strict instructions that force should be the last and not the first resort.Two, the State needs to work with industry to rapidly develop and manufacture diagnostic tests, personal protection equipment, medications and ventilators. This needs to be done in Mission Mode, working alongside empowered leadership from the private sector with deep experience and credibility in manufacturing. For each product requites one team, that midwives the manufacture of the product from selecting the design and standards, to identifying a set of manufacturers, ensuring working capital, and robust input logistics chains and output distribution channels. They need to be indemnified and protected against any future CAG, IT type enquires. Yes, there are risks in this approach, but the risk in delay are manifestly greater. Three, the government needs to leverage the credibility and trust enjoyed by many civil society organisations to get essential services to vulnerable populations who the state cannot reach easily, such as migrants, older people or people with disabilities. And it should do so with fealty to its own National Disaster Management Plan of 2019 which pointedly devotes a whole chapter on social inclusion, emphasising, “While hazards do not discriminate, people do.”Four, from health care to supply chains, from the civil services to public utility personnel, several million Indians will necessarily be part of maintaining essential services. They are serving the country at considerable risk to themselves. They need to have first claims to personal protective equipment and testing and better life insurance. The Finance Minister’s proposal for Rs 50 lakh medical insurance cover to health professionals is very much in the right direction.Five, the government needs to recognize that in a crisis of this magnitude it needs the best expertise and competence, whether bureaucrats (serving or retired), or personnel from the private sector and civil society. Loyalty and ideology may have their place — but the costs today are simply too grave and manifest.Finally, the Prime Minister has to realize that more than anything else, he will be remembered in history most by how he and his government handled this grave national peril. His leadership will require bringing the country together in a way that has not been his government’s strong suit. He needs to strongly lead with a spirit of cooperation with all states (such as a regular conference call with all the Chief Minsters), reach out to the political opposition and to all communities. History will then remember him as a healer and unifier, which will be critical to pull the country out from a spiraling national crisis.(Devesh Kapur is the Starr Foundation South Asia Studies Professor and Asia Programs Director at the Paul H NitzeSchool of Advanced International Studies (SAIS) at Johns Hopkins University, Washington, DC. The views expressed are personal)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/saving-lives-and-livelihood-in-lockdown/story-o6GBZyPgNAjMjDE8LjFKBP.html
27-03-2020||India||Covid-19: With hardly any donations, blood banks run dry in Kolkata||Almost all blood banks in Kolkata have run out of stock as donation camps have not been held in two weeks following the Covid-19 outbreak.Those looking for blood are being asked to get donors of the required group. However, getting donors has become a problem because of the lockdown.The state health department has advised hospitals to keep planned operations on hold and attend to emergency cases, health department officials said. Apart from those in big state-run hospitals, most blood banks in Kolkata are privately run. In the districts, private nursing homes procure blood from the state general hospitals.“All blood banks from where we procure blood have run dry. We have completely stopped planned surgeries. Blood is necessary for cardiac surgeries, cancer surgeries and even caesarean deliveries and these procedures cannot be delayed indefinitely. The government must organise blood donation camps in a restricted manner,” said Dr Kalyan Kar, head of surgery at the Mukundapur unit of AMRI Hospital, one of the biggest private hospital chains in the state.“Under the present circumstances, it is not possible for the families of all patients to get donors,” Dr Kar added.“We have no blood in stock. People looking for blood have to get donors. We are only testing their blood and drawing one unit as per rules. For people looking for several units, it is a huge problem,” said a spokesperson of Ashok Blood Bank in Kolkata.“We have nothing left in stock. If this shortage persists, people will be in trouble,” said a spokesperson at Life Care, blood bank in Kolkata that remains open for 24 hours.“The crisis started soon after donation camps stopped,” said a spokesperson of Bhoruka Research Centre.“To conduct operations at my department we are drawing blood from donors,” said Dr Arunava Sengupta, head of the ENT unit at SSKM Hospital, the biggest state-run multispecialty hospital in Bengal.Responding to the crisis, some officers of the Kolkata Police donated blood on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-with-hardly-any-donations-blood-banks-run-dry-in-kolkata/story-aKjC5362visVYEW1UjmjMK.html
27-03-2020||India||LIFE IN THE TIMES OF COVID-19||In these trying times, when the whole world is faced with an unprecedented public health crisis, a large-scale documentation of a country as large and diverse as India requires an incredible effort on the part of the media. Photographers, reporters, editors and newsroom desk staff are working round the clock to bring readers the truth and just life—in the times of COVID-19, a term this world will remember forever.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/life-in-the-times-of-covid-19/story-0F3SHvKhnCDryts1htsVYP.html
27-03-2020||India||Coronavirus update: On day 3 of lockdown, exodus of workers chokes Delhi-UP border||Thousands of migrant workers and daily wage workers crossed over to Uttar Pradesh on Friday and many others waited to do so, desperate to return to their distant villages even if it meant walking the entire way home.Carrying their children, bags and any other belongings they could manage to bundle up, they walked in a steady flow of thousands from the National Capital Region (NCR) to their homes in Uttar Pradesh and beyond.At the Ghazipur border, they huddled close together, only some with masks -- aware of the coronavirus threat that had led to an unprecedented 21-day lockdown of the country and taken away their jobs, but helpless to do anything about combating the infection.“About 10,000 migrant workers from Delhi and Gurgaon crossed over today,” said a police official at the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border in Ghazipur where many waited to enter the state.The Delhi government was making arrangements to feed the workers and they did not need to leave the city, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain told NDTV.But there was no keeping back the crowd at Ghazipur. Most were men but there were also some women and children who had left their homes for a better livelihood working as construction labourers, factory workers, vegetable vendors, rickshaw pullers and a myriad other jobs. Dhanraj, 35, began his 570-km journey home to Fatehpur in Uttar Pradesh from Najafgarh in west Delhi on Friday afternoon. He earned Rs 300-400 a day fitting iron rods at construction sites but the little savings he had are gone. “I have no money and my landlord asked me to pay the rent. He said if I could not pay the rent, then I should vacate the room. My contractor also said he has no money to give me, so it is best to go back home. And I have no option but to walk all the way,” Dhanraj told PTI.Waiting for him at home are his father, wife and two sons. He has found travelling companions in another group of workers like him headed to Fatehpur. Police stopped him at Uttam Nagar but he continued his journey as soon as they left.Fearing the spread of the infection, police officials asked many workers not to make the journey. But many said they had no option and tried to hoodwink the police. There were buses but some of the workers said they were not allowed to board them as they were reserved for essential services. Inter-state road transport remains suspended.  Many said they would make it, one way or the other, hopefully hitching a ride on a truck for part of the way or depending on the generosity of strangers for food. Ajay Kumar, 20, who repairs shutters said his dream of earning more bucks in a big city crashed just a fortnight after he came to the city from his village in Bareilly. “Now, I don’t even have money. The only resort is to walk back to my village as others are doing,” he said, determined to get to his home 300 kilometres away. There were many others like him.Shiv Kumar, 25, worked at a sweet shop in Sultanpuri in northwest Delhi and earned Rs 500 a day. But with the lockdown, he said he has been left with no option but to go back to his hometown in Ayodhya, some 700 kilometres from Delhi. “At least, I will be with my family. I will come back when situation settles down here,” he added.Asked how would he managed to cover the distance on foot, he replied, “There is hardly any option. Once we enter Uttar Pradesh, we will try to find a mode of transport,” Kumar said.Similar was the case with Mohammad Riaz, 19, a carpenter.Riaz, who has been working in Delhi for the last three years, said he earned Rs 600 for working six hours a day and Rs 900 for nine hours.“But with no earnings for the next few days, my savings will dry up. So it is best to go back home. Since there is no transport, there is no alternative but to walk,” Riaz, a native of Moradabad in Uttar Pradesh, said. The stories found echo in the satellite town of Gurgaon where a group of about 20 men began the march to Madhya Pradesh.Walking the silent roads, they said they would prefer to go home to their families rather than stay here and starve. Friday is day three of the countrywide 21-lockdown to curtail the spread of the disease. Prime Minister Narendra Modi said people should stay where they were, it was clearly not an option migrant workers, with no jobs, no money and no savings, were willing to exercise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-on-day-3-of-lockdown-exodus-of-workers-chokes-delhi-up-border/story-U9LqnRDz6TyZJByyOiK7TN.html
27-03-2020||India||60-year-old Yemeni national dies due to coronavirus in Delhi||Delhi’s coronavirus death toll climbed to two on Friday after a Yemen national, admitted to a private hospital in the city, succumbed to Covid-19, according to senior officials from Delhi’s health department. The person had been admitted to Indraprastha Apollo hospital on March 24 after he collapsed.He had travelled to India as a potential liver donor and was at the hospital for the necessary tests.“The person was around 60 years old and had several co-morbidities. He had collapsed in the hospital when he had come in for the tests. As the person had travelled from Yemen and had collapsed, Covid-19 was suspected and a sample was collected. His samples were first tested at Apollo labs and then sent to ILBS for confirmation,” said a source from the hospital.The man tested positive for the infection at the lab of the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences on Thursday. His samples were further sent to All India Institute of Medical Sciences. “A third confirmatory test was done to establish that the person was indeed positive for the disease. This was done as the kits are new,” said a government official.So far, 41 cases – including the Yemeni man – have been reported from the city. The health ministry had reported another death in the city, but later discounted it as Covid-19 death as the confirmatory test result came negative. The person had died of cardiac complications at city’s Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality hospital.The only other death due to coronavirus in the capital was that of a 68-year-old woman, a resident of West Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-yemen-national-is-2nd-coronavirus-casualty-in-delhi/story-qzIqICzaQnI7JkKDPEQm4N.html
27-03-2020||India||Use ‘Jal Gamcha’ as alternative to face masks, says Tripura CM Biplab Deb||Tripura chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb on Friday asked people to use ‘Jal Gamcha’, a traditional Bengali towel as an alternative to face-masks which are running short in the market.‘Jal Gamcha’ or ‘Gamcha’ is used as a bath towel in Tripura, West Bengal and Bihar.Deb asked people to carry the ‘Jal Gamcha’ on their shoulders at all times during the lockdown period.“We all have this ‘Jal Gamcha’ in our homes. Please keep this on your shoulder at all times and use it to wrap your face. It will give you safety. It is not true that people will get infected with coronavirus if they don’t wear masks. Masks are a must for the doctors, health and paramedical staff. Also, it is not possible to provide masks to 40 lakh people in the state,” Deb said in a video message that was circulated by the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO).Deb also asked people to stay indoors and go out of homes only when required. Deb suggested some activities like, writing autobiographies, diaries or even a book to the people during the 21-days national lockdown period.“If we write something, we might get many potential writers after three weeks. So, I appeal to all the people ranging from children studying in Class 3 or 4 to postgraduate students and also to the professionals, to remember the nice moments from your lives that taught you something and to write the history of your own life, write diaries,” he said.After becoming chief minister, Biplab Deb penned down a book on the state’s last ruler Bir Bikram Kishore Manikya Bahadur in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/use-jal-gamcha-as-alternative-to-face-masks-says-tripura-cm-biplab-deb/story-CPY4VmKMWf2ru3orGf8rFL.html
27-03-2020||India||Indore is MP’s Covid-19 hotspot, more cases feared in coming days||Almost half of the total 31 Covid-19 cases in Madhya Pradesh are from the state’s business city of Indore, which has emerged as the coronavirus hotspot in the state. Jabalpur is the second most infected city with 8 positive cases followed by capital Bhopal with 3 cases. Two deaths have been reported, one each from Indore and Ujjain, said state officials. In just three days, the number of covid-19 positive cases in Indore has gone up to 15, whereas none of the other districts in the state have reported more than two cases so far, except Jabalpur and Bhopal. The Indore number, however, includes two patients from Ujjain, who were hospitalised in the city according to the information provided by the health department.Indore is the most populated city of Madhya Pradesh with about two million people, as per the 2011 census.Former vice-chancellor of Devi Ahilya Vishwavidyalaya (DAVV), Indore, Dr Bharat Chhaparwal said, “Indore being the financial capital of Madhya Pradesh, a large number of people come for jobs here from outside. The city is densely populated. Hence, the number of coronavirus affected people is bound to increase further.”He said the curfew restrictions coupled with people living in isolation will definitely help in curbing the rise in the number of infections but the situation at present was alarming. Dr Ulhas Mahajan, a medical practitioner who retired from the health department, said, “The number of coronavirus affected patients increased alarmingly in the past few days. It appears to be an outcome of ‘Rangpanchami’ celebrations and also people not maintaining social distancing in several areas of the city. People are still not serious about the restrictions. For instance, on the day of ‘Janata curfew’, a good number of people moved out on the street to hold a celebration. Until we comply with the restrictions, the situation will only worsen in the days to come.”Commissioner, Indore division, Akash Tripathi, said, “As of now our entire focus is on how to contain the spread of the disease by ensuring that people comply with all the restrictions necessary to contain the disease. That’s why lockdown restrictions have been followed by curfew restrictions and during relaxation hours, too, we have imposed certain restrictions on people to check the gathering of people at any particular place.”In Jabalpur, the first few cases of coronavirus patients were reported on March 20. Of the four patients, three belong to a jeweller’s family, who had returned from Dubai, while the fourth had returned from Germany. Later, four employees of the jeweler also turned positive. Among the other coronavirus cases in Madhya Pradesh, two are from Shivpuri and one each from Khandwa and Gwalior.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indore-is-mp-s-covid-19-hotspot-more-cases-feared-in-coming-days/story-gmSlqSw7Pmh8NDafYzUz5H.html
27-03-2020||India||‘Lockdown will devastate poor and weak’: Rahul Gandhi on Covid-19 crisis||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Friday claimed that the 21-day lockdown will devastate the poor and weak even as he sought a compassionate approach to deal with the crisis amid reports of alleged police atrocities on those violating the restrictions.“The lockdown will devastate our poor and weak. It will deliver a heavy blow to the India we love. India isn’t black and white. Our decisions have to be carefully thought through. A more nuanced and compassionate approach is required to deal with this crisis. It’s still not too late,” Gandhi tweeted.The Congress, on its official twitter handle, criticised the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government, alleging it had imposed lockdown without proper planning and is also unable to control the reverse migration.The remarks come in the wake of reports that hundreds of people stranded in cities have been forced to take a long walk home without food and shelter due to the government lockdown.“BJP’s lack of planning has rendered tens of thousands of people hungry and homeless. The government should have come out with a targeted plan to help them before implementing nationwide lockdown,” it said.“Suspended transport, disrupted supply chains, misinformation to the police and active racism, such is the outcome of a #LockdownWithoutPlan,” the party said in another tweet.Congress spokesperson Jaiveer Shergill tweeted: “If Air India can be deployed, rightly, to evacuate Indians stranded abroad why can’t the government deploy special buses/planes to rescue daily wagers who are now walking a distance of 250-300kms to reach home? Govt must ensure safe relocation-48 crore work force needs help #COVID-19.”The Congress also alleged that the government wasted time in preparation when the first alarm was raised by Rahul Gandhi as early as on February 12.Rahul Gandhi also wrote a letter to union human resource development minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank to seek safety of students of Nainital’s Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya who are currently staying in hostels there.“In light of the national lockdown, a significant number of students staying in hostels and other residential facilities of schools and institutions of higher education have been unable to go home. I have received several requests from parents to ensure the well-being of their children staying in residential facilities,” he wrote.Rahul Gandhi said 20 students from his Lok Sabha constituency Wayanad are studying in Nainital’s Navodaya Vidyalaya.“I have spoken to the Principal and was reassured that all measures for their well-being are being taken. Adequate precautionary measures should be adopted, and institutions must ensure proper access to medical facilities,” he said.His mother and Congress president Sonia Gandhi also pledged all her MPLAD funds for combating coronavirus in her Lok Sabha constituency Rae Bareli.In a letter to the Rae Bareli district magistrate, she authorised him to draw as much funds required in dealing with the situation and provide sanitizers, masks and medicines to the people of her constituency.“I appeal to the district administration to distribute masks and sanitizers to the people and give extra care to daily wagers and the elderly,” she wrote.Her daughter and Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also sent a letter to Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, reaffirming her party’s support to the government in fighting the pandemic.In her three-page letter, she said the government should provide relief to labourers, vendors, destitute, widows and others who have been deeply affected by the lockdown.Priyanka Gandhi also requested the state government to ensure that labourers who are coming to Uttar Pradesh as reverse migration should be given facilities to reach their homes safely.She also urged the government to start a helpline for displaced labourers so that they can contact the officials concerned.On Thursday, the Congress asked its workers to make food and medicines available to the people facing difficulties. The party also urged its Members of Parliament (MPs) to make sincere initiatives and contribute from their MPLAD funds in constituencies to equip hospitals as well as health centres to address the current crisis.In a letter to all MPs and state unit chiefs, Congress general secretary in-charge of organization KC Venugopal said legislators in different states should take similar initiatives in their respective assemblies.He also asked the state units to ensure the benefits of welfare schemes from both the Centre and state governments reach the people in need.“In this critical time, it is incumbent upon us to ensure the availability of food and medicines to the people who will face difficulties during the lockdown. Urgent measures are needed to distribute food and medicine kits to the deprived people on behalf of our party,” he said.Venugopal said distribution of food kits should be done adhering to the social distance protocols as demanded by health experts and huge gatherings should be avoided at any cost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-will-devastate-poor-and-weak-rahul-gandhi-on-covid-19-crisis/story-Mty5mJo0BMV9f6At0E5jQL.html
27-03-2020||India||Rajasthan Covid 19 tally reaches 50 with 7 new cases, curfew in 7 police station areas of Jaipur||Seven new Covid-19 cases were reported from Rajasthan on Friday, taking the total number of infections to 50, said officials. Among the new cases, two each were reported from Bhilwara and Dungarpur, and one each from Jaipur, Jodhpur and Churu.According to a statement from the health department, a 48-year old man and a 14-year old youth, who together rode a bike from Indore to Aaspur on March 25, tested positive in Dungarpur.In Churu, a 60-year-old woman was found Covid-19 positive, and in Jaipur, a 47-year-old man, who is a close friend of the man who tested positive on Thursday in Ramganj area, too, tested positive for the disease.In Jodhpur, the roommate and co-traveller of the person found positive on Thursday was found positive too. They had traveled together from UK to Jodhpur.2,845 samples have been tested so far in the state resulting in the detection of 50 positive cases. Around 2500 suspects have tested negative and 309 other samples were under process. Most of the samples are from Jaipur, followed by Bhilwara.Meanwhile, in Jaipur, curfew was extended to seven police station areas -- Ramganj, Manak Chowk, Nahargarh, Subhash Chowk, Brahmpuri, Galta Gate and Kotwali, said DCP of Jaipur North, Rajeev Pachar. On Thursday evening, curfew was imposed in 1km radius of the Ramganj house where a man was found Covid-19 positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-covid-19-tally-reaches-50-with-7-new-cases-curfew-in-7-police-station-areas-of-jaipur/story-EWriAHH9rdpufUAgFXtzXJ.html
27-03-2020||India||Coronavirus Impact:Procurement of farm produce exempted from lockdown to address farmers concerns||Government exempted several services linked to the agricultural sector from the lockdown provisions on Friday amid concerns that the preparations for the harvesting season were getting affected. Government had lifted restrictions from selling of farm seeds and other related material on Thursday.The Friday addendum released by the home ministry exempts agencies engaged in procurement of agricultural products including MSP (minimum support price) operations, Mandis (wholesale markets) run by the agriculture produce market committee or as notified by the state government, farming operations by farmers and farm workers in the field, custom hiring centres (CHC) related to farm machines, manufacturing and packaging units of fertilizers, pesticides and seeds along with movement of harvesting and sowing related machines.The intervention came amid reports that farmers in Punjab and Haryana were hamstrung due to migrant farm labourers leaving for their homes and concerns over delay in procurement of crops by the government due to the coronavirus outbreak and the subsequent nationwide lockdown to check it.A directive to allow for harvesting and marketing of horticulture produce was issued by the Punjab government on Friday along with assurances of smooth procurement and timely payments for the harvest of wheat.Haryana government had yesterday given similar assurances and ordered staggered procurement of mustard and wheat from mid April if the situation normalizes and requested farmers to store food grains in their homes till then.The central government had yesterday announced advance payment of Rs 2,000 under PM Kisan scheme to assist approximately 8.69 crore farmers.NCP chief Sharad Pawar has demanded that the government makes separate arrangement for the farm sector as farmers will find it difficult to repay loans due to untimely rains and hailstorms in some parts of the country.In a letter to the prime minister, Pawar said farmers were further inconvenienced by halting of operations due to unavailability of labourers and other resources. He said standing crops were unattended, harvesting had been halted and farmers were also struggling with transportation, warehousing and marketing of their produce.“The package for agriculture sector is not enough. It is impossible for the farmers to repay crop loan. Separate arrangements are also required for horticulture farmers as well,” Pawar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-impact-procurement-of-farm-produce-exempted-from-lockdown-to-address-farmers-concerns/story-GZu3A0vsmHWHTSRrgEpTYP.html
27-03-2020||India||Covid-19 outbreak: SC holds hearing through video conference||The Supreme Court on Friday held hearings in urgent cases through video conferencing. The top court which is under complete shutdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic decided earlier this week that it would hear extremely urgent cases via video conferencing without the personal presence of lawyers. The hearing held on Friday was through the Vidyo app which can be downloaded on mobile phones and desktop. While the two judges on the bench joined the call from the residence of one of the judges, the lawyers joined from their respective residences. “The Supreme Court Registry sends a link to the lawyers involved in a case listed for hearing. The lawyer can join the video conference by clicking the link. After all the lawyers join, the judges will join”, advocate Raghenth Basant, who appeared in one of the cases on Friday, explained.The lawyers who appeared through video conferencing did not face any technical glitches during the hearing.“There were no technical glitches”, said senior advocate Sanjay Hegde who appeared in a case relating to evacuation of Indian pilgrims from Iran.“It was very smooth. There were no glitches whatsoever. Audio and video quality were extremely good”, said advocate Basant.Were the lawyers able to cope with the virtual courtroom?“Even I was apprehensive initially, but it went off very well. In my case, the lawyers argued one by one. The judges then asked for the Centre’s response and the additional solicitor general replied. In fact, it was much more organized than normal court hearings. The judges also looked completely at ease. The Supreme court has done a brilliant job to get this ready in such a short time”, said Basant.However, Hegde flagged some concerns.“Arguing ex-parte was easy, but at a later stage if there are multi-party hearings there will have to be protocols set, so that no one talks over the other. There will also have to be mechanisms to produce last minute research since no papers or books can be handed over the bar as we are used to (doing)”, he said.“There must be some agreement on the dress code to be followed by lawyers arguing from their house or office. There should also be a protocol for ending the hearing, as it might be disrespectful for lawyers to just switch off (the app)”, Hegde added.He also raised privacy concerns about the Vidyo app.However, the use of video conferencing might be the push that was required for the top court to go digital when it comes to filing and hearing of cases. It might also be the first step towards recording and live streaming of court proceedings. “This adversity has thrown us an opportunity which might be the way forward in future”, said advocate Basant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-outbreak-sc-holds-hearing-through-video-conference/story-EpafBg9RWehnh0owayVPMJ.html
27-03-2020||India||India proposes electronic platform to share real-time coronavirus info with Saarc nations||India has proposed the creation of an electronic platform for Saarc states to exchange information and expertise to counter the Covid-19 pandemic during a virtual meeting of health professionals of the eight-member countries.The video conference of the health professionals from the member nations of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (Saarc) was held on Thursday as a follow-up to the virtual meeting of leaders of the grouping on March 15.During the video conference that lasted almost two hours, India proposed the creation of an electronic platform for all Saarc states to share and exchange information, knowledge, expertise and best practices for jointly combating the pandemic.The Indian side told the meeting that considerable work has already gone into creating the platform, which could serve as a “multipurpose vehicle to further discuss and conduct activities such as online training for emergency response personnel, knowledge partnerships, sharing of expertise in disease surveillance, including the corresponding software, and joint research for new diagnostic and therapeutic interventions for epidemic diseases”, according to the external affairs ministry.India also proposed that till the electronic platform is fully operational, a network of experts representing health services of Saarc states could set up a group on email or WhatsApp to facilitate the exchange of information in real time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-proposes-electronic-platform-to-share-real-time-coronavirus-info-with-saarc-nations/story-67ynE4a9FyMG1xb6uxboTI.html
27-03-2020||India||‘You are a fighter’: PM Modi cheers up coronavirus afflicted Boris Johnson||Prime Minister Narendra Modi described British Prime Minister Boris Johnson as a “fighter” while wishing him good health and offering prayers for his recovery, soon after he was diagnosed with coronavirus on Friday.Boris Johnson was the latest in an ever growing list of top politicians, celebrities and royals including Prince Charles, to have been infected with the deadly virus that has spread its tentacles across the globe resulting in over 22,000 deaths and 500,000 infections.“Dear Prime Minister Boris Johnson, you are a fighter and you will overcome this challenge as well. Prayers for your good health and best wishes in ensuring a healthy United Kingdom,” the Prime Minister tweeted tagging a tweet by his UK counterpart that declared his positive status.“Over the last 24 hours, I have developed mild symptoms and tested positive for coronavirus. I am now self-isolating, but I will continue to lead the government’s response via video-conference as we fight the virus,” Johnson tweeted earlier on Friday.Johnson is the second high-profile British leader to test positive recently after Prince Charles. Some ministers in the Johnson government and MPs have also tested positive for Covid-19, including health secretary Matt Hancock, who tweeted to confirm his positive status soon after Johnson.Johnson, however, appeared to be in good spirits and was determined to continue working.“I can continue, thanks to the wizardry of technology, to communicate with my top team and lead the national fightback against the virus,” he said in a video he posted on social media.There is no confirmation from the British government on the source of Johnson’s infection, which has afflicted close to 12,000 people and taken as many as 578 lives in the country.Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau’s wife Sophie Gregoire Trudeau, Prince Albert II of Monaco, Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg and Nobel laureate and former Finnish president Martti Ahtisaari were some among the big names who have tested positive for the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/you-are-a-fighter-pm-modi-cheers-up-coronavirus-afflicted-boris-johnson/story-ICyJfbZziCn2ZDDzrBjUSK.html
27-03-2020||India||Veteran Samajwadi Party leader Beni Prasad Verma passes away||Veteran Samajwadi Party leader Beni Prasad Verma passes away.  समाजवादी पार्टी के वरिष्ठ नेता, राज्यसभा सांसद एवं पूर्व केंद्रीय मंत्री आदरणीय बेनी प्रसाद वर्मा जी एवं हम सबके प्रिय 'बाबू जी' जी का निधन अपूरणीय क्षति है। शोकाकुल परिजनों के प्रति संवेदना! शत-शत नमन एवं अश्रुपूर्ण श्रद्धांजलि।||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/veteran-samajwadi-party-leader-beni-prasad-verma-passes-away/story-AN3wxPqMWHe3UnbTfyVvfN.html
27-03-2020||India||Covid-19 update: ‘Bank branches have enough cash’, assures Finance Ministry||The Union finance ministry on Friday assured customers that all automated teller machines (ATMs) and banks’ branches have sufficient cash and there is no plan to close branches. The assurance came after the Indian Banks’ Association (IBA) appealed to customers to visit branches only in case of an absolute necessity after the 21-day nationwide lockdown started since Wednesday to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The IBA is an apex body all banking and financial institutions in the country.“Don’t trust rumours of branch closures! Customers are requested to stagger the arrival at branches etc,” department of financial services (DFS) secretary Debasish Panda said in tweet.The IBA also assured the said, “Avoid believing in rumors, approx 1,05,988 branches are operational.”Several banks are, however, rationalising branch operations to minimise the physical interactions of their officials to protect them from the Covid-19 outbreak.A finance ministry spokesperson said banks come under essential services and it will continue to function to ensure that relief measures announced by the government on Thursday could reach the targeted beneficiaries.Union Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday unveiled a Rs 1.7 lakh crore package under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana that includes an additional transfer of foodgrains for three months, direct cash transfer to accounts of vulnerable sections of the society and insurance support to those in the frontline of the battle against the pandemic. “The government has ensured that the beneficiaries of the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana do not face any problem in withdrawing the relief money,” the spokesperson said.The IBA urged customers for maximum use of online banking. “Our employees are also facing the same challenges that you all are and so, we are asking for your help too,” it said in a statement. It specified services, which are available physically at branches from Friday onwards, including cash deposits and withdrawals, clearing of cheques, remittances, and government transactions.The IBA specified measures to be observed by the customer in a bid to protect banks’ employees such as avoid touching counters and maintaining proper distance; using gloves, sanitisers and masks while entering branches and maintaining 1-1.5 metres distance between each other in the queue. Up to six customers would be allowed to enter a branch at a time, while senior citizens and children have been advised to stay away.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bank-branches-have-enough-cash-finmin-amid-covid-19-crisis/story-C0GOzUNessDsNSOz7KkwsK.html
27-03-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Telangana sees sharp spike, says ready for all eventualities||As the number of positive coronavirus cases in Telangana rose to 59 from 45 in a span of 24 hours, the chief minister on Friday claimed the government was readying for any eventuality, including for a hypothetical scenario of positive cases touching the 60,000-mark in the coming days.The chief minister announced that arrangement to accommodate more than 11,000 people in isolation wards, besides creating additional 1400 beds in Intensive Care Units (ICUs) was afoot.“The sports complex at Gachibowli is being converted into a makeshift hospital for the isolation and treatment of positive patients, besides the Gandhi Hospital at Secunderabad and King Kothi Hospital in Hyderabad. The government has already ordered 500 additional ventilators to treat patients in critical conditions,” K Chandrashekar Rao said.He said the state currently had 12,400 beds with all facilities, including ICUs.“Apart from existing 2,000-odd doctors in various government hospitals, we are also creating a pool of medical professionals by engaging 11,000 retired doctors, paramedical staff and lab technicians, so that they can plunge into action in any emergency situation,” KCR added, while laying out the plan of action.The chief minister said the state was determined to win the war against coronavirus.“We have not lost hope. There is no laxity or indifference on the part of the government. We are fighting with a demon and we have to win the war,” he said.The chief minister added that private hospitals were not being drafted into the government’s plan yet. “For now, the government hospitals would work on full scale to tackle the Covid-19 menace,” KCR said.He said India was fighting to avert mass scale infections as seen in some other countries.“According to an international report, nearly 20 crore Indians could have contracted the coronavirus disease by now going by what happened in China, Italy, the US and Spain. But we are strongly fighting back to prevent such a kind of situation,” he said.He asked people to follow the lockdown norms and promised not to let even a single person starve.“Whether the people are from Telangana or any other state, we shall provide food to them. The hostels would be reopened and people could stay there without any trouble. Nobody should go anywhere,” he said.The chief minister also ordered release of water and power supply for crops sown in 50 lakh plus acres in the harvesting season. He said the farmers need not worry as the government would buy out their harvest without them having to worry about selling it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-telangana-sees-sharp-spike-says-ready-for-all-eventualities/story-uDpPEujuY5fn6XiFeSuuhL.html
27-03-2020||India||Serpentine queues and short supplies mark reopening of Goa stores||Serpentine queues were seen outside the few grocery stores that opened in Goa after a gap of three days with people foraging for essentials that ran out quickly amid fears that the stores may be ordered again to shut down to prevent the community transmission of coronavirus. Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant, who had earlier insisted on a 100% lockdown covering even grocery stores including those supplying milk and bread, while proposing a home delivery service, on Thursday relented to mounting complaints of the unavailability of essentials and the home delivery service being a non-starter. Despite some shops opening on Friday, items like vegetables and bread remained out of people’s reach due to disruptions in supply. Distributors have complained that they are yet to receive police clearance to move their vehicles around. “The public is feeling insecure today, let down by the system which promises but fails to home deliver. Phone numbers were given but calls rarely went through. Frequent reversals have led to a loss in confidence,” Sandeep Heble, a resident of Panaji said, hoping that the situation improves by Saturday. Sawant said he was allowing the opening of grocery stores under pressure and his government should not be held responsible if it led to a spike in Covid-19 positive cases. He cited “certain embittered folks”, who he claimed “were repeatedly complaining on social media and other media” opposing his idea of a 100% lockdown. An online petition asking the chief minister to stick with a 100% lockdown quickly gained traction on social media, but opinion was divided over the supply of essential commodities. Goa, one of the last states to get affected by the coronavirus pandemic — the first positive case in the state was reported on Wednesday, 23 days after the first case of local transmission was reported in the country — has been reeling under a supply shortage of essentials like bread and milk, though the government had significantly more time to prepare for this eventuality.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/serpentine-queues-and-short-supplies-mark-reopening-of-goa-stores/story-GnBjBhu12KoHWcabtHYYGJ.html
27-03-2020||India||Kerala IAS officer who jumped home quarantine and headed to UP suspended||The Kerala Government on Friday suspended Kollam sub-collector Anupam Mishra who had slipped out of home quarantine and left for his hometown in Uttar Pradesh without informing health officials and the district collector, the Kerala CM’s office said.Newly-married, the 2016 batch IAS officer and his wife had returned after their Singapore-Malaysia honeymoon trip last week and health authorities had advised them to remain in home quarantine for at least two weeks. His exit came to notice when health officials went to his official residence on Thursday to inquire about his condition.His sudden exit amid rising Sars-CoV-2 virus cases in the state (total 140 cases) has triggered a big outrage in Kerala. His act also invited enough embarrassment for the government which is engaged in a gargantuan task of dealing with one lakh-odd people who are on home quarantine. Earlier, the police had registered a case against Mishra and informed their UP counterparts about it.Later, UP police traced him to Sultanpur, his native town. He reportedly told them that since he was in isolation “someone had advised him” to leave for his hometown. “He followed the advice and proceeded to Sultanpur. He is now in touch with the district magistrate and superintendent of police (SP) of Sultanpur. They are monitoring his health status and got his swab tested again. The report is awaited,” an officer who spoke to him said. His family lives in Nirala Nagar in Sultanpur.Mishra’s driver and his personal security guard have been put in isolation after his exit came to light. Kerala police said they will take action against them also for failing to report his trip to UP. His reportedly slipped out a day before the lockdown was announced.Kollam district collector B Abdul Nassar told the media on Friday that he has given an explanation that when he was told to go into self-isolation; he presumed it was to go back to his residence in Kanpur.“This is a serious violation of protocol and I submitted a report to the government,” Nassar said. State Fisheries Minister J Mercykutty, who hails from Kollam district, said this was a clear case of a lack of social commitment. Many ministers have sought strict action against him.The police have registered a case against him under various sections of the Indian Penal Code including Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), Section 269 (Negligent Act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and Section 271 (disobedience to quarantine rule), Kollam SP T Narayanan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-ias-officer-who-jumped-home-quarantine-and-headed-to-up-suspended/story-QprVNPNo1OxuicfcMdHpGL.html
27-03-2020||India||Covid-19: With no trains, gypsies, labourers from north India stranded in Bengal towns||With no trains to take them to their village in Deoria, Uttar Pradesh, a band of banjaras (gypsies) are living in the open in north Bengal’s Siliguri town.There are women and children in the 23-member group that has taken shelter in the playground of Bani Mandir Railway School. One of the women is pregnant and there are some old people as well.After spending a few months in the state, selling handicrafts and tribal jewellery to make a living, the banjaras had gone to Panitanki near the Indo-Nepal border when Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the lockdown to contain the Covid-19 outbreak. The banjaras rushed to New Jalpaiguri and Siliguri stations on the night of March 24. By then, all trains and inter-state buses had been cancelled.“As we wandered, some policemen caught us. They told us not to move around,” Vishal Kumar, a youth in the group said.Hunu Prasad, the oldest man in the group said, “We somehow managed to reach the school and have been living here since then.”The school ground is around 500 metres from Siliguri station. The banjaras somehow managed to get food for two days. On Thursday, some local people gave them rice and vegetables. The group is using toilets in the playground. Sumant Sahay, sub divisional officer of Siliguri, said, “Some NGOs are helping these people. The government is ready to provide help. However it is not possible for us to take them to their village in Uttar Pradesh.”In a similar incident, around 170 labourers from Bihar’s Bhagalpur are stranded outside the railway station at Katwa in East Burdwan district since movement of trains stopped.“Acting on the decision of the state government, the state railway police made an attempt to send back these people in trucks but the vehicles were stopped at the Jharkhand border and sent back,” Bikash Dutta, officer-in-charge, Katwa police station said.There are many women in this group which is now dependent on supplies provided by the state administration. “Please do something to reunite us with our families. We cannot live here forever,” Meena Devi, a labourer said.No passengers are stranded at any railway stations, including Howrah and Sealdah, under the Eastern Railway (ER) and South Eastern Railway (SER) in West Bengal.“Till Thursday, around 150 passengers who arrived before lockdown were stranded at the Howrah station premises. But the state government had arranged buses to help them their reach their destinations. They were mostly Guwahati-bound passengers. The RPF was taking care of their food till that time,” Nikhil Chakraborty, spokesperson of ER said.“No passengers are stranded in any station under the SER in West Bengal,” SER spokesman Sanjay Ghosh said.Subhanan Chanda, chief public relation officer of the North East Frontier Railway said, “There are no stranded passengers in railway stations because the state transport departments had taken good initiatives and sent all passengers who arrived by trains to their destinations.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-with-no-trains-gypsies-labourers-from-north-india-stranded-in-bengal-towns/story-wppmegbqf03zPBvXcd9pfJ.html
27-03-2020||India||Coronavirus: Mumbai society comes up with a novel idea to buy essentials for residents||A housing society in Mumbai’s Kandivli has implemented unique measures to ensure that residents do not face difficulties during the current lockdown under the coronavirus outbreak.From using toothpicks for operating elevators to creating a group to address residents’ issues, Mumbai’s Hiranandani Heritage, a residential complex with 436 flats across five buildings, has begun a social distancing measure wherein they are encouraging just one resident to go outside the society to buy essentials for multiple families.“The idea is to have fewer people exposed and at risk once they step out of the colony,” said Sagar Vira who is a resident. “While there is no slated protocol for this yet, all we are trying to do is ask our friends and close neighbours through social media groups about their requirement and one person volunteers on a rotational basis. Also, all essentials after being brought into the society are collected by each resident from the main entrance.”Apart from common measures such as no entry of vendors, relatives, friends; paid leaves for maids and servants; a complete lockdown of the gym and swimming pool facilities, and provision of sanitisers and masks for all security staff, all benches from the garden area have been removed to discourage people from gathering, said another resident.“Regular communication from committee members is being received by us following the lockdown so that there is no confusion. Beyond this, if someone is still facing issues, their case is addressed by the task force,” said a committee member requesting anonymity.Besides providing food to the security staff, arrangements for their stay have also been made within the society itself, added Vira. “Our society members have also begun arranging food for daily wage labourers and the distribution is being done through proper channels by taking precautionary measures,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-mumbai-society-comes-up-with-a-novel-idea-to-buy-essentials-for-residents/story-EvxrqoHWiG03zGAc0LVALN.html
27-03-2020||India||Coronavirus update: More ventilators will be available soon, says Centre||The government is doing everything to ramp up the production of medical ventilators in the country, amid reports of a shortage of this critical equipment in the battle against Covid-19, a senior official said on Friday.“We have given an order to a PSU to provide 10,000 ventilators. Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL) has also been requested to purchase 30,000 additional ventilators in 1-2 months,” Lav Aggarwal, a joint secretary with the Union health ministry, said during a press conference.BEL is under the defence ministry. “The government is doing all to make the availability of ventilators in the country,” Aggarwal said.India’s number of Covid-19 patients jumped to 724 on Friday, Aggarwal said.“Till now, 724 Covid-19 cases have been confirmed and the total deaths stand at 17. In the last 24 hours, 75 new positive cases and four deaths have been reported,” Aggarwal said.Experts have said the estimated 40,000 working ventilators in the country said will be inadequate in case there is a surge in Covid-19 infections that, in approximately 5% of the cases, sends patients to intensive care units (ICU) with acute breathing problems.The coronavirus attacks people’s lungs, in some cases compromising their ability to breathe as they develop pneumonia. Ventilators, which deliver air to the lungs through a tube placed in the windpipe, are crucial to keeping these patients alive.India has banned exports of ventilators, cancelled elective surgeries to keep ICU beds on standby, and imposed a 21-day national lockdown to socially isolate people.The government, Mint reported, has lifted controls on producing ventilators and plans to ask all interested manufacturing companies, including automakers, to start producing ventilators.Companies require a license to make items listed as essential medical equipment under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act and Medical Device Rules. This rule has, however, been waived off considering the medical urgency but only if the manufacturer partners a licensed firm.The Centre had on Tuesday reached out to five automakers—Tata Motors Ltd, Mahindra and Mahindra Ltd (M&M), Hyundai Motor India Ltd, Honda Cars India Ltd and Maruti Suzuki India Ltd—to explore the possibility of making ventilators at their plants.It also urged the automakers to partner with nine companies who currently make ventilators in India and Tata Motors and M&M have already begun talks with some of them, Mint reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-more-ventilators-will-be-available-soon-says-centre/story-sHNudkpavJG9h8jRoM4Z2N.html
27-03-2020||India||Bengaluru oncologist claims to be close to an effective treatment for Covid-19: Report||A Bengaluru based doctor claims to have developed an effective treatment for coronavirus which could be ready for trials by this weekend, a news agency reported.The treatment involves retriggering of the immune system which gets compromised after a person is infected by Sars-Cov-2 virus, said the doctor. He clarified that the medicine which was under preparation was “not a vaccine”.“We have built a concoction of cytokines which can be injected to reactivate immune system in Covid-19 patients. We’re in a very initial stage & hope to be ready with its first set by this weekend,” ANI quoted oncologist Vishal Rao as saying.Rao added that an application had been made to the government for an expedited review of the possible treatment.The development comes on a day when the health ministry announced participation in a WHO-led trial of a medicine along with other steps to deal with the health emergency on a war footing. The Bengaluru Cancer specialist said human body cells release interferon chemical to kill viruses which can’t be released when someone is infected with Sars-Cov-2 which weakens the immune system. He added that that interferon was also effective against coronavirus.“We got hold of some preprint suggesting that interferon is effective in Covid-19,” Rao was quoted as saying.He further described how the medicine containing interferon could be prepared for treating the infected.“When we withdraw blood for regular check-ups, we get buffy coat which can be used to take out cells and form interferon. These two chemicals and some other cytokines, in a specific concoction, could be potentially very useful in treating Covid-19 patients,” Rao told ANI.According to a research, published in the journal Antimicrobial Agents and Chemotherapy, several approaches to treat Covid-19 were being developed, including blocking the virus from entering human cells, disrupting its replication, suppressing the human immune response and vaccines, said another agency report.The study says Sars-Cov-2 is easily transmissible due to the spike proteins on its surface which bind efficiently to the molecule “angiotensin-converting enzyme 2” (ACE2) on the surfaces of human cells.As of now, the researchers say, the most promising antiviral for fighting Sars-Cov-2 is Remdesivir, which blocks its replication as seen in laboratories. However, they said more data on its effectiveness is needed.The scientists also noted that Tilarone, an antiviral, may also be effective against Sar-Cov-2. This medicine is used in some Russian Federation countries against multiple viruses, including acute respiratory viral infection, influenza, and hepatitis, it added.Several countries are conducting researches to develop an effective vaccine and treatment for coronavirus disease at the moment.The Union health ministry on Friday said the government was procuring ventilators in huge numbers to prepare for a rapid escalation in the number of positive cases requiring treatment.“We have given an order to a PSU to provide 10,000 ventilators. Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL) has also been requested to purchase 30,000 additional ventilators in the next 1-2 months,” Lav Aggarwal, Joint Secretary of the Union health ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengaluru-oncologist-claims-to-be-close-to-an-effective-treatment-for-covid-19-report/story-4Yrs0WeQJ242sGeO9RfjSL.html
27-03-2020||India||Across India, mosques remain deserted as Muslims pray at home on Friday||Amid the nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19, mosques on Friday afternoon remained deserted following an appeal by state governments and also the Personal Law Board that people should stay away from congregational prayers.The law board had tweeted on Thursday that “Muslims are recommended to offer Zuhur at home instead of praying Jumah at mosques. DON’T come out for congregational prayers.”Last Friday, several mosques saw people congregating for prayers despite health directives against crowding and appeals for maintaining social distance.Every Friday, thousands of Muslims gathers to offer prayers. However, today the numbers could be counted on fingers. At most places, only five persons, comprising the imam, muezzin, and three mosque management people offered prayers.In Kashmir, the grand mosque in downtown Srinagar, made an announcement and asked people not to visit the mosque. The announcement was made on loudspeakers on Thursday evening and all the gates were shut on Friday. Similarly, in the interiors across Jammu and Kashmir, all mosques remained shut.‘Muezzins’ (those who call devotees to the mosque) have been advised to continue the five-time ‘Azaan’ as mandated by Islam, but not allow any gathering inside the mosque building or the compound.The historic Mecca Majid near Charminar in Hyderabad, which usually hosts thousands of people on Fridays, wore a deserted look. The Jamia Nizamia, a renowned Islamic University had issued an edict stating that despite high significance attached to Friday prayers, “Islam also gives great importance to the preservation of human life. Islam urges Muslims not to become the cause of harm to anyone.”All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) president and Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi had also made an appeal to people not to come to mosques for Friday prayers but confine themselves to their respective houses to conduct prayers.However, in a related development an offence was registered against a Muslim cleric and 27 others, for allegedly defying the Covid-19 lockdown, by offering prayers at a mosque in Madhya Pradesh’s Bhopal city, police said on Friday.The Imam of Zainab Masjid in Islampura and others organised prayers at 8 pm on Thursday, defying Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) and the nationwide lockdown, which has been put in place to contain the spread of coronavirus.(With inputs from states)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/across-india-mosques-remain-deserted-as-muslims-pray-at-home-on-friday/story-UlUbJHa5eGGiOB0svUuHIJ.html
27-03-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Over 197 million watched PM’s Covid-19 lockdown announcement and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion curated for you at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Over 197 million watched PM’s Covid-19 lockdown announcement on TVPrime Minister Narendra Modi’s televised speech on Tuesday evening — in which he announced a 21-day nationwide lockdown to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) — was watched by over 197 million people, public broadcaster Prasar Bharati said on Friday. Read moreKejriwal to share Delhi and India’s experience in fight against Covid-19 in global meetDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will represent Delhi and India in a global meet of city leaders being held on Friday evening to share lessons in fight against coronavirus. The meeting is being organised by an international body named C40 Cities Climate Leadership Group through video conferencing, agencies reported. Read moreTwo arrested in Pune for hoarding, selling masks at hiked pricesCrime branch officials on Thursday booked two persons for selling masks at hiked costs in Pune. The officials of Unit 1 raided a godown in Somwar Peth and confiscated 17,805 masks on Thursday. Read moreBritish Prime Minister Boris Johnson tests positive for coronavirusU.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson has tested positive for coronavirus, the government announced. Johnson experienced mild symptoms and a test confirmed he had the illness on Thursday. He is self-isolating in his Downing Street offices, the government said in an email. Read moreThis day, that year: Sachin Tendulkar opened for the first time, and Indian cricket was never the sameOn this specific day in 1994, one of the greatest batsmen in the history of the sport started a legendary run. Sachin Tendulkar used to bat in the middle-order for India before he was asked to open the innings by Mohammed Azharuddin. Read moreNeeti Mohan details scary experience as she returned from Australia amid Covid 19 crisis: ‘It was all deserted’A fun trip to Australia turned into a scary experience for singer Neeti Mohan and her family due to the coronavirus crisis. The singer, along with her husband Nihar Pandya, and sisters Mukti and Shakti Mohan, had to cut short the vacation and rush back to India before the lockdown. Read moreGoogle shares how it prevents your account from getting hackedGoogle’ Threat Analysis Group (TAG) has given some fresh information and stats on what it is doing to safeguarding end users from phishing scams and zero-day vulnerabilities. Read moreArmani’s Italian factories to make medical overalls to help healthworkers; Louis Vuitton is making hand sanitizersFashion brand Armani has said that it would start making single use medical overalls for hospital workers at all its Italian factories in an effort to support healthcare workers amidst the coronavirus crisis. Read more‘Dear papa, I don’t miss you’: PM Modi tweets inspiring video of young ‘corona warrior’Prime Minister Narendra Modi took to Twitter to share a PSA video showing a young girl asking her father not to come home. In the video, the girl writes a letter as a voiceover narrates why she is making this unusual request. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-over-197-million-watched-pm-s-covid-19-lockdown-announcement-and-all-the-latest-news/story-2iUEPd9cCkQnCYz86qclyI.html
27-03-2020||India||SC seeks Centre’s response on plea to evacuate Indian pilgrims stranded in Iran||The Supreme Court on Friday sought the response of the Central government on a petition seeking the evacuation of Indian pilgrims stranded in the Iranian city of Qom because of the Coronavirus disease.The petition filed by Mustafa MH, a relative of two of the stranded pilgrims, said at least 250 of the stranded pilgrims may have tested positive for the Coronavirus disease although there is no clarity yet on this. Two of the pilgrims have already passed away although there is again no certainty as whether or not the cause of death was indeed the Coronavirus.“It may be mentioned that there has been some confusion as to whether these persons are actually infected or not. However, the fact of the matter is that these are persons, who are in fact stranded amongst other 850 Pilgrims in the city of Qom. Given the fact that the persons have been put in an accommodation together regardless of whether somebody is positive for Corona or not is a serious health hazard”, the petition said.A bench of justices DY Chandrachud and Surya Kant heard senior advocate Sanjay Hegde, who appeared for the petitioner via video conferencing, before issuing notice to the central government.The government had, on March 25, evacuated 253 pilgrims from Iran although more than 500 Indians are still stranded there.The petitioner submitted that the pilgrims, who are currently lodged by the Iranian government in various hotels, are at the risk of contracting coronavirus since many of them are old people who suffer from ailments such as hypertension and diabetes and require regular medical care. They have been housed in group accommodation, with 4-5 persons being put up in a single room.“In case urgent help is not provided to these pilgrims, there are bound to be serious health hazards, which have started to become fatal and has resulted in the death of two pilgrims already”, the petition stated.Moreover, the petitioner also submitted that the pilgrims have to pay for the accommodation out of their pockets and many are not in a position to do so since they do not have sufficient money with them.The pilgrims had started their journey from India on different dates starting in December 2019. The trip was scheduled to be for a period of three months and the pilgrims were scheduled to return on several dates starting from February 26. During the interregnum came the Coronavirus outbreak as a result of which the pilgrims were stranded in Iran.“Till such time as the requisite arrangements are made for evacuation of such passengers, the Respondents (central government) be directed to provide adequate health and medical support to the Indian citizens stranded in Iran”, the petitioner said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-seeks-centre-s-response-on-plea-to-evacuate-indian-pilgrims-stranded-in-iran/story-E0Q3TE4ZL52HdDBm4tr32L.html
27-03-2020||India||8 Covid-19 patients in Noida linked to Briton who came to audit Noida firm||Three more persons in Noida have tested positive to the SARS-CoV-2 pathogen that causes the coronavirus disease, or Covid-19. Health officials on Friday said the infection in these fresh cases have also been traced back to a British national who was in the city earlier this month.In all, three employees of a Noida firm and their family members have tested positive to the highly-contagious virus. Health officials who had touched base with the firm and the hotel where the British national stayed for three days were told that he had close contact with 19 people.The British national did not have symptoms of the infection when he arrived on 15 March. He left the country on March 17.A 36-year-old executive in the fire safety company was the third employee of the firm to test positive on Friday. Two of his colleagues already had.A 55-year-old mother and 33-year-old wife of another employee of the same company have tested positive for the virus. Incidentally, the employee, who stays in a multistorey apartment block in Sector 137, Noida, however, had tested negative so far.“Three more persons who came in direct or indirect contact with the British national are found positive for Covid-19,” said Dr Anurag Bhargava, chief medical officer, Gautam Budh Nagar.Five people who live in Noida’s Sector 137 and Sector 150 had already been tested positive by Thursday. The five include a couple and their 19-year-old daughter living in Sector 137 and another couple living in Sector 150, Noida. The starting point of the infection in these cases also was the same foreign national.Officials have sealed the two apartment complexes in Greater Noida and Noida’s Sector 137 for two days and ordered the residents to stay under home quarantine. Officials will now be sanitizing the buildings where the two families live and the common areas of their respective societies.“We will be sanitizing both the societies in Greater Noida and Sector 137 where Covid-19 positive cases have been found. The societies (apartment block) will be sealed for two days as per the orders of the district magistrate. We are following the protocol while sanitising and putting residents under home quarantine to stop spreading of the infection,” said Prasoon Dwivedi, sub-divisional magistrate.On Thursday, officials had sealed the hotel in Sector 135 where the British national had stayed during his visit to Noida.Officials had taken samples of four persons who came in contact with the Briton at office. Officials will also collect samples who are under home quarantine and show some symptoms of the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/8-covid-19-patients-in-noida-linked-to-briton-who-came-to-audit-noida-firm/story-yz2GyEayym71tFjR6SO9ML.html
27-03-2020||India||First images from India of virus causing Covid-19 captured by scientists||The first images from India of the coronavirus causing the Covid-19 disease have been caught by scientists in Pune, using transmission electron microscope imaging. They were published in the Indian Journal of Medical Research.The images of Sars-Cov-2, the virus that Causes Covid-19, are from the throat swab of the first laboratory-confirmed case in India on January 30, 2020. The woman, among three students studying medicine in Wuhan, was diagnosed with Covid-19 after returning home.Click here for complete coverage of the coronavirus outbreakCovid-19 has infected at least 540,000 people and killed close to 25,000 since the first cluster of cases were detected in Wuhan, China, in December 2019.The images of the virus from the Covid-19 cases from Kerala show that the Sars-Cov-2 virus closely resembles the Mers-Cov virus that causes Middle East Respiratory Syndrome coronavirus in 2012, and the 2002 Sars-CoV virus that causes Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) coronavirus.“Coronavirus have a crown-like appearance and these spikes on the surface give this virus family its name, as corona means crown in Latin. They have evolved to recognise a variety of receptors, including protein receptors and sugar receptors, and enter cells by first recognising a host-cell-surface receptor for viral attachment, and then fusing viral and host membranes for entry,” said Dr Nirmal K Ganguly, former director general, Indian Council of Medical Research.Click here for the latest updates of the coronavirus outbreak“These images are critical to study mutations in clinical samples and help identify the genetic origin and evolution of the virus, which will help is understand how the virus moved from animals to infect humans, how people-to-people transmission started, and whether it is still mutating, which will inform work on the development drugs and vaccines,” said Dr Ganguly.Gene sequencing of the samples from Kerala done at NIV Pune found the virus was a 99.98% match with the virus in China’s Wuhan.“One particular virus particle was very well preserved, showing features very typical of coronaviruses. This particle was 75 nm in size and showed patchy stain pooling on the surface and a distinct envelope projection ending in round peplomeric (glycoprotein spike on the viral surface). These bind only to certain receptors on the host cell,” said Dr Atanu Basu, deputy director and head of electron microscopy and pathology at NIV Pune, which published the imaging.To get the image, his group used centrifugation to remove the debris from a 500 μl sample from the throat swab of the Kerala Covid-19 case confirmed using the highly sensitive, by real-time, polymerase chain reaction.The supernatant (clear liquid) was removed, filed at a final concentration of 1% glutaraldehyde, and adsorbed on to a carbon-coated 200 mesh copper grid. Negative staining was done with sodium phosphotungstic acid, according to the study.The grid was then examined under 100kV accelerating voltage in a transmission electron microscope and the image was captured using a low-dose mode by a side-mounted camera.“Seven negative-stained virus particles that looked like coronavirus-like particles were imaged in the fields scanned. These included the round shape of the virus with an average size of 70-80 nm and a cobbled surface structure having envelope projections that averaged 15±2 nm in size,” said Dr Basu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-images-of-virus-causing-covid-19-from-india-captured-by-scientists/story-e017ubkKw3TP8Vib8mKmFP.html
27-03-2020||India||Kejriwal to share Delhi and India’s experience in fight against Covid-19 in global meet||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will represent Delhi and India in a global meet of city leaders being held on Friday evening to share lessons in fight against coronavirus. The meeting is being organised by an international body named C40 Cities Climate Leadership Group through video conferencing, agencies reported.Delhi chief minister will address around 35 top city leaders from across the world including the mayors of Los Angeles, Seoul, Paris, Milan, Istanbul and Rome, among others, reported PTI.The Aam Aadmi Party government in Delhi led by Kejriwal was the first to announce a lockdown to contain the spread of Sars-Cov-2 virus before the announcement of a nation-wide lockdown by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Kejriwal government responded to the contagion by ordering private firms, barring those involved in the delivery of essential services, to shut down operations to enforce social distancing, besides, shutting public and private educational institutions, places for recreation, religious and social gatherings, mass transport systems in the private and public sector. The Delhi government also scaled up facilities for testing and quarantine for suspected cases while simultaneously announcing a slew of welfare measures for the vulnerable sections of society.On Friday, the chief minister told media that the national capital was ready to deal with a possible rapid rise in the number of positive cases to even up to a thousand a day.He said a five-member panel of doctors had readied a standard operating procedure for dealing with the situation involving 100, 500 and up to 1,000 new coronavirus patients per day.“We are removing the shortcomings and making preparations to deal with a situation of up to 1,000 coronavirus cases per day. I, however, hope that the number of cases will come down in the coming days,” Kejriwal said.Kejriwal said Delhi had seen a total of 39 coronavirus cases till now, however, a Central health ministry dashboard puts the number of confirmed cases in the capital to 35. The ministry says 6 positive cases were discharged after successful treatment. Kejriwal government had announced free ration for the poor enrolled in the PDS system, direct cash transfers for registered daily-wage workers, free cooked food in night shelters (mainly for the impoverished and the homeless), additional money for pensioners among other measures to mitigate the fallout of the lockdown necessitated by the outbreak.Kejriwal said on Friday that nearly two lakh poor people in the city were being fed currently and that it will double to four lakh from Saturday.Besides 224 night-shelters, 325 government schools will also distribute food, including lunch and dinner, among the poor and homeless people, Kejriwal said.He also assured that migrants from other states will also be taken care of by his government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kejriwal-to-share-delhi-and-india-s-experience-in-fight-against-covid-19-in-global-meet/story-EyfjN0ukKGdcK2A7LTpefM.html
27-03-2020||India||Coronavirus: As Covid-19 lockdown enters day 3, a look what remains operational||The 21-day long nationwide coronavirus lockdown entered its third day on Friday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had called for the lockdown earlier this week and asked people not to step out of their homes. The prime minister said that these 21 days, or three weeks, will be very crucial in breaking the chain of Covid-19 infection in the country. While essential service providers are allowed to step out and go to work, only essential services are operational during the lockdown. All railways operations, metro train services are under suspension. International flights are suspended till April 14 with an exemption to cargo services and those permitted by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation. The DGCA on Friday extended the suspension of all domestic, non-scheduled and private flight operations till April 14 from March 31. Here’s taking a quick look at what all is operational under the lockdown for the next 18 days. - Ration, grocery shops will remain operational. Shops providing essential items, milk will remain in service.- Pharmacies, medical stores, hospitals, clinics, dispensaries, diagnostic laboratories, other health-related services will be in operation. - ATMs and banking services will operate.- Electricity, fire, power and water services will continue uninterrupted. - Petrol, diesel and fuel-related services and production will continue. - Internet, mobile and telephone service providers will continue to operate. - Print and electronic media will function. - Government and civic body services will remain functional. - Vehicles carrying essential items or essential services providers will be exempt from the lockdown.As of Friday, more than 700 people have been infected from coronavirus in the country while 17 have been killed. Over 60 patients have recovered from Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-as-covid-19-lockdown-enters-day-3-a-look-what-remains-operational/story-6eEtQxRcE75DQ7w1nbaDUN.html
27-03-2020||India||Coronavirus, steps to tackle it could soon enter NCERT texts||New DelhiThe coronavirus, the massive global fight to combat it, and information about similar contagious maladies is set to make an entry into NCERT textbooks as India’s top school education body works to revise its material in tune with the times.The National Council for Education Research and Training (NCERT) has already initiated steps to revise its at least a decade-old National Curriculum Framework (NCF). NCERT Director Hrushikesh Senapati said that the council will try to contemporise its curriculum, which will definitely mean adding information on contagious maladies such as Covid-19 (the disease caused by the coronavirus), computational thinking and scientific efforts like the Indian Space research Organisation’s Mangalyaan project.“When we revise the curriculum, we will definitely revise it keeping in view the new information that needs to be reflected in it. No doubt about that,” Senapati said.On the technology front, he added, this would definitely mean a focus on Isro’s Chandrayaan and Mangalyaan, India’s space programme, and computational thinking.“On the health front, the new viruses, how to keep ourselves fit ... all these will be there. To some extent, how to fight with diseases is there, but still we will try to present it better,” the NCERT chief said.He added that he believes basic awareness should come from the kindergarten level itself.“How to wash your hands, for instance, that’s something everyone should know about. More details can be there in higher classes,” Senapati added. He added that NCERT will try to involve top scientists in its efforts to contemporise the curriculum. The top NCERT official said that because of the lockdown, children and parents are spending more time together and that his organisation is trying to compile a list of activities and guidelines on how this time can be used constructively.“We are trying to come up with something which is in line with NCERT’s learning outcomes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-steps-to-tackle-it-could-soon-enter-ncert-texts/story-AgDzKAQDud4uG3Y6hId3cK.html
27-03-2020||India||MHA nudges states to help migrant workers with food, shelter amid lockdown||The Union home ministry on Friday responded to reports of thousands of out-of-work labourers struggling to survive and heading back home with an advisory to state governments to take care of them. The home ministry advisory said states should provide “adequate support” to them including food and shelter and enable them to draw their entitlement of free rations.“This would help prevent avoidable movement of such people,” a government statement said, referring to migrant agricultural labourers, industrial workers and other unorganized sector workers.There have been moving stories of how labourers, who suddenly found themselves out of work after the Centre imposed the 3-week national lockdown, had struggled to reach their native villages, many of them after walking for 100 km.Hours before Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla sent out the advisory, Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad had also spoken about his concern for the plight of the migrant workers. He promised the government would act on concerns around their condition.Ajay Bhalla’s advisory to the state sought to address some of the gaps.It suggested that the states could involve government agencies and the voluntary sector to provide food and shelter to stranded workers as well as basic amenities like clean drinking water and sanitation.It also advised the states to make these vulnerable groups aware of measures taken by the government including provision of free food grains and other essential items through PDS and streamline the distribution system.The advisory also underlined that states should also make arrangements for uninterrupted supply of essential commodities to hotels, working women hostels so that they continue to live in existing facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mha-nudges-states-to-help-migrant-workers-with-food-shelter-amid-lockdown/story-sCLU0paXReWpXLR0XsTj9J.html
27-03-2020||India||Over 197 million watched PM’s Covid-19 lockdown announcement on TV||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s televised speech on Tuesday evening — in which he announced a 21-day nationwide lockdown to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) — was watched by over 197 million people, public broadcaster Prasar Bharati said on Friday. It said that the figure was more than the number of people who watched the Indian Premier League (IPL) finals last year, which stood at 133 million. Over 200 news channels, including Prasar Bharti-run Doodarshan, had broadcast the telecast.Prasar Bharati chief executive officer (CEO) Shashi Shekhar Vempati quoted data by Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC), an audience measurement body for the broadcast industry.“According to the data shared by BARC India the speech by PM Narendra Modi on total lockdown on March 24 had the highest TV viewership [unique viewers greater than IPL finals] with over 201 channels carrying it,” Vempati said on Twitter.  The PM’s televised address on Tuesday garnered significant hits on the social media as well. The number of hits on Doordarshan’s and Rajya Sabha’s YouTube channels were half a million and 0.1 million, respectively. The PM’s address to the nation on March 19, announcing a 14-hour “Janata Curfew” on March 22, notched up a TV viewership of 18.3 million across 191 TV channels, according to BARC ratings.Modi’s address on the nullification of Article 370 of the Constitution on August 5, 2019, had a viewership of 16.5 million across 163 channels, while his demonetisation address on November 8, 2016, was watched by 15.7 million on 114 channels.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-197-million-watched-pm-s-covid-19-lockdown-announcement-on-tv/story-8nVG8nOco3nyMXzF5n6DtO.html
27-03-2020||India||All domestic, non-scheduled and private flight operations suspended till April 14: DGCA||The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) on Friday extended the suspension of all domestic, non-scheduled and private flight operations till April 14 amid a nationwide lockdown to prevent the spread of the Covid-19, the coronavirus disease.This comes a day after the aviation regulator said that all international commercial passenger flights will remain suspended till April 14. DGCA had earlier said international commercial passenger flights will remain suspended till March 29 and all domestic flights till March 31.DGCA said in a circular that all domestic operators engaged in scheduled, non- scheduled and private aircraft operations in India has been extended until 23.59 hrs IST on April 14.“It has been decided that all scheduled international commercial passenger services shall remain closed till 1830 hrs GMT of April 14, 2020. However, this restriction will not apply to all international cargo operations and flights specifically approved by DGCA,” the regulator said.This implies that international commercial passenger flights will be able to operate from April 15, 12am IST. Air India has also announced the suspension all its domestic and international flights till April 14.“All Domestic and International flight service of Air India remain cancelled till 14th April 2020,” an Air India spokesperson tweeted.According to airline sources, US-bound flights along with Europe, United Kingdom, Australia, Singapore, Kabul, Male, Kathmandu, Bahrain, Doha, Sharjah, Tel Aviv, Dubai and Abu Dhabi will commence after April 14. “The airline is planning to suspend a few flight operations for the entire month of April. These may include Shanghai, Seoul, Hong Kong, Dammam, Riyadh, Jeddah,” the source said. Budget carrier GoAir too announced it will suspend all its domestic and international flight operations until April 14. The government had banned all domestic commercial airlines from midnight on March 24 but said the restrictions will not apply to cargo flights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-domestic-non-scheduled-and-private-flights-operations-suspended-till-april-14-dgca/story-AryQqPLADl1XVB3FltVlAL.html
27-03-2020||India||States move to help migrant workers amid Covid-19 lockdown||Several states have issued orders to support tens of thousands of migrant labourers who are walking hundreds of kilometres to their hometown without food and shelter in the wake of a 21-day nationwide lockdown prompted by the Covid-19 outbreak. Some states have asked local authorities to arrange transport, and provide shelter and relief for the workers, while the Centre has written to states and Union Territories to provide assistance to agricultural labourers, industrial workers and other unorganised sector workers whose photos, videos and stories have become a defining moment of the lockdown.In an advisory, the Union home secretary has suggested that states and UTs need to explore measures by involving various agencies, including NGOs, to provide basic amenities such as food, clean drinking water and shelter. There was no mention of transportation arrangements though.Caught in the middle of the lockdown with no work and no way to travel home, scores of migrant workers have been traversing a long distance to reach their hometown. The countrywide restrictions – announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi — and a complete halt on all public transport, including trains and interstate buses, came into effect on Wednesday.The state governments of Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Odisha and Punjab have issued directions to local district magistrates to arrange transportation for the migrants.Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Thursday announced that his government will coordinate with other states and bear the expenses of migrant workers who are stranded in the state. Kumar also said Rs 100 crore has been released from the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund that will be utilised for setting up shelters for daily-wage earners.The scale of the crisis was evident on Friday, with the Maharashtra police finding more than 300 migrant workers crammed into two container trucks that were carrying essential commodities from Telangana to Rajasthan. Vehicles carrying essential items such as food and medicines are exempt from the lockdown.According to the 2011 Census, about 13 million of the total 54 million migrants moved to other states for economic reasons such as work, employment or business.More than half of these 13 million migrated out of just three states – Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Rajasthan. Also, more than half of the migrants move to just four states – Maharashtra, Delhi, Gujarat and Karnataka – primarily in search of work in cities such as Mumbai, Ahmedabad and Bengaluru.“Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has been coordinating virtually with his counterparts in the country to help out-of-State workers stranded in Maharashtra,” state cabinet minister Aaditya Thackeray tweeted on Friday. Separately, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee have reached out to the Maharashtra government for help in rescuing migrant workers and devotees. The unprecedented lockdown – imposed to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease, which has infected over 700 people in India -- has also left thousands of truckers stranded along national highways.“There are millions of drivers who are stranded with no food or facilities even as the police have not allowed them to assemble in groups. There is anarchy on the roads. The drivers are unable to leave the trucks on the road as they are carrying expensive goods; raw material, finished products to workshops etc, but are unable to unload the goods as even the factories have shut down... The government needs to intervene immediately,” SP Singh, senior fellow at Indian Foundation of Transport Research and Training (IFTRT), said.Several railway employees across stations have also been stranded since all trains were cancelled till April 14. Many have sought help from the Centre to be rescued. Officials at the ministry of railways told HT on condition of anonymity that so far there is no plan to deploy special trains to transport those stranded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-states-move-to-help-migrant-workers-amid-covid-19-lockdown/story-YTWXYvz5wPsWcUlepboAqK.html
27-03-2020||India||Air India announces suspension all domestic, international flights till April 14||Following the countrywide lockdown announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, national carrier Air India has announced suspension of all its domestic and international flights till 11.59pm of April 14. According to airline sources, US bound flights along with Europe, United Kingdom, Australia, Singapore, Kabul, Male, Kathmandu, Bahrain, Doha, Sharjah, Tel Aviv, Dubai and Abu Dhabi will commence after April 14. “The airline is planning to suspend few flight operations for the entire month of April. These may include Shanghai, Seoul, Hong Kong, Dammam, Riyadh, Jeddah,” said the source. An airline spokesperson tweeted, “All domestic and international flight services of Air India remain cancelled till 14th April 2020.” The airline is also set to operate special flights to Madrid to fly back Indians stranded there. “Date of operation for this flight is still being decided,” said a senior AI official. Budget carrier GoAir on Thursday said its all services, including international flights, will remain suspended till April 14 due to the 21-day lockdown.International schedule flights will remain suspended till 0000 hours of April 15. The previous week-long suspension from March 22-29 for international flights has been extended following the 21-day lockdown announced by India to prevent the spread of coronavirus. Similarly, the suspension on schedule commercial passenger domestic flights—initially supposed to be till the month-end —is also going to remain during the 21-day lockdown period that ends on April 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-announces-suspension-all-domestic-and-international-flights-till-april-14/story-8gOcc6ie4DQnDDU4QD17GI.html
27-03-2020||India||Stop exodus, make migrants aware of free food grains: Centre tells states, UTs||As hundreds of thousands of migrants workers started walking back to their villages from big cities across the country, the government on Friday issued an advisory to states and Union territories to stop the mass exodus amid the 21-day lockdown, PTI reported.News agency Press Trust of India said the Union ministry of home affairs has asked the state governments and administrations of Union territories to prevent the movement of these migrant and agricultural labourers and workers of industrial and unorganised sectors.They have been advised to “make vulnerable groups” aware of free food grains and other essentials to stop the mass exodus, PTI reported.The migrants, mostly from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, have left the metros across the country after losing jobs and unable today for food and rent after the government enforced strict rules to lock down the country in an effort to fight Covid-19 spread.Chief ministers of several states, including West Bengal and Jharkhand, have raised concerns for the safety and needs of these workers seen on deserted highways as they trudged back to their villages after trains, buses and all other modes of transports were stopped.West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has even written to her counterparts in 18 states, urging them to provide basic shelter, food and medicine to migrant workers from her state. “We, in Bengal, are taking care of such stuck people in our state,” she said in her letter.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has directed officers of all 75 districts in his state to serve food and water to these migrant labourers and Delhi’s Kejriwal has said his government will take care of all such people.The government has said it is set to ease some of its rules during the 21-day lockdown in order to facilitate the return of these migrants and ensure they get food and shelter.Senior government officials, who are familiar with the matter, have said provisions will either be made to provide safe transport to these daily-wage labourers, or government shelters will be set up for them.The Centre has been in touch with chief secretaries of several states to resolve the issue, and feedback has also been sought from the state transport departments.Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, a member of Parliament from Bihar, said that discussions were on at the highest level of government about how to help these men and women.“The government is alive to their situation. I also appeal to all civil society members to rise up and make provisions for such people,’’ Prasad said while speaking to HT.On Thursday, the Centre announced an economic stimulus package of Rs 170,000 crore to address the immediate economic distress in the wake of the lockdown prompted by the Covid-19, coronavirus disease, pandemic.The primary beneficiaries of these measures include those below the poverty line, farmers, women, elderly citizens, the physically challenged, construction workers, and workers in both the unorganised and organised sectors.The series of measures announced focused on additional food transfers at no cost, cash for vulnerable segments, concessions on government schemes aimed to help households reduce their expenditure, and support those on the frontline of the battle against the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stop-exodus-make-migrants-aware-of-free-food-grains-centre-tells-states-uts/story-grjwRNFEBfZSp9lJV4lXaJ.html
27-03-2020||India||No Friday prayer gathering in Jammu Mosques, ban on religious gatherings enforced||A day after a religious preacher died of Covid-19 on Thursday in Kashmir, the administration on Friday asked all the 20 district commissioners and police chiefs to ensure that no religious gatherings take place across the Union Territory.“DCs and SPs advised to strictly caution all religious leaders not to call any gatherings. Public gatherings are a major source of social contact and spread of the virus,” government spokesperson and principal secretary Rohit Kansal tweeted.A 65-year-old religious preacher who had tested positive for coronavirus disease this week died in a Srinagar hospital early Thursday, the first Covid-19-linked death in Jammu and Kashmir. The man died at Srinagar’s Chest Disease (CD) hospital.The religious preacher had been to Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Samba, Jammu, Srinagar and Sopore to participate in religious events before he was diagnosed positive.All the 10 deputy magistrates in Jammu region from Rajouri, Poonch, Doda, Kishtwar, Ramban, Jammu, Reasi, Samba, Kathua and Udhampur confirmed there was no gathering for Friday prayers in mosques across the Jammu region, only Imams were allowed to give ‘Azaan’.“In fact, proposals had come from the community leaders and religious heads, I held meetings with them on Thursday,” said Nazim Zai Khan, deputy magistrate of Ramban district.Khan’s counterpart in Poonch, Rahul Yadav said only Imams were allowed to the mosques in his district.Rajouri district’s deputy magistrate Nazir Ahmad Sheikh said people didn’t come to the mosques.“Announcements were made in advance asking them to stay at their homes and offer prayers individually,” he said.Kishtwar district deputy magistrate Rajinder Singh Tara said, “Community leaders and religious preachers themselves made announcements from the mosques asking people to stay at their homes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-friday-prayer-gathering-in-jammu-mosques-ban-on-religious-gatherings-enforced/story-8EWPAQTVPMtxscbuno5sVO.html
27-03-2020||India||Limited window to drive public health responses to Covid-19, says McKinsey||There is a limited window for governments to drive adequate public health responses and meet demand drawdowns with proportionate economic interventions, according to global consultants McKinsey.The consultancy group, which analysed how government and private companies are responding to the Covid-19 pandemic across the world warned of a deeper impact on lives and livelihoods if governments do not move fast enough.It said Covid-19 had hit sectors such as commercial aerospace, air and travel, insurance carriers, oil and gas and automotive that may not see a restart until 2021. Business leaders, the consultancy group said in a report, need to create a multi-pronged strategy to overcome the setback.“It may take years to recover from production and supply chain stoppages, due to critical vendors located in areas impacted by the virus. Long order backlogs mitigate some concerns, though rapid adoption of remote work technologies may put a dent in high-profitability business travel,” the report noted.The group has also cautioned companies against only looking at the short term. Immediate and effective response is vital but the longer-term dimensions are even more critical. Recession may set in. The disruption of the current outbreak is shifting industry structures. Credit markets may seize up, in spite of stimulus. Supply-chain resilience will be at a premium, the consultancy group said.According to the report, leaders should be clear about how the regulatory and competitive environment in your industry may shift.“Pre-existing industry challenges, a quick drop in possible revenue, and high fixed costs cause near-term cash flow and long-term growth uncertainty.“It may take years to recover from production and supply chain stoppages, due to critical vendors located in areas impacted by the virus. Long order backlogs mitigate some concerns, though rapid adoption of remote work technologies may put a dent in high-profitability business travel,” the report noted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/limited-window-to-drive-public-health-responses-to-covid-19-says-mckinsey/story-WdkdfV1QBISQaJlX60ZOjI.html
27-03-2020||India||Delhi ready to handle 100 cases a day: Kejriwal on Covid-19||What needs to be done if Delhi starts receiving 1,000 new cases of Covid-19 a day? A report of a five-doctor committee submitted to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal late on Thursday night answers that.Delhi is currently adequately prepared to handle 100 cases being reported each day, said Kejriwal referring to the report.“The report talks about the impacts and what needs to be done in case there is a surge in the number of Covid-19 cases. The report has been submitted and I have briefed the minister on what needs to be done to prepare ahead,” said Dr SK Sarin, who heads the panel formed earlier this week. He is the director of the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, which is one of the designated testing centres for Covid-19.The chief minister said that the report is based on three scenarios. First, when up to 100 cases are reported every day; second, when up to 500 cases are reported every day; and third, when 1,000 cases are reported every day.“Right now, we are getting three to four positive cases a day. Today, the facilities that we have are enough even if 100 cases are reported each day. We have identified what is needed in case the numbers go up further and we will start preparing for it,” said Kejriwal.The report has assessed the number of isolation and ICU beds, number of ventilators, ambulances, doctors and nurses needed. It has also estimated the testing capacity needed to test all those who are suspected to have the infection or have come in contact with those who have tested positive when the numbers are higher.“The report also looks at how many doctors and nurses are needed to handle the surge in numbers, how will they come to the hospital and where will they stay in case the numbers go up,” the CM said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-ready-to-handle-100-cases-a-day-kejriwal-on-covid-19/story-igW7nBwpoLrDRZsaPpVvZK.html
27-03-2020||India||RBI slashes interest rate by 75 bps, permits freeze on EMI payments to fight corona fallout||Mumbai/New Delhi: The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) decided on a sharp cut in key policy rates on Friday, seeking to spur faltering economic growth in the aftermath of the coronavirus pandemic, and announced a moratorium on loan repayments by individuals and entrepreneurs to provide immediate relief to borrowers.The key repo rate, at which the central bank infuses liquidity in the banking system, was cut by 75 basis points to 4.4% and the reverse repo rate, at which it drains excess liquidity from the system, reduced by 90 basis points to 4% to revive economic growth. It is the first cut in policy rates since December. One basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point.The Cash Reserve Ratio, the amount of deposits lenders must set aside as reserves, was lowered by 100 basis points to 3%. The RBI’s monetary policy committee (MPC), which was to meet in early April, advanced the meeting to announce the package welcomed by both the government and financial markets. The last time the RBI cut rates out of turn was in March 2015. The entire committee voted for a cut, but were split 4-2 on the extent of the cut.“The MPC noted that macroeconomic risks both on the demand and supply side brought on by the pandemic could be severe,” RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das said. “The need of the hour is to do whatever is necessary to shield the domestic economy from the pandemic.”Das said RBI allowed banks, non-banking financial companies, including housing financiers and other financial institutions to allow a three-month moratorium on payment of instalments on term loans amid the disruption caused the coronavirus outbreak. Governor Das said the deferment will have no adverse impact on the credit history of the borrower.The three-month moratorium allowed by RBI will help borrowers in easing the burden on their savings and avoid turning defaulters, and was announced a day after finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman unveiled a Rs. 1.7 lakh crore package including additional food transfers at no additional cost, cash for vulnerable segments and support for those in the frontline of the battle against the pandemic. “Today@RBI has taken giant steps to safeguard our economy from the coronavirus,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi said in a Twitter post.The announcement will boost liquidity, reduce the cost of funds, help middle class and businesses.” Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman tweeted to say the measures announced by RBI would offer “much-desired relief” to borrowers.RBI also allowed banks to restructure the working capital cycle for companies without worrying that these will have to be classified as non-performing assets (NPAs) during the 21-day countrywide lockdown.India’s economy, Asia’s third largest, had been slowing even before the onset of Covid-19 in the Chinese city of Wuhan late last year and its rapid global spread year. The budget for the 2020-21 fiscal year presented on February 1 had estimated that the economy would grow 6% in the fiscal year ending March 31, the slowest pace in 11 years. Governor Das said India will struggle to achieve its fiscal fourth-quarter economic growth forecast of 4.7% in the aftermath of the coronavirus outbreak. He added that India needed conventional and non-conventional measures to tackle the unprecedented situation, depending on the spread, intensity and duration of the outbreak.The Governor said since the last MPC meeting of February 2020, the central bank has injected liquidity equivalent to about 3.2% of GDP.“There is a huge increase in potential liquidity in the system, but the real question is what do we expect on the demand side,” said economist Pronab Sen, a former chief statistician of India. “Assumption is that there is a repressed demand for credit.”The rupee and bonds rallied after the measures. The rupee jumped as much as 1.1% to 74.3625 to the dollar in the afternoon. The yield on 10-year bonds fell as much as 24 basis points to 5.98%, the lowest since 2009. Bond yields and prices move in opposite direction. Sovereign bonds have collapsed and the rupee fell to a record low because of the coronavirus crisis.Stocks soared as investors cheered the package of measures announced by the RBI, but came off their highs. After rising to a day’s high of 31,126 points, the BSE’s benchmark Sensex gave up much of its gains and ended at 29,815.59 points, a fall of 131.18 points, or 0.44%. The National Stock Exchange’s Nifty regained the 9,000 level, rising as high as 9,038.90 points, but ended 8,660.25 points, or 0.22%, up by 18.80 points.“The RBI has broadly delivered on the whole set of wish lists of the bond markets,” said Vijay Sharma, executive vice president for fixed-income at PNB Gilts Ltd. in New Delhi. “These measures should make a meaningful and substantial impact on short-dated corporate bonds and in general on the whole credit curve.”RBI’s steps included targeted long-term repo operations of up to three years for a total of up to Rs.1 lakh crore Banks will be able to invest in instruments including investment grade corporate bonds, a move aimed at cooling down short-term yields. RBI has been criticised by some sections for being behind the curve at a time when central banks worldwide moved to swiftly reduce borrowing costs to sheld their economies. “The RBI has now put to rest the concern that it was failing to appreciate the required pivot to emergency conditions,” Suyash Choudhary, head of fixed income at IDFC Asset Management Co., wrote in emailed comments. (Reuters and Bloomberg contributed to this story)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rbi-slashes-interest-rate-by-75-bps-permits-freeze-on-emi-payments-to-fight-corona-fallout/story-0QKpM3sZhfYrqyUhE1FHgJ.html
27-03-2020||India||Kejriwal urges ‘media friends’ to point out gaps in relief work during Covid-19 lockdown||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday urged media personnel to keep pointing out gaps in the relief work that is being carried out by the administration in the wake of coronavirus lockdown. The chief minister said that the administration is working “non-stop” to ensure that people do not face any difficulty.“Our team is working non-stop to ensure people face least difficulty during the lockdown. Urge all media friends to continue pointing out gaps in relief work during this lockdown” Kejriwal tweeted out.The CM’s tweet came in reaction to AAP MLA and Delhi Jal Board vice-chairman Raghav Raghav Chadha’s post wherein he had thanked a user for pointing out the water supply shortage in an area in South Delhi.“Thanks for pointing it out. Water supply has been ensured,” Chadha said in a tweet. Earlier in the day, Kejriwal addressed the press on Covid-19 lockdown in the national capital. He stated that his administration is working to provide food to more and more needy people to ensure that no one sleeps on an empty stomach.  Our team is working non-stop to ensure people face least difficulty during the lockdown. Urge all media friends to continue pointing out gaps in relief work during this lockdown. https://t.co/jfJfK3SGDRKejriwal said that the administration is prepared to handle the situation in case 100 coronavirus cases arise in the national capital in a day.“What we are now preparing for a scenario where the number of patients is 500 or 1,000 every day,” he said. “We will try to extend all possible help to the migrants living in the national capital,” the chief minister stated.“By tomorrow (Saturday), we are aiming to double the supply and will offer food to 4 lakh people,” Kejriwal announced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-kejriwal-urges-media-friends-to-keep-pointing-out-gaps-in-relief-work-during-covid-19-lockdown/story-ST4BbFJNY7kZZXoGPBOy0L.html
27-03-2020||India||Four new Covid-19 cases in Nagpur, 1 in Gondia||The number of Covid-19 cases continued to surge in Nagpur after four more people tested positive for the infection, taking the total coronavirus cases to nine in the Maharashtra city, officials said on Friday. Another case of Covid-19 was also reported from neighbouring Gondia. The sample of the person, who has a history of foreign travel, was sent to Nagpur’s Mayo Hospital for testing and found positive on Friday morning.With these new cases, there are 14 Covid-19 patients cases so far in the Vidarbha region of Maharashtra. Ravindra Thakre, Nagpur’s district collector, said of them, nine are in Nagpur, four in Yavatmal and now one from Gondia.The four people, including two women, in Nagpur tested positive after they contracted the infection from an already positive patient, who returned from Delhi by a train on March 18.Thakre said the 43-year-old businessman from Khamla area in west Nagpur locality, who returned from Delhi, tested positive for the coronavirus disease on Thursday. He had complained of fever and cough after coming back from the national capital.His wife, brother, mother and a business friend are among the new cases in the city. The business friend had also returned along with him from Delhi by a train on March 18. All have been admitted to the government-run Mayo General Hospital.Officials said the new cases are a major cause of worry as they feel it could be an indication of community spread of the coronavirus disease. The first person to contract Covid-19 had returned from the US. According to sources, the Khamla businessman visited a hospital run by Nagpur Municipal Corporation but was refused treatment. He remained at home for two more days. During the period, his family members too developed symptoms. Finally, he approached Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (Mayo General Hospital) on Wednesday night. His throat swab sample was taken and sent to the laboratory on Thursday morning along with 24 other samples. Out of which, 23 samples tested negative but that of the businessman was positive.Nagpur’s first coronavirus patient, an IT professional who returned from the US, has been found negative for the infection following a fresh test and he will soon be discharged from the hospital.Dr Sajal Mitra, the dean of government-run Medical College and Hospital, said all remaining positive cases have been under isolation and are stable. Close contacts of these cases have also been put under quarantine and surveillance, he added.Dr Vikas Mahatme, the BJP’s Rajya Sabha member from Maharashtra, has given Rs 50 lakh from his MP fund for the year 2019-20, for battle the against Covid-19 outbreak. Dr Mahatme sent a letter to the district administration on Thursday in this regard.Dr Mahatme asked the district administration to cancel his proposals under MP fund given previously and approve the new one. He has asked for the money to be used to provide Hazmat (hazardous materials) suits to health workers treating Covid-19 patients and suspects. He has also proposed to utilise his funds to buy face masks, personal protection equipment, sanitiser, coronavirus testing kit etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-new-covid-19-cases-in-nagpur-1-in-gondia/story-aINPUgF2Nzh9xtvDXPifFJ.html
27-03-2020||India||RBI’s big Covid-19 move: Leaders to experts, who said what||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) cut interest rates on Friday, responding to the nationwide lockdown in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak. It slashed the repo rate by 75 basis points (bps) to 4.40%. The reverse repo rate was cut by 90 bps to 4%. The cash reserve ratio was cut by 100 basis points to 3 per cent to boost liquidity. The central bank also put on hold EMI payments on all term loans for three months.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Twitter: “Today @RBI has taken giant steps to safeguard our economy from the impact of the Coronavirus. The announcements will improve liquidity, reduce cost of funds, help middle class and businesses.”Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman appreciated RBI governor Shaktikanta Das’s reassurance on financial stability. “The three-month moratorium on payments of term loan instalments (EMI) & interest on working capital give much-desired relief. Slashed interest rate needs quick transmission,” she said on Twitter. “The macro economic fundamentals of the Indian economy are sound, and in fact stronger than what they were in the aftermath of the global financial crisis of 2008-09,” she added.Also read: Coronavirus cases cross over 700 in India, RBI makes key announcementConfederation of Indian Industry (CII) director general Chandrajit Banerjee: “Given that the current lockdown is expected to have a negative impact on the cash flows of companies, the moratorium on repayments of term loans for a period of 3 months will help companies tide over this period. However, CII would urge that this period be extended further in case the impact of the virus outbreak lasts longer than expected. The RBI governor did well to provide the assurance that all instruments are on the table to protect the economy and the financial system from either an excessive downturn or volatility.”Former finance minister and Congress leader P Chidambaram: “I welcome the RBI’s decision to cut the repo rate and measures to provide more liquidity. However, the RBI’s direction on deferment of EMI dates is ambiguous and half-hearted. The demand is that all EMI due dates must be automatically deferred.”Pronab Sen, economist and former chief statistician of India, expressed his concerns about the demand side. “There is a huge increase in potential liquidity in the system, but the real question is, what do we expect on the demand side. Assumption is that there is a repressed demand for credit. But I’m not sure, who?”.Cyril Amarchand Mangaldas managing partner Cyril Shroff: “The RBI has unleashed a bazooka to deal with the economic pain and uncertainty prevailing in the wake of the Covid-19 crisis. Acting swiftly and decisively, the RBI has used several levers to increase liquidity in the system. This empowers banks to commence or continue the emergency Covid-19 credit lines opened up by several banks. Crucially, in recognition of the inevitable stress in the next few months, the RBI has permitted all lenders regulated by it to provide a moratorium on all instalments for term loans and interest payments on working capital loans- specifying that such a payment moratorium will not result in an adverse asset classification. This provides a much needed respite for borrowers and lenders in these trying circumstances and should soften the recovery period.”Max Life Insurance director and chief investment officer Mihir Vora: “The steps taken by RBI and the welfare/stimulus announced yesterday (Thursday) by the Government are in sync with rest of the world as conventional and unconventional measures are being used by Government and Central Banks to counter the economic impact of the Coronavirus crisis. Governor also kept the option of more such measures if needed. We believe that given the gravity of the situation, further actions by RBI and the Government are likely in the coming weeks.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rbi-s-big-covid-19-move-leaders-to-experts-who-said-what/story-2QhrTiMASm3dGuyLMPNTTN.html
27-03-2020||India||Newsprint manufacturers write to govt for help amid lockdown||The association of newsprint manufacturers has written to the Union government to issue a direction to states to declare newspaper production as an essential service after some people involved in the process faced difficulties in some states in the wake of the 21-day lockdown announced on Tuesday.The print media is listed as an essential service, which is allowed to function during the nationwide lockdown announced to control the spread of the coronavirus disease.In a letter to the ministry of commerce and industry (DPIIT), dated March 24, the Indian Newsprint Manufacturers Association (INMA) has said the government should consider the domestic newsprint industry under the ambit of the essential commodity act to ensure continuity of production operation. The association said mills faced disruption in service in states such as Gujarat, Odisha and Maharashtra. Secretary general of the INMA, Vijay Kumar told HT that the association has always been committed to providing unstinted support to the domestic print media, but because of the lockdown, several production units are facing difficulty in meeting the demand.He said even though the ministry of information and broadcasting (MIB) declared the printing of newspaper under critical infrastructure to ensure uninterrupted operation under essential commodities act, the newsprint producers who supply the basic raw material for print media were not included under the ambit of the same act.“Though the domestic newsprint industry is a continuous process industry, as a result of the unavoidable nationwide lockdown, our member industries in most of the states were forced to shut down their entire operation to comply with the law, and in some of the states dispatch permission is the critical issue,” he said.The domestic industry produced about 1.2 million tonnes of paper in the last financial year and is expecting a massive fall in production in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. A bulk of newsprint consumed in India is imported. As per estimates, an order of 2.2 million tonnes of newsprint has been placed for the financial year 2020-21.The Association of Radio Operators for India (AROI), an association of private radio stations, has also written to the ministry of information and broadcasting to announce a bailout package for private FM Radios.In the wake of the pandemic and the subsequent drop in advertisements, the association has sought a year’s moratorium on all license fees and charges by the government and Prasar Bharati.In a letter to the ministry, dated March 16, the AROI has said government advertising on radio should be restored so that the “industry can get back on its feet to fight and survive the current COVID-19-wrought crisis”.It has also sought clearance of DAVP payments that have been held up for a long time.Uday Chawla, secretary general of AROI, told HT that the association has been assured by the government that its request is “under consideration”.“At this time we are pooling in our resources to serve the people. FM Radio operators have prepared for emergency broadcast and have set up broadcast from home facilities for continuity in broadcast. We have started the Radio4India initiative and a coordination system between the government and the private radio operators is in place to help public get authentic information on private radio networks,” Chawla said.An official at the MIB said the government is relaying all relevant information, announcements and decisions to the private radio operators in real time to allow them to disseminate these to audiences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/newsprint-manufacturers-write-to-govt-for-help-amid-lockdown/story-YBNPC8I1TxZjAmyKUqs0YN.html
27-03-2020||India||After RBI’s rate cut and EMI hold, PM Modi hails ‘giant steps’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday praised the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) after it announced a cut in interest rates, steepest in more than a decade, and put on hold instalment payments on all term loans for three months.“Today @RBI has taken giant steps to safeguard our economy from the impact of the Coronavirus” the Prime Minister tweeted.“The announcements will improve liquidity, reduce cost of funds, help middle class and businesses,” Modi said.RBI governor Shaktikanta Das cut the repo rate, the benchmark interest rate, by 75 basis points in an effort to rescue a slowing economy now affected by the spreading coronavirus pandemic.The central bank cut repo to 4.4%, the lowest in at least 15 years, and also reduced the reverse repo rate by 90 bps to 4%.It also lowered the cash reserve ratio (CRR) maintained by the banks for the first time in over seven years. CRR for all banks was cut by 100 basis points to release Rs 137,000 crore across the banking system.The RBI said it has decided to retain its accommodative stance as long as it is necessary to revive growth and mitigate the impact of coronavirus on the economy while ensuring that inflation remains within the target.The six-member monetary policy committee (MPC) of RBI met earlier in the week to arrive at the decision.“The MPC noted that macroeconomic risks both on the demand and supply side brought on by the pandemic could be severe. The need of the hour is to do whatever is necessary to shield the domestic economy from the pandemic,” Das said via video conference.This was the first time in five years that the RBI has acted outside the scheduled dates for policy meetings. The MPC was originally scheduled to meet in early April. The last time RBI announced cut rates in an out-of-turn move was in March 2015 following a budget announcement.The RBI also permitted banks to provide a three-month moratorium on all term loans and said it stands ready to provide necessary liquidity and take all measures essential to preserve financial stability in the domestic economy.It slashed interest rates, following other central banks, in an emergency move to counter economic fallout from a fast-spreading coronavirus across the globe.Most global central banks, including the US Federal Reserve, have cut interest rates to battle the impact of the Covid-19 outbreak, while many have also resorted to printing money to prevent their economies from slipping towards recession.The European Central Bank ditched a cap on how many bonds it can buy from any single eurozone country on Thursday, clearing the way for potentially unlimited money-printing as it scaled up its response to the pandemic.The measures by RBI came a day after the government unveiled a Rs 1.7 lakh crore package of free food grains and cash doles to the poor to deal with the economic impact of the unprecedented 21-day nationwide lockdown.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-rbi-s-rate-cut-and-emi-hold-pm-modi-hails-giant-steps/story-QIpCyJVjG4PD537zgbBbNN.html
27-03-2020||India||‘There is a gap’: Cabinet Secretary raises a red flag on Covid-19 surveillance||Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba has told state governments to step up the surveillance of international passengers who reached India before the government banned commercial flights from abroad from landing in the country.Gauba, the country’s senior-most bureaucrat, said there was a gap in the number of passengers who should have been monitored and the actual number.“This may seriously jeopardise our efforts to contain the spread of Covid-19, given that many amongst the people who have tested positive for Covid-19 so far in India have a history of international travel,” the Cabinet Secretary said in a letter to all chief secretaries on Thursday. Also Watch | ‘39 positive COVID-19 cases in Delhi’: Arvind Kejriwal briefing on latest situationAlso read: Coronavirus cases cross over 700 in India, RBI makes key announcementGauba’s letter, accessed by Hindustan Times, did not indicate the total number of passengers who were under surveillance. But it underlined that the Home Ministry’s Bureau of Immigration had “shared details of more than 15 lakh incoming international passengers with the States/UTs for monitoring for Covid-19”.“It is important that they are put under close surveillance to prevent the spread of the epidemic,” the letter says.This isn’t the first time that the Centre has reminded the states about the need to keep a close watch on Indians and foreigners with a travel history. The Health Ministry has sent repeated messages to states to step up. It escalated the problem to the top bureaucrat after a lukewarm response from the states.“I understand that the Ministry of Health has repeatedly emphasized this and requested the States and UTs to take immediate steps in this regard. I would therefore like to request to ensure that concerted and sustained action is taken urgently to put such passengers under surveillance immediately as per MOHFW guidelines,” says Gauba’s letter.State government officials, however, contend that the Bureau of Immigration list that was sent to them often didn’t have complete and accurate information about the passengers.In Bihar’s Muzaffarpur and Saran districts, for instance, the authorities have been able to locate only 385 of the 500 people mentioned in the Centre’s list.“In some cases, people had mentioned their international contact numbers, which had made it difficult for us to track them... However, through our anganwadi sevikas and teachers, we have now been able to track more than 250 out of 300-odd ‘missing cases’ in our district, and only 30-odd now remain to be located,” said Saran district magistrate Subrat Kumar Sen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/may-jeopardise-efforts-cabinet-secretary-redflags-gap-in-covid-19-surveillance/story-sXQ5TFwB5QKuQrGbF2etlJ.html
27-03-2020||India||RBI’s surprise announcement: 5 things to know||The Reserve Bank of India, at an unscheduled meeting of its monetary policy committee, decided on a sharp cut in key policy rates on Friday, seeking to spur faltering economic growth in the aftermath of the coronavirus and announced a moratorium on loan repayments by individuals to provide relief to middle-class borrowers.Here is a summary of measures announced by the central bank:1) RBI allowed banks, non-banking financial companies, including housing financiers and other financial institutions to allow a three-month moratorium on payment of instalments on term loans amid the disruption caused the coronavirus outbreak. Governor Shashikanta Das said the deferment will have no adverse impact on the credit history of the borrower.The three-month moratorium allowed by RBI will help borrowers in easing the burden on their savings and avoid turning defaulters. Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman tweeted to say the measures announced by RBI would offer “much-desired relief” to borrowers.2) RBI also allowed banks to restructure the working capital cycle for companies without worrying that these will have to be classified as non-performing assets (NPAs) during the 21-day countrywide lockdown.3) RBI governor Das also slashed the key repo rate, at which the central bank infuses liquidity in the banking system by 75 basis points to 4.4% and the reverse repo rate, at which it drains excess liquidity from the system by 90 basis points to 4% to revive economic growth. .It is the first cut in policy rates since December. One basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point.The Cash Reserve Ratio, the amount of deposits lenders must set aside as reserves, was lowered by 100 basis points 3%. 4) Governor Das said India will struggle to achieve its fiscal fourth-quarter economic forecast of 4.&% in the aftermath of the coronavirus outbreak. The budget presented on February 1 had forecast economic growth of 6% in the full year to March 31, the slowest pace in 11 years. He added that India needed conventional and non-conventional measures to tackle the unprecedented situation depending on the spread, intensity and duration of the outbreak.5) The rupee and bonds rallied after the measures, which followed a Rs1.7 lakh crore economic infusion. The rupee jumped as much as 1.1% to 74.3625 to the dollar. The yield on 10-year bonds fell as much as 24 basis points to 5.98%, the lowest sinc e 2009. Bond yields and prices move in opposite direction.Stocks fell after rising initially.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rbi-s-surprise-announcement-5-things-to-know/story-oMT5cCv1V5J36nJTrCWc0I.html
27-03-2020||India||Govt looks at ways to help migrant labourers, to provide food and shelter||With thousands of stranded migrant labourers walking back to their villages from big cities, the government is set to ease some of its 21- day lockdown rules in order to facilitate their return and ensure they get food and shelter. According to senior government officials familiar with the matter, provisions will either be made to provide safe transport to these daily-wage labourers, or government shelters will be set up for them.Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, a member of Parliament from Bihar, said that discussions were on at the highest level of government about how to help these men and women. “The government is alive to their situation. I also appeal to all civil society members to rise up and make provisions for such people,’’ Prasad told HT.He added that he has spoken to Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, and several district magistrates in Bihar to make special arrangements for the labourers. A large section of the migrants are from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, and have been walking from the national capital or metro cities in other states to their villages.“I am happy that he (Adityanath) has promised to look into it, and that Uttar Pradesh will open up its night shelters so that they can be used by the migrants,’’ Prasad said, adding that district authorities in Bihar have assured him that workers who have means of public transport would at least get meals.An official in the labour ministry said that some changes in some of the lockdown restrictions to help migrant workers were expected in the next couple of days. “There are states like UP and Bihar who are impacted much more by this problem than others. So any plan for the workers will have to keep in mind the local conditions,’’ said the official who asked not to be named. “We don’t want them (migrant labourers) to panic. We want them to know that we are working at a solution.’’The Centre has been in touch with chief secretaries of several states to resolve the issue, and feedback has also been sought from the state transport departments. “Labour is a concurrent issue while transport is a state subject, so we are consulting all before we announce a solution,’’ said the labour ministry official quoted above.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-looks-at-ways-to-help-migrants-to-provide-food-and-shelter/story-yUu2m6qR2VBEDZleFB5adI.html
27-03-2020||India||‘They are our people’: Kejriwal to Mamata Banerjee, Hemant Soren on migrants||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Friday everyone living in the national capital will be taken care of by his government after his counterparts in West Bengal, Bihar and Jharkhand raised concerns about migrants stranded in other states amid the countrywide lockdown. Kejriwal mentioned West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee and Jharkhand’s Hemant Soren as he held a press conference to talk about his government’s readiness and the new measures to be taken in the fight against coronavirus disease.Mamata Banerjee had written to 18 chief ministers, including Kejriwal, urging them to provide basic shelter, food and medicine to migrant workers from her state. “I have been noticing messages on social media by Jharkhand’s chief minister Hemant Soren in the past few days and Mamata Didi as well asking us to take care of people from their state. Even those from Bihar and UP,” he said.“I want to tell all of them that each and every person living inside Delhi’s boundaries will be taken care of. They are our responsibility and our people. They might belong to Jharkhand, Bihar, UP, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, or any other place but they belong to Delhi now. They should not worry about them at all,” Kejriwal said.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader also gave the fresh number of people who have contracted Covid-19 disease, saying there were 36 cases until Thursday but that they have gone up to 39 on Friday. Twenty-nine people, he said, had come back from other countries and 10 contracted the coronavirus infection from them indicating transmission at a local level.“The situation is under control as now. There are three to four cases reported on a daily basis and there were days when we did not have a single one. But compared to other countries, like the US and UK, the situation is better and we will be able to handle if it worsens,” he said.Kejriwal said his administration has made a SOPs on what needs to be done if the number of cases in the national capital goes beyond 100 cases in a day. “We are prepared to deal with 100 new cases of corona every day now and are preparing to deal with 500 to 1000 new cases every day if the situation escalates… Hundreds of hospitals are being readied with ambulance, ventilators and medical staff,” the chief minister said.Kejriwal also talked about the night centres where the poor and destitute are being given food every day and said the facilities will be extended to cater to more such people.“We have made arrangements to provide lunch and dinner in 325 schools from today. Around 500 people will be provided with food in all these schools. So far we were providing food to 20,000 people daily and the number will now increase to around 2,00,000 from today,” he said.“The number will be doubled from tomorrow and we will be providing food to 400,000 people daily. We’re distributing the centres across Delhi so that people do not have to travel far,” he said.“We will ensure no one sleeps hungry.”At the same time, he reiterated the need to maintain social distance at these centres and said if the rule is not followed the purpose of the 21-day lockdown to the stop spread of coronavirus will be defeated.More than 700 people in India have contracted Covid-19, according to data released by the Union ministry of health on Friday, as the country entered the third day of the three-week nationwide lockdown to clamp the spread of the coronavirus disease.The health ministry said 724 people have Covid-19 and out of which 66 patients have been cured of the respiratory illness, 17 have died and one person left the country before being diagnosed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/they-are-our-people-kejriwal-to-mamata-banerjee-hemant-soren-on-migrants/story-EhvjuuGKDrUjSM1DCOC9fL.html
27-03-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times|‘They are our people’: Kejriwal to Mamata Banerjee, Hemant Soren on migrants and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion curated for you at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘They are our people’: Kejriwal to Mamata Banerjee, Hemant Soren on migrants and all the latest newsDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Friday everyone living in the national capital will be taken care of by his government after his counterparts in West Bengal, Bihar and Jharkhand raised concerns about migrants stranded in other states amid the countrywide lockdown. Read moreCoronavirus update: Tripura Autonomous District Council polls deferred indefinitelyThe elections to the Tripura Tribal Areas Autonomous District Council (TTAADC), scheduled to be held this year, has been deferred for an indefinite period, the state government has said. Read moreSecond Covid-19 case in Andamans: OfficialThe Andaman and Nicobar Islands has reported the second case of Covid-19, the coronavirus disease, a senior official said on Friday. “He had traveled with the first positive case. Both in hospital and protocols being followed (sic),” Chetan Sanghi, Andaman and Nicobar Islands’ chief secretary, tweeted. Read moreChina and US must ‘unite to fight coronavirus’, says Xi JinpingChina and the United States should “unite to fight” the deadly coronavirus pandemic that has ravaged the globe, said President Xi Jinping in a call with his US counterpart on Friday, according to state media. Read moreCoronavirus Pandemic: Sachin Tendulkar donates Rs 50 lakh to fight Covid-19India cricketing legend Sachin Tendulkar on Friday donated Rs 50 lakh to tackle the coronavirus pandemic in the country, which has claimed 17 lives so far in India, news agency PTI reported. Read moreMaska movie review: Netflix and Manisha Koirala offer dollop of good-natured fun during dark timesI watched Maska, the new Netflix India original film, several weeks ago. A lot has changed since then. The need, for instance, to be reminded of more innocent times has greatly increased, as has our desire to be distracted, and entertained. Read moreZoom’s iOS app sends data to Facebook even if users don’t have an accountThe coronavirus outbreak has led to a sudden surge in the usage of video-conferencing apps, such as Zoom, owing to the lockdown and employees working from. Now, a new report says that Zoom’s iOS-based app sends data to Facebook even if users don’t have an account on the social networking platform. Read moreFloyd Cardoz: The Final WaveWe live in strange times. On the one hand, because I am confined to my house, I no longer notice what day of the week it is: Wednesday is not very different from Sunday. In that sense, time has stood still or become nearly irrelevant. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-rbi-allows-3-month-moratorium-on-emis-of-all-term-loans-and-all-the-latest-news/story-mmcDGzArySw5GifQAak46N.html
27-03-2020||India||Covid-19: With fewer cases so far, North-east stays on maximum alert||At a time when other Indian states are experiencing a daily increase in the number of Covid-19 cases, the seven states of the northeast have been relatively resilient—at least until date.Apart from one patient each in Manipur and Mizoram testing positive for the virus, the other states of the region—Assam, Nagaland, Meghalaya, Tripura and Arunachal Pradesh—have so far been free of the disease.Even so, health authorities in the region are leaving nothing to chance and putting in place measures to tackle a possible worsening of the situation. Each state has initiated steps to implement the 21-day lockdown, ramp up healthcare facilities, ensure supply of essentials and prevent the spread of misinformation.Also read| RBI’s big Covid-19 move: Leaders to experts, who said whatAssam started building a 1,000-bed quarantine facility at a stadium in Guwahati on Thursday with a similar one planned in another stadium in the city. The state will soon convert all major government hospitals into exclusive facilities to treat Covid-19 patients. Construction of a large hospital exclusively for coronavirus patients is also being discussed.Talks have taken place with private hospitals to take up the treatment of all non-coronavirus patients, for which the state government will compensate private entities. One of the largest private hospital groups, GNRC Hospitals, has pledged to reserve all its 500 beds for treatment of non-Covid-19 cases.Final-year medical and nursing students will be enlisted reinforce healthcare staff. Recruitment process of ward boys and girls is being speeded up so that they can start work soon.“We have prepared a training module on coronavirus for them which will be imparted from this week,” health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on Thursday.While officials have been asked to enforce lockdown sternly, arrangements are being made to provide essentials including groceries, vegetables and medicine.The region’s first Covid-19 case was reported from Manipur when a 23-year-old student, who returned home from UK last week, tested positive this week. At present, 190 persons are in government quarantine and 151 others are under surveillance in home isolation.On Thursday, chief minister N Biren Singh said the state government has already handed over a month’s supply of rice to MLAs and district authorities for distribution among the public.A 50-year-old pastor who returned to Mizoram after a trip to the Netherlands was the first Covid-19 positive case in the state and the second in the region.Mizoram was one of the first states in the country to seal its international borders with Myanmar and Bangladesh as well as ban the entry of those from outside the state, both Indians and foreigners.In Arunachal Pradesh, chief minister Pema Khandu announced on Thursday that the state’s lone medical college hospital will be converted into a facility to treat Covid-19 patients exclusively.“We have to be well prepared for any kind of mass outbreak of the disease. Therefore, it is but necessary, for us to have a separate hospital with adequate facilities to handle the pandemic,” said Khandu.The state government has announced the release of Rs1,000 each to all below-poverty line (BPL) card holders in Arunachal. Regular talks are underway with the Assam government to ensure there is no disruption in transport and supply of essentials.In Tripura, the government has converted 18 buildings that included of 12 public rest houses, four Primary Health Centers ( PHC) and two guest houses into quarantine centres and hospitals. There are nearly 60 beds in the isolation wards in different locations. Fifty ambulances were launched recently for emergency health services.From Thursday, community kitchens set up by the state government started distributing ‘khichdi’ twice a day to poor and homeless people during the 21-day lockdown.Like several other states in the region, the Nagaland government has also identified facilities at Dimapur and Kohima to exclusively treat Covid-19 patients and quarantine those with symptoms of the disease.“The government of Nagaland is leaving no stone unturned to prevent the spread of coronavirus,” chief minister Neiphiu Rio tweeted on Thursday.The Meghalaya government on Thursday appealed to Assam to allow easy movement of trucks carrying essential goods after reports emerged that truckers were being stamped and placed under quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-with-fewer-cases-so-far-north-east-stays-on-maximum-alert/story-sxaeDGLf36f8yudsUfMB8H.html
27-03-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Tripura Autonomous District Council polls deferred indefinitely||The elections to the Tripura Tribal Areas Autonomous District Council (TTAADC), scheduled to be held this year, has been deferred for an indefinite period, the state government has said.The tenure would expire on May 17 this year. “ .....having considered the above impending & alarming situation, the State Government of Tripura hereby defers the TTAADC Election, 2020 for an indefinite period till further notification. A fresh notification will be issued for the conduct of Election to TTAADC, 2020 after the decision of the State Government,” tribal welfare director N Darling said in a notification on March 26.Before the 21-day national lockdown was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 24, Tripura had ordered a closure from March 24 till March 31 in order to check the spread of coronavirus. The state has no case of Covid-19 so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-tripura-autonomous-district-council-polls-deferred-indefinitely/story-YC2djbWnHROOQFMVVK1RPL.html
27-03-2020||India||More unseasonal thunderstorm, hailstorm likely in north India: IMD||Three weather systems are affecting the north-western region simultaneously on Friday, which is likely to bring widespread snowfall and hail in the hills and thunderstorm along with hailstorm in the northern plains, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said in a bulletin.Rains will affect migrant labourers stranded outdoors due to the 21-day nationwide lockdown that started from Wednesday to rein in the spread of novel coronavirus (Covid-21) pandemic and is likely to destroy the standing crops in the northern plains.In total, six western disturbances have affected north-western India in March as against an average of two to three. Unseasonal rains and hail have already destroyed potato, mustard and wheat crop in Uttar Pradesh; wheat and mustard in Haryana and Rajasthan according to Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), a farmers’ organisation.“The combined impact of hailstorm and lockdown is massive. Wheat, which is to be harvested soon, has been destroyed in many parts because of hail and unseasonal rains. Now farmers have no access to seeds, fertilisers or mandi to sell their produce. Milk prices are also falling. The situation cannot be sustained for long,” said Dharmendra Kumar, national spokesperson, BKU.At present three systems —a western disturbance as a cyclonic circulation over Pakistan and adjoining eastern Afghanistan, an induced cyclonic circulation over southern Pakistan and neighbourhood and another western disturbance as a cyclonic circulation over Jammu and Kashmir and adjoining northern Pakistan—are affecting northwest India, the IMD bulletin said.The induced cyclonic circulation is likely to strengthen and move northeastwards over to central Pakistan. This will lead to snowfall, thunderstorm, hailstorm, lightning and gusty winds (at 30-40 kilometres per hour, or kmph) over the western Himalayan region (Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit and Baltistan, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand) from Friday to Saturday. “Scattered to fairly widespread rainfall with isolated to scattered thunderstorm, hailstorm accompanied with lightning and gusty winds (at 30-40 kmph) very likely over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh during the next 24 hours,” the bulletin added.The development of a trough and moisture incursion could also lead to rain and thundershowers, hail over interior Maharashtra from March 29 to 30.“We cannot explain why there are so many western disturbances this March. Its variability. Our monitoring is very effective and we have been able to track all feeble and active western disturbances. The maximum impact of these three weather systems will be felt on Friday,” said K Sathi Devi, head, National Weather Forecasting Centre.“We have seen several incidences of hailstorms this March. This happens when the freezing level shifts to a lower level about a height of 2-3 metres from the ground as against the normal of 4-5km because of a western disturbance. There have been above average western disturbances this month. We can expect to see the impact of these western disturbances from Friday afternoon in the northern plains,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre.Hopes that maximum temperature will rise soon and slow down the transmission of SARS-CoV-2 pathogen, which causes Covid-19, in the northern region may also be dampened as maximum temperature is likely to fall again in mid-twenties—around 25 to 27 degrees Celsius—for the next couple of days in many parts of the northern plains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-unseasonal-thunderstorm-hailstorm-likely-in-north-india-imd/story-EdshGVbS42R0PY78s1UtSJ.html
27-03-2020||India||Second Covid-19 case in Andamans: Official||The Andaman and Nicobar Islands has reported the second case of Covid-19, the coronavirus disease, a senior official said on Friday.“He had traveled with the first positive case. Both in hospital and protocols being followed (sic),” Chetan Sanghi, Andaman and Nicobar Islands’ chief secretary, tweeted.The first positive case was that of man in his mid-30s who had returned from Kolkata on March 24 in an Air Vistara flight, Sanghi had said earlier.News agency Press Trust of India cited Avijit Roy, the nodal officer for the disease, as saying that the man is undergoing treatment at the GB Pant Hospital.Doctors treating him said the condition of the resident of North and Middle Andaman is currently stable.All the 55 passengers of the flight, on which the patient travelled, have been quarantined, Roy said. The airport staff who were on duty have been asked to undergo tests for Covid-19, he said.The islands have been put on high alert after the man tested positive and residents have been urged to stay home.Eight more Covid-19 patients died in India on Thursday and 88 people—the highest in a single day—were confirmed to be carrying the coronavirus disease on the second day of 21-day nationwide lockdown. According to the data released by the Union health ministry, there are 647 confirmed cases in India, most of them in Maharashtra at 121 and Kerala with110. However, the figures released by these states are higher at 130 and 138 respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/second-covid-19-case-in-andamans-official/story-eJINHz7R8JdWadvJGJDcJM.html
27-03-2020||India||Coronavirus cases cross over 700 in India, RBI makes key announcement: 10 points||The number of coronavirus cases in the country crossed 700 on Friday. Kerala and Maharashtra continue to grapple with coronavirus with the maximum number of Covid-19 cases. As many as 17 people have succumbed to death because of the virus while over 60 people have been cured. The country entered the third day of the 21-day Covid-19 lockdown on Friday.Here are the key developments around the coronavirus crisis in the country.1. Union ministers to submit a daily report to the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) on steps and measures being taken to contain and tackle the coronavirus situation as well as on health care facilities and the availability of essential commodities.2. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) Governor Shaktikanta Das on Friday announced the reduction of repo rate considerably to help the country’s financial system tide over the coronavirus disease pandemic.“The Monetary Police voted to reduce the repo rate by 75 basis points - to 4.4 per cent. The reverse repo-rate reduced by 90 basis points to four per cent,” Das said at a press conference in Mumbai.“It will now be unproductive for the banks to park money with the RBI, they will have to give it to the people,” said Das.3. In a massive move, Das also announced 3-month moratorium on EMI instalments of all term loans. This means that banks will be permitted to allow a 3-month moratorium on the payment of instalments.4. Moody’s Investors Service has slashed its estimate of India’s economic growth forecast to 2.5% during the 2020 calendar year from an earlier estimate of 5.3% amid the rising economic cost of the coronavirus pandemic.5. India on Thursday announced a Rs 170,000 crore package under a new scheme, the Pradhan Mantri Gareeb Kalyan Yojana (PMGKBY), to address the immediate economic distress in the wake of the lockdown prompted by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, and ensure food and cash reaches the marginalised segments of society.6. Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal on Thursday said that all stores selling essential items in the national capital will be allowed to remain open round the clock in Delhi.7. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has added three more labs to evaluate commercial kits to test for coronavirus disease (Covid-19), taking the total number of such facilities clearing the devices to four, including the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune.8. Doctors, nurses, paramedics, technicians, and other health care professionals involved in the care of Covid-19 patients will get a special insurance cover of Rs 50 lakh, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced on Thursday.9. United Nations’ child welfare agency, UNICEF, has said it is working with the Indian government towards providing alternative ways of learning to about 200 million children currently enrolled in government schools, who are missing out on learning as at least 1.5 million schools across India remain closed in the wake of nationwide lockdown.10. The government will provide five kilograms of rice or wheat and a kilogram of pulses of choice to poor households for the next three months over and above the existing five kilograms of wheat/rice announced previously. The ban on international flights has been extended till April 14 with an exception to cargo flights or those specially permitted by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation. Domestic flights operations will remain suspended till March 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-cases-cross-over-700-in-india-rbi-makes-key-announcement-10-points/story-UosIKerPZ2K0EVN0TX6KCO.html
27-03-2020||India||Schools shut, Unicef working with Indian govt for alternative ways of learning||Unicef is working with the Indian government towards providing alternative ways of learning to about 200 million children currently enrolled in government schools, who are missing out on learning as at least 1.5 million schools across India remain closed in the wake of nationwide lockdown because of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.India has put in place a complete lockdown for three weeks, hoping to be able to break the chain of transmission. The disease has already infected 724 people in the country and killed 17, according to Union health ministry data.Not just in India, the nationwide school closures have disrupted the education for more than 80% of students worldwide, so it announced a significant scale up support in all countries to help children continue their learning while keeping schools safe.“As the situation unfolds and the closure of schools for greater duration, Unicef supports National and State education departments (17 states) to ensure continuity of learning and continuation of education for all children. State-specific appropriate strategies are supported for continuous learning that allow school-aged children, teachers and schools to utilize flexible and remote/ home-based learning, which may include reading material, Radio, TV, online content, and internet-based learning,” the UN body said in a statement about its efforts in India.“Giving children alternative ways to learn and also by doing so, rebuild a routine is a critical part of our response. In addition, it is important to plan for the reopening of schools as the longer children stay away from school, the less likely they are to ever return.”In order to help the government in its fight against Covid-19, Unicef is also supporting risk reduction communication targeting school-aged children, teachers, and school management committee members through various platforms.“Schools in the majority of countries worldwide have closed. It is an unprecedented situation and unless we collectively act now to protect children’s education, societies and economies will feel the burden long after we’ve beaten Covid-19. In the most vulnerable communities, the impact will span generations,” said Robert Jenkins, Unicef-global chief of education.“Based on lessons learned with the school closures in response to Ebola, the longer children stay away from school, the less likely they are to ever return. Giving children alternative ways to learn and also by doing so, rebuild a routine is a critical part of our response,” he added.It has allocated additional funding to accelerate work with governments and partners in more than 145 low- and middle-income countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/schools-shut-unicef-working-with-indian-govt-for-alternative-ways-of-learning/story-QzWqAmeCCvbKJXCVDjvWdP.html
27-03-2020||India||‘Heinous and cowardly’: UN Security Council condemns attack on Sikh worship place in Kabul||In a press statement, Office of the Spokesperson for the UN Secretary-General condemned the terror attack on a Sikh place of worship in Kabul, Afghanistan.Describing the terrorist attack as “heinous and cowardly”, the statement said that the members of the Security Council express their “deepest sympathy and condolences to the families of the victims and to the Government of Afghanistan and they wished a speedy and full recovery to those who were injured.”“The members of the Security Council reaffirmed that terrorism in all its forms and manifestations constitutes one of the most serious threats to international peace and security,” the statement read.The members of the Security Council called for bringing the perpetrators and sponsors of these “reprehensible acts of terrorism” to justice and urged all States to cooperate with Afghanistan in this regard.“The members of the Security Council reiterated that any acts of terrorism are criminal and unjustifiable, regardless of their motivation, wherever, whenever and by whomsoever committed,” the statement dated March 26, 2020 read.The terrorist attack took place at the Dharamshala Sikh Temple in Kabul, Afghanistan, on 25 March 2020. At least 25 people were killed in the attack and many were wounded. Terror outfit ISIL-K had claimed responsibility for the attack.India also expressed strong condemnation of the attack. “We convey our sincerest condolences to the immediate family members of the deceased and wish speedy recovery to the injured. India stands ready to extend all possible assistance to the affected families of the Hindu and Sikh community of Afghanistan,” the MEA said in its statement.“Such cowardly attacks on the places of religious worship of the minority community, especially at this time of COVID 19 pandemic, is reflective of the diabolical mindset of the perpetrators and their backers,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heinous-and-cowardly-un-security-council-strongly-condemns-attack-on-sikh-worship-place-in-kabul/story-SpZsvbx3nILRQHYp3MDRhM.html
27-03-2020||India||Ministers to submit daily report on COVID-19 control to PM Modi||Union ministers will submit a daily report to the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) on the steps being taken across the country to rein in the spread of the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) and the measures being taken to quarantine people, health care facilities and availability of essential commodities amid the social distancing.The exercise is being undertaken after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a 21-day lockdown, which expires on April 14, across the country on Tuesday and urged people to scale up efforts to fight the spread of Covid-19 that has so far claimed 17 lives.According to two people aware of the details, a decision was taken in the cabinet meeting earlier this week to put ministers in-charge of states to monitor the situation on a daily basis. For larger states and those with a bigger population, two or more ministers have been assigned to follow up with district magistrates (DMs) or district commissioners (DCs) on the ground situation on a daily basis.For instance, Union Minister for Law and Information Technology Ravi Shankar Prasad and Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution minister Ram Vilas Paswan will jointly take stock of the ground realities in their home state Bihar daily.“The ministers will call the DMs or the DCs of every district on a daily basis and take stock of the situation on the ground. This is an attempt to work together and create a synergy between the Centre and the states to strengthen the fight against the pandemic,” said a minister.The ministers will seek information on the steps being taken to run community kitchens for those in need; assess the preparedness at the hospitals; check the availability of drugs, essential commodities and personal protective equipment such as masks and sanitisers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ministers-to-submit-daily-report-on-covid-19-control-to-pm-modi/story-4IPwDMB7enW2TrSA5UTL9N.html
27-03-2020||India||Ministers to submit daily report to PMO on Covid-19 steps||Union ministers will submit a daily report to the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) on the steps being taken across the country to rein in the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and the measures being taken to quarantine people, health care facilities and availability of essential commodities amid the social distancing.The exercise is being undertaken after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a 21-day lockdown, which expires on April 14, across the country on Tuesday and urged people to scale up efforts to fight the spread of Covid-19 that has so far claimed 17 lives.According to two people aware of the details, a decision was taken in the cabinet meeting earlier this week to put ministers in-charge of states to monitor the situation on a daily basis. For larger states and those with a bigger population, two or more ministers have been assigned to follow up with district magistrates (DMs) or district commissioners (DCs) on the ground situation on a daily basis.For instance, Union Minister for Law and Information Technology Ravi Shankar Prasad and Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution minister Ram Vilas Paswan will jointly take stock of the ground realities in their home state Bihar daily.“The ministers will call the DMs or the DCs of every district on a daily basis and take stock of the situation on the ground. This is an attempt to work together and create a synergy between the Centre and the states to strengthen the fight against the pandemic,” said a minister.The ministers will seek information on the steps being taken to run community kitchens for those in need; assess the preparedness at the hospitals; check the availability of drugs, essential commodities and personal protective equippment such as masks and sanitisers.“The district administration has been asked to heighten vigil and ensure that isolation facilities are up and running on the ground as there have been cases of people jumping quarantine or withholding their travel history,” said a second minister. The ministers who have been given charge include Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi for Jharkhand, Nitin Gadkari and Prakash Javadekar for Maharashtra, Nirmala Sitharaman for Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu, Kiren Rijiju for Arunachal Pradesh, Gen VK Singh for Assam; Rajnath Singh, Mahendra Pandey, Sanjeev Balyan and Krishan Pal Gujar for Uttar Pradesh and Harsimrat Kaur Badal for Himachal Pradesh.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president JP Nadda on Thursday instructed the party’s state units to ensure community kitchens, which can serve a minimum of 1,000 people daily, are up and running.He said efforts must be ensured to provide food to the urban poor, migrant workers and those in need.Nadda held a meeting with all national-level functionaries and state unit heads via video conference.On Wednesday, the BJP announced that it will feed five crores poor during the 21-day nationwide lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ministers-to-submit-daily-report-to-pmo-on-covid-19-steps/story-iyL1joxmePkcneUCVH2jOP.html
27-03-2020||India||Following SC order, Manipur minister resigns from assembly||Manipur minister Thounaojam Shyamkumar Singh resigned as a legislator on Thursday, eight days after the Supreme Court restrained him from entering the state assembly.“I have the honour to say that I am willing to resign from the membership of 11 Manipur legislative assembly in respect of 7-Andro assembly constituency with immediate effect ie today the 26th of March, 2020,” Singh wrote in a letter to the assembly Speaker Y Khemchand Singh. A division bench of the top court headed by Justice Rohinton Nariman had on March 18 restrained Shyamkumar from entering the assembly and had also stripped him from remaining a minister. The order came after the assembly Speaker Singh failed to decide on the disqualification petition on grounds of defection pending against Shyamkumar within the four-week period stipulated by the Supreme Court. Shyamkumar, who won as a Congress candidate from Andro in the 2017 assembly election, immediately switched sides to join Manipur’s first Bharatiya Janata Party-led government headed by N Biren Singh. He was the minister for housing and urban development, town planning, forest and environment, horticulture and soil conservation. Incidentally, Shyamkumar’s resignation came two days prior to the verdict on his disqualification case pending before the Manipur assembly Speaker’s tribunal. “I submitted the resignation to the Speaker at 2:20pm on Thursday. I have not been intimated whether he has accepted the resignation. I have informed the chief minister about my decision and with his advice, I tendered the resignation,” Shyamkumar said while speaking over the phone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/following-sc-order-manipur-minister-resigns-from-assembly/story-4AjcrkJ8eZbawU5kgtwtaI.html
27-03-2020||India||Maharashtra cops stop a container truck, find over 300 migrant workers||Maharashtra Police on Thursday found over 300 migrant workers crammed inside two container trucks which were ostensibly carrying essential commodities from Telangana to Rajasthan.The shocked officials found that the workers, who hailed from Rajasthan, had chosen this surreptitious and dangerous mode of travel as they wanted to return home.Reports of desperate migrant workers heading home amid lockdown on account of coronavirus pandemic are emerging from many parts of the country.A team of police and revenue department officials stopped two container trucks coming from Telangana in the border district of Yavatmal for inspection.“The officials at Pandharkavda toll booth found something was fishy as the drivers could not give a satisfactory answer as to what the trucks were carrying and where,” said a senior official.“Inside, they found some 300 daily wagers in two containers. Some of them said they wanted to go back to their home state, Rajasthan and could not find any other mode of transport,” he said.Action will be taken against the drivers of the trucks, but officials are at a loss as to how to deal with the hapless workers.“We do not know what to do with them. They need to go home for survival. We will take a decision soon,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-lockdown-maharashtra-cops-stop-a-container-truck-find-over-300-migrant-workers/story-cp0fDHUmlKloomlmf7ONMM.html
27-03-2020||India||Govt’s fiscal package to migrants’ plight: Covid-19 news from India||India unveiled on Thursday a Rs 170,000 crore welfare package for the poor in the wake of the 21-day nationwide lockdown prompted by the coronavirus disease that has infected 724 people and killed 17 in the country. Amid a rush for essentials after the announcement of the lockdown, the Delhi government tried to assuage concerns of citizens, saying all shops selling essential items, including medicines, will be allowed to run round the clock. Meanwhile, hundreds of migrant labourers, stranded due to the shutdown, have started a long walk back -- stretchig a few hundred kilometres -- to their villages.Coronavirus update: India fights economic epidemic amid lockdown to curb Covid-19 spreadIndia on Thursday announced a Rs 170,000 crore package under a new scheme, the Pradhan Mantri Gareeb Kalyan Yojana (PMGKBY), to address the immediate economic distress in the wake of the lockdown prompted by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, and ensure food and cash reaches the marginalised segments of society. Read moreIndia needs a major stimulusFinance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced a Rs 1.7 lakh crore relief package involving cash transfers and food security, aimed at ensuring that the most vulnerable sections of society have enough resources to survive the ongoing lockdown and the loss of livelihoods caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. Read moreDelhi shops selling essential items can remain open 24x7To ensure people do not crowd shops to stock up their supplies and are able to practise social distancing, Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal on Thursday announced that all stores selling essential items will be allowed to remain open round the clock in Delhi. Read moreCoronavirus update: A long walk home on empty stomachs for masked migrantsStranded after the lockdown, thousands of migrant workers are walking back to their villages and towns from their places of work hundreds of kilometers away. Read moreCoronavirus update: 1,169 contacts of Covid-19 infected doctor at Delhi mohalla clinic tracedThe Delhi government’s health department has asked over 1,169 people, who had come in contact with a Mohalla Clinic doctor in east Delhi, to remain in home quarantine for 14 days. Of these, most were patients who visited the clinic between March 12 and 18. Read moreCovid-19: What you need to know todaySixty-three, 79, 81, 75, 65, 70, and 88. That’s the number of new infections every day in India for the past six days.It’s clear from the numbers that the number of Covid-19 infections in the country, while increasing steadily, are not even following a geometric progression. Read moreICMR fast-tracks validation of commercial testing kitsThe Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has added three more labs to evaluate commercial kits to test for coronavirus disease (Covid-19), taking the total number of such facilities clearing the devices to four, including the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune. Read moreCovid-19 outbreak has not hit our preparedness: Army chiefIndian Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane on Thursday said that the army is undertaking its operational tasks like before and the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak has not hit its preparedness. Read moreCoronavirus update: Centre to pay Rs 2,000 to farmers in advance under PM-Kisan planThe Narendra Modi government will make an advance payout of its universal cash-for-farmers programme, PM-KISAN, on April 1, 2 or 3, rather than in June, responding to the coronavirus epidemic, which could upend agriculture, the country’s largest employer. Read more2.2 million health workers taking care of Covid-19 patients get special insuranceDoctors, nurses, paramedics, technicians, and other health care professionals involved in the care of Covid-19 patients will get a special insurance cover of Rs 50 lakh, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced on Thursday. Read morePM asks ministries to ramp up medical gear productionPrime Minister Narendra Modi has asked the Central government ministries to look for innovative ways of using their resources for manufacturing medical equipment and scaling up their production to deal with the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic, according to officials aware of the matter. Read moreCoronavirus update: Govt schemes to pump cash in rural sector amid lockdown over Covid-19The Narendra Modi government plans to pump in cash into rural homes under two major heads, the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme and the National Rural Livelihood Mission, and ensure social pension for three months is distributed in one go by April 10 to help Indian villages cope with the national lockdown to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Read moreAs Parliament observes shutdown over Covid-19, key legislation may face delayThe passage of some key bills is likely to take a longer time than expected amid the extraordinary measures, including a three-week national lockdown, put in place to ensure social distancing to check the spread of the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. Read moreCovid-19 update: Amid lockdown over coronavirus, Kerala grapples with alcohol withdrawalThe Kerala government is planning to open more de-addiction centres across the state after being flooded with complaints about “irrational behaviour” and withdrawal symptoms among tipplers amid the closure of liquor shops and bars in the state due to the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. Read moreCoronavirus update: Stock shortage and travel curbs hit traders of vegetables, grains in DelhiWholesale traders of perishable goods, such as vegetables fruits and grains, have been facing several problems over the last four days, in the absence of proper supply and the need to dispose of their stock. Read moreCoronavirus update: Private hospitals in Delhi open isolation wards for Covid-19 patientsIncreasing the isolation capacity of the private hospitals was one of the suggestions of a committee of five doctors set up to assist the CM on the health impacts and what needs to be done in case the number of cases go up. Read moreCoronavirus update: Police, civilians come out to feed hungry in Delhi during lockdown“Please help us,” said the voice on the other end when a policeman at north Delhi’s Inderpuri police post picked up a call at 9.30am Thursday. Dilshad and Prashant, both 20 year olds, had had their last meal — a few biscuits and water — four days ago. In their desperation, they dialled 100, the old police helpline. Read moreDelhi’s CR Park muted by shut markets, closed gates, and one crippling shortage — fishOn Tuesday evening, immediately after Prime Minister Narendra Modi ended his speech announcing a 21-day lockdown in the country, market number two of South Delhi’s Chittaranjan Park (CR Park) witnessed complete pandemonium. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-s-fiscal-package-to-migrants-plight-covid-19-news-from-india/story-atF0qWyXkrTI3slJPfOtHK.html
27-03-2020||India||Coronavirus cases cross 700 in India, Maharashtra and Kerala struggle to contain infection: A statewise tally||Coronavirus cases in the country have seen a sharp rise in the month of March. The virus has infected more than 700 people across the country, while 17 people have succumbed to death. Over 60 people have made a recovery and have been discharged across the nation. Maharashtra and Kerala remain the top two worst coronavirus-hit states in the country. Here’s a look at the statewise tally of Covid-cases, deaths and recoveries in India. KeralaThe southern state has 137 positive cases of coronavirus as per the latest data by the Ministry of Health. The state hasn’t witnessed any Covid-19 death yet. 11 people have successfully recovered. “This is the time for youth to shoulder responsibility. We are planning a volunteer force of 2 lakh members. Food supply to hospital work they will be trained. Their expenses will be met by local and civic bodies,” Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Thursday.MaharashtraWith 130 Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra is one of the worst hit states by Covid-19 infection. The state has registered four coronavirus deaths so far while 15 patients have been recovered and released. KarnatakaThe state has recorded 55 Covid-19 cases and two deaths. Three people have been cured and discharged. Telangana45 positive cases of coronavirus have been reported here so far. One person has made a recovery from the virus while no one has died of Covid-19 in the state. GujaratPrime Minister Narendra Modi’s home state has registered 43 coronavirus cases and no recoveries so far. As many as 3 people have died from the infection in the state. Rajasthan and Uttar PradeshBoth states have 41 positive cases of coronavirus. While 11 people have recovered from Covid-19 in Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan has seen three people get better and discharged.DelhiAs many as 36 people have been tested positive of coronavirus in the national capital. One person has died from the infection while 6 people have made a recovery. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has urged citizens not to step out of their homes and has assured that no one will go to sleep on an empty stomach. He also assured a smooth supply of all essential commodities across the National Capital Territory.Haryana and PunjabThe neighbouring states have 30 and 33 Covid-19 cases respectively. While one person has died of coronavirus in Punjab, Haryana has seen no deaths. 11 people have been recovered from coronavirus in Haryana. Tamil Nadu and Madhya PradeshThe southern state has registered 29 Covid-19 cases and one recovery. Madhya Pradesh closely follows with 20 positive cases of coronavirus in the state. Both states have registered one death each.Besides this, Jammu and Kashmir has 13 positive cases of coronavirus. One person has died from the infection while one was cured. Andhra Pradesh has 12 positive Covid-19 and one recovery cases while West Bengal has 10 people who tested positive for the infection with one death. In Chandigarh, 7 people were found infected from Covid-19. Chhattisgarh and Bihar have recorded 6 cases each with one death in Bihar. Uttarakhand has 4 coronavirus patients, one person has recovered. Goa and Himachal Pradesh have recorded 3 cases each, one patient has died in Himachal. Odisha has just two Covid-19 positive patients. States and Union territories with just one positive Covid-19 case include Andaman, Manipur, Mizoram and Pondicherry.Coronavirus killed eight more people in India on Thursday and 88 new cases - the highest in a single day - were confirmed.On Friday, India entered the third day of the 21-day long nationwide coronavirus lockdown announced by PM Modi to break the chain of Covid-19 infections in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-cases-near-700-in-india-maharashtra-and-kerala-struggle-to-contain-infection-a-statewise-tally/story-qtl81gnFweKoR07nqVzjIN.html
27-03-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Kerala IAS officer booked for jumping coronavirus quarantine and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion curated for you at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Kerala IAS officer booked for jumping coronavirus quarantineA young Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer in Kerala’s Kollam has been booked for jumping home quarantine and leaving for Uttar Pradesh amid rising cases of Covid-19 in the southern state, officials said on Friday. Read moreRBI Guv to address media on Covid-19 pandemic today. Here’s what’s on agendaReserve Bank of India (RBI) Governor Shaktikanta Das will hold a press conference today, day after a relief package announced by the government to clear the economic mess due to coronavirus pandemic. Read moreCovid-19: What you need to know todayDay 2 of the 21-day lockdown India has enforced was smoother than Day 1, with people figuring out that most essential products and services will be available, governments doing their bit to address concerns and iron out kinks, and local police departments starting to believe that not everyone who is out on the streets is a rule-breaker. Read moreUS has most coronavirus cases in world, overtakes ChinaThe United States now has the highest number of confirmed cases of the coronavirus, overtaking China, where the pandemic started last December. Read moreImplement deshbandi, with care and compassion, writes Rajdeep SardesaiIt is perhaps a less-known fact that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s political career was dramatically transformed by a natural disaster. Read more‘Just getting more time to dance’ - Manika Batra on life under lockdownCurrently placed at 47th rank as per ITTF rankings, Batra was expected to qualify for the Tokyo Olympics due to her high ranking. But now, COVID-19 scare has led to postponement of the Games, and the Indian table tennis player is keeping herself busy with ‘dance’ and ‘motivational stories’. Read moreHrithik Roshan sweats in the gym with his dog in tow, fans say ‘Krrish shaheb antidote banwado yaar is virus ka’Hrithik Roshan has always been working out at home and continues to do so even during the countrywide lockdown. The actor has shared an adorable picture from his indoor gym with his dog in tow. Read moreWorld Theatre Day 2020: Significance, history and famous quotesTheatre is an art form which comprises live performers, actors, props and more. Every year on March 27, World Theatre Day is observed to generate awareness about the importance of theatre in our life. Read moreHouseparty: Everything you need to know about the app taking COVID-19 lockdowns by stormThis video calling app from 2016 seems to be where everyone is during the coronavirus lockdown. Read more8-year-old’s first day of homeschooling didn’t go as planned. His journal entry is hilariousParents all over the world are learning how tough homeschooling kids can be. But if think this whole studying at home is a picnic for the kids, wait till you see this eight-year-old’s journal entry about his first day of homeschooling. Spolier alert: it wasn’t going good. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-kerala-ias-officer-booked-for-jumping-coronavirus-quarantine-and-all-the-latest-news/story-UhdqhSF4pLaOWqd5aryebK.html
27-03-2020||India||Kerala IAS officer booked for jumping coronavirus quarantine||A young Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer in Kerala’s Kollam has been booked for jumping home quarantine and leaving for Uttar Pradesh amid rising cases of Covid-19 in the southern state, officials said on Friday.Kollam sub-collector Anupam Mishra had come back from Singapore last week and was asked to self-quarantine but left for his hometown Kanpur in Uttar Pradesh, officials said.His exit came to notice when health workers went to his official residence for an inquiry a few days ago.Mishra is said to have left for Kanpur on March 21, a few days before a three-week countrywide lockdown began to check the spread of coronavirus that has affected close to 700 people in the country and claimed almost a dozen lives so far. A senior spokesperson of the Kerala government had described the officer’s conduct as “a serious lapse on part of an IAS officer”. The spokesperson said officials of Kerala government are in touch with their counterparts in Uttar Pradesh and will also bring the developments to the notice of the Union ministry of personnel.Mishra’s driver, personal security guard and secretary have been put in isolation after his disappearance came to light.Kerala has reported 138 Covid-19 cases so far and ramped up measures to stop the spread of the coronavirus. Among the new measures, special voluntary task forces will be set up and the police have said they will enforce the lockdown ruthlessly. Many roads have been closed with barricades to curb movement. Vehicles will be seized and occupants arrested if they are found to be violating rules, said state police chief Loknath Behera. The government has said it will take strict action against those who raise prices of essential commodities and hoard them. It has also announced a package for lakhs of migrant workers stranded in the state. Their movement will be curtailed and they will be provided with food and lodging, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-updates-kerala-ias-officer-booked-for-jumping-coronavirus-quarantine/story-mMee9nJNzmHPveDIcTujYO.html
27-03-2020||India||Indore implements odd-even system during Covid-19 curfew relaxation||Madhya Pradesh’s Indore district administration on Thursday decided to implement the odd-even system for vehicles in a bid to lessen the crowd on streets during Covid-19 curfew relaxation, the officials said. Besides, the administration has decided not to allow the pillion rider on two-wheelers and more than two people on a four-wheeler.Indore and six other towns and cities in the state are under curfew restrictions given the presence of coronavirus. No new town or city came under curfew restrictions on Thursday.The odd-even rule and certain other measures are to be undertaken in Indore as the number of patients affected by coronavirus went up to 10 in the city with five more cases reported on Thursday. With this, the number of Covid-19 patients went up to 20 in the state including a 65-year-old woman who belonged to Indore’s neighbouring district Ujjain and passed away on Wednesday, the government officials said.The five patients from Indore whose swab test reports came on Thursday were affected by Covid-19 and included two women.Akash Tripathi, Commissioner, Indore division said, “The odd-even system for vehicles on streets is being adopted to control the crowd. The decision will be enforced from March 28. Also, there will be restrictions on the number of people to be allowed on motorbikes and in cars. These are all to ensure social distancing which is a must to prevent the virus from spreading.”He said, “Instructions have been issued to the authorities concerned to ensure that no one moves on the road without wearing a mask or covering his face with a cloth.Lokesh Kumar Jatav, collector in Indore said, “The nine houses in Indore where Covid-19 positive cases have been found in will be treated as the epicentre of Covid-19. The area within the 3-kilometre radius of each of these houses has been declared as containment area. A survey of all the houses in the area will be conducted.”The Covid-19 positive patients who are hospitalised and being treated in the state include 9 from Indore, 6 from Jabalpur, two from Bhopal and one each from Gwalior and Shivpuri.In Bhopal, the state government moved chief medical and health officer (CMHO) Dr Sudhir Deharia from his post on Thursday evening. He was replaced with Dr Sudhir Jaisani.Notably, Dr Deharia who is an orthopaedic surgeon in an official release issued on Wednesday claimed that a person should have no fear of being affected by coronavirus if he remained less than five to six hours with a coronavirus affected patient.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-indore-implements-odd-even-system-during-covid-19-curfew-relaxation/story-QC4hj4nI9tbkwjATTiza9K.html
27-03-2020||India||6445 people kept in home isolation in Rajasthan’s Bhilwara to contain coronavirus||More than 6440 people have been kept in home isolation in Rajasthan’s Bhilwara even as door-to-door screening continued in the city for the fifth day on Thursday after a doctor infected with Sars-Cov 2 sparked fears of community transmission of the virus.Seventeen Covid-19 cases have been reported from Bhilwara since the doctor tested positive on March 19 and all of them are from the private Bangar Hospital, where the infected doctor works. Among the positive cases are 15 health workers and two patients who were treated by doctors at the hospital.A statement by the state’s health department said that to contain the spread of the coronavirus, the hospital which is the epicentre of the spread of the virus, has been seized and a 1km area within its radius has been declared a containment zone area with zero mobility and curfew has been imposed in the city. Check posts have been set up at the borders of Bhilwara and also in neighbouring districts so that people do not enter or leave without authorisation and proper medical check-ups.So far, 332 medical teams have surveyed 106,000 houses and 533,000 people in Bhilwara. Among these, 149 were found to be high-risk and 3317 were in the general category who were found with flu-like symptoms.Health teams are also fanning out in the rural areas and conducting door-to-door surveys. The 1948 teams have surveyed 185,500 people in 362,000 habitations. The survey will be completed in the next three to four days.Hotels, resorts and hostels have been taken over and are being used as quarantine facilities. Four hundred quarantine beds will be established in these facilities. Isolation wards with a capacity of 80 beds have been set-up in the district hospital and some private hospitals.Two more coronavirus cases were reported from Jaipur and Jhunjhunu on Thursday, taking the total number of coronavirus cases in Rajasthan to 40. A 73-year-old comatose man, who was suffering from multiple ailments and had also tested positive for coronavirus, died in Bhilwara on Thursday.HIGHLIGHTSSeventeen Covid-19 cases have been reported from BhilwaraThe hospital, where the doctor worked, has been seized Thousands of medical teams are conducting surveys in Bhilwara and nearby areas||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6445-people-kept-in-home-isolation-in-rajasthan-s-bhilwara-to-contain-coronavirus/story-OsWHnsct5KbhLzTBGJJy2N.html
27-03-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Opposition slams Centre for allotting Rs 20,000 crore for Central Vista project amid Covid-19||Leaders of various opposition parties have criticised the Union government’s move for allotting ₹20,000 crore for the Central Vista redeveloped project and notifying the land use change amid the Covid-19 crisis.Senior Congress leader and Lok Sabha MP Shashi Tharoor has suggested that the Centre must supplement ₹15,000 crore out of the amount earmarked for the project and use it for dealing with Covid-19 pandemic.“As an MP, I appeal to the Prime Minister to divert ₹20,000 crore earmarked for new Parliament building & Central Vista to supplement the ₹15,000 crore allotted to fight Covid19, which is merely ₹20 crore per district. Grand spending on buildings at this time of crisis is a postponable luxury,” Tharoor tweeted.The Centre had last week notified the land use change of over 86-acre area in Lutyens’ Delhi that currently houses some of India’s landmark buildings like the Parliament House, Rashtrapati Bhavan, North Block and South Block, among others, to expedite completion of the ₹20,000-crore Central Vista redevelopment project.Trinamool Congress MP Mahua Moitra said, “Question to Modi ji -- why are we spending only ₹15,000 cr to fight Covid-19 but you just approved ₹ 20,000 cr for unnecessary Central Vista Project? Dangerous misallocation of resources and misplaced priorities.”CPI (M) chief Sitaram Yechury criticised the Centre’s timing on issuing the land use change notification. “Modi government priorities are cruel. When all resources must be mopped up to meet this Covid-19 challenge a Gazette notification is issued for the Rs 20,000 crore Central Vista project. Shame,” Yechury tweeted.The land use change was notified on March 20, even as a petition challenging the project is pending in the Supreme Court.The apex court, earlier this month, transferred all writ petitions filed before the Delhi High Court challenging the Central Vista project to itself.HT had reported earlier that Centre’s application seeking environmental clearance for construction of a Parliament complex has been deferred by the Union ministry of environment, and the proposal is likely to be reconsidered after pending court cases are resolved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-opposition-slams-centre-for-allotting-rs-20-000-crore-for-central-vista-project-amid-covid-19/story-w3MexdMsMhSzKniJ02fs6H.html
27-03-2020||India||Third Covid-19 case in Odisha; 60-year-old man had travelled from Delhi||HighlightsThe man came from Delhi on March 9 to Bhubaneswar and suffered from cough and coldOfficials said several teams have been deployed start contact tracing of the third patientMore than 400 people have been arrested in Odisha for violating the Covid-19 guidelinesA 60-year-old man, who had returned to Bhubaneswar from Delhi, has tested positive for Covid-19, making him the third person to have contracted the coronavirus disease in Odisha.Sources in the state government said the man, a high-ranking official in a private company, had travelled to Delhi and Haryana with his wife and daughter and returned to Bhubaneswar on March 10. Following his return, he consulted a doctor in a private hospital, Kar Clinic, in Bhubaneswar. However, the fever did not subside and he attended the outpatient department and later the in-patient department of the clinic on March 21. When the cold and cough did not subside, he was referred to the Capital Hospital in Bhubaneswar, a government hospital with isolation wards for Covid-19 patients, on March 24. His swab samples were sent for test on March 26 to the Regional Medical Research Centre (RMRC) in Bhubaneswar and the results came positive.Based on the contact history of the third positive case, the state health department urged people not to visit Kar Clinic. It asked the management of Kar Clinic to take all possible measures to isolate the doctors, nurses and all who had attended the patient and come in his contact. Officials said several teams have been deployed start contact tracing of the third patient as there are fears that he may have infected a lot of people in the last 11 days. “In spite of repeated advisory, some private health care facilities are not complying with the COVID 19 regulations,” the health department tweeted urging them to act responsibly and follow the regulations while treating patients with flu-like symptoms.It added that non-compliance of the regulations would be viewed seriously. What has added to the woes of the officials is that he is among the 84,000 people who have back to Odisha from other states this month but the government has not kept any record. The government has also not done any random test on any of these people except thermal screening.So far, 189 samples have been tested in RMRC’s laboratory and All India Institute of Medical Studies (AIIMS0, Bhubaneswar lab and of which 186 turned out to be negative. On Thursday, 25 samples were tested.This comes seven days after a 19-year-old Bhubaneswar resident, studying in the UK, tested positive for Covid-19.The son of AIIMS Bhubaneswar superintendent, who had returned from Edinburgh in the United Kingdom, had tested positive for Covid-19 on March 19. He arrived in Bhubaneswar by air on March 18 by IndiGo flight a few hours after he landed at Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport. At the Biju Patnaik International Airport, the thermal screening did not find anything amiss and he was allowed to leave. He complained he had a problem in breathing and was taken to AIIMS Bhubaneswar on March 19 morning. The report of his swab sample tested positive. He is recovering.The Resident Doctors Association of AIIMS Bhubaneswar has complained against the superintendent, who is also the nodal officer of Covid-19 at AIIMS, kept them in the dark about his son’s international travel history. A human rights activist later lodged a case against the superintendent before the National Human Rights Commission alleging that he showed negligence. The AIIMS doctors also alleged that the hospital is lacking in personal protection equipment (protective gears) in Covid-19 clinic and casualty.On March 15, a 33-year-old computer engineer tested positive for Covid-19 after returning from Italy. He came in contact with 129 people in Delhi, where he arrived on March 6 afternoon and showed no symptoms of Covid-19 at the airport, and Bhubaneswar.The man is recovering but the government has not been able to contact all the 129 people he came in contact with during his travel.The state government has taken a slew of measures to fight the spread and treatment of Covid-19. Hundreds have been booked for violating the lockdown regulations across the state.The Odisha government signed MoUs with two private hospitals in Bhubaneswar on Thursday for a 950-bed isolation bed facility and 60 ICU beds for Covid-19 patients.Odisha police arrested the chairperson of Dharmagarh Panchayat Samiti in Kalahandi district for organising a community feast for his house warming ceremony in violation of the Covid-19 guidelines that prohibit a gathering of more than seven people at a place. So far, more than 400-odd cases have been lodged for violating Covid 19 guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-third-covid-19-case-in-odisha-60-year-old-man-had-travelled-from-delhi/story-8B3SgyTCndhCJXVcNF1RzI.html
27-03-2020||India||Acclaimed artist Satish Gujral passes away at 94||Satish Gujral, 94, one of India’s most well known artists, passed away Thursday evening. A Padma Vibhushan awardee, Gujral’s work spanned the medium: he was a muralist, a painter, an architect, a designer, and a poetry lover.From making the alphabet mural that adorns the facade of the Delhi high court to designing the Belgian Embassy in the national Capital, Gujral’s catholic sensibility to what constitutes art was inculcated at an early age.Born in Lahore in 1925, Gujral witnessed the misery and horror of Partition. Soon afterwards, he moved to Simla, where he immersed himself in painting “man’s cruelty to man”, as he put it in a 2016 interview. Some of his most famous paintings express this anguish, including Days of Glory and Mourning en mass.A poetry lover, Gujral often said that his love for art derived from the words of poets like Faiz Ahmed Faiz and Ghalib. He would also accompany older brother Inder, then a student of Lahore college, to poetry reading sessions. His brother, the late Inder Kumar Gujral went on to become the Prime Minister of India.In the 1950s, he apprenticed with David Siqueiros and Diego Rivera (the great Mexican artist Frida Kahlo’s husband), and inspired by them, he turned to making murals in ceramic and terracotta.Art critic and curator Ranjit Hoskote said, “I always admired Satish Gujral for the wide range of his practice, which embraced painting, sculpture and architecture. He was boldly experimental in his approach to materials like burnt wood, and took on a variety of scales, from the art object to the building. He was an heir to the Mexican muralists whose student he had been in the early 1950s, Diego Rivera and David Sequeiros. And he was a pioneering Indian modernist. We will miss him.”Gujral is survived by his wife, Kiran, son, Mohit, daughter-in-law Feroze, and grandchildren.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/satish-gujral-acclaimed-painter-passes-away-at-94/story-6EaVG1WCpyirpvhbasC5qL.html
27-03-2020||India||As Parliament observes shutdown over Covid-19, key legislation may face delay||The passage of some key bills is likely to take a longer time than expected amid the extraordinary measures, including a three-week national lockdown, put in place to ensure social distancing to check the spread of the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. As many as 47 bills are currently pending before Parliament, which was adjourned on Monday because of the Covid-19 outbreak, days before its budget session was to end on April 3.Most of these bills are pending before Parliamentary standing committees, which are likely to now take longer to meet, review them, consult stakeholders and present their reports amid a suspension of air, rail and road travel. The bills include those related to the protection of data of individuals, regulation of commercial surrogacy and penalising people if they do not take proper care of their parents.Generally, parliamentary committees utilise the time between sessions to prepare their reports related to the bills.The government has no obligation to abide by the changes proposed by any parliamentary panel but it cannot pass a bill as long as a panel is reviewing it.Jairam Ramesh, chairman of the standing committee on environment, has written a letter to Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu seeking more time to review the DNA Technology (Use and Application) Regulation Bill.Ramesh has pointed out that earlier the panel got an extended time till April 2 to give its report on the bill and it could have been passed if the budget session had not been cut short. He added it is impossible to meet the deadline and sought time till the first week of the monsoon session of Parliament that is scheduled to begin in July. HT has seen a copy of the letter.Biju Janata Dal lawmaker Bhartruhari Mahtab, who heads the standing committee on labour, has also sought more time to finish his reports on labour reforms. The draft report on the Industrial Relations Code was supposed to have been adopted on Tuesday and submitted to Parliament on Wednesday.“The rules say that a report has to be circulated among all its members and then adopted in a meeting. I could not even circulate the draft of the report on the Industrial Relations Code,” Mahtab said. “I sought more time from the Speaker on Monday hours before the House was adjourned.”Afzal Amanullah, former parliamentary secretary, said, these are not ordinary days and like many things in the country, the parliamentary scrutiny process of major bills faces delay. “But the government rushes through the bills when things get normal and Parliament holds its next session. The government must allow the due process to follow.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-as-parliament-observes-shutdown-over-covid-19-key-legislation-may-face-delay/story-sbRH78x6TGaAgJfq6ksk8K.html
27-03-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||Sixty-three, 79, 81, 75, 65, 70, and 88. That’s the number of new infections every day in India for the past six days.It’s clear from the numbers that the number of Covid-19 infections in the country, while increasing steadily, are not even following a geometric progression.That could mean one of two things: lack of widespread local testing is presenting an unclear (and inaccurate) picture of the extent of the pandemic’s spread in India; or containment measures have worked and the spread of the disease hasn’t entered Phase-3 (when there is community transmission) in India.That containment is important was reinforced on Thursday with the release of research by the Imperial College, London, which showed that without any intervention by countries, seven billion people (almost the entire population of the world) would have been infected by the Sars-CoV-2 virus, with close to 40 million dying.Coming back to India’s unique progression of numbers, no one can say for sure which one of the two factors is responsible for it – yet. Most of the new cases are those of people who don’t clear airport scanning (and subsequent testing confirms the infection), or contacts of those infected that have been identified through contact-tracing – like the doctor at a mohalla (neighbourhood) clinic in Delhi’s crowded Dilshad Garden area who tested positive after treating a woman who was subsequently confirmed to be suffering from Covid-19. His wife and child subsequently tested positive. Now, efforts are on to trace around 1,169 people whom he may have treated (or who visited the clinic around the same time).As expected, Day 2 of the 21-day lockdown India has enforced was smoother than Day 1, with people figuring out that most essential products and services will be available, governments doing their bit to address concerns and iron out kinks, and local police departments starting to believe that not everyone who is out on the streets is a rule-breaker. Local governments also started dealing with the issue of migrant workers who have no work, place to stay, food, or way to get back home. Many are still walking home, but governments and non-profits have set up kitchens to feed them, and the police are no longer asking them to get off the roads.Some of these people making their way back home can take cheer from the relief package announced by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday. Some will get cash in hand; many will get food. Sure, some of the cash is either just front-ending of an existing benefit (the cash transfer, which will benefit 86.9 million farmers, for instance) or will kick in only later (the increase in wages in the job guarantee scheme, for instance), but some of it also comes with no strings attached and, like the best cash transfers, will just magically appear in bank accounts of beneficiaries.But more, much more is needed – including a relief and stimulus package aimed at individuals and businesses. The US and the UK are among countries that have announced these. In the case of the former, the package’s magnitude is around 10% of the country’s GDP. Which is understandable. Early in March, just around 200,000 people filed for unemployment benefits in the US; on Thursday, 3.3 million, the highest in at least 50 years, did.Governments and central banks around the world are waking up to the economic fallout of Covid-19, and moving to address it, sometimes with tools that would have been considered unimaginable. India should do the same .In the short term (at the least), everyone has to be a Keynesian.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-grcdId7jYNNZFPgUjbUIeO.html
27-03-2020||India||Coronavirus deaths, cases in India see biggest jump in a day||Coronavirus killed eight more people in India on Thursday and 88 new cases—the highest in a single day---were confirmed to be carrying the disease on the second day of 21-day long nation-wide lockdown, while the global tally, according to the AFP, also crossed the figure of 500,000 infections and close to 22,000 fatalities. According to the data released by the health ministry, there are 647 confirmed cases in India, most of them in Maharashtra-121 and Kerala-110, however, the figures released by these states are higher at 130 and 138 respectively.An analysis by the Medical Education and Drugs Department, Maharashtra says that 54% of the infected cases had travel history to foreign countries, 29% were those who came in contact with the infected while in 11% of the cases, the cause of transmission is awaited and in the remaining 6%, the reason for the infection is inconclusive.The health ministry said on Thursday that there was no conclusive evidence of the country entering the dangerous community transmissions phase, when the cases start rising exponentially and people without any history of foreign travel or known history of coming in contact with positive cases or suspects start getting infected in large numbers.The government officials said they were confident that the measures taken so far, including the lockdown, will result in the containment of the outbreak if followed by the communities at large.A research by the Imperial College, London, says that without any intervention by countries, seven billion people, which is almost the entire population of the world, would have been infected by the virus and around 40 million could have died.Most of the new cases in India are people who were quarantined and tested after they couldn’t clear airport scanning or are contacts of those infected that were identified through contact-tracing.The second day of lockdown saw less chaos compared to the first day on Wednesday with the state machinery being able to better regulate the movement of essential services and personnel, who were earlier denied entry at the state borders or stopped at checkpoints within the states. The administration also tried to enforce norms for social distancing in markets and people were discouraged from panic buying with assurances that the shops for groceries, medicines, vegetable and other essentials will not shut down. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman also announced a major relief package worth Rs 1.7 lakh crore, aimed largely at redressing the hardship faced by the most vulnerable sections of the society, including the low salaried workforce, construction industry daily wagers and ordinary workers, MGNREGA workers, women, elderly citizens, farmers, health care professionals, ASHA workers etc.Sitharaman underlined that within 36 hours of the lockdown — Prime Minister Narendra Modi directed a national lockdown for three weeks on Tuesday night — the government had come up with measures to immediately take care of welfare concerns of the poor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-deaths-cases-in-india-see-biggest-jump-in-a-day/story-cCtFL6H6YX603KHVKauVKO.html
27-03-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Special flights from Delhi airport to fly back foreign nationals from 5 countries||Five specials flights from Delhi’s IGI airport will fly back over 1200 foreign nationals between March 26 and March 27, news agency ANI quoted an airport official as saying late Thursday. Amid the coronavirus outbreak that has led to suspension of flights and a three-week countrywide lockdown, 1,245 foreign nationals from Austria, UAE, Israel, Germany, and Italy will be evacuated via five special flights, according to ANI. The details of the flights were not shared. Earlier in the day, aviation regulator Directorate General of Civil aviation (DGCA) extended the ban on international commercial passenger flights to India till April 14, 2020 as part of the efforts to check the spread of coronavirus in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-updates-special-flights-from-delhi-airport-to-fly-back-foreign-nationals-from-5-countries/story-IfL0pR3CQsSDueI158Ty7I.html
27-03-2020||India||Covid-19 update: G20 readies $5 trillion war chest to combat coronavirus||The G20 states on Thursday said they would inject more than $5 trillion into the global economy to counter the social and economic impact of the Covid-19 pandemic and to safeguard jobs and revive growth. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who joined an extraordinary virtual G20 leaders’ summit, said the pandemic offered an opportunity to forge a new concept of globalisation that wasn’t focused solely on an economic agenda. He also called for the reform of the WHO, which was based on “last century’s models”, according to people familiar with developments.The summit, convened by G20 president Saudi Arabia following a suggestion from Modi, marked the first time the grouping’s leaders met via video conference and discussed issues that were not focussed on economy and finance.A communique issued after the meeting said the G20 will work with the World Health Organization (WHO), International Monetary Fund (IMF), World Bank and the United Nations to protect lives, safeguard jobs, preserve financial stability and revive growth, minimise disruptions to trade and global supply chains and provide aid to all countries. “We are injecting over $5 trillion into the global economy, as part of targeted fiscal policy, economic measures, and guarantee schemes to counteract the social, economic and financial impacts of the pandemic,” the G20 said.The grouping comprising 19 of the world’s largest economies and the European Union will also undertake “immediate and vigorous measures to support our economies; protect workers, businesses – especially micro-, small and medium-sized enterprises – and the sectors most affected”.The people cited above, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said Modi, during his statement and interventions at the summit, said the G20 had focused on a purely economic agenda to define globalisation after mitigating the effects of the 2008 financial crisis. However, this form of globalisation had failed the world order as multilateral forums became platforms to balance competing interests instead of taking up collective interests in areas such as terrorism and climate change, Modi said, according to the people.The Covid-19 pandemic offers an opportunity for G20 and the international community to look at a new concept of globalisation that focuses on the collective well-being of mankind and collective interests in spheres such as counter-terror or climate change and future pandemics, Modi told the summit.Modi called for strengthening and reforming inter-governmental organisations such as WHO, which continue to be based on the last century’s model and haven’t adapted to deal with new challenges, the people said. He also called for new crisis management protocols and procedures for an inter-connected global village and joint efforts to reduce the economic hardships caused by the pandemic, especially for the economically vulnerable, the people said. There should also be open sharing of the benefits of medical research and development of adaptive, responsive and affordable healthcare systems and resources that can be deployed worldwide.“In a sense, the prime minister spoke for the small, emerging and developing nations that were without a voice at this forum and this approach represented a continuity of our domestic policy,” said a person who declined to be named.Modi pointed out that 90% of the Covid-19 infections and 88% of deaths were in G20 countries, which account for 80% of the world’s GDP and 60% of the global population. He called on the G20 to frame a concrete action plan to fight the pandemic.It was noted that the world community was still trying to forge a coordinated response three months after the crisis began, though the virtual summit had shown that the world community could come together, the people said.The G20 summit was held against the backdrop of the failure of the UN Security Council, currently led by China, to call a single meeting focused on the pandemic. The WHO too has faced some criticism for not acting more decisively on the crisis. The G20 communique said the unprecedented pandemic was a “powerful reminder of our interconnectedness and vulnerabilities” and combating the virus would require a “transparent, robust, coordinated, large-scale and science-based global response”. “We will share timely and transparent information; exchange epidemiological and clinical data; share materials necessary for research and development; and strengthen health systems globally, including through supporting the full implementation of the WHO International Health Regulations (IHR 2005),” it said.The people cited above said the discussions were held in a cooperative spirit and there was no reference to the origin of the virus – a reference to efforts by countries such as the US to label Covid-19 as the “Wuhan virus”.“The WHO’s mandate is fairly limited to handle issues that would let it be at the forefront of dealing with such pandemics. There is a need to empower it so that it can take the lead, and to boost its capacity to provide early warnings, help states develop protocols and to forge common solutions to future crises,” said a person.The people said further discussions of the G20 members were underway to frame an “action paper” with specific steps to be taken to counter the pandemic and its fallout.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/g20-readies-5tn-war-chest-to-combat-virus/story-effZGZTU8YMNlIiFk4fh0L.html
27-03-2020||India||PM asks ministries to ramp up medical gear production||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has asked the Central government ministries to look for innovative ways of using their resources for manufacturing medical equipment and scaling up their production to deal with the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic, according to officials aware of the matter. Using state-owned facilities and production units for boosting the manufacturing of the equipment and setting up quarantine facilities were discussed at the Cabinet meeting Modi chaired on Wednesday.Officials said the railways’ ministry is planning to convert coaches into isolation wards and has begun work on using locomotive production units to manufacture medical equipment. “There is a plan of using a vast pool of non-AC coaches for setting up the isolation wards... about 20,000 such coaches have been identified for the same. The railways has begun production of masks, sanitizers and other supplies,” a railways ministry official said on condition of anonymity. Officials said the railways has also been tasked with using its large manufacturing, locomotive production units and workshops for the production of essential medical equipment like ventilators, hospital beds, and stretchers.They added the Railway Board has asked its production units and workshops to assess the feasibility of manufacturing these items in large quantities at a short notice. Ministries like defence and heavy industries and public enterprises have also been asked to utilise their resources for ramping up production of medical gear. The Defence Research and Development Organisation is exploring collaborations with private companies for the production of ventilators while the Ordnance Factory Board, too, has been tasked with the production of medical supply. The Bharat Electronics Limited has also been engaged for the manufacturing of ventilators. The heavy industries’ ministry has also reached out to automobile manufacturers for utilising their manufacturing facilities for the production of ventilators. “We are working on an automated version of the Bag Valve Mask ventilator [commonly known as Ambu bag]. We hope to have a proto ready in three days for approval. Once approved, this design will be made available to all for manufacturing,” said car manufacturer Mahindra & Mahindra’s managing director, Pawan Goenka.India has an estimated 40,000 working ventilators, which experts say will be inadequate in case there is a surge in Covid-19 infections that sends patients to ICUs with acute breathing problems in approximately 5% of the cases.The coronavirus attacks people’s lungs, in some cases compromising their ability to breathe as they develop pneumonia. Ventilators, which deliver air to the lungs through a tube placed in the windpipe, are crucial to keeping these patients alive.Officials said the textile ministry has also pointed to a shortage of body coveralls and N-95 masks for healthcare staff and set up an emergency control room to monitor their production and supply.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-asks-ministries-to-ramp-up-medical-gear-production/story-6yccymoog8Wz72hEyNttjN.html
27-03-2020||India||Coronavirus update: India fights economic epidemic amid lockdown to curb Covid-19 spread||India on Thursday announced a Rs 170,000 crore package under a new scheme, the Pradhan Mantri Gareeb Kalyan Yojana (PMGKBY), to address the immediate economic distress in the wake of the lockdown prompted by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, and ensure food and cash reaches the marginalised segments of society. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, at a press conference in the Capital, announced a series of measures which focused on additional food transfers at no cost, cash for vulnerable segments, concessions on government schemes aimed to help households reduce their expenditure, and support those on the frontline of the battle against the pandemic. The primary beneficiaries of these measures include those below the poverty line, farmers, women, elderly citizens, the physically challenged, construction workers, and workers in both the unorganised and organised sectors.Sitharaman underlined that within 36 hours of the lockdown — Prime Minister Narendra Modi directed a national lockdown for three weeks on Tuesday night — the government had come up with measures to immediately take care of welfare concerns of the poor. She, however, did not address questions about the fiscal implications of the scheme, or announce measures for other sectors which have also got severely affected in the wake of the restrictions and the lockdown. There has been a talk of a stimulus aimed at businesses, large and small, as well as salaried individuals, but there was no mention of this during Thursday’s conference — nor any indication as to when one such package could be expected. Sitharaman announced a medial insurance cover of Rs 50 lakh per person for doctors, health care personnel and sanitation staff, acknowledging their contribution at this crisis hour.The PMGKY had two broad components: the first was centred on ensuring food availability and support; and the second, on income support.On food, Sitharaman said 800 million people — two-thirds of the country’s population — would now be eligible for, in addition to the existing allocation of five kg of wheat or rice, another five kg of wheat or rice per month, for the next three months, for free. They will also get one kg of pulses, according to the specific regional variant of the pulse in their geographical area, in this period. “This is meant to ensure that no one stays hungry,” emphasised Sitharaman.In terms of direct financial support, the FM announced support under eight distinct categories using the direct benefits transfer framework.The first was targeted at farmers who get direct cash support of Rs 6,000 annually under the PM-Kisan scheme. Sitharaman said that the next instalment of the money — Rs 2000 — would be “front-loaded” and given immediately. “This will benefit 86.9 million farmers,” said the FM.The second was for workers under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MNREGS). From a daily wage of Rs 182, they will now be entitled to get Rs 202. “It will help increase the income to ₹2,000 per worker,” said Sitharaman.The third measure was for economically poor widows, citizens above the age of 60, and the physically challenged. “They will get an ex-gratia amount of ₹1,000. The measure will benefit 30 million poor citizens,” the FM said. The amount is to be given in two instalments.The fourth measure was targeted at women who held Jan Dhan Accounts. “There are 200 million women Jan Dhan account holders. The government will give them ₹500 per month, for three months, to ensure they can run their households in this period of disruption.” A related announcement was for the beneficiaries of the PM Ujjwala scheme, in which over 83 million households got gas cylinders. “For three months, these households will get free cylinders.” Anecdotal evidence suggests that many households have found the cost of refilling their gas cylinders burdensome. Minister of state for finance Anurag Thakur, sitting alongside Sitharaman, underlined that with these measures, the government was seeking to ensure that poor families had access to food, to incomes, and to cooking gas.The fifth measure was targeted at women self-help groups (SHGs). Sitharaman pointed out that there were 6.3 million SHGs in the country, with members from 70 million households being members of these groups. “They were eligible for collateral-free loan up to Rs 10 lakh till now. This amount will now go up to Rs 20 lakh. Self-help groups are eligible for increased collateral free loans, which will give more money in their hands,” said the finance minister.The sixth measure was targeted at organised workers. This had two components. The government, the FM announced, would contribute both the share of the employee and the employer of the Employer Provident Fund for the next three months. “The government will give both the 12% share of the employees, and the 12% share of the employers — so a total of 24% per month for three months, to ensure there is no break in the continuity of EPFO contributions. This will apply to establishments which have fewer than 100 employees, and where 90% of the employees earn less than Rs 15,000 per month.” The second inter-related measure was the government’s decision to amend the provident fund regulation scheme, to allow employees to withdraw, on a non refundable advance basis, 75% of the amount, or up to three months of wages, whichever is lower, from their accounts.The seventh announcement was for construction workers. The FM said that there already existed a fund for the welfare of construction and other workers. This had, at the moment, Rs 31,000 crore and 35 million workers were registered under it. “We have given directions to state governments to utilise the funds to provide assistance to construction workers to protect them.” And the final announcement was with regard to district mineral funds, with the FM requesting state governments to utilise these funds to supplement medical testing and screening activities to fight the coronavirus.Congress parliamentarian Rahul Gandhi said the government’s announcement “of a financial assistance package” is the first step in the right direction. “...India owes a debt to its farmers, daily wage earners, labourers, women & the elderly who are bearing the brunt of the ongoing lockdown,” he tweeted.Trinamool Congress MP Derek O’Brien said the measures were similar to what states have already announced. “Centre takes cue from relief plans already rolled out by state governments like West Bengal a week ago— free six months ration for the poor, health insurance for champion frontliners fighting corona and ~1000 for daily wagers under new Prochesta scheme,” he said, adding that the Centre’s move will supplement state efforts.Meanwhile, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) said that Rs 1,000 to the aged, widows, differently abled, is too little; and that the health workers’ insurance comes at no cost to the government. Experts welcomed the announcement of income support to farmers. But its implementation may confront challenges. Aadhaar-based enrolment and cash transfers, slow internet connections in many rural centres and messy land records have slowed the PM-Kisan programme, the farm ministry had told a parliamentary panel in January.Deloitte India partner Gokul Chaudhri hoped for a larger comprehensive economic stimulus package and said the efficient implementation of the Rs 1.7 lakh crore relief for the poor is the key. “The first set of measures rightly focused on basic welfare for the weaker section of society. The concerns of other stakeholders in society, such as those impacted in tourism, aviation and hospitality sector is awaited.”Confederation of Indian Industry director general Chandrajit Banerjee said, “The entire package is expected to alleviate the difficulties currently being faced by the poor and the distressed. However, the government could be more aggressive in its spending with an overall fiscal stimulus at 2.5-3% of GDP if the disruptions continue for the next three months.”Experts also said the 24% relief for employees’ provident fund (EPF) contribution is a measure to dissuade retrenchments. Richa Mohanty Rao, partner, Cyril Amarchand Mangaldas, said, “In the midst of such uncertain times, the decision of the government to bear the provident fund cost under the EPF Act for three months, will provide much needed relief to both employers as well as the employees. However, this initiative will largely benefit the MSME (medium and small enterprises) sector.”The Sensex rallied over 5% in anticipation of a comprehensive economic stimulus package ahead of the finance minister’s press conference, but lost some of the gains immediately after the announcement to close at 29,947, 4.9% up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-fights-economic-epidemic/story-gWmD2ka6q8YiMbNFfARuXJ.html
27-03-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Rs 500 for 3 months, free cylinders to benefit poor women amid lockdown||New Delhi: Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday announced Rs 500 a month for the next three months for 200 million poor women as part of a Rs 1,70,000 crore package of direct cash transfers and food for the poor to tide over the nationwide lockdown imposed on Wednesday to check the coronavirus pandemic.She said the money will be transferred to the account holders of Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana, which was launched in 2014 to provide financial services to the poor and included the opening of no-frills bank accounts. Sitharaman said the government will set aside Rs 31000 crore for it.Gas cylinders will also be provided free of cost to 80 million poor families for the next three months. The government has set aside Rs 13,000 crore for this. Sitharaman announced Rs 1,000 as social pension for the next three months for widows, differently-abled and the elderly. “We do not want anyone to remain hungry,” said Sitharaman.As many as 6.3 million women organised through self-help groups, which support 68.5 million households, will get the benefit of additional credit availability. The collateral-free loans provided for the groups under the National Rural Livelihood Mission has been doubled to Rs 20 lakh.The package was announced two days after the 21-day lockdown was announced to check the spread of the pandemic. The lockdown has led to supply constraints for essential items and panic buying and left the poor and daily wagers vulnerable.Aasha Kapur Mehta, a visiting professor at Delhi’s Institute for Human Development, said that food rations would really help women apart from the cash transfers and gas cylinders. “Food and essential items are desperately needed and the ration will ensure that families do not starve,” she said. The government plans to provide extra rations to about 800 million poor people over the next three months as part of the package.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/500-for-3-months-free-cylinders-to-benefit-poor-women/story-kdHIqBtzMSoqmkVFks4OqJ.html
27-03-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Govt schemes to pump cash in rural sector amid lockdown over Covid-19||The Narendra Modi government plans to pump in cash into rural homes under two major heads, the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme and the National Rural Livelihood Mission, and ensure social pension for three months is distributed in one go by April 10 to help Indian villages cope with the national lockdown to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).With community work under the job guarantee scheme coming to a standstill, a large section of MGNREGS workers will be shifted to schemes for individuals, according to people aware of the developments. Unlike the large community projects that require up to 100 workers, the individual schemes, such as making cattle sheds or farm ponds, can be done by just one or two people working together, they added.A meeting was held at Union rural development minister Narendra Singh Tomar’s residence on Thursday morning to prepare an action plan to tweak schemes to help people.The Centre will release Rs 4,431 crore in the next four days to meet arrears on wages and materials for MGNREGS, the people quoted above said. The money will be transferred directly to the beneficiaries’ bank accounts through the direct benefit transfer scheme.Additionally, the government, will release FY20-21’s first instalment of MGNREGS funds in the first week of April to help the states clear all its dues, the government said on Thursday. The annual budget of MGNREGS is Rs 61,000 crore.The government has also decided that the construction of houses under the Prime Minister rural housing scheme (PMAY) — in which about one-fifth of MGNREGS workers find jobs — will continue. “Not many workers are involved in construction of a house in PMAY. So, this will not violate the broader health guidelines but at the same time ensure that the wheels of rural economy keep rotating,” a functionary present at the meeting said on condition of anonymity.While officials don’t deny that a section of the MGNREGS workers may not find suitable jobs as large projects are stopped temporarily, they pointed out that beneficiaries under different schemes overlap in the rural map. They said that the government giving additional food grains for free will help the people.The Centre is also working with the states to ensure that pension — for widows, elderly and differently abled people — in rural India is released for three months in one go. The Union government gives amounts of Rs 200, Rs 200 and Rs 300 respectively for the three categories. The different states’ matching amounts range from Rs 100 to Rs 1,500 for each beneficiary.“Out of the annual allocation of Rs 9,190 crore in social pension, the Centre will release Rs 2,500 crore on April 1. This again would mean that pension holders will not have to worry about cash in their pockets,” said the functionary quoted.Hours after the rural ministry’s meeting, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced at a press conference that senior citizens, widows and the disabled will get ex gratia amount of Rs 1,000 over the next three months and the move will benefit about 30 million poor people in India.While MGNREGS has 128 million active workers, the national rural livelihood mission, under which the women self -help groups get benefits, covers 68.4 million houses.The finance minister also announced that the women in self-help groups — about 63 lakh such groups — will get Rs 20 lakh in collateral-free loans. Former Union rural development secretary Jugal Kishore Mohapatra said: “Most SHGs have limited scale of economic activities and they require a credit of Rs 2-2.25 lakh. I don’t know how many such groups can take the advantage of such large credit facilities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-schemes-to-pump-cash-in-rural-sector/story-gzPgh8SRpg3rv7m9wv6jpN.html
27-03-2020||India||2.2 million health workers taking care of Covid-19 patients get special insurance||Doctors, nurses, paramedics, technicians, and other health care professionals involved in the care of Covid-19 patients will get a special insurance cover of Rs 50 lakh, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced on Thursday.“We want to attend to the front-line warriors first, not forgetting the risks that they are putting themselves in by dealing with patients affected with coronavirus. For them, we are providing an insurance cover. In the three months that they are exposing themselves to this virus – hopefully, by then this will be contained – we shall be providing ₹50 lakhs to each person as medical insurance cover in case they need it,” said Sitharaman.“Any health professional who while treating Covid-19 patients meets with some accident ... would be compensated with ... Rs 50 lakh under the scheme,” a government document says. Around 2.2 million health workers will get the cover.Associations of doctors have been in talks with the government seeking such a health cover. “We would request you to ensure the protection of doctors working in health care institutions in the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic by providing health insurance cover and an adequate number of masks and personal protective equipment,” the Federation of Resident Doctors’ Associations (FORDA) said in a letter to Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on March 16.FORDA president Dr Shivaji Dev Barman said they were assured of health insurance for all those working with Covid-19 patients when they met the health secretary. “As of now, most of the resident doctors who are at the forefront do not really have any insurance cover. And, if you see data from other countries doctors and healthcare workers are at a higher risk of getting the infection,” he said.Nurses, too, have been seeking a risk allowance. All India Government Nurses Federation secretary general GK Khurana said it is very encouraging that Prime Minister Narendra Modi acknowledges their role and it motivates them. “This is a good move by the government to protect the healthcare workers. However, it is just for a period of three months. We work with various infections throughout the year and we have long been fighting for a risk allowance. I have worked with patients during the H1N1 pandemic and even when HIV/AIDS first came to India.” More than health insurance, most want personal protective equipment. “It [insurance cover] is a good move, of course, if people get the infection or die they should get compensated. But more important is to ensure that they get the proper protection so that they do not get the infection in the first place. We have been writing to the government about the same,” said Delhi State Paramedical Federation general secretary Jai Prakash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-2-mn-health-workers-get-special-insurance/story-k3sCpd7lhESPrJSm6ii3cL.html
27-03-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Centre to pay Rs 2,000 to farmers in advance under PM-Kisan plan||The Narendra Modi government will make an advance payout of its universal cash-for-farmers programme, PM-KISAN, on April 1, 2 or 3, rather than in June, responding to the coronavirus epidemic, which could upend agriculture, the country’s largest employer. The package announced by finance minister also said two-thirds of Indians, about 800 million people, currently eligible for cheap grains under the National Food Security Act, would be given double their quota of foodgrain ration, up from the usual 5kg per person. Under PM-KISAN, the government provides an income support of Rs 6000 a year to farmers with a valid enrolment, paid in three equal cash transfers of Rs 2000 -- one every four months. It was launched by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi on 24 February 2019, when the first instalment was paid.Nearly 80.5 million farmers will be paid about Rs 16000 crore in all, an official requesting anonymity said, adding that the Centre is gearing up to pay advances of all federally-funded and partially-federally-funded cash and in-kind subsidies, such as old-age pensions and ration. Small agri business owners will need access to emergency grants, analysts say. Additional money needs to be set aside for the rural unemployed too, according to them.The cash transfer under PM-KISAN is an unconditional handout, meaning that it doesn’t require any proof of how recipients use it, but payments are usually timed with sowing seasons to help finance agricultural inputs. Inputs refer to all materials needed for cultivation by farmers, from seeds to fertilisers. The proposal for the advance payment of the PM-KISAN tranche, the first this financial year, from the agriculture ministry has been approved by the Prime Minister. The finance ministry is ready to release the amount to the agriculture ministry and so are all states to facilitate it, the official said.The World Health Organization has lauded India’s efforts to curb the pandemic that is roiling Asia’s third largest economy, apart from devastating lives. The current 21-day lockdown period, however, has walled off the rural sector from the urban, from where rural incomes flow. India’s has recorded close to 700 cases of Covid-19.All chief secretaries have finished providing the Centre with their respective “lots” for the PM-KISAN tranche, a jargon for payout data of each eligible farmer, state-wise, such as land-holding, biometric and bank account details. The cash-transfer takes the direct benefit transfer or DBT mode. This means all 80.5 million farmers will simultaneously get Rs 2000 each in their bank accounts through electronic release by federal authorities.There could still be challenges. Aadhaar-based enrolment and cash transfers, slow internet connections in many rural centres, and messy land records have slowed the PM-KISAN programme, the farm ministry told a parliamentary panel in January.Eligible farmer families are identified on the basis of operational land holding data according to the agricultural Census Data 2015-16, which is then extrapolated to 2018-19, an official said. It is the job of state governments to provide accurate beneficiary data and payments are continuously updated.“This decision is obviously welcome. We also need income lifelines for all vulnerable sections, such as the urban manual workers and agricultural labourers,” said Manoj Kumar Panda of the Institute of Economic Growth, Delhi University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-to-pay-2-000-to-farmers-in-advance-under-pm-kisan-plan/story-ED09QhnAzuJQTt9kYuE17H.html
27-03-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Near-total lockdown may let normalcy resume within weeks, shows analysis||A near-complete lockdown of cities can potentially beat back the Covid-19 outbreak to such an extent that people can be allowed within weeks to return to work without causing the virus to take hold again, and in the absence of any countermeasure by countries, the virus would have infected 7 billion of the world’s population. That’s the finding of a statistical analysis of several cities in China, led by a team from London’s Imperial College. The findings lend weight to the strategy adopted in India, where virtually all of the country’s 1.3 billion people are now confined to their homes for a three-week period in what is the strongest counter measure adopted by any country in the world in terms of scale and duration. While announcing the lockdown, Prime Minister Narendra Modi underlined that there was one — and only one — way to defeat Covid-19. This was through social distancing, which the lockdown would ensure. The analysis published on Tuesday compares disease spread data in Chinese cities with indicators of how people moved (derived from GPS tracking devices) between January 1 and March 17.“Initially, within-city movement and transmission were very strongly correlated in the five provinces most affected by the epidemic and Beijing. However, that correlation is no longer apparent even though within-city movement has started to increase,” said the report.The Imperial College team warned that the disease would have infected almost everyone on the planet — 7 billion people — if countries had not taken any countermeasures.The lockdown in China began on January 23 with the Hubei province, the epicentre of the Sars-Cov-2 coronavirus outbreak that has since raced across the world, infecting close to 500,000 and killing 23,000 people in less than three months. The administration in Hubei began allowing some factories to reopen on March 11 — roughly seven weeks after everything had ground to a halt.For the first time since the outbreak began, China reported no new local spread of the infection for the five consecutive days till March 23. After one brief local infection on March 24, it again reported no new such cases till Wednesday — all of its new cases are now being imported from other countries.“A similar analysis for Hong Kong shows that intermediate levels of local activity can be maintained while avoiding a large outbreak,” added the report by the Imperial College Covid-19 Response Team.A previous analysis by the team — which is credited to have jolted the administrations of United States and United Kingdom into action — said countries across the world will need to put in place aggressive social distancing measures for at least two-thirds of the next 18 months, the period at the end of which scientists expect a viable vaccine to halt Covid-19.The remaining period will need a tiered action plan that countries can use to pare back some of these restrictions when the outbreak relents, but immediately reimpose if infection rates pick up. But, the scientists added in that report, countries will need to set in place a strong mechanism to monitor the outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/near-total-lockdown-may-let-normalcy-resume-within-weeks-shows-analysis/story-sCDuJoKKAgzEkXjoB1MD3H.html
27-03-2020||India||IAS officer jumps Covid-19 quarantine in Kerala, heads for Kanpur||A young IAS officer who was in isolation in Kollam after returning from the United Kingdom earlier this month, jumped his quarantine and headed for Kanpur in Uttar Pradesh in the middle of the coronavirus pandemic, a senior Kerala government spokesman said late Thursday evening.The spokesman described the officer’s conduct as “a serious lapse on part of an IAS officer”. The Kerala government which is in touch with its Uttar Pradesh counterpart will also bring it to the notice of the Union ministry of personnel, he said.Kollam Sub Collector Anupam Mishra is said to have left on for Kanpur on March 21, a few days before a three-week countrywide lockdown began to check the spread of coronavirus that has affected close to 700 people in the country and claimed almost a dozen lives so far. In Kerala, 126 people have tested positive .Follow coronavirus live updates here.He had returned from the UK in the first week of this month.The Kollam administration put his driver, personal security guard and secretary in isolation after his disappearance came to light.His disappearance has also embarrassed the government which is hard pressed to enforce quarantine norms.“A captain can’t leave the ship like this. Action would be initiated against the officer,” the spokesman said.Kollam district collector Abdul Nasser said he has brought the issue in the notice of the government and said he was not informed about Mishra’s trip. His absence came to light when health officials came to his house after two days to check.A phone call he made was traced to Kanpur, the spokesman said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ias-officer-jumps-covid-19-quarantine-in-kerala-heads-for-kanpur/story-6VDHBdP6vjrxFZKNTvtFjJ.html
27-03-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Medical consultation over telephone gets government’s nod||The government has formally allowed people to get a medical consultation from a doctor over a telephone or a video call, issuing a notification late on Wednesday for a move that had been in the pipeline for years but was expedited in wake of the Covid-19 outbreak that has triggered a three-week national lockdown.According to the notification, the Medical Council of India-Board of Governors (MCI-BoG) has amended the Indian Medical Council (Professional Conduct, Etiquette and Ethics) Regulations, 2002, to include telemedicine consultations by a registered medical practitioner. The guidelines, however, prohibit the use of digital technology to conduct surgical or invasive procedures remotely.Telemedicine includes all channels of communication with the patient that leverage information technology platforms, including voice, audio, text and digital data exchange.With hospitals closing their out-patient departments (OPDs) and cancelling elective procedures to focus on Covid-19 cases, the Medical Council of India (MCI) and the Niti Aayog prepared guidelines on telemedicine practise to enable registered medical practitioners to provide health care advice online and remotely.The guidelines specify dos and don’ts for doctors and also provides a list of medicines that can be prescribed by doctors to treat patients. Health care providers say it is a welcome move as many people currently in home quarantine will have the option of seeking a consultation over the phone, or via video conferencing or chats.“…a number of people under self-quarantine are seeking medical advice through virtual consultations to better monitor and manage their condition. Telemedicine has also helped reduce the spread of the virus by reducing hospital footfalls,” Dr Shankar Narang, COO, Paras Healthcare, said.“Telemedicine services should, however, be avoided for emergency care when alternative in-person care is available, and telemedicine consultation should be limited to first-aid, life-saving measures, counselling and advice on referral,” the guidelines further stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/medical-consultation-over-telephone-gets-government-s-nod/story-GMy8L8TrAgt8YYTfcV7NvJ.html
27-03-2020||India||Covid-19 outbreak has not hit our preparedness: Army chief||Indian Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane on Thursday said that the army is undertaking its operational tasks like before and the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak has not hit its preparedness.“There are contingency plans in place and spread of Covid-19 will not affect the core efficiency of the army. The temporary phase of postponing our routine activities will soon be overcome by rescheduling them as and when the situation stabilises. As of now, our focus will be to combat Covid-19 aggressively by taking precautions, following the lockdown and curfew measures effectively and preparing own resources for future scenario,” the chief said.He said it was the army’s “earnest responsibility” to keep the borders safe while the country was preparing and fighting the pandemic.He said that at present Covid-19 was in preparatory stage of impact in India and the country was making concerted efforts to prevent the disease from establishing a firm base. “Concurrently, we are preparing for stringent counter measures, should Covid-19 manage to gain a foothold. The next few weeks will be crucial to prevent negative effects of this deadly mutant virus,” Naravane said.On a day defence minister Rajnath Singh asked the armed forces, defence public sector undertakings and other organisations to pull out all the stops to fight the Covid-19 outbreak and extend assistance to civil administration, the army chief said his force was ready to provide any assistance to civil authorities whenever called for.“Dedicated and motivated staff is ensuring that the people are taken due care of under the supervision of skilled medical authorities. All possible arrangements have been made to make their stay comfortable and memorable (at army’s quarantine facilities),” he said.He said it was difficult to predict how the situation would unfold. “However, after having analysed the impact of Covid-19 over the last two-three months in other countries, one can start planning and preparing for difficult times. The army has inherent capability to rise up to various emergency situations by virtue of its organisational structure and training,” he said.The army chief said there is likely to be an increase in demand for medical services for both infected and suspected cases within the force as also requisitioning from civil administration in the coming days. “Necessary instructions have been passed on to Command Headquarters to augment medical facilities and infrastructure including increasing the capacity for surveillance and isolation at military hospitals.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-outbreak-has-not-hit-our-preparedness-army-chief/story-ARQtlC7zN7sMip0Vp08EkK.html
27-03-2020||India||Curbing Covid-19 risks army’s key focus area||From the possibility of terrorists “intentionally spreading” the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Kashmir to likely military logistics challenges, from restrictions on training to rotation of units aimed to prevent soldiers from getting infected, the army is focusing on mitigating risks emerging from Covid-19 that could affect its operations, three army officers said on Thursday on condition of anonymity.“We are going through extraordinary times and the challenges we face as a fighting force are new and unexpected. We are keeping a close watch on every aspect related to the Covid-19 pandemic and how it could impact us. Even the remote possibility of terrorists somehow attempting to spread the disease, or creating a scare among people, has not escaped our attention,” said the first officer cited above. He added that raising awareness among troops was critical. The army, which is an important institutional pillar in the country’s fight against the pandemic, has taken a raft of preventive measures to stop the spread of the infection within its ranks. These include cancellation of all non-essential training, conferences and travel; a freeze on postings and foreign assignments; avoiding any assembly that involves more than 50 personnel; postponing of all courses for officers; and encouraging personnel to work from home wherever possible.“Training has taken a hit. The balance between the peace-time and field profile of units will be affected as no rotation can happen until the situation is under control. No one can say when normalcy will return,” said the second officer cited above. Army units move every two years.The army has asked its units across the country to strictly adhere to protocols for containing the spread of Covid-19, with guidelines being issued almost every second day reiterating measures to fight the spread of infection.“We have to be very vigilant to ensure operations are not affected. Even if one soldiers tests positive, the entire unit will have to be quarantined. With the northern and western borders, and our counter-terrorism role, we have two and a half fronts. We are now facing three fronts with the Covid-19 outbreak,” the third officer said.The army has instituted mechanisms to trace contact history of soldiers and asked them to maintain a daily contact log. Talking about the army’s role in assisting the civil administration to tackle the coronavirus, the same officer added it would be quite challenging as no one can predict how many people will get infected and plans are being made on the basis of different sets of numbers. Experts said the army was prepared to handle all aspects of the Covid-19 outbreak and its operations were unlikely to get affected.“The army has taken aggressive measures to ensure Covid-19 does not affect it. Operations in field areas are going on. The force is committed to the well-being and safety of citizens as well as its own personnel,” said Lieutenant General SL Narasimhan (retd), a member of the National Security Advisory Board. The army has set up medical facilities at Manesar, Jaisalmer and Jodhpur to accommodate 1,600 people. Also, the force is on standby to activate more quarantine facilities at Jhansi, Binaguri and Gaya with a total capacity of 1,600 people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/curbing-covid-risks-army-s-key-focus-area/story-AX50pP3i9rEduleZEALMYK.html
27-03-2020||India||ICMR fast-tracks validation of commercial testing kits||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has added three more labs to evaluate commercial kits to test for coronavirus disease (Covid-19), taking the total number of such facilities clearing the devices to four, including the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune.Apart from the apex virology laboratory, ICMR has identified three more of its laboratories from national institutes to conduct evaluation of commercial testing kits for use in Covid-19 testing across India.“Testing of kits is being fast-tracked by ICMR as ICMR-certified testing kits can also be used for testing,” said Dr Balram Bhargava, director-general, ICMR.The three newly identified laboratories of ICMR are: the National AIDS Research Institute (NARI) in Pune, the National Institute of Pathology in New Delhi, and the National Institute of Cholera and Enteric Diseases (NICED) in Kolkata.ICMR had initially allowed only the use of United States Food and Drug Administration (US FDA) and European Union certification (EUA/CE) approved testing kits for in-vitro diagnostics (IVD), meaning tests done on samples such as blood or tissue that have been taken from the human body to detect diseases or other conditions for Covid-19 testingThe use of these kits was made mandatory for the private labs to test for Covid-19. As the numbers started to rise, the research council last week also allowed use of testing kits validated by NIV.Apart from the 118 government laboratories that are approved to test for Covid-19, the government has allowed 29 private labs across India.From the start of the outbreak in India, the NIV had been approached by various commercial testing kits manufacturers for validation, and had begun the process of evaluation some time in February. Three commercial assays (testing kits) have been approved by the NIV, including one from an Indian manufacturer. Pune-based molecular diagnostics company, Mylab Discovery Solutions Pvt Ltd, that developed first Made in India Covid-19 testing kit has announced that it is ready with the first batch of test kits and will start supplying to the government and private labs.In the first batch, it will supply testing kits to conduct 15,000 tests, and can ramp up capacity from 20,000 to 50,000 kits a day. ICMR has identified seven locations for storage of testing kits as it has procured one million kits from Germany and is expecting one million more kits from the World Health Organisation to strengthen its testing capacity.As researchers suggest blood tests as a strategy to combat Covid-19 outbreak as the results are quicker and the presence of antibodies against the virus in the bloodstream can also suggest past infection, the ICMR is also looking at including blood tests, and has also asked for quotations from manufacturers of antibody based test kits.The ICMR has estimated the tentative requirement of 10,00,000 tests kits.India so far has tested 25,144 samples for Covid-19, and has the capacity of testing 12,000 samples in a day in its government laboratories alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-fast-tracks-validation-of-commercial-testing-kits/story-27p4vYWDhjkYZp72loihNL.html
27-03-2020||India||Blast near cremation site of Sikhs in Kabul; one Indian among the dead||An explosive device went off on Thursday a short distance from the site in Kabul where the cremation of the 25 Sikhs killed in a terror attack was underway, though there were no casualties, according to media reports.The device exploded in a house in Qalacha area, not far from where members of the Sikh minority were cremating those killed in the attack on a Sikh place of worship at Shor Bazar on Wednesday. A second explosive device was defused by Afghan security forces in the same area, the media reports said.People familiar with developments confirmed on Thursday that an Indian national named Tian Singh, a resident of New Delhi, was among the 25 people killed in the attack. Singh’s wife, in a letter sent to the Prime Minister, requested the repatriation of his body.External affairs minister S Jaishankar tweeted: “Deeply concerned at the blasts reported near the cremation site of those killed during the attack on Gurudwara Sahib in Kabul.” He added the Indian embassy was in touch with Afghan authorities to “ensure adequate security onsite as well as safe return of families to their homes”.Jaishankar also said the Indian embassy was working to repatriate the body of Tian Singh. Though Singh’s wife, in her letter, also called for those wounded in Wednesday’s attack to be shifted to New Delhi, Jaishankar said medical opinion was “against moving [the] injured at this stage”.The external affairs minister said there was “understandable grief and anger” over the terror attack and the Indian embassy was in touch with the families of those killed and injured. Indian ambassador Vinay Kumar visited the Sikh place of worship and met community leaders and families of the victims on Thursday. He was told the injured were receiving satisfactory treatment.The Islamic State claimed the attack, though Afghan officials said the Pakistan-based Haqqani Network was behind it. In a statement issued late on Wednesday, the Islamic State claimed the attack was “revenge” for developments in Kashmir and that it was carried out by an attacker using the “kunya” or assumed name of “Abu Khalid al Hindi”, suggesting that he was of Indian origin.The Islamic State provided no other information about the attacker or his origin. Afghan officials have said four suicide attackers were involved in the incident and that they were all killed.The suicide attackers targeted a “dharamshala” in Kabul’s Shor Bazar, which has a sizeable population of the Hindu and Sikh minorities. Reports said the attack began at 7.45am Afghan time.Images of the shrine posted on social media showed bloodstains on its floor. Other photos showed security forces and local residents evacuating the injured in ambulances. Witnesses said they heard several explosions during the gun battle. On Wednesday, India condemned the attack and commended the Afhgan security forces. “Such cowardly attacks on the places of religious worship of the minority community, especially at this time of Covid-19 pandemic, are reflective of the diabolical mindset of the perpetrators and their backers,” the external affairs ministry said in a statement, in which it hailed the “valorous response to the attack and exemplary courage and dedication” of the Afghan forces.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/blast-near-cremation-site-of-sikhs-in-kabul-one-indian-among-the-dead/story-uUviaXtvLSF7KANZUodqvN.html
27-03-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Delhi to turn 35 halls into shelters as 11,000 more arrive at existing ones||The Delhi government will convert 35 community halls in the city into shelters over the next two days for the people left unemployed and homeless by the nationwide lockdown imposed to prevent the spread of the coronavirus pandemic, officials said on Thursday.Around 11,000 more people have arrived at the 234 existing shelters in Delhi for the homeless over the last three days, they added. Most of them are either daily wage labourers, who can neither afford to return home because rail and buses have been suspended nor can they afford to live in the city with the lockdown depriving them of their daily income. Many are homeless, who earlier lived on pavements and in other public spaces. Officials said now that the lockdown is being enforced like a curfew, police are not letting anyone remain on the roads and in public spaces. “We will convert 35 new community halls into shelters now, where the occupants would also get two meals a day. We have also written to the municipal corporations and the Delhi Development Authority to let some of their buildings to be used as shelters temporarily,” said Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board member Bipin Rai.The government has also run out of its stock of folded beds because of the unexpected arrival of people at the night shelters over the last three days. In the new shelters, the occupants will get only jute mattresses and blankets.A second official said the government has a decent stock of mattresses and blankets. “Under the present circumstances, it is not possible to procure more folded beds,” said the official, who did not wish to be named.The official said the Board is also fast running out of pulses and other essential materials. The collectors in all 11 revenue districts of the city have been asked to ensure deployment of officials at the city’s borders for issuing curfew passes to trucks ferrying essentials for the shelters, the official added.Meals served at the shelters consist of rice served with either lentils or a vegetable stew.The shelter homes in Delhi have a capacity of 16,000 but till Saturday, the occupancy was recorded at around 7,000. Around 7,100 additional people had arrived till Wednesday afternoon. Another 4,000 arrived after that.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-to-turn-35-halls-into-shelters-as-11k-more-arrive-at-existing-ones/story-YZcw9dEulIlstKR8q2d3ZI.html
27-03-2020||India||Coronavirus update: A long walk home on empty stomachs for masked migrants||Manna Lal has walked 100 km over the last 24 hours with almost no food or water. He has to cover 150km more to get home. Lal, 48, is one in a group of eight labourers walking across the length of eastern Uttar Pradesh to get to their ancestral village of Gatla Beli in Bahraich district – roughly 250km from Kanpur city, where they worked as masons. They left their construction site at 3am on Wednesday after the care-taker told them that work would be halted in the wake of the 21-day national lockdown imposed by the government to halt the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) that has infected 606 people and killed 10. Hours after the announcement by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the local contractor stopped work and told them they had no place to live.“By Tuesday night, we had already exhausted half of our money. So we decided to go home,” said Guddu, 15. They first walked to the local railway station, 20km away but it was shut. “Our hearts sank…we rested a bit and started walking.”With a small bundle of clothes and belongings slung over his shoulders, Lal and the others walked for 12 hours with no food – his last meal was at the construction site on Tuesday night. “We survived only on water,” he said. “But it is better to be in village than in a city where we will not even get food,” he added.Each of them have between Rs 50 and Rs 200 but are unwilling to part with it, hoping that they will eventually find a bus to board. “Also, we don’t know what the situation would be back home with no income coming,” said Ram Achal, 28. Their feet sore with blisters, the group lumbered into Lucknow on Wednesday afternoon, where they met with an unexpected stroke of good luck – the constables at the local check post opened their tiffin boxes and gave them eight rotis, one for each of them, and some sweets. “We haven’t eaten them yet. We are saving them for when the hunger becomes unbearable,” said Lal. They aren’t the only ones. Munna Mahto reached his village in Jharkhand’s Latehar from Ranchi, about 110 kms away, on Tuesday. Dashrath Yadav, walked all night on Tuesday without food and water, with three other family members, to reach Gujarat’s Ahmedabad from Vadodara, a distance of 110 kms. And, Rabiul Shaikh just reached his home in West Bengal’s West Midnapore district on Thursday morning after walking with his family for almost 10 hours. Stranded after the lockdown, thousands of such workers are walking back to their villages and towns from their places of work hundreds of kilometers away. Some of them have cooking gas stoves with them, others are begging on the way, and the rest are trying to suppress their hunger while they desperately look for any mode of transport to get back home. “When we got off the train at Howrah station, I was scared the disease will catch us. But we were so hungry, we didn’t think too much about it,” said Shaikh. Last rung of the ladder According to the 2011 Census, 54 million or nearly 5% people living in India migrated to their present state of residence from some other state. A quarter of them, or about 13 million people, migrated for economic reasons such as work, employment or business. More than half of these 13 million migrated out of just three states – Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Rajasthan. More than half went to four states – Maharashtra, Delhi, Gujarat and Karnataka, primary driven to urban clusters such as Mumbai, Ahmedabad and Bengaluru.Starved of economic opportunities, workers make their way through formal, informal, family and clan networks into a variety of jobs on the economic and social hierarchy: a private security guard at the top and a construction labourer at the bottom. Millions of women work as labourers, domestic help, cooks and cleaners. They are at particular risk of Covid-19 because they live in cramped quarters. Families often share a room and it is not uncommon for 10-12 men to share one kachha house. “They are at great economic precarity at the hands of contractors. And, there is precarity on both sides. At home, agriculture is risky and there are few economic opportunities. And in the city, there is the threat of recession shock, floods and epidemics,” said Chinmay Tumbe, a faculty member at IIM-Ahmedabad, and author of India Moving: A History of Migration.He pointed out the difference in approach between internal and international migration, the latter being a matter of prestige and national image. “State governments need to do more and with greater coordination,” he added. Better coordination could have saved Mahto and three friends a world of trouble. They took a train from Bengaluru for Latehar but the journey ended in Ranchi on March 21 as the railways cancelled all trains. After staying at a night shelter for two days, they decided to walk. “Whatever money we earned was spent on food. We have nothing left. We will go to our village, where we can at least survive on herbs and vegetables from jungle,” he said. Many migrants have faced harassment from police. Shaikh said his family had to start running to escape the lathis. “A lot of other men were beaten up and forced to kneel down on the side of the road,” he said. Videos and television visuals from across India showed workers being forced to crawl on roads, made to do sit-ups and kneel down on the side of highways. A number of state governments have now set up community kitchens and some states such as Odisha have allowed eateries to open along the highways so that the labourers can get food and water. Some states such as Delhi, Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar have made night shelters operational. Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik and West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee wrote to CMs of other states asking them to assist stranded people. Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot has written to his Gujarat counterpart Vijay Rupani to ensure workers reach the state borders from where they can be taken to their villages.“We are also trying them to convince them not to leave,” said Gujarat deputy chief minister Nitin Patel. Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren has promised that any worker stuck in the state would be cared for by the government. Fear and stigma Returning home has not been pleasant for Bhajaman Nayak. A resident of Kumbharapipiliguda village in Kalahandi district of Odisha, Nayak was one of the lucky workers who found a berth on the Alappuzha-Dhanbad Express from Thrissur, where he worked, and returned home a day before the lockdown was imposed on Tuesday.But fear and stigma about the disease wiped out his luck. He was forced to pitch a tent outside the village as local residents barred him from coming within 200 metres of habitation. “Our only scare is that we can be bitten by snakes. Some of us guard against snakes in night,” he said. In many other villages, migrant labourers have been barred from entering and compelled to stay in make-shift quarantine homes. In Haryana’s Hassan village, even the entry of relatives has been banned. “We have sealed the boundaries of the village and people going to fields are only allowed to pass through it,” said Pratap Singh, village head. For women workers, the sudden migration has brought forth a loss of income, safety and the added burden of unpaid work. “I earned more than my husband as a help. I was saving up to buy a cycle, but now I fear I will cooking and cleaning for the family and not earn,” said Pinki, Shaikh’s wife. “But it is alright if we are saved from this disease.”It is Thursday evening, and Lal and his group of eight still have several hours of walking ahead. They are tired, but continue with only short breaks. “If we go at this pace and determination, we will reach home Friday morning,” said Kandhai Lal.(with inputs from Vijdan Mohammad Kawoosa)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/caught-in-the-middle-of-an-epidemic/story-kJhANZhDiU7SkU5OYUKJbO.html
27-03-2020||India||US Senate passes $2 trillion bill to help families affected due to Covid-19 outbreak||The US Senate on Wednesday passed a massive $2 trillion emergency relief bill to help American families, businesses and the economy battered by the coronavirus outbreak that has killed over 1,000 people, and shut down large parts of the country. It is the largest stimulus package ever.The legislation was passed 96-0 in the 100-member Republican-controlled House in a sign of the enormity of the crisis facing the country. A record 3.3 million Americans applied for jobless benefits last week, according to new data released on Thursday. The legislation now goes to the Democratic-controlled House of Representatives for a debate and vote scheduled for Friday. President Donald Trump has said he is ready to sign the bill and welcomed the vote, noting the bipartisan support for it. “96-0 in the United States Senate. Congratulations AMERICA,” he wrote on Twitter.“A fight has arrived on our shores,” Mitch McConnell, the leader of the Republican-led Senate said. “We did not seek it. We did not want it. But now, we are going to win it.”The relief package includes a one-time $1,200 payment for adults and $500 for children for an estimated 150 million households. It ramps up unemployment benefits to $600 a week for four months, sets aside $350 billion in loans for small businesses, and $500 billion for corporations, which had become one of the sticking points for Democrats and they had pressed for more transparency and accountability in the disbursements. The legislation also sets aside $150 billion for state governments and cities. States like New York have been hit hard. New York will get $4 billion.The relief package was put together by Senate negotiators from both parties and a White House team led by Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin over five days of talks ending early Wednesday morning. The Senate moved swiftly to vote it through just hours after on Thursday.The House Democratic leadership has said they will put it up for consideration on Friday. They had earlier planned to pass it by unanimous consent, which is a process that can be blocked by any lawmaker, without a floor vote. But now they have scheduled a debate and voice vote, blaming Republicans. “Republicans have told us that is not possible from their side [to pass it by unanimous consent],” House Speaker Nancy Pelosi told reporters. “This is a $2 trillion bill, I would like to see a good debate on the floor.”Some Republicans have reservations about the unemployment benefits, which they have argued are higher than wages in some states and could, therefore, incentivise people to not look for work. “This bill pays you more not to work than if you were working,” said Lindsey Graham, a Republican senator. Some House Republicans share that view.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-senate-passes-2-trillion-rescue-package/story-0npr0cmGWKDHqvyC4noKvI.html
27-03-2020||India||Corona Kavach: Mobile app to warn of contact with positive cases coming soon||The Indian government is launching a mobile application named Corona Kavach or ‘Corona Shield’, which will act as a preventive tool to contain the spread of global pandemic coronavirus in the country, by identifying and alerting its users who might have come in contact with an infected person. The application is ready for download in Android-based smartphones and a version for Apple users (IOS platform) is in the works. The app is presently under beta testing.The application is being developed by the ministry of electronics and could be ready for release soon.The prime minister had recently offered to share such a virus tracking software with member nations of the SAARC grouping that comprises of India’s eight immediate neighbours of Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Afghanistan, Bhutan, Nepal, Maldives and Bangladesh.Corona Kavach, as the name suggests, will use the location tracking aspect of mobile technology to chart the recent locations visited by any user and if any of those locations match with the location data of positive cases of Covid-19, then it will trigger an alert following which the necessary protocols will kick-in, an abplive.com report said.The government has fed in the data of all positive cases into the application and it will also help the government agencies track any possible breaches of quarantine by positive or suspected cases.The app will, however, take care to not reveal the identity of positive cases or of suspects in order to safeguard their privacy and prevent any stigmatisation.Efforts are on to make the app available in several regional languages apart from Hindi and English.This app is said to be part of government’s efforts to limit the spread of the viral disease to the next stage by checking community transmissions by keeping a watch on its spread using the location of its users.The Corona Kavach will have colour coding to indicate the status of users, said the report. It will flash different colours to indicate if a person has never come in contact with a positive case, been in close proximity of a positive case and if has been declared positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/corona-kavach-mobile-app-to-warn-of-contact-with-positive-cases-coming-soon/story-SzWURBn95woslyVCKiZPtI.html
27-03-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Shops of essential items can run 24x7 in Delhi, mohalla clinics to stay open||To ensure people do not crowd shops to stock up their supplies and are able to practise social distancing, Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal on Thursday announced that all stores selling essential items will be allowed to remain open round the clock in Delhi. “There will be no restriction on e-commerce companies and we have drawn up a list of those which will be allowed to operate. All SDMs and ADMs have been directed to ensure that shops selling essential items in Delhi are open and their stocks are sufficient. More importantly, we are allowing shops selling essential items to remain open 24x7,” said Baijal in a digital press conference with chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday. Baijal said keeping shops open at all hours will be optional; shopkeepers can decide whether they would like to do so. To this, Kejriwal later added that some factories catering to production of masks, sanitisers and so on will also be allowed to operate 24x7 and no additional license will be needed. Essential items include milk, medical items, vegetables and other items of daily need. The decisions were taken in a review meeting chaired by the L-G with the chief minister, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia and all revenue officials of the city. Dispelling rumours that all mohalla clinics in Delhi are going to be shut after a doctor in one such facility tested positive for coronavirus (Covid-19), Kejriwal said that the government has not taken such a decision.“There is a rumour that we are shutting all mohalla clinics in Delhi. This is not true. They will remain open. At such a time when the nation is fighting an epidemic disease, such clinics are all the more important,” he said. “It is unfortunate that a doctor of one such clinic, his wife and daughter have tested positive for coronavirus. We are taking care of it. Testing centres have increased in the city,” the chief minister said. Kejriwal urged the Delhi Police to allow movement of those working with the essential services. “If a milkman is on his way to deliver milk, but has no e-pass, curfew pass or ID, I request the Delhi Police to allow him and other such genuine cases to go through,” he said. The Delhi government since Wednesday started issuing e-passes to those working with essential services to facilitate their movement within and outside the city.Praveen Khandelwal, Secretary General, Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT), welcomed the move. “It’s a much-needed step at this time of unprecedented crisis as it will facilitate more and more people to procure their daily requirements and essential goods. However, since the shops will be working in night also, adequate security arrangements will have to be made by the police and the government to avoid any untoward incident. “On the other hand, issuance of passes to traders dealing in essential commodities and their employees should be facilitated by a separate window so that such traders may resume work as early as possible and Wholesalers may also refill the goods with retailers,” he said. The news came as a relief for consumers who were running out of supplies.“It is a great move as now I hope people won’t rush at one particular time (morning or evening) to the general stores and vegetable shops. So, now we can stagger our visits to such shops,” said Prabir Kumar, a resident of Mayur Vihar phase 1.Suman Devi of Hauz Khas, however, hoped the grocery shops near her home actually keep their stores open at night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shops-of-essential-items-can-run-24x7-in-delhi-mohalla-clinics-to-stay-open/story-sQuEJJd8yxbQz6mzOGH9TP.html
27-03-2020||India||India extends international passenger flight ban till April 14||Aviation regulator Directorate General of Civil aviation (DGCA) on Thursday extended the ban on international commercial passenger flights to India till April 14, 2020 as part of the efforts to check the spread of coronavirus in the country. “It has been decided that all scheduled international commercial passenger services shall remain closed till 1830 hrs GMT of April 14, 2020. However, this restriction will not apply to international all-cargo operations and flights specifically approved by DGCA,” it said in a circular.This implies that international commercial passenger flights will be able to operate from April 15, 12 am IST. The DGCA had earlier suspended all international commercial passenger operations till March, 29. Domestic commercial passenger operations however, continue to remain suspended till March 31 as of now. Following the DGCA’s latest circular, low cost carrier- GoAir announced suspension of both- domestic and international flights till April 14. The airline stated, “GoAir has temporarily suspended all its flights until 14th April 2020 to-and-from Ahmedabad, Aizawl, Bagdogra, Bengaluru, Bhubaneswar, Chandigarh, Chennai, Delhi, Goa, Guwahati, Hyderabad, Indore, Jaipur, Jammu, Kochi, Kolkata, Kannur, Leh, Lucknow, Mumbai, Nagpur, Patna, Port Blair, Pune, Ranchi, Srinagar and Varanasi, as well as international destinations namely Phuket, Male, Muscat, Abu Dhabi, Dubai, Bangkok, Kuwait, and Dammam.”The airline also announced that it will protect all the PNRs for customers who booked themselves to travel between March 26, 2020 to April 14, 2020 as part of the “Protect Your PNR” scheme, wherein customers will be able to reschedule their flights up to April 15, 2021 using the same PNR. “Customers can redeem their ticket (booked between March 1 2020 and April 15, 2020 on ANY GoAir flight on any date between April 15, 2020 and April 15, 201 with no charges being levied (fare difference may be applicable),” the airline said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-extends-international-passenger-flight-ban-till-april-14/story-4gr4VxFaiZ5cu0Cjrc4ShN.html
27-03-2020||India||Covid-19: PM Modi directs ministries to scale production of medical equipment||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has asked government ministries to find innovative ways of using their resources to set up manufacturing of medical equipment like ventilators and scaling up their production.The cabinet meeting chaired by the PM on Wednesday discussed ways of using state-owned facilities and production units for boosting manufacture and supply of medical equipment and setting up quarantine facilities. The railways is mulling using its vast pool of coaches to be converted to isolation wards. It has already begun work on using locomotive production units to manufacture ventilators and other medical equipment. “There is a plan to use vast pool of non-AC coaches for setting up isolation wards and about 20,000 such coaches had been identified for the same. Railways has also begun production of masks, sanitisers and other supplies,” a railway ministry official said. Indian Railways has also been tasked with using its large manufacturing and locomotive production units and workshops for manufacturing essential medical equipment such as ventilators, hospital beds, and stretchers, among others, on a war-footing. The national carrier has issued directions to production units - the Integral Coach Factory in Chennai and Diesel Loco Works in Varanasi - among others. The Railway Board has asked production units and workshops to assess the feasibility to manufacture these items in large quantities, as may be required, at a short notice. Ministries like defence and the heavy industries and public enterprises have also been asked to utilise their resources for ramping up production of medical gear. Defence ministry’s production units like R&D organization the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) are exploring collaborations with private companies for production of ventilators. The Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) too have been tasked with production of medical supply. State owned aerospace and defence company Bharat Electronics Limited has also been engaged in manufacturing of ventilators. The ministry of heavy industries has reached out to automobile manufacturers for utilising their manufacturing facilities for production of ventilators. The ministry has written to automakers seeking their help to aid the government.“We are working on an automated version of the Bag Valve Mask ventilator (commonly known as Ambu bag). We hope to have a proto ready in three days for approval. Once proven this design will be made available to all for manufacturing,” Pawan Goenka, managing director of Mahindra and Mahindra Limited, said. The availability of ventilators will be a key determinant in India’s success to keep the mortality rate of Covid-19 patients down, should community transmission sets in. India needs around 2.1 ventilators per 10,000 patients to battle the Covid-19 outbreak, according to medical experts. On March 21, a panel of senior scientists cleared an industry proposal to ramp up production of ventilators in the country to minimise shortages in the context of an increasing number of people testing positive for the Sar-CoV-2 virus, which causes the Covid-19 infection.The textile ministry has also pointed towards the shortage of body coveralls and N-95 masks for healthcare staff. An emergency control room has also been setup by the ministry to monitor production and supply of medical textiles including N-95 mask, body coveralls and melt-blown fabric.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-pm-modi-directs-ministries-to-scale-production-of-medical-equipment/story-gKgZxcaaZEzD8ZGhnt2j6J.html
27-03-2020||India||Panic buying, lack of transport leads to shortage of drugs in Bengal stores||Panic buying and lack of transport coupled with restrictions on movement of people has led to a shortage of medicines in Kolkata and large parts of Bengal despite adequate stocks in warehouses and sufficient production.“On the one hand, people are buying more medicines than what they require while on the other, distributors are not able to despatch supplies to retailers on time,” said Sumanta Dutta, owner of Lifeline, a drug store at Ballygunge in south Kolkata, who is working with only one out of four employees.“Three of my men are not coming for work because of the lockdown,” he said. “Distributors are taking three to four days to supply medicines simply because of the lack of transport and special identity cards that will allow their men to get through police checkpoints,” said Dutta.A medicine wholesaler, too, blamed the restrictions for the shortage.“Drug and pharmaceutical manufacturers have enough medicines in stock. The main problem is restriction on air and land transport,” said Jaideep Sarkar, a wholesaler at Burrabazar, the hub of Kolkata’s drug trade.The state government had intervened on Wednesday to assure that suppliers of essential services will be allowed to move and that may improve the shortage situation, said another stake holder.“After Mamata Banerjee announced on Wednesday that we can use passes for people involved in essential services, we have started issuing authorisation letters,” said Tarak Nath Tripathi, general secretary of Entally Market Traders’ Welfare Association in central Kolkata.“Hopefully retailers will be able to get over this crisis triggered by panic buying,” said Amiya Samanta, a medicine shop owner in Burdwan town in East Burdwan district.“Once the passes are issued, people and vehicles carrying medicines can move freely,” a senior Kolkata Police official said on the condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/panic-buying-lack-of-transport-leads-to-shortage-of-drugs-in-bengal-stores/story-QwRqd5Q6yWuo4Ud3JWyT5J.html
27-03-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Borders shut, migrant workers look for refuge in shelter homes||“I can understand the reason behind the lockdown but why could the government not plan it keeping in mind the condition of the most vulnerable ones?” asked 33-year-old Dileep Ranjan, as he washed a stainless steel plate after having his lunch at a government-run shelter home in southeast Delhi’s Sarai Kale Khan on Wednesday.The shelter is for the city’s homeless but is currently being inhabited by Ranjan and other daily wage labourers who have no jobs because of the 21-day national lockdown. With rail and interstate bus services suspended, these labourers – most of them migrants – can neither return to their villages and towns, nor afford to pay for their food and shelter without work.Over the last two days, hundreds of them have either crossed the Delhi border on foot with their families or been left stranded at bus terminals and railway stations.“First, the Prime Minister sought one day from us. Nobody resisted. Then the chief minister of Delhi announced a lockdown till March 31, that made people anxious about their earnings. And now a lockdown of 21 days. How shall we survive?” said Iliyas Hussain, a labourer from Bareily in Uttar Pradesh, who is staying at a government-run centre in Yamuna Bazar.Hussain wished the government had provided a few trains. Another labourer in the shelter, Naresh Kumar interjected, saying, “But train journeys would be risky too. What if there was an infected passenger? All others would be infected too. Who would look after our families then?”The argument left other temporary inhabitants of the shelter baffled. They were already concerned about food and shelter but no communication with their families has added to their anxieties.“Most of us are prepaid mobile subscribers and have run out of balance. We have no means to recharge our phones too,” said Ajmal Ali, a migrant from Murshidabad in West Bengal.Vimal Rai, a member of the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB), which operates the shelters, said: “Around 16,000 homeless people live in the shelter homes of Delhi. Over the last two days, around 7,000 people have arrived. Most of them are daily wage labourers. The city has 234 shelter homes.”As more people poured in looking out for meals, food shortage had surfaced in several shelter homes, separate caretakers, who are employed with the DUSIB and work at its respective shelter homes. HT.Each meal consists of rice served either with vegetable stew or dal. There is no cap on the number of servings per person.According to the 2011 Census data on migration, Delhi has the second-highest population of interstate migrants in India, more than 63 lakh (after Maharashtra), which is 40% of the city’s population. Around two-thirds of them are from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Haryana, Jharkhand and Uttarakhand.In terms of absolute numbers, daily wage labourers in the city, which is also referred to as the unorganised workforce, would amount to at least 1.5 million, said Animesh Das, a doctor by profession and a trade union leader who was part of Delhi government’s board that was set up in 2019 to fix minimum wages.Rakhi Sehgal, a Delhi-based labour rights activist and researcher, said, “Daily wager labourer is too generic a term and it also includes the self-employed ones – rickshaw pullers, hand-cart vendors, etc. It is difficult to imagine where would these people go in case of a lockdown. Most of them do not have the privilege of self-isolation and neither can they head back home.”With Prime Minister Narendra Modi clarifying that the current lockdown is to be treated no less than a “curfew”, the police have started to ensure that the streets of the city are out of bounds for regular inhabitants. “The police beat is up last evening while we were looking out for a bus to head back home. Why are we being treated like criminals? It is a health emergency, we understand. But the authorities too must know that we are the ones who enable the city to function,” said 19-year-old Rajesh, a migrant from Darbhanga in Bihar.The largest chunk of daily wage labourers in Delhi, several experts opined, is in the construction sector. On Tuesday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced a one-time subsistence allowance of Rs 5,000 for the ones enrolled with the Delhi Building and Other Construction Workers’ Welfare Board, which has around 3 lakh enrolled members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/borders-shut-migrant-workers-look-for-refuge-in-shelter-homes/story-GeWYvZA95BmXAQIsq8WUvI.html
