28-03-2020||India||Man walks 200km to Agra, dies of heart attack on way to MP village||A 38-year-old man who set out on foot from Delhi to his home in Morena in Madhya Pradesh collapsed and died on Saturday morning after walking nearly 200kms in nearly three days, according to police officials who said the cause of death was a heart attack possibly brought on by the exertion.The death is the first recorded fatality among the tens of thousands – some estimates put the numbers into six digits – of migrant workers walking back to their villages for food and shelter after losing work in metropolitan cities during the three-week lockdown put in place to stem the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The man was identified as Ranveer Singh, who delivered food orders for a restaurant in south Delhi’s Tughlakabad, said Agra district police chief Babloo Kumar. “Singh and two others from Delhi were walking to Morena. On reaching Agra on Saturday morning, he complained of chest pain and collapsed,” the senior police officer said. The village they were heading to was another 100km from where Singh died.An autopsy later identified the cause of death as myocardial infarction – the medical term for a heart attack. “The heart attack was probably caused because of exertion in walking to Agra from Delhi. The post-mortem was conducted on Saturday and body was handed over to family members who turned up from the village,” said Arvind Kumar, the Station House Officer of Sikandra police station. The incident brings into focus the unforeseen problems now emerging after the government took the drastic step to shut down most of the country, leaving only a few exceptions meant to keep essential services and utilities running. Food delivery at restaurants have been covered by the list of exceptions but most establishments such as the one Singh worked at have not been functioning since availability of raw material and staff has been constrained due to the strict rules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-walks-200km-to-agra-dies-of-heart-attack-on-way-to-mp-village/story-Qx3JtxGza1ZF7h9L7N7TQI.html
28-03-2020||India||Two new Covid-19 cases detected in West Bengal, state tally touches 17||Two fresh Covid-19 cases have been detected in West Bengal taking the total number of positive coronavirus cases in the state to 17.Test results of at least 22 patients, who are presently quarantined in various hospitals, were still awaited till reports last came in. Till date only one person, a 57-year-old man, has died.“Two women have tested positive for coronavirus on Saturday. While one is a 76-year-old, another is 56 years old. They are from an extended family. The duo came in touch with a previously identified Covid-19 patient, who is presently undergoing treatment in a private hospital in Kolkata. The duo was also in hospital quarantine over the past few days,” a top official of the state health department said.More than 35,000 people were kept under home and hospital quarantine in the state till Saturday. Till Friday, the number of people quarantined was around 25,000. At least 68 new patients were admitted in various hospitals on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-new-covid-19-cases-detected-in-west-bengal-state-tally-touches-17/story-uJsbySffNpOppw4MbVYJxN.html
28-03-2020||India||Three fresh Covid-19 cases detected in West Bengal, all are women||Three more fresh Covid-19 cases were detected in West Bengal on Saturday taking the total number of positive coronavirus cases in the state to 18, said a state official.Test Results of at least 22 patients, who are presently quarantined in various hospitals, were still awaited till reports last came in. Till date only one person, a 57-year-old man, has died in the state.Two of the three women who tested positive on Saturday were from an extended family. While one is 76-year-old, another is 56-year-old. The duo came in touch with a previously identified Covid-19 patient, who is presently undergoing treatment in a private hospital in Kolkata.“The duo was also in hospital quarantine over the past few days,” said a top official of the state health department.The third woman identified with the disease late Saturday evening was a resident of a north Bengal district. Further details of the case were awaited.More than 35,000 people were under home and hospital quarantine in the state till Saturday. Till Friday the number of people quarantined was around 25,000. At least 68 fresh patients were admitted in various hospitals on Saturday.Click Here for Latest Reports on Coronavirus||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-fresh-covid-19-cases-detected-in-west-bengal-all-are-women/story-eopQm7vNqnvBm3bq4v8h5I.html
28-03-2020||India||Two paramilitary personnel test positive for Covid-19, trigger concerns||A Border Security Force (BSF) officer and a Jawan of Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) tested positive on Saturday in the first instance of infections among the security forces, raising concerns in the government circles, said officials.The 57-year-old BSF second-in-command rank officer is posted at Tekanpur (Gwalior), the academy of the border guarding force, and he seems to have picked up the infection from a family member who recently returned from the United Kingdom, one of the officials cited above said.He and his family members have been put in quarantine at a local hospital and at least two dozen officers/jawans, believed to have come in contact with him are being identified and tested.The CISF head constable was admitted earlier this week in a hospital in Mumbai after he showed symptoms of the disease. His test came out positive following which he has been shifted to another hospital dedicated to coronavirus patients in Mumbai.Officials said that all his colleagues, family members and seniors at Mumbai airport are being checked and all facilities where he went in the last two weeks are being sanitized.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-paramilitary-personnel-test-positive-for-covid-19-trigger-concerns/story-4zq35FnaL297nLcfziKwXN.html
28-03-2020||India||Yogi orders 1 lakh people who entered UP in last 3 days to be quarantined||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday asked officers to ensure compulsory quarantine of about one lakh people, who returned to the state in the past three days.The chief minister, who has been supervising the implementation of the Corona Action Plan and worked with officers on Friday night to provide transport to workers in transit from other states, gave these directions at a review meeting here on Saturday.“We have asked all the district magistrates to ensure that the workers returning to UP from other states are quarantined at home compulsorily. Local authorities have been told to put up a notice at the residence of the person to be quarantined or at the gates of their respective housing society. Village pradhans in about 60,000 village panchayats have been sensitised by the chief minister’s office and they are also informed about the persons to be quarantined,” said principal secretary, medical and health, Amit Mohan Prasad.Adityanath also asked officers to strengthen the supply chain of food grains, vegetables and milk and to ensure that correct rates are displayed to check black-marketing of essential commodities during the lockdown. He said food should be provided through community kitchens to the poor, labourers and homeless by seeking cooperation from NGOs and religious organisations.Adityanath said the appointment of nodal officers for some states had shown positive results. He said the state government would appoint nodal officers for all the remaining states.All the necessary equipment/material needed for treatment of patients and to contain the coronavirus must be bought, he said.Adityanath added that medical and sanitization services in Ghaziabad and Noida must be strengthened. He urged the people to stay back at the places of their work during the lockdown period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yogi-orders-1-lakh-people-who-entered-up-in-last-3-days-to-be-quarantined/story-8TRLVPwArDBMgRengetlXK.html
28-03-2020||India||Covid-19 shock to lives, livelihoods the biggest in a century: McKinsey||The six sectors hit hardest by shutdowns and disruptions due to the Covid-19 pandemic may not see a restart until 2021, an analysis by the global consultants McKinsey has said.The consultancy group said the aerospace/defence industry and the air/travel industry will take the longest to recover and could well stretch into the first half of next year. But it won’t be easy for others either. The economic shock of coronavirus would be huge. In the US, it said, the impact could exceed anything seen since the end of World War II.“Nothing is going to be the same. This is a new normal, a different way of operating,” McKinsey global managing partner Kevin Sneader told news channel CNBC. “I think for our clients, they’re worried about their employees, their customers, and cash—in that order. And they are worried about cash,” he said. The shock to our lives and livelihoods from the virus-suppression efforts could be the biggest in nearly a century. In Europe and in the United States, the required ‘lockdowns’ of the population and other efforts to control the virus are likely to lead to the largest quarterly decline in economic activity since 1933. In a series of reports outlining the challenges and road ahead for countries and companies, the group called for action across five stages from the crisis to the new normal that will emerge after the battle against coronavirus has been won: Resolve, Resilience, Return, Reimagination, and Reform.“It may take years to recover from production and supply chain stoppages, due to critical vendors located in areas impacted by the virus. Long order backlogs mitigate some concerns, though rapid adoption of remote work technologies may put a dent in high-profitability business travel,” the report noted.The group has also cautioned companies against only looking at the short term. Immediate and effective response is vital but the longer-term dimensions are even more critical. Recession may set in. The disruption of the current outbreak is shifting industry structures. Credit markets may seize up, in spite of stimulus. Supply-chain resilience will be at a premium, the consultancy group said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-shock-to-lives-livelihoods-the-biggest-in-a-century-mckinsey/story-4aaLqdRHCWJNuqpzIUcAZK.html
28-03-2020||India||Uttarakhand man enters porcupine burrow to hunt, dies||A case of a man dying in a porcupine burrow after he got stuck in it, has come to light in a remote forest area of Uttarakhand.The incident occurred in Kanda area of Bageshwar district where a man entered a burrow for hunting porcupine but got stuck in it and lost his life. His body was recovered after three days of efforts by police and State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) on Saturday evening, an official said.“It took us three days to recover the deceased’s body since he had entered more than 30-meter deep into the burrow. We pressed in JCB to dig the burrow since it is rocky and as such it took time. Finally, we recovered the body on Saturday noon,” said Mainpal Singh, tehsildar, Kanda Bageshwar.Five residents of Danuthal village of Kanda tehsil, 45 km from Bageshwar district headquarters, had gone to the forest area on Wednesday for hunting a porcupine. They lit grass to smoke it out from the deep burrow and covered it with a stone, villagers said.Next morning, on Thursday they returned to the spot and one of them crawled into the burrow to recover the porcupine but didn’t come out. His two companions-- Harish Ram and Ramesh Ram—too, entered the burrow to check but got stuck following which, the villagers pulled them out.When they couldn’t reach the first person who had entered the burrow, the villagers informed the local administration, following which police and SDRF teams rushed to the spot. No recovery could be made on Thursday and even on Friday when a JCB was first pressed into service to dig the rocky terrain.On Saturday, search operation resumed and finally around noontime, the man’s body was recovered. He was identified as Jiwan Ram, 42, of Danuthal village.“Police have sent deceased’s body to Bageshwar for post mortem and authorities have been informed about the incident,” said tehsildar .“Danuthal is a remote area of the Bageshwar and its villagers are poor and have no livelihood to earn. Most of them are daily wager, We are writing to administration for financial help to deceased’s family,” said Pankaj Dasila, a social activist of Kanda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-man-enters-porcupine-burrow-to-hunt-dies/story-6LkYEDx3KvzdjYa1SMrhqM.html
28-03-2020||India||Contributions pour in as India fights Covid-19||On the day Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a new contributory fund for emergencies and invited citizens to make donations, several public and private entities came forward with generous contributions to India’s fight against coronavirus. Here’s a list of some notable contributions to different funds announced on SaturdayTata Sons and Tata Trusts jointly announced Rs 1,500 crore. While Tata Trusts committed Rs 500 crore, Tata Sons announced another Rs 1,000 crore support.Supreme Court Judge Justice N V Ramana donated Rs one lakh each to the Prime Minister Relief Fund and chief ministers relief funds of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana.BJP leader Jyotiraditya Scindia announced Rs 30 lakh donation to the Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister’s Relief FundBollywood actor Akshay Kumar donated Rs 25 crore to PM CARES Fund, that was announced on SaturdayBJP announced that all its 386 MPs will donate Rs 1 crore from their MPLADS fund to the Central Relief Fund. Party president JP Nadda said in addition all party MPs and MLAs will also donate their one month salary to the fund.Former BJP MLAs from Jammu and Kashmir said they will donate one-month salary to the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund (PMNRF)Telangana Governor Tamilisai Soundarajan donated one month’s salary to Chief Minister’s Relief Fund and handed over a cheque of Rs.3.5 lakh to the Principal Secretary, Disaster Management.The Union Grants Commission (UGC) announced that its staff will contribute one day’s salary to the Prime Minister National Relief Fund.Geological Survey of India asked all the employees to contribute one day’s salary to the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund (PMNRF), said a news agency.Uttarakhand Police’s gazetted rank officers decided to contribute two days’ salary and non-gazetted ranks decided to donate one day’s salary, an agency reported.The Railway Board urged all railway employees to donate one day’s salary to the prime ministers relief fund.ime Minister Narendra Modi announced a new contributory fund for emergencies and invited citizens to make donations, several public and private entities came forward with generous contributions to India’s fight against coronavirus. Here’s a list of some notable contributions to different funds announced on SaturdayTata Sons and Tata Trusts jointly announced Rs 1,500 crore. While Tata Trusts committed Rs 500 crore, Tata Sons announced another Rs 1,000 crore support.Supreme Court Judge Justice N V Ramana donated Rs one lakh each to the Prime Minister Relief Fund and chief ministers relief funds of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana.BJP leader Jyotiraditya Scindia announced Rs 30 lakh donation to the Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister’s Relief Fund.Bollywood actor Akshay Kumar donated Rs 25 crore to PM CARES Fund, that was announced on Saturday.BJP announced that all its 386 MPs will donate Rs 1 crore from their MPLADS fund to the Central Relief Fund. Party president JP Nadda said in addition all party MPs and MLAs will also donate their one month salary to the fund.Former BJP MLAs from Jammu and Kashmir said they will donate one-month salary to the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund (PMNRF)Telangana Governor Tamilisai Soundarajan donated one month’s salary to Chief Minister’s Relief Fund and handed over a cheque of Rs.3.5 lakh to the Principal Secretary, Disaster Management.The Union Grants Commission (UGC) announced that its staff will contribute one day’s salary to the Prime Minister National Relief Fund.Geological Survey of India asked all the employees to contribute one day’s salary to the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund (PMNRF), said a news agency.Uttarakhand Police’s gazetted rank officers decided to contribute two days’ salary and non-gazetted ranks decided to donate one day’s salary, an agency reported.The Railway Board urged all railway employees to donate one day’s salary to the prime ministers relief fund.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/contributions-pour-in-as-india-fights-covid-19/story-K3ERxPvLMo0Kpy0elZWwGN.html
28-03-2020||India||Covid-19: UP ramps up evacuation of worker from Delhi NCR||The Delhi-Uttar Pradesh (UP) border saw an uptick in reverse migration to the country’s most populous state on Saturday morning, as hundreds of workers continued their march back home after their livelihood options dried up and savings were exhausted amid the 21-day nationwide lockdown that started since Wednesday to tackle the spread of the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) outbreak. The UP State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) authorities have been ferrying the migrants to their destinations from Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar districts, which share borders with Delhi. The Uttar Pradesh government had made arrangement of about 1000 buses to ferry migrant workers. Ghaziabad’s sub divisional magistrate Devendra Pal on Saturday night said that an estimated 400-500 buses had left ISBT Kaushambi but figures of buses leaving Lal Kuan were not readily available.The officials of UPSRTC’s Ghaziabad region said that till Friday midnight they had sent about 96 buses and were arranging more to help the migrants reach their respective destinations.“ We have sent 79 buses till 11.30 am on Saturday to various destinations in UP such as Lucknow, Etawah, Bareilly, Etah, Aligarh and Gorakhpur apart from nearby places. We will continue sending buses till all the stranded workers are sent home. Bus services have resumed from ISBT [Inter State Bus Terminus] Kaushambi,” said AK Singh, regional manager of UPSRTC.“We sent 96 buses from Lal Kuan intersection till Friday night and more buses are being arranged from other depots. We had arranged 200 buses on Friday but police stopped some of them because of orders that people should stay put at their respective places due to the lockdown. However, on late Friday night we received orders to resume services,” he added.The movement of migrant workers started on Tuesday (March 24) after Prime Minister Narendra Modi ordered a nationwide lockdown because of the Covid-19 outbreak.“The movement of migrant workers is in thousands and an estimated of about 40000-50000 were lined up on Delhi-UP border on Saturday evening. they are still coming in large numbers. The social distancing is openly flouted as the workers are in a hurry to catch the first bus to their hometowns,” said VK Mittal, president of Kaushambi apartments’ RWA, an apex body of Kaushambi Township.Migrant workers such as Mohammad Fakhruddin, who came to Lal Kuan in Ghaziabad from Tank Road in central Delhi’s Karol Bagh, said that he was waiting for his bus to arrive.“I have to go to Badaun, my hometown. Another 10 people will be travelling with me. I work for a garment-manufacturing unit, which makes denim jeans. However, our work has stopped due to the lockdown. The landlord is asking for rent and I have no money to pay. My family members and I have decided to move back to our hometown until the crisis blows over. We came to Lal Kuan by a UP Roadways bus. From ISBT Kaushambi, we will board another bus that will drop us at Badaun,” he added.Ghaziabad district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey denied that the migrants were stopped at Delhi-UP borders. “Nobody has been stopped at the Delhi-UP borders,” he said.Those who had come to catch the buses from Lal Kuan even complained that some private vehicle owners were charging very high amount.“Some private vehicles are also available but they told me that I have to shell out Rs 1000 for a drop to my hometown. Likewise they are charging different exorbitant amounts for other areas like Etah, Lucknow, Aligarh etc. Many are also taking help of mini trucks, commercial trucks, milkvans and other commercial vehicles at the risk of their safety. The trains are also not available. As a result people have no option to wait for UP government buses and pay normal fare,” said Atul Kumar, a cell centre employee travellng to his hometown Etawah from Noida The police can be seen extending a helping hand to the workers to reach their destinations.“It’s a massive crisis for these poor people. They started coming in groups of 25 to 30 and were walking towards Hapur, Moradabad, etc. We have helped many of them board empty trucks and other commercial vehicles, as they could be dropped off near their hometowns,” said a police officer. Good samaritans such as Ram Sundar Maurya are also helping the workers and busy distributing cooked food to them near Masuri on national highway (NH)-9.“The workers have started coming again. We are preparing about 300 boxes of food items for them. We helped about 300 workers to board their respective buses on Friday evening,” Maurya said. In Gautam Budh Nagar, the UPSRTC has provided about 200 buses to help stranded migrant workers go home.“These buses are leaving after every two hours from 8 am on Saturday. We will run the service for the next 48 hours,” said Sankalp Sharma, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), Noida. He said all district and administrative authorities have been instructed to allow these buses to travel on a priority basis.“We have also requested that the passengers be provided with food and medical facilities The buses will drop the passengers at different inter-state border points in UP. The passengers can avail of the transportation facilities being provided by the state governments of their respective native states,” he added.The DCP said that all the district magistrates (DMs) have been requested to record the details of the buses reaching their respective districts on Saturday and Sunday.“The DMs have been asked to make arrangements for the medical screening of all the passengers at their destination points, maintaining their full details, including names, addresses, and mobile numbers. It will help us in monitoring and supervision of these passengers at a later stage,” Sharma added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-up-ramps-up-evacuation-of-worker-from-delhi-ncr/story-sTn0hjjePHCgHDyYoZdJ5K.html
28-03-2020||India||Why alarm bells started ringing after a Kerala politician got Covid-19||The Idukki district Congress secretary AP Usman posted an unusual apology on Facebook on Friday. Tested positive for the Sars-CoV 2 virus two days ago, he made frantic calls asking all those he came in contact with since the first week of March to go into quarantine immediately. What was perplexing was that Usman had no recent foreign travel history, and none of his relatives or close associates had returned from another country in the past several weeks. A social worker by profession, he had participated in several events, including a statewide yatra of the party’s trade union wing. He had also visited the state assembly, stayed at the MLA quarters, and attended prayers in many mosques. Hundreds of people, including two legislators and an MP, went under self-quarantine after his post went viral.Till today, the source of his infection is unclear. Which prompts the question, is this a case of community transmission? “At that time, in early March, there were not many restrictions. I have no idea how I got the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Being a politician, I used to travel a lot. I had a word with the Idukki district collector H Dineshan and he agreed that I should divulge my identity in order to prevent the infection from spreading,” said Usman. He said that when his symptoms -- sore throat and mild flu -- first appeared, he dismissed them as nothing significant. He got worried once the shivering began.“That I tested positive was a shock to my friends and family. More than the disease, I was worried that as a carrier I would have transmitted the virus to many. All the more, I was pained at chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s statement that I spread it from one tip of the state to the other,” said Usman. State opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala also criticised the CM for the statement, saying that given the circumstances, “it can happen to anyone”.“Our life has totally changed. All family members are literally holed up. What is a relief is that local people who know us for many years do not show any aversion or stigma towards us. We have heard bitter stories about this (in other cases). We will come out of this,” said one of Usman’s family member who asked not to be named. Idukki district administration said it was cumbersome to prepare the flowchart to track the people Usman came in touch with. “We have prepared a list of his major contacts we feel it is not complete,” said district collector H Dineshan, adding his contacts may run into thousands. He said Usman’s main contacts have been quarantined, and more than 500 people are under observation. But it’s still not clear who Usman got the virus from.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-alarm-bells-started-ringing-after-a-kerala-social-worker-got-covid-19/story-a00qa1WfCmDgjgYJod3D3O.html
28-03-2020||India||‘We need to remain alive, only then will groceries be needed’||Pankhuri Awasthy, last seen in the latest hit, ‘Shubh Mangal Zyada Savdhaan’, feels that the ongoing lockdown period has given all enough time to introspect on our work, responsibilities and lives.“Weird it is! There was a time when we all wanted time to stay at home with our families and say no to work. But now when we have this break, we all want to go out. This is human nature that whatever is taken away we just want that back irrespective of what all is lost because of that. It surprises me to see how reluctant we humans are when it comes to be understanding,” she said.Describing how she is spending her time in quarantine, the beautiful actor said, “Life is going on and I have no qualms about anything. I am binge-watching all the series, shows that I couldn’t earlier. Like, ‘Games of Thrones’ is a series that I always wanted to watch but with so many of its seasons to complete, I kept postponing it. Now I am watching marathon ‘GOT’ run at home.”The Lucknow lass known for shows like ‘Razia Sultan’, ‘Kya Qusoor Hai Amala Ka’, married actor Gautam Rode in 2018 and the couple has been on a working spree till now. “Yes, since we got married, we got very little or simply no time to be together, as when I got married, I was working on a project and had to start another after my wedding. So now, we are making the most of it. We are talking about other things. With no maid allowed, we both are also sharing household chores.”Awasthy also misses her native city as her family is here in Lucknow. “My parents and brothers, along with their families, are in Lucknow in this crucial time. Somewhere, I am absolutely at peace because my parents are not alone but at the same time, I miss being with them as I know all of them must be bonding and relaxing together. Though I video-chat with them every day but not being able to reach them is a little sad. Earlier, when I could travel, shoots kept me away from Lucknow, and when all work is on hold, there are no means to travel and reach home. It is ironical.”The nationwide lockdown has halted work in almost every industry. TV and the film industry are no different. “After ‘Shubh Mangal...’ I was now going to start reading scripts for more projects and all was lined up for April but it has all got postponed now. Hopefully, we will be able to restart work from May. Till then, I think we all need to follow government guidelines like others and do what is required of being a responsible citizen: that is stay at home and maintain social distancing. Also, I would like to mention that first of all we need to remain alive. It’s only then that grocery items will be needed. I don’t understand the reason for panic-buying. I want all to understand the need of the hour.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/we-need-to-remain-alive-only-then-will-groceries-be-needed/story-UOd1peBSPpT0I4KXsFMMBJ.html
28-03-2020||India||Coronavirus Lockdown: Rahul Gandhi tweets video of migrant exodus, slams govt||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted a video showing the continuing exodus of migrant workers on Saturday and attacked the government for its alleged failure to anticipate and prepare for this contingency. “Out of work & facing an uncertain future, millions of our brothers & sisters across India are struggling to find their way back home. It’s shameful that we’ve allowed any Indian citizen to be treated this way & that the Govt had no contingency plans in place for this exodus,” Rahul’s tweet said.The video highlights a crisis the government is currently dealing with as massive crowds of migrant workers gathered at Delhi-UP border search for a transport home, and in the process, are effectively negating the measures of social distancing and defeating the purpose of the nationwide lockdown.Both Uttar Pradesh and Delhi governments have attempted to control the situation by announcing special buses to carry migrants to their respective destinations.While UP announced a 1,000 buses, Delhi said it had arranged for a 100 buses for the purpose. Several instances of buses overloaded with migrants have been reported, triggering fears that it may spread the infections.The Central and state governments have taken several steps to resolve the situation including arranging for community kitchens, night shelters and rent-free stay at their current accommodation to encourage the most vulnerable workforce to stay where they are.The mass exodus started soon after the nation went into a three-week-long lockdown starting Tuesday midnight, raising concerns that the COVID-19 outbreak could turn into a humanitarian crisis.Click Here for Latest Reports on Coronavirus||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-lockdown-rahul-gandhi-tweets-video-of-migrant-exodus-slams-govt/story-guwAzFzsuwvLPBqlG7zXcP.html
28-03-2020||India||Covid-19: Woman told to self-quarantine takes Delhi-Kolkata Rajdhani; tests positive||A 29-year-old woman who was asked to stay quarantined at home violated the instructions and took two trains from New Delhi to reach Tehatta, about 170 kilometres north of Kolkata. She has tested positive for Covid-19, along with her six-year-old son and nine-month-old daughter, a 45-year-old relative and her 11-year-old son. The family allegedly socialised and went to the local market too.What has complicated matters is that the people who came in contact with the family are refusing to admit it. The district administration has appealed to the locals to voluntarily disclose whether they came in contact with the family without which the disease could spread in Bengal.“Not many people are admitting that they came in touch with the family. This could aggravate matters,” said a senior district official. The 29-year-old woman is a resident of Uttarakhand and her 45-year-old relative is a resident of Delhi.According to a senior health official of Nadia district in West Bengal, the woman had on March 16 met her cousin in New Delhi who had returned from UK, following which she was advised by the Delhi administration to stay in home quarantine. However, she took the Delhi-Sealdah Rajdhani Express on March 19, reached Kolkata on March 20 and took a passenger train to reach Tehatta in Nadia district.Her children were with her. She was accompanied by another relative. These five people travelled together and all of them have tested positive for Covid-19 on March 27.Her male cousin, who had returned from UK, was admitted at a hospital in New Delhi from March 19 with symptoms of the novel coronavirus and tested positive on March 20.They travelled from Sealdah to Tehatta in a passenger train in an unreserved compartment. After de-boarding from the train, they took an auto-rickshaw. Over the next two-three days, they also socialised and went to the local markets. “They have come in contact with so many people that it is extremely difficult to track all of them,” said Asit Kumar Dian, chief medical officer of health, Nadia district.The five people were at their relative’s place in Tehatta between March 20 and 24, until being hospitalised after reporting symptoms.“We are appealing to people to voluntarily tell us if they have come in contact with any of these five,” Dian said.A number of their relatives living at Tehatta have been isolated and their blood samples have been sent for tests. The results are awaited.A senior health department staff said many of their neighbours at Tehatta took the nine-month-old baby in their lap.Ajay Chakraborty, director of health services, expressed his grievances at not being informed by the Delhi Police about the 29-year-old’s violation of quarantine.“Delhi should have informed us. The woman was asked to stay in isolation and the administration in Delhi must have had all the information related to her. How could she come here without those responsible for her whereabouts knowing anything?” Chakraborty asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-of-family-who-tested-positive-for-covid-19-travelled-in-2-trains-socialized-and-went-shopping/story-KF1kUJPTpY3tR4rqZAAq2N.html
28-03-2020||India||Torn between penury and pandemic, trouble mounts for migrant workers from Bihar||From Maharashtra to Tamil Nadu and Gujarat to closer home on the borders of Uttar Pradesh, migrant workers from Bihar continue to remain anxious, torn between a disease that dictates they stay where they are and economic and emotional compulsions, which are pushing them to return home.This, in turn, has sparked contrasting political responses — with the Bihar government seeking to help people at the border of the state, as other, including opposition party leaders, make personal interventions and appeal for more active government help. Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, for his part, is concerned about the possibility of workers bringing the virus back to their villages, due to the decision of state governments to arrange their transport. Ram Kumar Mandal is a labourer in Mumbai from Bihar. He has lost his livelihood, and is worried about his family back home. He is with a group of 23 other migrant workers from the state, struggling with what to do next.“We have no food and no money. We are sitting idle. We cannot get back home and we don’t know how long we can survive like this without any work and money,” said Mandal, adding the labour contractor who had brought them to Mumbai had also switched off his phone.The huge population of migrant labourers from Bihar, who have got stranded across the country due to lockdown in view of Coronavirus pandemic, are making desperate calls for support. Many have begun searching for ways to return home, using whatever they can, be it cycle, a cart or rickshaw, or just walking.Many students studying in Delhi University or other institutions in the national capital from Bihar are also struggling.“Many of the students live in Delhi by giving private tuition to pursue their studies. They live in rented accommodations and now face a dual problem – their academic work is affected and they are struggling to meet their monthly expenses,” said Rajesh Jha, executive committee member of DU.At the Uttar Pradesh-Bihar border, in a key crossing, the Bihar government has opened shelter homes with free food and lodging facilities. It is also arranging free transport to their respective home districts after their health check-up.Following the inflow of migrant labourers on the National Highway- 2 (GT Road) from UP, the administration in the bordering Bihar district of Kaimur opened a special check post at a toll point near the border. A magistrate, police force and a doctor with paramedical staff were deputed round the clock for screening the visitors.Migrant labourers, originally from different districts in Jharkhand and hilly areas of south-west Bihar, and working in UP and other northern and western states, are using this route to return. It is also used by health patients from Bihar’s Rohtas and Aurangabad districts to travel to specialised medical facilities at Varanasi, Lucknow and Delhi.Two shelter homes have been opened in Mohania and Bhabua. After the health check up at the border and provision of food and rest at the shelter points, the administration is arranging vehicles to send workers to their respective districts free of cost, district magistrate, Kaimur, Nawal Kishor Chaudhary said.The Bihar disaster management department (DMD) has also set up relief camps and community kitchen, as it did during floods, at schools and colleges in Gardanibagh of Patna, and in some other districts, to provide meals free of cost to the poor, including labourers, affected by the lockdown, said principal secretary Pratyaya Amrit.Chief minister Nitish Kumar, in the meantime, has expressed his reservations on the UP government’s decision to run special buses to ferry migrants from Ghaziabad-Noida. “This may provide relief to migrants but on the flip side if anybody among them is a carrier, it will spell further trouble,” said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/torn-between-penury-and-pandemic-trouble-mounts-for-migrant-workers-from-bihar/story-mUloUrWjIra6NzgXTvoCwM.html
28-03-2020||India||Centre asks states to use disaster funds to give food, shelter to migrant workers||The Centre on Saturday asked the states and Union territories to provide all possible support to migrant workers while authorising them to use the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) for their temporary accommodation, food, clothing and medical care amid the three-week countrywide lockdown imposed to halt the spread of the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic.Migrant workers have been among the hardest hit because of the lockdown and many of them have been prompted to undertake long journeys to their homes on foot in absence of public transport, work and means to sustain themselves.The SDRF was constituted under the National Disaster Management Act (NDMA) in 2005 and is the primary fund available with state governments for disasters like cyclones, droughts, earthquakes, fires, floods, hailstorm etc. The Centre contributes 75% to the SDRF for general category states and Union territories and 90% for those under special category--the North-Eastern states, Sikkim, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir. The annual central contribution is released in two equal instalments.In its directive, the Centre has said the SDRF can be used as per section 3 (a) related to relief measures listed under it and the National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF). The section provides for relief in case of a calamity for 30 days. In case of continuation of a calamity, this period may be extended first up to 60, and later to 90 days. Subsequently, medical care can be provided from the National Rural Health Mission funds, the Centre said.For 2019-20, the Centre has released around Rs 10,343 crore to 29 states as SDRF, according to official data. Around Rs 14,108 crore has been given to eight states, including Rajasthan, Odisha, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka, under the NDRF.A Press Information Bureau statement said the states have been advised to give wide publicity, using public address systems, technology, services of volunteers and non-governmental organizations, to precise information on the locations of the relief camps and the facilities being made available.Home minister Amit Shah said the “government has committed all support to migrant workers” who are returning to their states or trying to do so during the lockdown period.The states have been advised to set up relief camps along the highways and tented accommodations to ensure that the workers stay there till the lockdown orders are in place.“The shelters are to be organised, keeping in view various precautions including social distancing, with adequate medical checkup drives to identify and separate cases requiring quarantine or hospitalisation,” the statement said.Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari has separately instructed the National Highways Authority of India and toll booth operators to provide food, water etc to migrant workers. “At this time of crisis, we have to be compassionate to our fellow citizens.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-asks-states-to-use-disaster-funds-to-give-food-shelter-to-migrant-workers/story-SeFrOSGi21SYzxMtPOPfwL.html
28-03-2020||India||Coronavirus Outbreak: Biggest single-day jump in Jammu and Kashmir, 13 test positive||Twelve more tested positive for coronavirus in Jammu and Kashmir, taking the number of positive cases to 33, officials said on Saturday.On Friday, six people had tested positive including four in Srinagar and two in Rajouri district. The number of cases testing positive on Saturday is the highest in the Union Territory for a single day. Meanwhile, the J&K government declared five villages in Rajouri as ‘red zones’ after two people who had participated in a religious gathering tested positive.J&K government spokesman Rohit Kansal tweeted about the new positive cases in Kashmir.“Hardly do I finish my press briefing - 28 cases- that I get more unpleasant news -5 new positive cases- 2 in Srinagar, 3 in Jammu- all contacts of previously positive ones; All Jammu cases asymptomatic. We are at 33 now,” government spokesman Rohit Kansal said in a tweet.Earlier, in a video briefing, Kansal had confirmed that eight persons had tested positive for COVID 19 on Saturday.“Five cases had a history of contact with already positive cases of the religious congregation while the other three had travel history outside J&K,” he said.Former J&K chief minister, Omar Abdullah who was released recently after more than eight months also expressed concern over the growing number of positive cases.“The number of positive #COVIDー19 cases in J&K is going up but it’s not too late to #FlattenTheCurve. All we have to do is follow the guidelines to maintain #SocialDistanacing & #StayAtHomeAndStaySafe. Please disclose your travel history & contacts to the authorities,” Omar tweeted on social media.Most of the positive cases are contacts of a 65-year-old religious preacher from Srinagar who died on Thursday and another infected person who tested positive last week after returning from abroad.So far 5763 travellers and persons in contact with suspected cases have been put under surveillance. Meanwhile, all six samples tested in Ladakh were reported to be negative. From the past seven days, not a single positive case has been reported in Ladakh where 13 people had tested positive for coronavirus, two out of the infected have already recovered from the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-outbreak-biggest-single-day-jump-in-jammu-and-kashmir-7-test-positive-in-srinagar/story-iBPFWGn5zPG0Ggrk2KGhuI.html
28-03-2020||India||Amid spike in coronavirus cases, India boosts capacity for tougher challenges ahead||Amid looming fears of coronavirus infection entering the community transmission stage, India is boosting its overall health infrastructure by initiating measures like designating dedicated hospitals for affected patients in states, ramping up procurement of ventilators and mobilising resources of Railways and armed forces to deal with any eventuality.As of now, the country reported 918 coronavirus cases and 19 deaths.Even though the Health Ministry and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) have been insisting that there is “no solid evidence” of community transmission so far, the government has started scaling up health infrastructure to deal with any situation.India is under a 21-day lockdown from Tuesday midnight as part of efforts to check spread of coronavirus.In an urgent communication, the Centre has asked all states to earmark hospitals only for treating COVID-19 patients and ramp up their capacity to manage increasing number of cases. At least 17 states have started work on it.The armed forces are keeping ready 28 service hospitals to provide treatment to COVID-19 patients apart from five hospitals which are carrying laboratory tests for the infection.Defence public sector undertaking Bharat Electronics Limited has been tasked with manufacturing ventilators while premier defence research laboratory DRDO is producing protective gears for medical personnel and supplying hand sanitisers and face masks to various agencies involved in patient care.On Friday, the government granted emergency financial powers to Army corps and divisional commanders to procure equipment to set up medical and quarantine facilities for affected people.On its part, the railways has manufactured a prototype of an isolation ward for treating coronavirus patients by converting non-air-conditioned train coaches. Once the best practices were finalised in the next few days, each railway zone would manufacture a rake with 10 coaches every week, the national transporter said.Doctors at leading hospitals on Friday expressed fear that India ran the risk of seeing the viral transmission in stage three of infection if the lockdown and quarantine norms were not diligently complied with.As part of its preparation to deal with large volume of cases, the Centre has also directed the states to keep some beds reserved for creating isolation facilities in public and private hospitals and ensuring that stable patients are discharged as early as possible.The health ministry has already asked hospitals and medical education institutions to procure sufficient number of ventilators and high-flow oxygen masks to be prepared for any possible influx of patients.The AIIMS has set up a task force to develop management protocol for COVID-19 and has constituted several committees to be able to respond to challenges which may come across in coming days due to the rising infection, officials said.The Centre has also asked hospitals to postpone all non-essential surgeries. In Delhi, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said, the spread of COVID-19 is “quite under control” in the city and asserted that even if novel coronavirus cases go up to 100 per day in Delhi, arrangements are in place to tackle the situation.Addressing a digital press conference, he said that a five-member panel of doctors, headed by S K Sarin, had submitted its report, prescribing the standard operating procedure for dealing with a situation involving 100, 500 and up to 1,000 new coronavirus patients per day.Sarin is the head of the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS).Private hospitals too have ramped up their facilities and creating focussed team to handle any surge of patients in future.Dr Sandeep Budhiraja, group medical director, Max Healthcare, said, “This is worse than a World War situation. And, we are in it together.” He said, Max group has planned a three-pronged strategy to “meet the worse scenario” in future, in case the situation befalls on India.“We are creating a designated facility at our Greater Noida hospital only for COVID-19 patients. It has 200 beds, 40 ICU beds and 160 wards. This will be solely for coronavirus patients,” Budhiraja told PTI.Besides, at three hospital units, one each in north, south and east Delhi -- BLK Hospital, Max Saket and Max Patparganj respectively -- there are segregated wards for suspected patients of coronavirus, he said.“Slowly, we are moving our non-COVID patients in phases from the three units, just in case God forbid, we enter into large-scale community transmission stage which is when there will be a huge surge of coronavirus patients,” he said, adding, these three facilities will then become also designated hospitals.But, this will happen in the planned three phases and currently “we are in phase one of our plan”, Budhiraja said.Dr Prathap C Reddy, chairman of Apollo Hospitals Group said, “We are fighting a war not just for this generation but also for the generations to come.” On March 26, the group launched Project Kavach, a response plan that is a comprehensive approach that encompasses all aspects from information, screening and assessment, testing, to readying the infrastructure for quarantine and treatment.The project will bring together all the resources of Apollo Hospitals to fight for the people of the country against this pandemic, a spokesperson of the group said.She said the group will soon be launching “Project Stay I”, an innovative strategy to create medical rooms in hotels or hostels with light medical supervision for quarantine and creating a barrier before people come into the hospitals.“These medical rooms will be rolled out in the following cities - Chennai, Mumbai, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Bengaluru and Delhi, starting with approximately 50 in each city, going up by 50 rooms every three days, to reach an eventual target of 5000 rooms across the country. These will be calibrated as per the need,” the spokesperson said.The importance of up-scaling the infrastructure is to be prepared in a scenario where each virus loaded patient can infect up to 4-5 people, the Apollo group said.Health ministry officials said only five per cent of the total affected patients require critical care as they go on respiratory failure and need to put on ventilators while rest recover with supportive treatment.To address the shortage of ventilators in the country, Joint Secretary in the Ministry of Health Lav Agarwal on Friday said that an order has been placed for 10,000 ventilators in addition to earlier order of 1,200 ventilators.Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL) has been asked to supply 30,000 additional ventilators in one-two months to address the shortage of ventilators in the country.Dr Giridhar Gyani, convenor of a task force on COVID-19 hospitals , said there are few cases which are not known to have link with foreign travel or direct contact of anybody who had travelled abroad.“If such cases come in large number then we take it as beginning of community spread. In that sense though we are not in stage 3 but it would be better that we do all our preparations,” he said.“Luckily till today the increase in number of cases is pure arithmetic and things are under control while in community spread it goes geometrically or exponentially,” the official said.He said effective implementation of the lockdown will help India arrest the further spread of the infection and government is fully prepared to meet any level of crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-spike-in-coronavirus-cases-india-boosts-capacity-for-tougher-challenges-ahead/story-k5yrH1AOgRD5qwCYfSbpKI.html
28-03-2020||India||BJP MPs to donate Rs 1 crore each from constituency development fund||The Bhartiya Janta Party MPs will contribute Rs 1 crore from their development funds to the central relief fund to help mop up resources in the fight against coronavirus, BJP president JP Nadda announced on Saturday.BJP’s decision to contribute to the relief fund through its MPs came around the same time when the Prime Minister announced setting up of a PM CARES fund to fight disasters such as the one triggered by Covid-19 outbreak. This fund will be made up of contributions by willing citizens.BJP MP’s contributions through MPLADS funds could collectively raise Rs 386 crore, since the party currently has 386 MPs in total including 303 in Lok Sabha and 83 in the Rajya Sabha.Every MP is given Rs 5 crore every year for the development of their respective constituencies.The BJP president said that in addition, all party MPs and MLAs will also donate their one month salary towards the central relief fund.“All MPs & MLAs of Bharatiya Janata Party will donate their one month remuneration/salary to the central relief fund to support the fight against Covid19. All MPs of BJP will release Rs 1 crore from their MPLADS fund to the central relief fund in support to fight against Covid-19,” Nadda’s tweet said.The BJP president has also asked party workers in different states to oversee the relief work. The party has pledged to feed 5 crore poor people every day during the 21-day lockdown.Contributions to aid the country’s fight against coronavirus are coming in thick and fast with Tata Trust’s announcement to donate Rs 500 crore to assist health workers and for disease testing efforts being the most notable. The Union Grants Commission also announced that its staff will contribute one day’s salary to the Prime Minister National Relief Fund. The central body also appealed to vice-chancellors of universities and principals of colleges to urge their teaching & non-teaching colleagues to contribute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-mps-to-donate-rs-1-crore-each-from-constituency-development-fund/story-2ZW52j8Retx6cItGLeSynK.html
28-03-2020||India||Uttarakhand man enters porcupine burrow to hunt, dies after getting stuck||A hunting trip to catch a porcupine cost a man his life after he got stuck in its burrow in a remote forest area of Uttarakhand’s Bageshwar district.The incident occurred in Kanda area. The man’s body was recovered after three days of efforts by police and State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) around noon on Saturday, an official said.“It took us three days to retrieve the deceased’s body since he had entered more than 30-metre deep into the burrow. We pressed an excavator to dig the burrow since it rocky and as such it took time. Finally on we recovered the body on Saturday noon,” said Mainpal Singh, tehsildar, Kanda Bageshwar.Five persons, residents of Danuthal village of Kanda tehsil, 45 km from Bageshwar district headquarters had gone to the forest area on Wednesday for hunting a porcupine. They had lit grass to smoke out a porcupine from the deep burrow and covered it with a stone, villagers said.Next morning, they reached the spot and one of them crawled into the burrow to extricate thee porcupine but didn’t return. Two of his companions - Harish Ram and Ramesh Ram - entered the burrow to look for him. They too got stuck after some distance but were pulled out by other villagers when they raised an alarm. When they couldn’t locate the first person who had entered burrow, the villagers informed the local administration, following which police and SDRF teams rushed to the spot but they couldn’t recover anything on Thursday. On Friday, a n excavator was pressed into service to dig the burrow since it was rocky and difficulty terrain.On Saturday, search operation resumed again and finally around noon the man’s body was recovered. He was identified as Jiwan Ram 42 of Danuthal village.“Police have sent deceased’s body to Bageshwar for post mortem and authorities have been informed about the incident,” said the tehsildar.“Danuthal is remote area of the Bageshwar and its villagers are poor and have no livelihood to earn. Most of them are daily wager, We are writing to administration for financial help to deceased’s family,” said Pankaj Dasila, a social activist of Kanda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-man-enters-porcupine-burrow-to-hunt-dies-after-getting-stuck/story-w74vh2sEWcmcXCD3KDZANO.html
28-03-2020||India||PM CARES fund launched in fight against Covid-19, India asked to donate||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday announced the creation of a new fund to assist and offer relief to citizens in an emergency situation as the magnitude of the crisis due to the outbreak of coronavirus unfolds. The fund has been named PM-CARES or Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations Fund, and PM Modi invited countrymen from all sections to donate to it in a series of tweets.“People from all walks of life expressed their desire to donate to India’s war against COVID-19. Respecting that spirit, the Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations Fund has been constituted. This will go a long way in creating a healthier India,” Prime minister’s first tweet said.PM added that the PM-CARES Fund accepts micro-donations too and that was meant to further strengthen disaster management capacities and encourage research on protecting citizens.“Let us leave no stone unturned to make India healthier and more prosperous for our future generations,” he tweeted.Bollywood actor Akshay Kumar was among the first to announce a donation to the fund. PM tagged his tweet where he pledged Rs 25 crore to the cause.A release from the Press Information Bureau of the government of India said it was done in response to “spontaneous and innumerable requests” for making generous donations to support the government in the wake of the emergency triggered by the coronavirus pandemic.It outlined the main purpose of the fund as building capacities for emergency response, infrastructure and institutional capacity reconstruction/enhancement and the use of new technology and advance research findings to mitigate the impact of disasters.“Keeping in mind the need for having a dedicated national fund with the primary objective of dealing with any kind of emergency or distress situation, like posed by the COVID-19 pandemic, and to provide relief to the affected, a public charitable trust under the name of ‘Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations Fund’ (PM CARES Fund)’ has been set up,” the release added. Prime Minister has been made the Chairman of this trust and its members include the Defence Minister, Home Minister and Finance Minister, it said.Citizens and organisations can go to the website pmindia.gov.in and donate to PM CARES Fund using following details:Name of the Account: PM CARES Account Number: 2121PM20202 IFSC Code: SBIN0000691 SWIFT Code: SBININBB104 Name of Bank & Branch: State Bank of India, New Delhi Main Branch UPI ID: pmcares@sbiFollowing modes of payments are available on the website pmindia.gov.inDebit Cards and Credit CardsInternet BankingUPI (BHIM, PhonePe, Amazon Pay, Google Pay, PayTM, Mobikwik, etc.)RTGS/NEFTDonations to this fund will be exempted from income tax under section 80(G)..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-cares-fund-launched-in-fight-against-covid-19-india-asked-to-donate/story-YEJiTssTt2gYWDd8LBCZNI.html
28-03-2020||India||J-K govt sets up helpline for its residents in Delhi stranded by lockdown||The Jammu and Kashmir government has set up a 24-hour helpline in the J and K Resident Commissioner’s office in New Delhi to address issues faced by residents of the Union Territory (UT) stranded in the national capital because of the lockdown to contain the spread of the coronavirus pandemic, an official spokesperson said.Additional Secretary, Rimpy Ohri is supervising the overall functioning of the helpline centre. Three numbers have been dedicated for the purpose. Jammu and Kashmir residents facing any issue due to lockdown may contact helpline numbers 011-24611210, 011-24611108 and 011-24615475, the spokesperson said.Follow coronavirus live updates here.The Resident Commissioner’s office has facilitated the return of hundreds of students from across the country to the Union Territory. It has also facilitated the stay of several others at various dedicated hotels in Delhi, the spokesperson said. Jammu and Kashmir has so far reported cases 27 of infection. One person has died in Kashmir while another has recovered.The number of people positive testing positive for coronavirus has continued to rise aggressively and is now close to 900 in the entire country. The government is hoping that the 21-day lockdown could help break the chain of transmission in the country, In Himachal Pradesh, sores of migrant workers from Kashmir who work as porters are stranded because of the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-govt-sets-up-helpline-for-its-residents-in-delhi-stranded-by-lockdown/story-sbDeWaNOKQPxTDreC05hkL.html
28-03-2020||India||Lockdown only way out; police will be humane||Rajasthan has had 54 cases and two deaths due to the coronavirus pandemic. In a telephonic interview, state chief minister Ashok Gehlot spoke to Hindustan Times about the efforts in place and implications of the lockdown: Q: You were the first chief minister to order a complete state-wide lockdown. Why?A: We saw across the world wherever lockdown was announced, the situation came under control. That alerted us. It was a hard decision but we had to go for it. Q: How are you reaching out to the workers of Rajasthan who are stuck in other states? A: So far, two hundred thousand workers have returned from different states. Now that the Centre has now decided to allow the migrant workers to go to their respective states, hopefully all of them will return. I have also written letters to chief ministers of different states requesting them to provide food, shelter and medical care to those from Rajasthan stranded there. I have told the CMs that we will bear the expenditure incurred on them and have also apprised them that we are taking good care of people from other states stranded in Rajasthan.Q: How are you planning to deal with the situation in Bhilwara, which has emerged as a hotspot with two deaths and 21 cases?A: We have imposed curfew and declared Bhilwara as a zero mobility area. Our teams are working round the clock in the area. We have also conducted a survey of over 5.33 lakh people in 1.06 lakh households. As many as 6,445 people have been home-quarantined and 50 are in isolation at government and private medical facilities. We have acquired hotels, resorts, hostels and dharamshalas in the town to set up over 1,500 quarantine beds and 14,400 normal beds to meet any emergency situation. Besides, a 24-hour screening centre has also been established. A team of 1,500 health workers and 2,400 police personnel is currently undertaking the huge screening exercise to trace cases in Bhilwara.Q: You spoke to the Prime Minister on Friday. Did you seek any help from the central government?A: I apprised him of the steps taken by the state government to contain the pandemic. I requested for ventilators and personal protection equipment (PPE) for doctors and health workers. The Prime Minister assured me of all help. I also spoke with home minister Amit Shah and sought central help in dealing with the crisis.Q: What steps are you taking to ensure people don’t face shortage of essentials and medicines?A: It is our commitment that nobody sleeps hungry in Rajasthan and it is our duty to wipe all tears. We have also requested every family in Rajasthan to make extra food for those who cannot afford. This is the time to share and take care of the underprivileged. On our part, we are constantly reviewing measures taken to provide food and medicines to the poor in villages and cities and to old age homes, orphanages, shelter homes and all homes for the deprived and destitute. We have allowed home delivery services by e-commerce portals and our officials but it will take time to put in place an appropriate system for this.Q: There are reports of police atrocities during the lockdown. Have you given directions to the police to deal with the situation appropriately?A: We have asked the police to be humane in their approach and ensure that people do not face any inconvenience in getting food and medicines, but at the same time, it is imperative for them to strictly implement the restrictions during the lockdown period. Those coming out of their homes are putting at risk the lives of others.. If necessary, we will conduct an army drill as well. Our priority is to save lives.Q: Are we in for an extended period of lockdown?A: Nobody can answer this at this time, neither the Prime Minister nor a Chief Minister. Much depends on how far we are able to contain the spread of the coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-only-way-out-police-will-be-humane/story-cxQrvvNe2bHURGrHgobreN.html
28-03-2020||India||Govt finalises relief measures for power sector as demand slumps to new low||The union government has finalized a slew of relief measures for the sector including three months moratorium on Distribution Companies (DISCOMs) to make payment to Generating Companies (Gencos) and transmission and no penalty on late payment. The power sector has seen a slump of nearly 30% in demand as a direct impact of no commercial activity following the lockdown due to Covid19 outbreak. These measures include a three-month moratorium on Discoms making payment to generating companies (Gencos) and transmission, and no penalty on late payment. The ministry is also working to ensure to ensure adequate supply of coal to prevent a possible disruption in electricity supply. Union power minister RK Singh said the ministry is committed to ensure 24×7 electricity supply during lockdown. “Despite the lockdown imposed to contain the spread of the COVID 19 pandemic, the whole workforce of the power sector — generation, transmission, distribution and system operations — is working round the clock to keep all homes and establishments lit,” Singh said. The ministry has issued directions that, till May 30, the payment security mechanism to be maintained by the Discoms with the Gencos for dispatch of power will be reduced by 50%. Directions have been issued by the ministry to the Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (CERC) to provide a moratorium of three months to Discoms to make payments to generating companies and transmission licensees, and not to levy penal rates of late payment surcharge. State Governments are being requested to issue similar directions to State Electricity Regulatory Commissions. The lockdown has affected consumer payment of their dues to the Discoms. This has affected the liquidity position of the Discoms, thereby impairing their ability to pay to the generating and transmission companies. To address the liquidity problems of the Discoms, Singh has directed Generation/ Transmission Companies to continue supply/transmission of electricity even to Discoms which have large outstanding dues. “During the present emergency there will be no curtailment of supply to any DISCOM,” the power ministry has directed. This comes at a time when outstanding dues by discoms stood are currently as high Rs 82,414 crore till February this year. “Even the Gencos would need support through some fiscal stimulus as they were already struggling with low capacity utilisation and mounting debtors from Discoms. Government may have to facilitate interest free working capital loans for Gencos. Else this contagion will spread to fuel suppliers and sustainability of all sector entities will come under question,“ said Debashish Mishra, Partner at Deloitte India,Around 70% of power generation is from coal based power plants. In order to maintain the continuity of supply of coal by domestic coal companies and transportation by railways, the ministry is in touch with the ministries of railways and coal. Union coal minister Pralhad Joshi on Saturday said coal supplies are declared as an essential service. In a statement, the coal ministry said all officials have been directed to ensure that critical coal supplies are maintained during the lockdown period due to COVID 19. On an average, more than 22,000 wagons of coal were loaded per day and 1,400 wagons of food grains daily. On March 27, railways carried 20,488 wagons of coal.According to the data available for 134 coal plants across the country there is an average coal stock of 24 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-finalises-immediate-relief-measures-for-power-sector-during-lockdown/story-8b1JIrl7hoFVatmE6YtS4N.html
28-03-2020||India||Patients with chronic illness to get 3 months’ medicines from wellness centres||The Union government has directed wellness centres under the Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS) to take a set of measures, including giving medicines to beneficiaries with chronic diseases for three months at a time, to ensure the clinics are decongested as the country observes a 21-day lockdown due to the coronavirus outbreak. According to a health ministry order dated March 20, beneficiaries who suffer from ailments such as diabetes, hypertension and heart diseases should get their prescribed medicines for three months at a time. This would ensure that they don’t have to visit the centres repeatedly. Normally, medicines under CGHS are provided for one month at a time. “Usually, we give out medicines only for a month but because of Covid-19 we are working on reducing the number of people who come to wellness centre for effective social distancing. So we are providing medicines for up to three months to patients with diabetes and hypertension,” said a staff member from a centre in south Delhi’s Lajpat Nagar.CGHS provides cashless treatment to central government employees – including retired staffers – at their own centres or empanelled hospitals. It also reimburses claims of medical services not provided by its panel of hospitals. There are around 35 lakh beneficiaries across the country.Beneficiaries above the age of 60 or those with low immunity, uncontrolled blood sugar levels or any such illnesses can send another individual to collect medicines on their behalf, the order states. This too will ensure that the elderly and those with pre-existing medical conditions -- who are particularly vulnerable to developing serious illnesses from the coronavirus infection -- don’t have to step out of their homes. At least 873 Covid-19 cases and 19 deaths have been reported across the country as of Saturday evening, according to the Union health ministry, even as a three-week nationwide lockdown is in place till April 14 to contain spread of the highly infectious disease. The government has also allowed people with chronic diseases to buy their medicines from local pharmacies. To do this, they will be reimbursed for the incurred expense and don’t have to provide a ‘non-availability certificate’ from their wellness centre. Reimbursements are usually given only for purchases of medicines that are not available in the wellness centres. The guidelines state that the beneficiaries need not come to the clinics to submit their reimbursement claims as well; they can be submitted to respective ministries or departments directly.Further, they can book consultations online to reduce the waiting period at the clinics.Apart from making sure that people don’t throng the wellness centres, these measures would encourage people not to visit hospitals as the number of Covid-19 cases increase in the country. “Hospitals are preparing for a surge in Covid-19 cases for which routine services are being curtailed. So, the wellness centres and dispensaries are needed to ensure people keep receiving medical consultations and medicines without going to the hospitals. Giving out medicines for longer duration is also effective in decongesting these clinics and dispensaries,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung hospital.The office memorandum from the CGHS director states that leaves of the health care workers from the department – except those on medical leave -- be cancelled as there is already a staffing crunch with several medical officers helping in surveillance efforts for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/patients-with-chronic-illness-to-get-3-months-medicines-from-wellness-centres/story-WqOfRVp4qjOOw9jc4xxOAJ.html
28-03-2020||India||PIB Fact Check junks report that said India is in third stage of Covid-19||The Press Information Bureau fact checking unit PIB Fact Check has been busy fighting fake news and false claims on coronavirus in the past weeks. On Saturday, it dismissed reports on an online news portal that India has entered the third stage of the pandemic as misleading and scaremongering amid a countrywide lockdown to contain the pandemic.“Please don’t fall for report claiming India has entered State 3 – i.e. community transmission of #Covid19. Claims made are misleading and scaremongering. Various measures of social distancing being practised and implemented is crucial to fighting #covid19,” it tweeted. #PIBFactCheck: Please don't fall for report claiming India has entered Stage 3 - i.e community transmission of #Covid19Claims made are misleading and scaremongering.Various measures of social distancing being practiced and implemented is crucial to fighting #covid19 pic.twitter.com/KpTnSVwoS2On March 23, Prime Minister Narendra Modi in an interaction with the electronic media through video conference, had asked television channels to spread scientific reports, involve informed people in their discussions and counter the spread of misinformation and highlight the importance of social distancing in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak.As the coronavirus pandemic expands its footprints in India, PIB Fact Check finds itself in the frontline to debunk false news and misleading claims.The virus has affected almost 900 people in the country with Maharashtra continuing to lead to 159 cases of infection. Nineteen people have died of Covid-19 so far.The Centre is pulling out all the stops to fight the Covid-19 pandemic by drafting in state-owned facilities and production units and private companies to boost manufacture and supply of medical equipment and setting up quarantine facilities.From the Railways to the Defence Research and Development Organisation to Armed Forces and car makers, the government is building up a phalanx tostop the coronavirus pandemic in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pib-fact-check-junks-report-that-said-india-is-in-third-stage-of-covid-19/story-gKyWTKDESqvDeuCvZaadaL.html
28-03-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Govt says India not in stage-3 of coronavirus infections||The government on Saturday said India had registered 149 new coronavirus cases including two deaths since Friday with the total number of positive cases reaching 873, but ruled out the existence of any concrete evidence of the country having progressed to stage-3 of virus transmissions, also defined as the community-transmission phase.The information was given during the central health ministry’s routine briefing on the pandemic on Saturday.“We will not over-interpret the situation unless there is significant evidence of people getting infected,” said Dr R Ganga Ketkar, a senior official with India’s medical research body, ICMR.Also Watch | ‘Enough food for all’: Sisodia tells migrants leaving Delhi amid lockdown In other key information, the government officials added that the country presently had a sufficient number of testing facilities and kits and it was prepared to tackle any dramatic rise in the number of infections.“We are prepared to test an additional 5 lakh people with newly acquired probes, apart from the existing capacity to test 1 lakh people with probes already available in labs. No one should worry about the government’s capacity to test through both private and public test facilities,” Dr Ganga Ketkar said.Replying to questions if the national lockdown, already in its fourth day, was giving the desired results, the officials said it was not possible to analyse the results so soon after the implementation of a preventive measure.“A step taken today will not give results tomorrow,” health ministry’s joint secretary Lav Agarwal said.He added the government was confident that the measures will yield positive results as the interventions were taken timeously, having learned from the experience of other countries.“We went to lockdown when we were getting limited cases of local transmission compared to other countries that went into lockdown much later. With public health expert guiding us, we are confident that we will get good results,” said Agarwal, adding that the country has been “preemptive and graded” in its responseOfficials said rigorous contact-tracing was being done and all patients with severe acute respiratory illness were being tested for the virus but ruled out any need to conduct random sampling at this stage.“Random sampling is not required,” Dr Ketkar said. He also pointed out that only 30% of the exiting 12,000 testing facilities have been used so far.Officials said that elderly people and those suffering from comorbid conditions were at a greater risk as demonstrated through available data.“Comorbid conditions are cardiac condition, asthma, hypertension, diabetes and some kidney-related cases... and elderly people were at a higher risk, we have said that before,” Dr Ketkar said.On the issue of vaccine trials, it was made clear that no vaccine had reached the stage of human trials yet, and the most advanced trials were in the stage of animal trials. Click Here for Latest Reports on Coronavirus||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-upate-govt-says-india-not-in-stage-3-of-coronavirus-infections/story-QuQkM6GyzKd4FyVf7BLl9I.html
28-03-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 5 PM: Covid-19 lockdown chokes farm-to-fork supply, could hit India hard and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion curated for you at 5 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid-19 lockdown chokes farm-to-fork supply, could hit India hardA lockdown to contain the coronavirus pandemic has upended agriculture, the lifeblood of India’s rural economy, breaking down the farm-to-fork supply chain by cutting off farmers from buyers of their produce. Read moreLandlords in Noida can’t force tenants to pay rent for one month, orders district magistrateLandlords in Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Budh Nagar cannot force their tenants to pay rent for the month, the district administration has ordered in an attempt to stop hundreds of migrants from leaving after they were forced out of their jobs amid the nationwide coronavirus lockdown. Read moreCoronavirus: Essential services providers in national capital can apply for e-pass on Delhi Police websiteDelhi Police on Saturday rolled out the provision for essential service providers to obtain their e-passes through its website. Individuals can register and apply for their e-passes on Delhi Police’s website. Read moreAllegation that rich allowed to return without screening ‘preposterous’: CentreThe Centre on Saturday emphasised that India’s response to the coronavirus threat was ‘pre-emptive, pro-active and graded’, dismissing allegations that ‘prosperous Indians’ were allowed to return without screening. Read moreChina sends medical aid to Pakistan via PoK, dispatches team of experts to helpChina on Saturday dispatched an eight-member medical team to Pakistan to help “iron brother” Islamabad cope with the novel coronavirus outbreak in the country, the Chinese foreign ministry announced Saturday afternoon. Read more‘Not a guy to mess around’: Ravi Shastri names the ‘boss’ of Indian cricketThere is often a debate on who runs the show when two high-profile persons take the captain and coach’s position in a cricket team. And when that cricket team is India and the captain and coaches are Virat Kohli and Ravi Shastri, there is bound to be that extra bit of spice to that question. Read moreRishi Kapoor says liquor stores should open every evening: ‘Cops, doctors, civilians need some release’Rishi Kapoor has still not run out of recommendations for the government. After suggesting that Emergency be imposed on the country again, he has now advised that liquor store should open every day for a few hours. Read moreNeena Gupta’s love for floral prints is reason enough to make it your wardrobe stapleSpring is here and we can hear the birds chirping, flowers blooming and fresh scents floating in the air. Yes, all this while the world is gripped with battling the coronavirus pandemic. But even in dark and gloomy times, all we can do is look for hope and positivity. Read moreDelhi govt updates Google Maps with locations for Covid-19 relief centres: Here’s how to access itThe Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has organised over 500 relief centres in Delhi to provide food and shelter amid the Covid-19 lockdown. To make things easier, the AAP has launched a customised Google Maps with the locations of all the relief centres. Read moreKid rushes to doctor dad as he returns from work. What follows next is a display of raw emotionsEach day, doctors, nurses, and other medical workers are braving all odds to fight the coronavirus pandemic. They are not only working long hours and risking infection, but also dealing with the plight of maintaining distance from their loved ones. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5-pm-covid-19-lockdown-chokes-farm-to-fork-supply-could-hit-india-hard-and-all-the-latest-news/story-yiXrIU9B7WkyBwNDHkY3ZI.html
28-03-2020||India||Air India scheduled to operate 14 special cargo flights today||National carrier- Air India has been operating special medical cargo flights from Saturday morning and is scheduled to operate 14 such flights by the end of the day. Airline sources said that the cargo flights are carrying medicines and medical equipment. Air India operated AI 1809 from Mumbai to Delhi at 11am on Saturday, that landed in Delhi at 1.10 pm and AI 1624 that departed from Delhi at 2.30 pm and is due to arrive in Mumbai at 4.40 pm. Both these flights were operated using Boeing B787 aircraft. Another Air India cargo flight that is scheduled to operate in the Delhi-Imphal-Delhi sector will be using Airbus 320 aircraft. Air India’s subsidiary- Alliance Air operated 9I 917 from Delhi to Raipur at 12.30 pm and landed at 3pm, which further took off for Bhubaneswar at 3.30 pm and landed at 4.50 pm. After dropping the cargo, the same flight was scheduled to leave Bhubaneswar at 5.30 pm and land in Delhi by 8.20 pm.Another Alliance Air flight 9I 921 operated from Kolkata in the afternoon and landed in Agartala at 1.05 pm. The same aircraft with flight 9I 921 returned to Kolkata at 2.40 pm. 9I-923 that operated from Mumbai to Pune landed in Pune at 11.40 am and then took off for Raipur to land at 2.30 pm. The same aircraft then took off to return to Mumbai at 3 pm and is expected to land in Mumbai at 5.30 pm. In an attempt to stop the spread of Covid-19, flight operations of all commercial international and domestic passenger sectors have been suspended until 23.59 hrs of April 14. The aviation regulator- Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) has however allowed special flights and offshore helicopters to continue their operations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-scheduled-to-operate-14-special-cargo-flights-today/story-yWhHoTpyawb0LE6TVpEfnN.html
28-03-2020||India||Landlords in Noida can’t force tenants to pay rent for one month, orders district magistrate||Landlords in Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Budh Nagar cannot force their tenants to pay rent for the month, the district administration has ordered in an attempt to stop hundreds of migrants from leaving after they were forced out of their jobs amid the nationwide coronavirus lockdown.The order was issued by BN Singh, the district magistrate, following reports that migrants workers from the district were going back to their villages as they had no money for food and rent.Singh said the order was issued as the movement of migrants can lead to the spread of Covid-19 and it was also important to ensure people have food and roofs over their head.Landlords can ask for rent after a month or even later if the time period is extended keeping the situation in mind. The order has also said migrants include both daily wage workers and employees of companies engaged in providing essential services.“We are expecting that this move will encourage migrants to not leave their houses and the district. We will lodge an FIR against the landlords who will not follow the order. Strict legal action will be taken as per the disaster management act,” Singh said.Under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, a person can be imprisoned up to one year along with a fine and it can reach up to two years if any life or loss of assets takes place following the act of the defaulter.Also read: Food, shelter in government’s aid plan for migrants amid lockdownOfficials have also provided a helpline number—1120-2544700—for tenants to lodge a complaint if they are harassed by their landlord for the payment of rent. Migrant workers in the district said the order has come as a relief. “I live on rent with my family in Shahdara village and we were worried that how are we going to pay the rent on April 1. If the district magistrate’s order is followed then at least we will get some relief,” Maya Rani, who works as a housemaid in a high rise in Noida’s Sector 137, said.Rani’s family is from Madhya Pradesh but they have decided to stay back.Also read: Noida fixes vendors for each sector for home deliveries of essentials amid coronavirus lockdownSachin Bhati, a painter and resident of Shahdara village in Sector 142, said there are many who live in the area and are trying their best to reach their respective villages following the coronavirus outbreak. “This decision of the administration is a relief but it will be great if they arrange vehicles for these people to reach their villages. Migrants really want to go back to their loved ones and home to feel comfortable,” Bhati said.The district administration has also formed committees headed by sub-divisional magistrates to ensure that migrants are getting food and are not harassed by their landlords.“I have been providing food packets to around 5000 migrants every day. There are migrants in every part of the district whom we are trying to reach out to provide food. Many locals have come forward who are providing for these people,” Rajiv Rai, who is responsible for giving food packets to the migrants, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/landlords-in-noida-can-t-force-tenants-to-pay-rent-for-one-month-orders-district-magistrate/story-y2FdwERcGaHNbJrf1pO9WN.html
28-03-2020||India||Goa villages set up roadblocks, stop outsiders to fight Covid-19||Villages across rural Goa have begun voluntarily quarantining themselves by installing roadblocks and barring outsiders from entering the villages in a bid to protect themselves from contracting the Covid-19 disease. At least three villages in rural Goa have blocked roads and stopped all outsiders while relying on what is produced within the village for their sustenance. “We have done this to protect us from the virus. No outsider will be allowed. But if a person from the village faces a medical emergency we will allow them to depart and will remove the roadblocks only in those cases,” Devendra Gaonkar a resident of one such village Velus in Valpoi taluka that lies at the foothills of the Western Ghats, said.“For our daily needs we will rely on what is produced within the village,” Gaonkar said.Similar initiatives have been taken by villages in Sonal also a rural village along the Western Ghats and other villages in the Sattari taluka.Despite a decline in agriculture, non urbanised villages in Goa are largely self sufficient and can not only rely on what is produced within but also help supply towns with local produce.The Goa government has been enforcing a lockdown and has barred the movement of all vehicles excepting government vehicles, vehicles of essential services and their employees. The Goa Chief Minister has asked people not to venture outside their houses fearing that the three patients who were found positive in Goa have passed on the virus to others before they were detected and quarantined. “The patients who have been found positive are 100% healthy. The patient who I was talking about yesterday, he is very fit. The other two are also fine, but this patient is 100% healthy. Even today he can play football. Which is why I’m warning people that those who have come from other countries and have the coronavirus, you will not know. They have hidden their travel history, and the people of Goa are yet to realise the consequences of this disease,” Sawant said. “I foresee a scary scenario. I know what is going to happen. God willing it will not happen. We can use more private hospitals and quarantine centres,” Sawant said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-villages-set-up-roadblocks-stop-outsiders-to-fight-covid-19/story-OWC1vQUdJktxEYLJrBYxBM.html
28-03-2020||India||Coronavirus: Essential services providers in national capital can apply for e-pass on Delhi Police website||Delhi Police on Saturday rolled out the provision for essential service providers to obtain their e-passes through its website. Individuals can register and apply for their e-passes on Delhi Police’s website.“Everyone who deals in essential commodities and does not have a pass yet can now apply online through the Delhi Police website,” Delhi police PRO MS Randhawa said.People can also apply for the passes physically through the Deputy Commissioner of Police’s office.Delhi Police has made it mandatory for essential service providers to show their valid identity proofs to be able to move about the city during the lockdown period. Those who don’t have the valid ID proofs can apply for the “movement pass”.  Everyone who deals in essential commodities and does not have a pass yet can now apply online through the Delhi Police website. People can also apply for the passes physically through the Deputy Commissioner of Police's office: Delhi police PRO MS Randhawa #CoronaLockdown pic.twitter.com/ZJQjTN5fJJThe Delhi government is providing free food and support to people in need of relief amid Covid-19 lockdown. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has organised over 500 relief centres in Delhi to provide food and shelter amid the lockdown. To make things easier, the AAP has launched a customised Google Maps with the locations of all the relief centres.Relief centres span across the city and people can visit these places for lunch (12-3PM) and dinner (6-9PM) everyday. On Friday, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwl said that the administration is equipped to handle 100 Covid-19 cases in a day. The chief minister added that the authorities are now devising a plan and preparing for stage 3 outbreak. “Right now, we are getting three to four positive cases a day. Today, the facilities that we have are enough even if 100 cases are reported each day. We have identified what is needed in scenarios when the numbers go up further and we will start preparing for it,” said Kejriwal, identifying three thresholds for the epidemic’s severity -- 100 cases a day, 500 cases a day and 1,000 cases a day – to sharpen its action plan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-essential-services-providers-in-national-capital-can-apply-for-e-pass-on-delhi-police-website/story-0cewAnr1A628I3LgXgKxQI.html
28-03-2020||India||Sixth Covid-19 cases in Uttarkhand, Dubai returned youth turns positive||A 21-year-old from Dehradun who returned from Dubai on March 18 has confirmed positive for Covid-19 on Saturday, said state officials. “After returning from Dubai the boy started showing symptoms when he was admitted to a hospital in Dehradun. His samples were sent for testing on March 26, which tested positive on Saturday,” said Dr Minakshi Joshi, chief medical officer of Dehradun. The senior health official said the youth has been isolated at his home along with four other members of his family, who have not shown any symptoms yet. On March 25, a 25-year-old man from Kotdwar in Pauri Garhwal district with recent travel history to Spain had become the fifth Covid-19 positive case in the state.Uttarakhand’s first positive coronavirus patient, a trainee Indian Forest Service officer has recovered successfully and was discharged from a government hospital in Dehradun on Friday. He had tested positive on March 15.On March 19, two more trainee IFS officers confirmed positive for the disease in Dehradun. They, too, are on the path of recovery with their first test after treatment showing negative infection.Dr. Dinesh Chauhan, additional chief medical officer of Dehradun said, “The first Covid-19 patient of Uttarakhand, a trainee IFS officer has been discharged and sent to his hostel, but his health condition will still be monitored. Two more trainee IFS officers are also recovering, who will have to take another test within 48hours. If that report is negative, then they will be discharged too.”On March 23, an American tourist was confirmed to be the fourth Covid-19 case in Uttarakhand.Click Here for Latest Reports on Coronavirus||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sixth-covid-19-cases-in-uttarkhand-dubai-returned-youth-turns-positive/story-6VrDdrgm8PDCosK7F3kGzJ.html
28-03-2020||India||Coronavirus: ‘Provide food, support to those returning to native land,’ Nitin Gadkari tells authorities||Minister of Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari on Saturday took to Twitter and said that various authorities in the department have been directed to provide food, water and support to those who are trying to go back to their native places in the wake of the Covid-19 lockdown.“I have advised Chairman NHAI & Highway Concessioners/Toll Operators to consider providing food, water or any kind of support to migrant workers/citizens who are trying to reach to their respective native places,” his tweet read. “At this time of crisis we have to be compassionate for our fellow citizens. I am sure Toll Operators shall respond to this call,” Gadkari said.  I have advised Chairman NHAI and Highway Concessioners/ Toll Operators to consider providing food, water or any kind of support to migrant workers/citizens who are trying to reach to their respective native places.Earlier in the day, former Congress party chief Rahul Gandhi urged the administration and people to provide food and shelter to jobless workers and daily wage earners. Many migrant workers have taken to the roads, walking home to their villages hundreds of kilometres away.“Today, hundreds of our hungry brothers and sisters along with their families have to walk towards their villages. In such grim times whoever can, please help them with food and shelter. I particularly appeal to Congress leaders and workers. Jai Hind,” he tweeted in Hindi.There was some respite for migrant workers from Uttar Pradesh with the State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) continuing to ferry the migrants to their destinations from different border areas of Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar.Officials of UPSRTC’s Ghaziabad region said that till March 27 midnight, they had sent about 96 buses and were arranging more to help the migrants workers reach their destinations like Lucknow, Etawah, Bareilly, Etah, Aligarh and Gorakhpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-provide-food-support-to-those-returning-to-native-land-nitin-gadkari-asks-authorities/story-kSJCmtEIwuoUWsx9hbYl7O.html
28-03-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown chokes farm-to-fork supply, could hit India hard||A lockdown to contain the coronavirus pandemic has upended agriculture, the lifeblood of India’s rural economy, breaking down the farm-to-fork supply chain by cutting off farmers from buyers of their produce. A longer-than-usual supply chain could stoke distress. Thousands of trucks carrying essential commodities are stranded on national highways even though they are officially allowed to ply. Despite the omnibus federal orders that permit them, many transporters haven’t received last-mile permits from local authorities, truckers say. The Union government on March 28 said it would spare agriculture and all activities linked to it from the lockdown. “The exemption was needed much earlier,” Kavitha Kuruganti, a Bangalore-based farm activist, said. Lockdowns have hampered harvesting of crops such as potato. Farmers in states such as Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh, the largest producers of the big winter staple, wheat, wonder how they will reap their ripening fields. The countrywide restrictions were announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 24. Essential supplies have been spared, but these have still been impacted because multiple intermediaries, including manual and semi-skilled workers need to be working to keep supply chains functioning end-to-end.The commerce ministry on Wednesday asked states to keep units manufacturing food and essential items going and allow transport of intermediary goods. Functioning is crippled in hundreds of state-regulated agriculture produce marketing committees or mandis (farm markets). Farm labour is scare and loading of freight has declined. Nearly 400,000 trucks were stranded in various states on day one of the lockdown.Data from the railway ministry suggest that freight loading has dipped from a usual 10,000 cargo rakes per day to just about 3-4,000 now. Nearly 700 million people of the country’s 1.3 billion rely directly or indirectly on an agriculture-derived livelihood. The farm sector contributes 16% to the country’s $2.6 trillion GDP.Given the railways’ massive reach backed by a 65,000-km network, revenue from carriage of agricultural goods is critical for the railways too. India’s rail network—Asia’s largest—transports nearly 23 million people every day but passenger trains have ground to a halt. “Central government orders are not reaching ground-level authorities. Even though orders were issued a day before some movement on essential goods was allowed, thousands of vehicles in transit since the lockdown are stranded,” All-India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC) president Kultaran Singh Aitwal said. The biggest bottleneck is that once trucks carrying essential goods drop off their consignments, they are then stuck as state authorities don’t allow them to go back empty, Aitwal said. This problem of one-way traffic needs immediate resolution, he said. It’s not surprising that online retailers and neighbouhood provision stores too are running low on supplies in many cities. The problem goes all the way back to the major state-regulated farm markets run by bodies known as agriculture produce marketing committees.“We are open because the Maharashtra government asked us to but facing big constraints,” said Prakash Kumawat, assistant secretary of Lasalgoan APMC, Asia’s largest onion trading hub near Nashik, Maharashtra.Farmers are finding it difficult to transport their produce, he said. “Our main problem is that labour that grades and packs harvest are in short supply. Only 30% is available,” he said. “This is another humanitarian crisis. Thousands of drivers are stranded with no food and shelter or parking facility and they are also at risk of getting exposed to Covid-19. This is going to lead to scarcity in essential goods,” Aitwal said. Nearly 26,000 wagons of goods such as grains, salt, edible oil, sugar, milk, fruits, vegetables, coal and petroleum products are in transit. “On an average we used to load about 10,000 rakes of freight cargo every day and that has gone down to about 4,000 rakes per day,” a senior railway ministry official said. On March 26, 24,009 wagons were loaded for essential commodities in all. That included 1417 wagons of foodgrains, 42 wagons of sugar, 42 wagons of salt, 20,784 wagons of coal and 1,724 wagons of petroleum products.Shortages should normally cause a spike in inflation, something not seen in rural areas. Prices have risen more in urban areas.“Prices have risen in urban areas because of a rise in overall demand and short supply. On the other hand, farmers will be forced to sell at throwaway prices in rural areas, where prices will dip,” said Prof. Himanshu, an economist with Jawaharlal Nehru University. For instance, data from the Centre’s price monitoring cell for March 24 shows that in Delhi, retail prices of urad, a lentil, jumped to Rs 108 a kg from Rs 85 a year ago, a 25% rise. On the other hand, all-India average prices were a tad lower at Rs 97.32 a kg from a year-ago price of Rs 99.25. “We have recommended to the government to issue orders allowing farmers in groups of seven or 10 to harvest,” said Balwinder Singh Sandhu, agriculture commissioner, Punjab, as the pandemic tests the limits of federal and state authorities to keep the nation of 1.3 billion people going.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-chokes-farm-to-fork-supply-could-hit-india-hard/story-CuxnQ0AO7kC0IUxddJKUiM.html
28-03-2020||India||Woman names baby after UP cop who helped husband reach her amid lockdown||A Bareilly woman has honoured a Noida police officer by naming her new-born after him for facilitating her husband’s trip to be with when she was expecting their first baby amid the lockdown t o check the spread of coronavirus. “I have named my son Mohd Ranvijay Khan, the additional commissioner of police Noida, without whose help my husband would not have been able to reach Bareilly during the lockdown,” she tweeted on Saturday.A resident of Izzatnagar locality in Bareilly, Tammana was alone at her house as her husband Anees Khan, was stranded in Noida where he works as the 21-day nation-wide lockdown began .In desperation, she posted a video message on Facebook as the time of delivery arrived and there was no one to help her.Follow coronavirus live updates here.The Bareilly police promptly responded and took Tamanna to a local hospital and got her admitted. “I got the message through social media in which Tamanna Khan had sought help from police. We reached out to her and subsequently requested Noida police to help bring her husband Anees to Bareilly from Noida,” said Bareilly’s Senior Superintendent of Police Shailesh Pandey.Noida Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police Kumar Ranvijay Singh made arrangements for a taxi to bring her husband to Bareilly. Tamanna delivered a baby boy on Thursday.The woman has now expressed her gratitude on Twitter, thanking the UP Police, especially SSP, Bareilly, Shailesh Pandey, and additional DCP, Noida, Ranvijay Singh for their help.“I did not have any hopes of getting any help while I was making the video. But Shailesh Pandey sir (SSP Bareilly) reached out to me and called my husband,” she said. The local police acted like my ‘Guardian Angel’ at a time when I thought she I would die alone. For me, cops are the real heroes, and I have named my child Mohammed Ranvijay Khan,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-names-baby-after-up-cop-who-helped-husband-reach-her-amid-lockdown/story-42yqjdo2ZmhqeUcFsA2miO.html
28-03-2020||India||India’s response to Covid-19 outbreak pro-active, says govt||The Centre emphasised on Saturday that India’s response to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) was pro-active, and rubbished allegations that “prosperous Indians” were allowed to return from abroad without mandatory screening at airports. The government contended that over 3.6 million passengers were screened at 30 airports, 12 major and 65 minor ports and at land borders.In an official statement, the government said a comprehensive response was in place at its borders much before the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared Covid-19 as a public health emergency of international concern on January 30. Screening of incoming air passengers followed by suspension of visas and ban on international flights was done much ahead of any other country, it added. The government stressed that thermal screening of incoming international passengers from China and Hong Kong was started on January 18, while first Covid-19 positive case was detected in India on January 30.A look at the global scenario would highlight that Italy and Spain, which are devastated by Covid-19, started screening of travellers 25 days and 39 days, respectively, after the first reported case, the statement said.The Centre, according to the statement, took several proactive measures such as travel restrictions, adding more countries and airports for screening, suspension of visas and self quarantine to effectively contain, prevent and manage the spread of Covid-19.It maintained that travel advisories were revised and thermal screening was expanded to all airports as the global spread of the disease evolved.Passengers were quarantined or sent to hospitals, based on risk assessment by health authorities, after they were screened at airports, the government said.The details of even those who were cleared by health authorities were shared with the state authorities in a bid to keep them under surveillance by respective state/Union Territory government mandatorily for 14 days, it added.“The statement that ‘prosperous Indians’ were allowed to return without screening, is preposterous,” the government said.A section of social media users have been alleging that the lockdown was ordered without proper preparations on the part of the government.The government said every traveller, including Indians returning after business, or tourism, students and foreigners, was screened and each individual was tracked down who tried to avoid surveillance or who did not follow quarantine measures.So far, the Centre has held 20 videoconferences chaired by Union health secretary Preeti Sudan with state governments and six by cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba with the state chief secretaries to step up the preparedness to tackle the Covid-19 outbreak. Integrated disease surveillance system, including monitoring of international travellers, have also been put in place.The government also listed a chronology of its decisions taken:Jan 16: Advisory issued to avoid travel to ChinaJan 18: Thermal screening of passengers from China and Hong KongJan 30: Strong advisory issued to avoid travel to ChinaFeb 3: E-visa facility suspended for Chinese nationalsFeb 22: Advisory issued to avoid travel to Singapore; universal screening for flights from Nepal, Indonesia, Vietnam, and Malaysia Feb 26: Advisory issued to avoid travel to Iran, Italy, and South Korea. Passengers coming from these countries to be screened, and maybe quarantined based on screening and risk assessmentMarch 3: Suspension of all visas for Italy, Iran, South Korea, Japan, and China; compulsory health screening for passengers arriving directly or indirectly from China, South Korea, Japan, Iran, Italy, Hong Kong, Macau, Vietnam, Malaysia, Indonesia, Nepal, Thailand, Singapore, and Taiwan.March 4: Universal screening of all international Flights. Quarantine or isolation at home or sent to hospital-based on screening and risk profileMarch 5: Passengers from Italy or South Korea need to get a medical certificate before entryMarch 10: Home isolation: incoming international passengers should self-monitor health and follow govt. Dos and don’ts: passengers with travel history to China, Hong Kong, South Korea, Japan, Italy, Thailand, Singapore, Iran, Malaysia, France, Spain, and Germany to undergo home quarantine for a period of 14 days from the date of their arrivalMarch 11: Compulsory quarantine: Incoming travellers (including Indians) arriving from or having visited China, Italy, Iran, South Korea, France, Spain, and Germany after February 15 shall be quarantined for a minimum period of 14 days.Comprehensive advisory (March 16-19):March 16: Expanded compulsory quarantine for travellers from or through the UAE, Qatar, Oman, and Kuwait for a minimum of 14 days.Travel of passengers from member countries of the European Union, the European Free Trade Association, Turkey and the United Kingdom to India totally prohibitedMarch 17: Travel of passengers from Afghanistan, Philippines and Malaysia prohibitedMarch 19: All Incoming international flights suspended, with effect from March 22||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-response-to-covid-19-outbreak-pro-active-says-govt/story-yc0Paa2S0t2UjzL4QL9wvO.html
28-03-2020||India||Air pollution curve flattens in Delhi-NCR due to lockdown impact||Clear blue skies, a very rare sight in Delhi-NCR has become the norm after the lockdown was announced on March 25. This is now supported by data also.A new analysis by Centre for Science and Environment said morning and evening peaks in PM 2.5 (fine, respirable pollution particles) have flattened out. The reduction in nitrogen dioxide (NO2) concentrations is even more pronounced because the major source of NO2 emissions are vehicles and industries.The hourly pollution trend in Delhi, Gurugram, Faridabad, Noida and Ghaziabad analysed by CSE used to be majorly influenced by traffic peaks in morning and evening which is not seen anymore.“This analysis brings out the pronounced effect of traffic on hourly pollution trend and on daily exposures to toxic vehicular pollution. With traffic minimized hourly trends plummet. This is sharply evident in NO2 trends,” the analysis released on Saturday said.Meanwhile, the regional weather forecasting centre in Delhi released historical data for the maximum temperature recorded in April which ranges from 39.6 degree C in 1994 to 43.7 degree C in 2010. “Data analysis since 1992 shows maximum temperature over Delhi reaches 40 degree C during April 17 to 20. If temperature and humidity play a role in reduction of transmission of the virus (SARS-CoV-2) we will be able to see the trends in April. But things will be different if people use air conditioning indoors,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, RWFC.For this analysis following days have been considered by CSE:• Regular = Average of 18 and 19 March 2020• Lockdown = Average of 25 and 26 March 2020• Janata curfew = Average 22 March 2020||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-pollution-curve-flattens-in-delhi-ncr-due-to-lockdown-impact/story-4HABR2AowrywwtoGVcUh7O.html
28-03-2020||India||Coronavirus: Ola CEO to let go a year’s salary to support driver community||Co-founder and CEO of Ola Cabs Bhavish Aggarwal has said that he will let go of his next year’s salary to support the drivers and their families who have been bearing the brunt of the lockdown due to the coronavirus outbreak. Aggarwal also said that a fund ‘Drive the Driver’ has been initiated to support the drivers and their families who are without an income at this time. “Millions of drivers & their families find themselves without an income today. To support them, we are launching the ‘Drive the Driver’ fund. I’m contributing my next year salary and Ola along with employees will contribute ₹20 cr to the fund,” Aggarwal tweeted out. Aggarwal said that even the smallest contribution will help income-less drivers and urged people to help the driver community in this time of need. “Even a small contribution will have a lasting impact on the well-being of millions of families. We invite everyone to join us and help the entire driver community in their time of need,” his tweet read. Private taxis and cab services have been suspended in the wake of the 21-day Covid-19 lockdown. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, earlier this week, announced a 3-week nationwide lockdown to break the chain of coronavirus infections in the country. Only essential services are operational during this period and only those involved in making those services operational are required to venture out of their homes during this period.India reported a total of 873 Covid-19 cases on Saturday as the country entered the fourth day of the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-ola-ceo-to-let-go-a-year-s-salary-to-support-driver-community-amid-covid-19-lockdown/story-gknGRkABZVbIUv9rgLKLKM.html
28-03-2020||India||Rs 5751 crore additional assistance to 8 states cleared under NDRF||The Central government on Saturday approved additional funds to eight states that were affected by disasters last year with home minister Amit Shah clearing the path for the payment of Rs 5,751.27 crore under the National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF).Kerala, Maharashtra, Bihar, Nagaland, Odisha, Rajasthan, West Bengal and Karnataka were hit by disasters such as floods, landslides, cyclone or drought last year and stand to benefit from this order. The decision was taken by a high-level committee of the home ministryThe assistance is subject to the adjustment of 50 per cent of balances available in the State Disaster Relief Fund (SDRF) account as on April 1 of the financial year, said a home ministry release.“Rs 953.17 crore to Bihar (of this Rs 400 crore already released ‘on account basis’), Rs 460.77 crore to Kerala, Rs 177.37 crore to Nagaland, Rs 179.64 crore to Odisha, Rs 1,758.18 crore to Maharashtra, Rs 1,119.98 crore to Rajasthan, Rs 1,090.68 crore to West Bengal for floods, landslides, cyclone, drought (kharif) during 2019 and Rs 11.48 crore to Karnataka towards additional assistance under animal husbandry sector for drought (rabi) of 2018-19,” says the home ministry release, quoted by PTIRs 10,937.62 crore have been released to 29 states in the current fiscal and an additional assistance of Rs 14,108.58 crore has been given to eight states, the agency adds.Central government had earlier empowered the states to use the disaster management funds to pay for testing and treatment facilities for coronavirus among other purposes. The provision for NDRF has been made under the Disaster Management Act, a national law that allows the Center to declare the entire country or part of it as affected by a disaster and to make plans for mitigation to reduce “risks, impacts and effects” of the disaster.DMA has also been invoked to mount a cohesive nationwide response to the Covid-19. Click Here for Latest Reports on Coronavirus||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rs-5751-crore-additional-assistance-to-8-states-cleared-under-ndrf/story-Cvi7qn4dfLMdAYpGsnTkVL.html
28-03-2020||India||‘Back to villages in crowded buses denting lockdown’, says Chidambaram||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Saturday questioned the Centre’s preparedness as he pointed out the migration of hundreds of thousands of workers from the cities to villages during the 21-day lockdown to stop the spread of coronavirus disease.Chidambaram’s tweet came as these migrant workers, stranded in cities without work and money, were seen walking back to their villages in hoards.“‘Back to villages’ in crowded buses or on foot has significantly dented the lockdown. It is another distressing example of the governments’ unpreparedness,” Chidambaram tweeted.The Uttar Pradesh government on Saturday sent hundreds of buses to evacuate the migrant workers from the state who have been stranded in Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR).The UP State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) buses continued to ferry them to their destinations from different areas of Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar as the norm of social distancing were broken at the bus terminals. As crowds packed the buses, the administration later started thermal screening of the passengers at Kaushambi.“What are the central and state governments doing about the migrant workers who were allowed to leave the cities and towns and who are finding their way back to their villages?” the former finance minister asked.Before Chidambaram, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said in a tweet that the countrywide lockdown will “devastate our poor and weak” and sought a compassionate approach to deal with the crisis.The Congress also criticised the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led central government on Twitter, alleging it had imposed the lockdown without proper planning and has been unable to control the reverse migration.“BJP’s lack of planning has rendered tens of thousands of people hungry and homeless. The government should have come out with a targeted plan to help them before implementing nationwide lockdown,” it said.“Suspended transport, disrupted supply chains, misinformation to the police and active racism, such is the outcome of a #LockdownWithoutPlan,” the party said in another tweet.When Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the three-week lockdown, he had emphasised the restrictions will help maintain social distancing and cited experts’ who have said it was the only way to deal with the coronavirus crisis across the globe. “There is no other way to deal with coronavirus and we need to save ourselves. And we have to break the cycle of its infection,” the Prime Minister had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/back-to-villages-in-crowded-buses-denting-lockdown-chidambaram/story-4HMlgyYv7uYH1C9BoTW3SN.html
28-03-2020||India||Covid-19: Railways makes first prototype of isolation coach||Indian Railways has prepared the first prototype of an isolation coach for Covid-19 patients. The prototype, the handiwork of Northern Railways, is equipped with 10 isolation wards per coach. Each zone of Indian Railways has been tasked with manufacturing 10 coaches a week. The coaches are being sanitized before and after they are converted into isolation wards. “The hospital isolation coaches will have provision of air curtains in each compartment. We have converted two toilets into bathrooms by plugging the toilet pan and (installing) proper flooring. We have removed the middle berth,” a Northern Railways official said, requesting anonymity. Hindustan Times on March 26 had reported that Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked government ministries to find innovative ways of using their resources to manufacture medical equipment like ventilators and scaling up production in the aftermath of the Covid-19 outbreak.A cabinet meeting chaired by the PM discussed ways of using state-owned facilities and production units to for boosting the production and supply of medical equipment and setting up quarantine facilities. Indian Railways has been considering using some of its vast number of train coaches as isolation wards. It has already begun work on using locomotive production units to manufacture ventilators and other medical equipment. “There is a plan to use the vast pool of non-AC coaches for setting up isolation wards. Railways has also begun production of masks, sanitisers and other supplies,” a railway ministry official said, requesting anonymity. Indian Railways has also been tasked with using its large manufacturing and locomotive production units and workshops for manufacturing essential medical equipment hospital beds and stretchers, among others. The national transporter has issued directions to this effect to its production units -- the Integral Coach Factory in Chennai and Diesel Loco Works in Varanasi, among others. The Railway Board has asked production units and workshops to assess the feasibility of manufacturing such items in large numbers at short notice, if required.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-railways-makes-first-prototype-of-isolation-coach/story-eWur2swL3zgYwwaauq6TbL.html
28-03-2020||India||Rajasthan CM authorises hiring temporary medical staff to fight Covid-19||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday directed district collectors to hire doctors and nursing staff at the local level on an urgent temporary basis to curb the spread of Covid-19 that has now affected over 800 people across the country.He said that in this hour of crisis, the government has given exemption to the legislators to spend up to 100% of their MLA funds for social welfare and food arrangements for the poor. They will now be able to recommend up to Rs 5 lakh instead of Rs 1 lakh from the MLA fund for medical equipment.Addressing the officials of the core group and war room, district collectors and Superintendents of Polices through video conferencing, Gehlot said the doctors and nurses treating Covid-19 patients are providing services in the high risk zone. The state government is serious about their safety. “The HCQ (Hydroxychloroquine) medicine should be given to these doctors and nurses coming in direct contact with patients as per the guidelines of the World Health Organization. The sample collection facility to check infection should be available in cities with population up to one lakh. The district collectors can also take the services of retired doctors and nursing workers if needed,” Gehlot said.Follow coronavirus live updates here.Health Minister Dr Raghu Sharma said that district collectors should prepare lists of doctors and nursing staff working in private hospitals in their districts so that their services can be availed, if required. He said looking to the need of doctors and nursing staff, AYUSH physicians and nursing staff should also be trained for this task.Also read:Recovery could be distant as economy shrivels due to Covid-19Rajasthan has reported 52 cases of infections and two deaths. He said the number of Covid-19 cases is under control in Rajasthan, but this disease can take frightening form at any time, and to prevent that, the lock-down should be strictly maintained across the state. “Lock down should be taken as a curfew, if you have to take strict action to keep people in their homes, do so. Senior police officers should also go on the streets,” he said.Gehlot directed the district collectors to conduct a survey of the helpless and destitute people and ensure that the needy people get the help they need. He instructed to provide ready food to the homeless and destitute people and make available ration packets to the needy people through home delivery.He said that flour mill owners can purchase wheat directly from FCI godowns. The district collector should ensure that the flour reaches consumers at a right price. The CM also ordered to keep a check on black marketing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-cm-authorises-hiring-temporary-medical-staff-to-fight-covid-19/story-8WJM2b8gKjXnx8fnsbY4lM.html
28-03-2020||India||Employees at Kerala post office to offer home-cooked meals to needy amid Covid-19 lockdown||Employees at the General Post Office at Kerala’s Thiruvananthapuram have decided to prepared food at their homes and give it to the needy in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak.Home-cooked food will be given to Trivandrum Corporation which would then be provided to the needy, news agency ANI reported. “There are many who are struggling for food in this lockdown. We’ve a Postal Staff Quarters Welfare Association and we decided to prepare food at our homes and give to Thiruvananthapuram Corporation which will supply it to the needy. There are 40 families in staff quarters,” an official said. Kerala, on Saturday, recorded its first death from Covid-19 as the total number of cases in the southern Indian state soared over 170. The 69-year old man died at Kochi Medical College. The fatality is yet to be confirmed by the centre.  There are many who are struggling for food in this lockdown. We've a Postal Staff Quarters Welfare Assn & we decided to prepare food at our homes & give to Thiruvananthapuram Corporation,which will supply it to needy. There are 40 families in staff quarters:Shabeer S, Postal Asst https://t.co/o3VvraQ7yb pic.twitter.com/cNv6EtiEKnMaharashtra and Kerala continue to struggle to contain the rapid rise in Covid-19 cases. The nationwide tally of coronavirus cases on Friday climbed to 873, 19 patients have died. Confirmed Covid-19 cases shot up by 149 in India on Saturday morning, taking the total count to 873 as the country recorded its biggest jump in a 24-hour period, the health ministry said.According to Worldometer, a global case tracker which says it gives live statistics, India reported 906 infections and 20 deaths till 1 pm on Saturday.On Saturday, India entered the fourth day of the 21-day long nationwide coronavirus lockdown announced by PM Modi to break the chain of Covid-19 infections in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/employees-at-kerala-post-office-to-offer-home-cooked-meals-to-needy-amid-covid-19-lockdown/story-kLBaPWW1zp3VDF7nmjkKbO.html
28-03-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Chhattisgarh to arrange for 100 Covid-19 beds in every district||The Chhattisgarh government will set up 100 beds in every district for Covid-19 patients and make arrangements for the treatment of infected people in all the six medical colleges of the state, chief minister Bhupesh Baghel has said.Baghel took the decision after meeting senior officials of the state on Friday evening. “The CM chaired a high-level meeting on Friday night and instructed officials to make arrangements for 100 Covid-19 beds in each district for the treatment of corona affected people and to make necessary arrangements for treatment in all medical colleges of the state,” Taran Sinha, a government spokesperson, said while speaking to HT on Saturday.Sinha said Baghel also reviewed the availability of testing kits for the virus and masks at All India Institute Of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Raipur and Jagdalpur Medical College in the state capital of Raipur.On Friday, health officials collected the samples of 81 more people and sent for testing for coronavirus. Six people have been found infected with the coronavirus in the state, which has tested 289 samples so far.“The chief minister said in the meeting that people of Chhattisgarh who have gone to other states have been asked to stay in that state and all the necessary arrangements for them are being made through the collector,” Sinha said.“Similarly, people from other states who have come to Chhattisgarh and are stranded have been asked to stay in the state. All facilities are also being provided to them by the district administration,” he added.The state government has also strengthened the surveillance and control measures against the virus.“Surveillance teams of the health department have initiated community monitoring in all the 28 districts of the state so that the person suspected to have exposed to the virus could be immediately identified and placed under treatment,” Sinha said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-chhattisgarh-to-arrange-for-100-covid-19-beds-in-every-district/story-2ysS0u1UKGq9aY5t4HqAxJ.html
28-03-2020||India||Panipat man commits suicide after killing wife, two children||A 36-year-old man allegedly shot dead his wife and two children before killing himself early Saturday in Haryana’s Panipat, police said.The man, Anil Sharma, ran a government ration shop and was and was a resident of Raj Nagar area of Panipat. The bodies were found on a bed in their house.The police said that preliminary investigation revealed that he was frustrated over family dispute and used his licensed pistol for the shootings.On Saturday morning the locals informed the police about the incident and the police found the man, his wife, eight-year-old daughter and five-year-old son dead with bullet injuries.Panipat’s Deputy Superintendent of Police ( DSP) Satish Vats said that the bodies were sent for post mortem and investigation was going on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/panipat-man-commits-suicide-after-killing-wife-two-children/story-CnQGV21gIMciq4yPjDRcPP.html
28-03-2020||India||India may see up to 13 lakh cases of COVID-19 by mid-May, scientists warn||India could face between 100,000 to 13 lakh confirmed cases of the novel coronavirus by mid-May if the current trend in the growing number of COVID-19 cases continues, according to a report by an international team of scientists. The report, compiled by COV-IND-19 Study Group, an interdisciplinary team of researchers, said while India seems to have done well in controlling the number of confirmed cases compared to other countries like the US and Italy in the early phase of the pandemic, the country is critically missing a key component in this assessment -- the number of truly affected cases. This factor depends on the extent of testing, the accuracy of the test results, and the frequency and scale of testing of people who may have been exposed but do not show symptoms, the researchers, including Debashree Ray from Johns Hopkins University in the US, said. “So far, the number of people tested in India has been relatively small. In the absence of widespread testing, it is impossible to quantify the magnitude of ‘community transmission’, in other words, estimate how many are infected outside hospitals and health care facilities,” the scientists wrote in the report. “Thus our current estimates are at best underestimates for India based on early phase data,” they said. According to the report, it is essential for India to adopt “draconian measures” to act before the growth of COVID-19 infections starts to accelerate in the country. Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced on Tuesday a total lockdown for 1.3 billion people in India for 21 days, warning that the nation may go back by 21 years and many families could be devastated if we don’t abide by the lockdown rules. In their analysis, the scientists used data on the number of reported cases in India up to March 16, and applied tools of modelling disease transmission. They estimated the theoretical number of infected at any given time, and compared projections for India against the US and Italy. The scientists, including those from Delhi School of Economics in New Delhi and the University of Michigan in the US, noted in a blog post on the platform Medium, that the estimates may change as stricter restrictions and measures are adopted by India. India, according to the researchers, has the most overstretched healthcare system where it is hard to provide care even when the patient volume flowing into hospitals is “normal”. Citing World Bank data, they said the number of hospital beds per 1,000 people in India is only 0.7, compared to 6.5 in France, 11.5 in South Korea, 4.2 in China, 3.4 in Italy, and 2.8 in the US. Owing to this, the scientists said, the predicted surge in the number of cases may make it impossible for the healthcare providers in India to support the sheer volume of cases. The report also identified the most vulnerable groups of population in India. Citing multiple studies, the researchers said the number of people in the country without an insurance policy stretched to about 1,100 million as of 2014, with the number of men and women with hypertension, one of the major risk factors for death from COVID-19, being more than 300 million people. Without enforcing any intervention in the country, the scientists predicted that the number of cases may exceed the estimated capacity of hospital beds in India, which stands at 70 beds per 100,000 Indians. They cautioned that the critically ill COVID-19 patients -- about 5-10 per cent of those infected -- will require ICU beds, which make up between 5 and 10 per cent of bed capacity in Indian hospitals. The scientists, however, said their estimates came with limitations, including the uncertainty arising from model assumptions of population size, accuracy of the diagnostic tests for COVID-19, and heterogeneity in the implementation of government-initiated interventions. The number of coronavirus infected cases in India so far is 562, while the death toll due to COVID-19 in the country is revised down to nine, according to Health Ministry data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-may-see-up-to-13-lakh-cases-of-covid-19-by-mid-may-scientists-warn/story-KC3G6JYjYVyWYafNWkngyM.html
28-03-2020||India||In pictures: Amid coronavirus lockdown, stranded migrant workers take buses to native places||The 21-day coronavirus lockdown entered its fourth day on Saturday. While cities and towns across the country wore a deserted look, migrant workers, stranded hundreds of kilometres away from their native land, were seen taking desperate measures to make their way home.On Saturday, hundreds of migrant workers continued their march into the state of Uttar Pradesh from Delhi-UP border.The UP State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) continued to ferry scores of migrant workers to their destinations from different border areas of Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar.Till March 27 midnight, about 96 buses were already sent with the migrants while more are still being arranged to help them reach their destinations.The buses have been dispatched with migrant workers to areas like Lucknow, Etawah, Bareilly, Etah, Aligarh and Gorakhpur among other areas in Uttar Pradesh.Migrant workers were seen scurrying around the bus depots, hopping on to the vehicles in desperation to reach home. Many were seen travelling on top of the buses as the vehicles jam-packed within minutes.Regional manager of UPSRTC told Hindustan Times that buses from ISBT Kaushambi are being dispatched.Ghaziabad’s Lal Kuan intersection is another point from where the buses were being dispatched. The administration is working to dispatch more buses from other depots. The movement of migrant workers started on March 24 when Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a nationwide lockdown in the wake of coronavirus outbreak.  The lockdown entered its fourth day on Saturday and will last till April 14. The number of coronavirus cases in the country on Saturday jumped to 873, as per the data released by the health ministry. As many as 19 Covid-19 patients have died from the infection in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-pictures-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-migrant-workers-take-buses-to-native-places/story-ENmW0Dxsfz8e2uaC8Z2TWL.html
28-03-2020||India||Covid-19: UP ramps up evacuation of workers from Delhi-NCR||The Uttar Pradesh government on Saturday ramped up the evacuation of migrant workers from the state who have been stranded in the Delhi national capital region (Delhi NCR) after the countrywide lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus snapped transport links. Hundreds of migrant workers continued to pour into Uttar Pradesh from Delhi-UP border in the morning while the UP State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) continued to ferry them to their destinations from different areas of Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar.The rush of people wanting to go back home meant that social distancing quickly went out of the window at the bus terminals. As crowds packed the buses, the administration later Saturday started thermal screening of the passengers at ISBT Kaushambi.Watch | ‘Enough food for all’: Sisodia tells migrants leaving Delhi amid lockdown The officials of UPSRTC’s Ghaziabad region said that till March 27 midnight, they had operated about 96 buses and were arranging more to help the migrant workers reach their destinations.“Till 11.30am on Saturday we have despatched about 79 buses to various destinations like Lucknow, Etawah, Bareilly, Etah, Aligarh and Gorakhpur besides nearby destinations. We will continue sending buses till all stranded workers are sent to their destinations. We have now resumed buses from ISBT Kaushambi from where all these buses are getting despatched,” said AK Singh, regional manager of UPSRTC. “We despatched 96 buses from Lal Kuan intersection till Friday night and more buses are being arranged from other depots. We had arranged 200 buses for Friday but police had stopped some buses in between due to orders that people should be staying put at their respective places. However on late Friday night we received orders to despatch buses to different destinations,” he added.The movement of migrant workers started on March 24 when Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a countrywide lockdown.“We have not stopped workers from entering UP. They were initially stopped, but when they told that they will proceed to their hometowns on foot they were allowed to go. We are also arranging buses from IBST Kaushambi and helping then out to reach their destinations,” said Manish Mishra, superintendent of police (city) - Ghaziabad.Migrant workers like Mohammad Fakhruddin who came to Lal Kuan in Ghaziabad from Tank Road (Karol Bagh) said that he was waiting for buses to arrive.“I have to go to Badaun, my hometown. I have about 10 people who are with me and I work in a unit which makes denim. However, our work has stopped due to the lockdown. The landlord is asking for rent and I have no money to pay up. So I along with my family decided to move to our hometown. We came to Lal Kuan by a UP roadways bus from ISBT Kaushambi and we are waiting for another bus which will take us to Badaun,” he added.“The police deployed at Kaushambi told us that we can get a UP roadways bus from Kaushambi. So we boarded the bus and reached Lal Kuan,” he added.Ghaziabad district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey, when asked whether the migrant workers were stopped at Delhi-UP border area, said “There is no stoppage of any migrant worker at borders.”Even the police were seen helping out workers reach their destination.“It is a time of crisis for these poor people. They have started coming again in groups of 25 to 30 and are continuing their walk towards areas like Hapur, Moradabad etc. On our part we have helped many of them board empty trucks and other commercial vehicles so that at least they can be dropped near to their hometowns,” said a police officer.People like Ram Sundar Maurya, a school headmaster, lent a helping hand to the workers and distributing cooked food to them near Masuri on National Highway 9.“The workers have started coming again. We are preparing about 300 boxes of food. The buses had come on Friday evening and we helped about 250-300 people to board these buses and reach their destinations,” he added.In areas like Gautam Budh Nagar, the UPSRTC has provided about 200 buses to help out stranded migrant workers at Delhi-UP border. Both Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar share borders with the National Capital.Police officials said that the buses have already reached different border points in Noida.“These buses are departing after every two hours. Ferrying these passengers has already begun from 8 am today and will continue for the next 48 hours,” said DCP Sankalp Sharma.Sharma further said that taking cognizance of the reports that these buses are being stopped at various check points in other districts, the Noida police have informed all the administrative and police officials of the district concerned, to allow them on priority level.“We have also requested them to provide proper food and medical facilities to the passengers boarding on these buses. The buses will drop the passengers at different border points of UP, from where they can take the transportation facilities provided by the state governments of their respective native states,” he said.The DCP also said that all the district magistrates of different destination points have been requested to record the details of the buses reaching their respective districts on Saturday and Sunday.“They have also been asked to make arrangements for the medical screening of all passengers at their destination points, maintaining their full details, including names, addresses and mobile numbers. It will help us in monitoring and supervision of these passengers,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-up-ramps-up-evacuation-of-workers-from-delhi-ncr/story-i1Ntd8jP2aUj4hYwIUuSDM.html
28-03-2020||India||Recovery could be distant as economy shrivels due to Covid-19||Barho Mandal, a daily wager in the national Capital from Bihar’s Aurangabad, made a dash to the New Delhi Railway Station early on March 21, a day ahead of a near countrywide lockdown, to catch a train back home.He couldn’t find one. There were simply far too many people wanting to go back home. Indian Railways cancelled all passenger trains on March 22.“I am counting the money I have. Not much. I can’t afford to stay put without work.”Nor can millions like him.The government approved the use of money accumulated in the Building and Other Construction Workers’ Cess Fund by state governments to make a one-off or a monthly stipend to 350 million construction workers, but Mandal -- he makes a living pulling a rickshaw -- will not benefit from this. Only workers registered with state welfare boards qualify for the stipend.The make-work National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (NREGS), one of the surest ways of supporting jobs, has naturally been disrupted in many states because of social distancing and lockdowns to curb the spread of coronavirus.“Job cards are just lying around. The scheduled work in my area is disrupted,” said Nabin Saharia, a registered NREGS contractor from Assam’s Kamrup (rural) district.With a billion Indians under lockdown, that isn’t surprising.Also Read: RBI’s booster shot for Covid-19 battleThe recovery (however, mild) that was being predicted for the Indian economy in 2020-21 is now off the table, say experts. Indeed, even the estimate of 5% growth in 2019-2020, may not be met now. The Covid-19 pandemic threatens to push the global economy into recession and prolong the slowdown in India.Social distancing has begun to hurt services and consumption; and the lockdown has hit airlines, hotels, restaurants and shopping malls hard. Workers have been confined to homes, dealing a blow to wage earnings.Few expect normal services to resume in the short-term. Analysts say the country can reliably blunt the blows if it “helicopter-drops” money, a jargon for direct financial support to the poor along with a “fairly large” stimulus for the industry.A silver lining, analysts say, is that agriculture should be the least vulnerable sector given that it largely consists of subsistence farming – where farmers mainly grow for their own consumption. But if fertiliser imports falter, even the farm sector, which employs half of all Indians, could be hit.Financial firms are therefore building forecast models. “Even the government will do that. Recovery looks difficult. Projections are the best tools available,” said economist Manoj Kumar Panda of the Institute of Economic Growth, Delhi University.Also Read: ‘Unprecedented crisis; do whatever it takes’: Jayati Ghosh on Covid-19Economists are looking at the so-called “channels of transmission”, or the pathways that economic shocks will travel to reach various sub-sectors of the economy due to the pandemic. Broadly, these are two: external and domestic, said Dharmakirti Joshi, chief economist at credit rating agency CRISIL Ltd. For now, he added, external economic shocks are more dominant.On the external front, India’s goods trade dependency on Coronavirus-affected countries is significant: Eurozone, China and the rest of Asia Pacific account for 48% of India’s exports and 50% of imports, according to official trade data. So, supply disruption, including of raw materials, are already straining some segments of the manufacturing sector, said Nitin Kamble, the head of marketing at Comtrade, a commodities trading firm.Domestically, consumption demand is likely to be slow because of social distancing. Some of this is being offset by other modes of buying such as home delivery. The other downside to growth comes from the financial-sector stress that is seeping into private sector banks now.“In any case, India has little policy firepower to give a meaningful push to growth and the pandemic is making it more difficult. While there will be a steeper deceleration in global growth and India’s trade, what is unclear is the extent of the impact on the economy through domestic channels of production (supply) and consumption (demand),” said Prasad Koparker, senior director of CRISIL Research.India’s trade composition has undergone a marked change in recent years, with services exports showing rapid growth. “These now account for 41% of total exports,” Koparker said. “So far, services exports have been resilient but with weaker growth in major trading partners, this, too, could take a hit.”The IT services sector provides direct employment to nearly four million people and indirect employment to more than 10 million, according to Tata Consultancy Services data.In the past three financial years, 2016-17, 2017-18 and 2018-19, the economy was already hobbling. Analysts had widely attributed the lingering sluggishness to the Goods and Services Tax, pointed out weaknesses in manufacturing and a hit to the informal economy from demonetisation.“I think we are going to see a deterioration in the coming quarters. What will be the magnitude (of this) is an unfair judgement to make,” said NR Bhanumurthy of the state-run National Institute of Public Finance and Policy, New Delhi.Experts such as Koparkar said a serious threat emerges from two developments. One, if the pandemic is not contained by April-June 2020 globally and makes the global slowdown more severe. And secondly, he said, if it spreads rapidly in India, affecting domestic consumption, investment, and production. “These would further hurt confidence and financial markets.”Depending on how the pandemic spreads, large industrial and small manufacturing clusters could face shutdowns, just like China’s Hubei province, which is the largest producer of fertilizer and the hub of that nation’s auto industry.“We have thousands of small-scale clusters across the country, such as textile hubs in Panipat or Jalandhar or Tiruppur that employ millions. That’s why controlling the spread is key, but social distancing is in itself economically debilitating,” said Prof Vinay Vyas of the Jaipur-based India Socio-Economic Development Centre, a think-tank.To be sure, some of these hubs are already in economic distress on account of a sudden fall in exports.Most expect gross domestic product or GDP to drop. “We expect GDP growth to slide further to 4.0% year on year in quarter one of 2020, from 4.7% in quarter four of 2019. For 2020, we have lowered our GDP growth forecast by 0.7 percentage point to 4.7%, which would mark a slowdown from 5.3% in 2019,” said Sonal Varma, an economist with Nomura, a securities firm.A recession across Asia-Pacific is “guaranteed” due to the deep first-quarter shock in China and the shutdown of activities across G7 economies, according to a note by Shaun Roache, chief economist, Asia-Pacific of S&P Global.While the Union government is readying for an industrial stimulus and making internal projections, research firms have come out with their own assessments relative to how the pandemic spreads. Varma of Nomura Securities predicts three scenarios: base case, bad case, and severe case.In the base case, the least worrying scenario, Varma said India would be the least vulnerable economy to Covid-19 in Asia excluding Japan. “It is not a part of the China-centred global value chains. These factors should limit the direct impact from an economic slowdown in China,” she said.However, China does produce a significant share of India’s imports (14.2%) and any disruption in China’s production will reduce imports of primary and intermediate goods, disrupting domestic production.“The disruption of these imports would adversely affect key industries such as pharmaceuticals, autos, electronics, solar and agriculture, and could add to inflationary pressures as inventories are depleted,” Varma said.A bad case scenario for India will apply in the absence of a good early check on the spread of Covid-19. Some factories may need to halt production due to input shortages.In the severe case, the most serious scenario, where the virus becomes a global pandemic, as is currently the case, Varma said she expected GDP growth would slump to 3.3% in the first half of 2020.The most serious threat at this stage is to urban manual workers and disruptions in NREGS work, Delhi University’s Panda said. As joblessness and wage earnings are expected to be severely hit, amid lockdowns, several states have announced measures to directly put money into the hands of people.Kerala announced a Rs 20,000-crore economic package to deal with the outbreak. The Delhi government has decided to give one-month free ration to nearly 7.4 million beneficiaries under the National Food Security Act, apart from doubling widows’ pensions for a month.“So, what is needed at the federal level now is that the Union government should quickly front-load these spending measures,” Bhanumurthy of the NIPFP said.Front-loading refers to advance payments of all centrally funded doles. According to Panda, since NREGS is likely disrupted, the government could possibly anyway pay the wages for workers registered to work this month.“This is not the time to look at the fiscal deficit. Unfortunately, fiscal stimulus even in abnormal times has become a bad word. That needn’t be. How else do you cope?” asked Bhanumurthy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/recovery-could-be-distant-as-economy-shrivels-due-to-covid-19/story-EUiQbgTYULfVSxsybT8tdP.html
28-03-2020||India||Kerala reports first Covid-19 death from Kochi hospital||Kerala reported its first Covid-19 death on Saturday after a 69-year-old man, who came from back from Dubai in the UAE, succumbed to the coronavirus disease in a hospital in Kochi.VS Sunil Kumar, the state’s agriculture minister, said the small-time businessman died at the Government Medical College in Ernakulam in the morning.“We tried our best to save his life. It is really sad,” KK Shailaja, health minister, said.The man, who had bypass surgery five years ago, came to the country on March 16 from Dubai. He tested positive on March 22, six days after he returned.Of his two dozen contacts, only his wife and driver have tested positive for the coronavirus disease, officials said.At least seven people from his apartment complex and 200 passengers, who travelled in the flight he took from Dubai, are also under observation.Officials said his body will be buried according to the protocols of the World Health Organisation (WHO) and only four family members will be allowed for the last rites.District collector S Suhas said no one will be allowed to touch his body and his family will have to stand three meters away. The cleric who performs the last rites will be under observation for 15 days, he added.The Centre is yet to confirm the death.Kerala has reported that 176 people have tested positive for the coronavirus so far, including 12 who have been cured, according to the state government.There are eight foreign nationals who have been infected by Sars-Cov-2 as well in the tally.There have been 19 coronavirus-related deaths before this in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-reports-first-covid-19-death-from-kochi-hospital-reports/story-U2hTMgkNnWpwb3NoILG8xJ.html
28-03-2020||India||Facilitate movement of ‘bank mitras’: Govt tells states amid Covid-19 lockdown||The Union finance ministry has asked all states to facilitate the movement of business correspondents and “bank mitras” as they can help the poor living in remote areas of the country to withdraw money from their accounts after the government announced a Rs 1.7 lakh crore welfare package in the wake of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman has directed the department of financial services (DFS) and state-run banks to ensure effective delivery of all measures announced on Thursday, including direct cash transfer in the bank accounts of the beneficiaries, an official with direct knowledge of the matter said requesting anonymity. Business correspondents and “bank mitras” are crucial service providers in areas that do not have regular bank branches, said the official quoted above. They are representatives or agents of a bank who, provide banking services such as account opening, cash deposit, and cash withdrawal.On Saturday morning, Sitharaman appreciated services rendered by “bank mitras” and business correspondents across the country in a tweet. “Will talk to states -- request no restrictions in their movements. Will speak to all banks to facilitate cash flow. Let’s ensure timely access to all,” she said in the tweet.On Thursday, Sitharaman unveiled a Rs 1.7 lakh crore package under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana that included an additional transfer of foodgrains for the next three months, direct cash transfer to accounts of vulnerable sections of the society and insurance support to those in the frontline of the battle against the Covid-19 pandemic.The government announced direct financial support under the PM Kisan and the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MNREGS) programmes. It also decided to pay an ex-gratia amount of Rs 1,000 to 30 million vulnerable sections of the society such as economically poor widows, senior citizens above the age of 60, and the physically challenged. Besides, Rs 500 will be paid per month to 200 million women Jan Dhan account holders for the next three months. “Bank mitras” and business correspondents largely provide services to such people.The government has also assured citizens that there will not be any disruption in essential banking services at branches and all automated teller machines (ATMs) will function normally. Several banks are, however, rationalising branch operations to minimise the physical interactions of their employees to protect them from the Covid-19 outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/facilitate-movement-of-bank-mitras-govt-amid-covid-19-lockdown/story-kJen03NasVx8jYgaHex4xI.html
28-03-2020||India||This NGO is working for slum dwellers during Covid-19 lockdown. Here’s how you can help||Its said its Hug Pack at Rs 500, which will have 1kg of pulse, flour, oil, sugar and 2kg of rive, can help a family for a week.Several non-profit organisations are working across the country to ensure no one sleeps hungry during the 21-day lockdown put in place to ensure the coronavirus disease does not spread.One of the organisations working to help people during the lockdown is the Humane Universal Good Deeds Network.According to the network, it works in the area of hunger management to reduce the wastage of food. They distribute excess food from office lunch and weddings and distribute in slum areas. The network said most of these slum dwellers are struggling for food amid the lockdown. So, it has started a campaign where people can either order the groceries that can be delivered to the slum dwellers or contribute money.Its said its Hug Pack at Rs 500, which will have 1kg of pulse, flour, oil, sugar and 2kg of rive, can help a family for a week.Hundreds of thousands of people across the country have been forced out of work and have no money to pay for rent and food as the government clamped down several measures in its fight against the coronavirus disease.There are other such organisations, Goonj, Uday Foundation, Give India, which are working to gather funds and essential items for many such people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/this-ngo-is-working-for-slum-dwellers-during-covid-19-lockdown-here-s-how-you-can-help/story-88W9UnxXAeSWaHhfgD4HdO.html
28-03-2020||India||Covid-19: Rahul Gandhi appeals for food and shelter for migrant workers heading home||Former Congress President Rahul Gandhi on Saturday appealed to the public and his party workers and leaders to provide food and shelter to the jobless workers and daily wage earners, many of whom are walking home to their villages hundreds of kilometres away “Today, hundreds of our hungry brothers and sisters along with their families have to walk towards their villages. In such grim times whoever can, please help them with food and shelter. I particularly appeal to Congress leaders and workers. Jai Hind,” he tweeted in Hindi. The 21-day national lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus has sparked migrations from major metros as workers and daily wage earners headed home in different states, mostly on foot in the absence of any transport. In Delhi on Friday, good Samaritans offered food and water to hundreds of migrants, as they walked to their hometowns in UP, Uttarakhand and even Bihar in the wake of a countrywide lockdown which has paralysed transportation across much of the country.Many migrants have been stuck at different bus terminals and railway stations in Delhi while trying to return to their hometowns in various states. There was some relief for migrant workers from Uttar Pradesh with the State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) continuing to ferry the migrants to their destinations from different border areas of Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar.Officials of UPSRTC’s Ghaziabad region said that till March 27 midnight, they had sent about 96 buses and were arranging more to help the migrants workers reach their destinations.The buses took stranded workers to places like Lucknow, Etawah, Bareilly, Etah, Aligarh and Gorakhpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-rahul-gandhi-appeals-for-food-and-shelter-for-migrant-workers-heading-home/story-IC4YhH8HcP3nmtvHygEQNJ.html
28-03-2020||India||How Indian scientists are responding to the Covid-19 challenge||Premier research organisations are taking the Covid-19 challenge head on, with the Indian Institute of Science, the National Institute of Immunology, and the Translational Health Science Technology Institute, among others, working on vaccine development and therapeutics.The National Institute of Immunology in Delhi will sequence the virus to see whether the virus infecting travellers from different parts of the world is the same or has undergone changes. “The virus changes. By the time you may develop a vaccine it could have changed form. It’s important for us to understand how its changing. First is to see if people who have travelled from Italy, Germany, China, US etc are infected with the same strain. That can happen through ribonucleic acid (RNA) sequencing. We saw such mutations during the H1N1 outbreak,” said Amulya K Panda, director, National Institute of Immunology (NII). NII is also studying what protein the virus is made up of, which will be crucial to vaccine development.The team will also analyse blood samples (once they have access) of some of the 46 people who have recovered to analyse antibodies that protected them. “Remember that every third vaccine used globally is developed in India. We will be able to deliver. But it’s a matter of time and safety. We will definitely get the virus but if our facilities are not well-contained, we will end up spreading the infection. It is lethal stuff. We have a BSL 3 [Biosafety level 3] laboratory where these tests can be conducted,” he added. Biosafety level 3 laboratories are high containment labs aimed at tackling biosafety issues while studying infectious diseases. Panda, however, said it was very difficult to give a clear timeline for the development of these antidotes. “We have to wait for things to cool down and see what’s possible when.” Till a vaccine and therapeutics emerge, massive scale social distancing is the only option to control the spread of the infection, he added.The Indian Council of Medical Research- National Institute of Virology have already isolated the strains of SARS-CoV-2 from three infected persons who had travelled from Wuhan and found it to be very similar the virus isolated in Wuhan.The Translational Health Science and Technology Institute (THSTI) is working on a diagnostic kit which has a timeline of only a few months. Potential therapeutics, which may take more than a year, include repurposing of existing drugs, studying new chemical compounds, designing new compounds based on the structure of the virus and using monoclonal antibodies from infected patients to treat new patients. “The development of a vaccine may take whole of next year depending on access to samples. The work on developing a diagnostic kit is also on hold now because THSTI will need an import license to get the virus which can happen after the lockdown is lifted,” said Gagandeep Kang, director of THSTI.The office of K Vijayraghavan, Principal Scientific Adviser to the Government of India, issued a memorandum on March 21 which said that national research laboratories are permitted to carry out clinical testing for Covid 19. They are also permitted to access samples from any government approved clinical testing site subject to ethical approval for such research. Labs with BSL3 and BSL3 + facilities are also permitted to culture the virus. Hospitals have been asked to share samples with such labs. Kang said over the phone that her organisation will be attempting to tie up with a hospital in Delhi NCR to use samples for research.At Indian Institute of Science (IISc) in Bengaluru, a group of more than 30 researchers have come together to prepare research proposals to investigate the aspects of molecular epidemiology (study of causative, protective, genetic susceptibility or predisposing factors) and host-pathogen interactions (how the virus sustains in humans). These proposals will be submitted in the coming week to the funding agencies for funding to begin research activities on Covid-19, said Umesh Varshney, Professor, Department of Microbiology and Cell Biology and Chair, Division of Biological Sciences at IISc. To begin with, IISc will need a host of approvals from the government which it has already applied for. IISc is also starting work on vaccine development and to begin Covid 19 testing using ICMR approved reagents. “We are very much concerned about the Covid-19 pandemic…we are happy to extend our expertise to the approved labs for Covid-19 testing,” said Varshney over email.The International Centre for Genetic Engineering & Biotechnology (ICGEB), Delhi, will collaborate with the ICGEB, Trieste (Italy), where substantial progress has been made on diagnostics and therapy, Dinakar M Salunke, Director of ICGEB said.Experts from the National Centre for Biological Sciences were not reachable for a comment but the institute’s website states that it is contributing to national efforts on Covid-19 with immediate and medium-term solutions like disease surveillance, modelling, use of genomics and bioinformatics to understand the evolution of the virus and map disease susceptibility.Snapshot:• Research organisations do not have access to the virus yet. They have applied for approvals• More than 20 research institutes are working on developing a vaccine for Covid-19, according to the department of biotechnology (DBT)• DBT and Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council (BIRAC) have announced a Covid-19 research consortium for vaccines, diagnostics and repurposing of existing drugs• DBT has also put out draft guidelines on storing and sharing biological data for research purposes• The guidelines recommend making large banks of biological data accessible in a “reasonable” period of time to facilitate research• The guidelines will allow for easy sharing of biological data with public research facilities, private labs and international collaborations||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-indian-scientists-are-responding-to-the-covid-19-challenge/story-4ThuKQnaMS4n5FHHFXQQ6K.html
28-03-2020||India||Indian Railways coaches to turn into isolation cabins for Covid-19 patients||In a bid to battle the coronavirus outbreak in the country, the Indian Railways plans to transform train coaches into isolation wards for Covid-19 patients.One prototype has been converted into the isolation ward now. If the prototype is finalised, the ministry is planning the same for every zone of railways.10 railway coaches per week will be converted into isolation wards, news agency ANI reported.One prototype has been converted into the Isolation ward now. If this is finalised, Railway is planning that in every zone of railways, 10 coaches per week will be converted into isolation ward: Indian Railways https://t.co/6dyI0CwfJs In order to construct an isolation cabin prototype for the patients, the middle berth has been removed from one side of the coach while all three berths have been removed in front of the patient berth.All ladders for climbing up the berths have also been removed. The bathrooms, aisle areas and other areas have also been modified to prepare the isolation coach. To make the patient cabin, middle berth has been removed from 1 side, all 3 berths removed in front of patient berth, all ladders for climbing up the berths have been removed. The bathrooms, aisle areas and other areas have also been modified to prepare Isolation Coach. #Covid19 https://t.co/6dyI0CwfJs pic.twitter.com/aeXIMIzldcThe government has upped its preparedness to fight the Covid-19 outbreak. Private laboratories have been roped in for bolstering the testing capacity in the country.  Approvals for diagnostic devices for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) can now be granted within seven to 10 days if necessary conditions are met, the country’s apex drugs and diagnostics regulator Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) has said.The government has also directed the states and Union territories to create a dedicated facility for Covid-19 positive cases. Close to 20 states have already started identifying hospitals that can be used to isolate and treat positive cases.The government has also prohibited export of ventilators and has also asked two public sector undertakings to manufacture about 40,000 ventilator units to meet the demand in the wake of coronavirus outbreak. The number of coronavirus cases in the country jumped to 873 in the country on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-indian-railways-coaches-turn-into-isolation-cabins-for-covid-19-patients/story-mEJwtFPZXPe63EgRyVHsDP.html
28-03-2020||India||Govt finalises relief steps for power sector during Covid-19 lockdown||With a dip of 30% in demand for power due to the absence of commercial activity in the wake of the lockdown, the Centre has stepped in with a slew of relief measures to support the sector, said a top official familiar with the development.These measures include a three-month moratorium on the payment of already financially squeezed distribution companies (Discoms) to Generating Companies (Gencos) and no penalty on late payment.The ministry is also working to ensure to ensure adequate supply of coal to prevent a possible disruption in electricity supply.Union power minister RK Singh said the ministry is committed to ensure 24×7 electricity supply during lockdown. “Despite the lockdown imposed to contain the spread of the COVID 19 pandemic, the whole workforce of the power sector — generation, transmission, distribution and system operations — is working round the clock to keep all homes and establishments lit,” Singh said.The ministry has issued directions that, till May 30, the payment security mechanism to be maintained by the Discoms with the Gencos for dispatch of power will be reduced by 50%. Directions have been issued by the ministry to the Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (CERC) to provide a moratorium of three months to Discoms to make payments to generating companies and transmission licensees, and not to levy penal rates of late payment surcharge. State Governments are being requested to issue similar directions to State Electricity Regulatory Commissions.The lockdown has affected consumer payment of their dues to the Discoms. This has affected the liquidity position of the Discoms, thereby impairing their ability to pay to the generating and transmission companies. To address the liquidity problems of the Discoms, Singh has directed Generation/ Transmission Companies to continue supply/transmission of electricity even to Discoms which have large outstanding dues. “During the present emergency there will be no curtailment of supply to any DISCOM,” the power ministry has directed.This comes at a time when outstanding dues by discoms stood are currently as high ₹82,414 crore till February this year.“Even the Gencos would need support through some fiscal stimulus as they were already struggling with low capacity utilisation and mounting debtors from Discoms. Government may have to facilitate interest free working capital loans for Gencos. Else this contagion will spread to fuel suppliers and sustainability of all sector entities will come under question,“ said Debashish Mishra, Partner at Deloitte India,Around 70% of power generation is from coal based power plants. In order to maintain the continuity of supply of coal by domestic coal companies and transportation by railways, the ministry is in touch with the ministries of railways and coal.Union coal minister Pralhad Joshi on Saturday said coal supplies are declared as an essential service. In a statement, the coal ministry said all officials have been directed to ensure that critical coal supplies are maintained during the lockdown period due to COVID 19.On an average, more than 22,000 wagons of coal were loaded per day and 1,400 wagons of food grains daily. On March 27, railways carried 20,488 wagons of coal. According to the data available for 134 coal plants across the country, there is an average coal stock for 24 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-finalises-relief-steps-for-power-sector-during-covid-19-lockdown/story-UNlv9Jzp7YjujbHuB3d3AO.html
28-03-2020||India||6 more test positive for Covid-19 in Maharashtra, total at 159||The number of Covid-19 cases has risen in Maharashtra over the last 24 hours with six more testing positive for the coronavirus disease on Saturday morning, officials said, taking the total to 159 in the state till date.Of the six cases, five are from Mumbai while one is from Nagpur. There were 23 people who tested positive on Friday—five in the morning and 18 in the evening.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday evening appealed to the people to stay home, saying the crucial stage in the fight against the virus has begun. “There the virus can go on multiplying, resulting in the rise of patients multifold. But there is no need to panic as many patients have gotten cured after timely and right treatment,” he said.However, the police said there are fewer people coming out on the streets compared to the crowding in some parts of the state during the first few days of the lockdown in Maharashtra.“People have realised the seriousness of the situation and have begun cooperating with the police administration. Local politicians and guardian ministers have been asked to ensure that citizens do step out of their homes without having an emergency,” said an official from Mantralaya.The Maharashtra government had announced a complete shutdown a day before the 21-day lockdown was imposed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 24.However, migrant workers stranded after the lockdown were seen on the highways trying to find ways to return to their respective states. Seven such workers were knocked down by a speeding truck on the Mumbai-Ahmedabad highway early on Saturday. Four of them were reportedly declared dead on admission in the nearby hospital.After the government’s intervention, the supply of essential commodities including vegetables, fruits and grains is coming back to normal. The Agricultural Produce Market Committees in the state have started functioning paving way for the supply of the essential commodities.At least 200 trucks with vegetables pulled out of Nashik on Saturday morning making their way to the markets in cities like Mumbai and Thane among others.The state government has reached out to the Indian Army, seeking its assistance, if required, to set up hospitals. The army’s assistance has been sought to construct makeshift hospitals, streamline supply lines and other related aspects in case of a big spike in numbers.Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said the help was only sought for medical support.HIGHLIGHTSOf the six new cases, five are from Mumbai while one is from Nagpur.Police said there are fewer people coming out on the streets after repeated requests to follow the lockdown rulesThe supply of essential commodities including vegetables, fruits and grains is coming back normal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-maharashtra-total-at-159/story-gG6RYz1e5zGzaWNwo0wyxK.html
28-03-2020||India||‘Unprecedented crisis; do whatever it takes’: Jayati Ghosh on Covid-19||In the wake of the national lockdown, the Indian economy been severely affected. The maximum impact is expected to be on daily wage workers and those below the poverty line. To understand the various economic dimensions of the pandemic and lockdown, Jayati Ghosh, professor of economics at the Jawaharlal Nehru University and a prominent development economist, spoke to Hindustan Times:How is the present crisis different from other disruptions the Indian economy has faced?This crisis is unprecedented certainly in my lifetime, and probably in the past century. It is a pandemic that is spreading fast, whose full spread and impact are still unclear, and which has both demand and supply effects that are immediate as well as lasting. In demand terms, the lockdown and associated collapses in incomes obviously cause demand to fall drastically across the board, not just in so-called “affected sectors”. In terms of supply effects, the disruption of economic activity is already affecting supply chains, both production and distribution are affected, so specific shortages will certainly emerge. It is impossible to predict the full impact at this point, without a clear idea of how long the lockdowns will continue, what the spread of the disease and the fatalities will be like, and what proactive counter measures will be taken by the government. What is already clear is that currently we are in a period of declining economic activity. Among the worst hit will be daily wage earners. What will it take to prevent a crisis and ensure two square meals to these people and their dependents?The impact on informal workers generally— daily wagers, those with insecure contracts; regular workers with micro and small enterprises that are having to shut shop; self-employed people — is already devastating as the lockdown has already meant loss of income that they cannot afford, and such workers typically have very little savings to draw upon. Farmers are already facing massive problems because of closure of mandis and breaking of transport links, and other farm income sources like poultry have been badly hit by virus fears. An immediate safety net of massive proportions is essential if hunger and related problems do not result in even more tragic outcomes than the virus itself. This should include: public provision of free food rations for the next few months and adding to basic foodgrains, other necessities like pulses, cooking oil and soap; immediate cash transfers of Rs 7,000 to Rs 10,000 per month for the coming months to those known to be more vulnerable (the list could include Jan Dhan account holders, those registered with MNREGS, those receiving public pensions, beneficiaries of Awas Yojna and Ujjwala schemes, etc.). Pending payments for MNREGS wages and other dues should be immediately transferred. There should be a moratorium on tax and interest payments until the lockdown is over, and then the situation could be reviewed. (Editorial Note: Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced a package with some of these measures after the interview was conducted)These measures may sound expensive, but this is no time to be worried about fiscal deficits since we are dealing with a major calamity and lack of public spending will cause the GDP to plummet further. Instead, the Indian government should do “whatever it takes” just as other governments like the UK and Germany have already promised. Crash in crude oil prices has given the government a windfall source of revenues at this hour of crisis. However, given the sharp fall in economic activity levels, the additional revenue earnings from sale in petrol-diesel would be much less than what normal times. How much of a cushion can this be in financing an economic package?There is no doubt that the government is a beneficiary of the global oil price crash, and the finance minister has already given herself the option of further raising excise duties on petroleum products. However, the lockdown and the collapse in economic activity will mean significantly reduced demand for oil products, so the aggregate benefit will be much smaller than in normal times. However, as I mentioned, this is no time to be worried about how any deficit will be financed—the point is to spend money quickly (which the government can always do by borrowing from the RBI, ie, a monetised deficit) in the short run. This will also help to increase economic activity or prevent it from falling further, which would affect tax revenues over time. Inflationary impulses are likely to come from lockdown-induced shortages, so the government must be aware of those and do whatever is required to ensure supply of those items. India’s financial sector had already been dealing with the problem of bad debt even before the current pandemic. Is there a chance that even the relatively better off lenders will be besieged with bad loans as businesses suffer from now on? This is the kind of economic shock that will necessarily generate massive bad loans, and it would have tested the strongest of credit systems. In India, both banks and non-bank lenders are already vulnerable because of the existing burden of non-performing assets; these may now balloon to the point of making it hard for these institutions to function. Some recapitalisation of lenders is inevitable in this context.Given the sharp drop in stock market indices and potential loss in earnings even in the formal sector, are we going to be seeing significant wealth effects among even the rich households? What implications will it have for saving and consumption behaviour?I am not terribly concerned about the stock market declines, as the indices were already at unrealistically high levels and some correction was inevitable. There will be negative wealth effects of the current share movements, but these will be completely dwarfed by the massive decline in aggregate demand due to the collapse of most working incomes. Household savings and consumption were already declining in the recent past; now we are likely to see a precipitous drop. We are talking about a near breakdown of economic activity because of the simultaneous decline in both demand and supply. As and when the crisis eases off, what should an economic reconstruction strategy focus on? Unlike a war-ravaged economy, there is going to be very little loss of physical capital and infrastructure due to this shutdown. Will this pose a limit on using methods such as aggressive public work programmes to stimulate mass demand? Once the virus has been contained and this immediate crisis has been addressed, we will need to completely rethink how we organise our economy and the priorities for public spending. It is to be hoped that this crisis makes the government realise the importance of investing much more in public health and in ensuring proper wages and conditions for frontline health workers. We will need to revive demand as soon as possible by expanding the rural employment programme and bringing in an urban employment programme — a useful template for this has already been developed. There are many activities in both urban and rural areas that are massively underprovided, which could be aided by such a programme. By the end of the crisis, we will have realised the importance of food security, and therefore of policies to ensure that by making farming viable and distributing food more equitable and inclusively. A package for MSMEs to ensure their revival and future viability will be absolutely essential. Farmers also will need a package. Supply chains will have to be rebuilt. The financial sector will need to be regulated to enable banks, non-banks and insurance companies to meet the actual needs of the real economy and to provide more equitable access. Women workers (paid and unpaid) as well as those from disadvantaged social groups are among the worst affected in the crisis, not only because they are disproportionately among relatively unprotected frontline workers, but because in periods of scarcity they tend to be rationed out of jobs, food, other incomes. It will be necessary to identify the specific ways in which they have been affected and direct policies towards dealing with these issues. Exclusionary criteria for public service delivery (such as use of biometric identifiers) should be eliminated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unprecedented-crisis-do-whatever-it-takes-jayati-ghosh-on-covid-19/story-i9tPVvFhAs1d1Ud6uEYN4L.html
28-03-2020||India||Govt data shows 149 cases in 24 hrs, Covid-19 count hits 873 in India||Confirmed Covid-19 cases shot up by 149 in India on Saturday morning, taking the total count to 873 as the country recorded its biggest jump in a 24-hour period, the Union health ministry said.In the updated list, the number of active Covid-19 cases in the country stood at 775. It added that 78 people were either cured or discharged, and that one had migrated from India. The health ministry said there were two new deaths — one each in Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh. The data said 19 people have died in India, where a 21-day nationwide lockdown has been enforced to stop the fast-spreading Sars-Cov-2 virus, which causes the deadly infection. Maharashtra topped the list with 177 cases, followed by Kerala at 165. Till date, the number of deaths due to Covid-19 have been reported from Maharashtra (5), Gujarat (3), Karnataka (2), Madhya Pradesh (2) and one each from Tamil Nadu, Bihar, Punjab, Delhi, West Bengal, Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh.According to Worldometer, a global case tracker which says it gives live statistics, India reported 906 infections and 20 deaths till 1pm on Saturday. Coronavirus outbreak Live UpdatesThe health ministry’s Friday morning data said there were 724 cases and 17 deaths in the country.The number of cases in India has spiked to over 800 from just 50 a little over two weeks ago. The first death was reported on March 11.For complete coverage on coronavirus pandemic, click on this linkThe Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) maintains that there is no community transmission in the country. Community transmission is that phase the outbreak when the source of an individual’s infection can’t be traced and isolated.On Friday, Kerala reported 39 new cases, sparking fears of community transmission. Kasargod district reported 34 of the 39 cases, in an indication that the disease may have spread deep.India has taken unprecedented steps to fight the disease - the latest being a complete lockdown and increased surveillance.“When the disease has spread to 192 countries, it means screening at entry points will serve no purpose. India anyway is in a state of lockdown that will show benefits if people follow the dos and don’ts. Since the disease is here, what we need to do now is improve our case management and strengthen surveillance within the community. Our efforts now are concentrating on not letting it spread further,” Lav Aggarwal, joint secretary in the Union ministry of health and family welfare, said on Friday.Hospitals across the country have also started preparing for a possible surge in the number of cases.In Delhi, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Friday the government is equipped to handle up to 100 new cases a day, and is working to ensure that it is prepared even if the numbers go up to 500- 1,000 new cases.The All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi, is also keeping its 800-bed National Cancer Institute in Jhajjar, ready to accommodate a higher number of patients.There are four main stages of the outbreak. Stage I is usually when cases are imported and are not of local origin. Stage II is when there is local transmission, which means a section of people testing positive have come in contact with a positive patient having a travel history. Stage III is community transmission. Stage IV is an epidemic, when there several clusters of the infection.To prepare for stage III, the government has prohibited export of ventilators and asked two PSUs to manufacture 40,000 ventilators. The government is also ensuring adequate supply of personal protection equipment (PPE), N-95 masks and hand sanitizers, which are crucial in infection control.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-data-shows-149-cases-in-24-hrs-covid-19-count-hits-873/story-AZ6UFRvuBelFJV3KkcwFiN.html
28-03-2020||India||Coronavirus outbreak: What are the stages of transmission and what they mean||India reported more than 850 confirmed cases of the coronavirus disease and 19 deaths on Saturday as the country entered the fourth day of the three-week nationwide lockdown.The government has taken a slew of measures to step up against the spread of Covid-19, including announcing the 21-day lockdown across the country and the economic stimulus package.As the numbers neared the 900 mark, many have expressed concern that the coronavirus epidemic could be advancing towards community transmission in the country.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the Union ministry of health and family welfare and members of Covid-19 task force have been said India is not in the dreaded Stage 3 or there is no community transmission of the coronavirus at the moment.China, Italy and the United Kingdom have already reached Stage 3 of the pandemic and reported hundreds of deaths and ballooning cases of the coronavirus disease.Here is what the four stages of the Covid-19 pandemic mean:Stage 1 Stage 1 is when cases are imported from affected countries without any local origin and only those who have travelled abroad test positive for the respiratory illness. The disease does not spread locally at this stage.Stage 2This is the stage when local transmission happens and its source is known and can be located. At this stage, people testing positive have come in contact with a patient who has travelled outside the country. They are usually those in close contact with the patient such as family members or others who have been in touch with the infected. Fewer people are affected at Stage 2 and it is easier to perform contact tracing and contain the spread via self-quarantining. India is currently in Stage 2. Stage 3This is the stage of community transmission and takes place when the source of an individual’s infection can’t be traced and isolated. During this stage, those who have not been exposed to an infected person or anyone who has a travel history to affected countries still test positive for the coronavirus. The outbreak will spread fast in clusters once the community transmission starts.Countries like Singapore, Italy and Spain are currently in Stage 3. Stage 4It is the most dreaded stage during which there are several clusters of the infection and it takes the form of an epidemic. Massive numbers are infected making it very difficult to control and contain the spread of the disease. China has already been in Stage 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-outbreak-what-are-the-stages-of-transmission-and-what-they-mean/story-i6f7iIhW6p6KzjSezgLNHN.html
28-03-2020||India||As Covid-19 cases inch toward 900 in India, a look at statewise numbers||India has reported as many as 149 new coronavirus cases in the last 24 hours. With this, the total positive Covid-19 cases in the country have climbed to 873.Around 80 people have successfully recovered from the infection while 19 people have lost their lives. The southern state of Kerala and Maharashtra remain on top of the tally with the highest number of Covid-19 cases. Here is a statewise breakup of coronavirus cases across the country. MaharashtraWith 180 Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra is the worst-hit state by Covid-19 infection. The state has registered five coronavirus deaths so far while 25 patients have been recovered and released.KeralaThe southern state has 173 positive cases of coronavirus as per the latest data by the Ministry of Health. The state hasn’t witnessed any Covid-19 death yet. 11 people have successfully recovered.“This is the time for youth to shoulder responsibility. We are planning a volunteer force of 2 lakh members. Food supply to hospital work they will be trained. Their expenses will be met by local and civic bodies,” Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said this week.KarnatakaThe state has recorded 55 Covid-19 cases and two deaths. Three people have been cured and discharged.Telangana48 positive cases of coronavirus have been reported here so far. One person has made a recovery from the virus while no one has died of Covid-19 in the state.GujaratPrime Minister Narendra Modi’s home state has registered 45 coronavirus cases and no recoveries so far. As many as 3 people have died from the infection in the state.RajasthanThe state has 48 positive cases of coronavirus with no reported cases of fatalities. Three patients have recovered from the infection. Uttar Pradesh45 people have been infected from Covid-19 in the state. While 11 people have recovered from Covid-19 in Uttar Pradesh, no one had died from the infection here.DelhiAs many as 39 people have been tested positive of coronavirus in the national capital. One person has died from the infection while 6 people have made a recovery.Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has urged citizens not to step out of their homes and has assured that no one will go to sleep on an empty stomach. He also assured a smooth supply of all essential commodities across the National Capital Territory and said that the administration is prepared to handle 100 Covid-19 cases in a day.Haryana and PunjabThe neighbouring states have 33 and 38 Covid-19 cases respectively. While one person has died of coronavirus in Punjab, Haryana has seen no deaths. 11 people have been recovered from coronavirus in Haryana, one in Punjab.Tamil Nadu and Madhya PradeshThe southern state has registered 38 Covid-19 cases and seen two recoveries. Madhya Pradesh closely follows with 30 positive cases of coronavirus in the state. While Tamil Nadu has seen one patient die from Covid-19, two people have died in Madhya Pradesh. Besides this, Jammu and Kashmir has 18 positive cases of coronavirus. One person has died from the infection while one was cured. Andhra Pradesh has 14 positive Covid-19 patients and one case of recovery. West Bengal has 15 people who tested positive for the infection with one death.In Chandigarh, 7 people were found infected from Covid-19. Chhattisgarh has recorded 6 cases of coronavirus. In Bihar, 9 people have tested positive for coronavirus, one has dies.Uttarakhand has 5 coronavirus patients. Goa and Himachal Pradesh have recorded 3 cases each, one patient has died in Himachal. Odisha also has three Covid-19 positive patients. Andaman has recorded two coronavirus patients. States and Union territories with just one positive Covid-19 case include Manipur, Mizoram and Pondicherry.On Saturday, India entered the fourth day of the 21-day long nationwide coronavirus lockdown announced by PM Modi to break the chain of Covid-19 infections in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-as-covid-19-cases-inch-toward-900-in-india-a-look-at-statewise-numbers/story-I1L7koHcbAqvlYfivIS5UM.html
28-03-2020||India||Public attacks Assam Police for enforcing Covid-19 lockdown, 2 cops injured||After reports of alleged police high-handedness on the public while trying to enforce lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus, the Assam Police is now facing a violent backlash from the people in some places.Two such incidents were reported in Bongaigaon and Dhubri districts, both in lower Assam, on Friday and Saturday where people attacked policemen trying to close shops and market places.On Friday, two police personnel from the Chapar station in Dhubri were injured when they were attacked by a crowd at Phalimari Bazar. Around 300 people had reportedly gathered there at a market in violation of lockdown government guidelines.Follow coronavirus live updates here.One policeman was attacked with sticks while another who was trying to protect him was hit by a brick on his head. Both are admitted at a local hospital and stated to be stable.On Saturday morning, a group of shopkeepers and customers attacked a police team in Bongaigaon when they tried to stop them from opening shops at Bodi Bazar. “When the police team was returning after closing the shops, people pelted stones at them. We fired few rounds in the air to disperse the crowd and the situation is now under control. No one was injured,” said Singha Ram Mili, superintendent of police Bongaigaon.Police have arrested over a dozen people in both the cases and registered FIRs against them.On Thursday, mass violations of social distancing guidelines by public at market places across Assam had forced the state government to shut all markets immediately till further orders. Only grocery shops and pharmacies have been allowed to operate.“We have been tasked to implement the lockdown and we can’t back off from that. In course of that if people resort to violence, we will also have to take action as per law,” said ADGP (Law and Order) GP Singh.“It’s a difficult situation. This particular lockdown is for the safety of the public. Despite these incidents our morale is high and will continue to remain so. I am touring both places on Saturday to take stock of the situation,” he added.Earlier this week there were reports that a pharmacy owner in Golaghat district was caned by police when he was going to open his establishment. In another instance, a newspaper vendor was reportedly assaulted by police in Nalbari.“Even a national emergency can’t justify such blatant violation of a civilian’s basic human right of living with dignity. If anyone is found to be loitering in the streets without due cause, then that person should be booked and the courts of law should be allowed to penalize him,” leader of opposition Debabrata Saikia wrote to Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/public-attacks-assam-police-for-enforcing-covid-19-lockdown-2-cops-injured/story-yborRO2ZgWinTGyNPwHmSJ.html
28-03-2020||India||5 new Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, 159 infected in state||Maharashtra reported six new cases of Covid-19 in the state, taking the number of people infected with the coronavirus disease to 159, news agency ANI reported citing the health ministry.According to ANI, five people contracted Covid-19 in Mumbai and one in Nagpur.The state government has reached out to the Indian Army, seeking its assistance, if required, to set up hospitals. The army’s assistance has been sought to construct makeshift hospitals, streamline supply lines and other related aspects in case of a big spike in numbers.Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said the help was only sought for medical support. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray in his address to the people of Maharashtra, via live stream, said that the state is at a very crucial turn, where the virus can go on multiplying, resulting in the rise of patients multifold.“There is no need to panic as many patients have gotten cured after timely and right treatment. I appeal to people with international travel history to come forward if they have missed the coronavirus test after coming back,” he said.“There is a possibility of new cases coming to light after having gotten into contact with people with international travel history. The cases may rise, but there is no need to be scared,” he added.Thackeray yet again appealed to people to stay at home.To arrest the spread of the coronavirus, the state government is also focusing on tracing close contacts of the patients infected by the coronavirus. Public health minister Rajesh Tope, through his Facebook Live address, said the government is now working on the principle of three Ts — Tracing, Testing, and Treatment — to prevent the spread of coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-new-covid-19-cases-in-maharashtra-159-infected-in-state/story-QOoudJUMZDYekp67gBTCGN.html
28-03-2020||India||RBI boost to virus images: Covid-19 news from India||The Reserve Bank of India announced a steep rate cut and a three-month holiday on all EMIs on Friday, while infusing Rs 3.74 lakh crore of liquidity to stabilise India’s financial system in the wake of the 21-day lockdown prompted by the Covid-19 outbreak. The Centre, meanwhile, ordered the acquisition of 40,000 new ventilators and also shot off a letter to states to track down people who have come from abroad, intensifying surveillance and disease mitigation efforts.RBI’s booster shot for Covid-19 battleThe Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Friday announced the steepest cut in the policy rate since 2008, a three-month holiday on all EMIs (including on home loans), a sharp cut in the amount of money banks need to keep with the central bank as reserve, and infused ~3.74 lakh crore of liquidity to reassure and stabilise India’s financial system in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.Read MoreGovt plans to double capacity with 40,000 ventilators, flags gap in screening to statesThe Union government ordered for the acquisition of 40,000 new ventilators and separately shot off a letter to all states to enhance efforts to track down the tens of thousands of people who have come back from abroad, intensifying on Friday surveillance and disease mitigation measures to tackle the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Read MoreCovid-19: What you need to know todayPurely based on the numbers and nothing else, the rate of Covid-19 infection seems to increase sharply once countries cross a certain threshold. On March 27, the number of cases in India crossed 800. It was 878 at 10:45pm on Friday. Clearly, the next few weeks are crucial for India. Read MoreFood, shelter in govt aid plan for migrantsThe government is working on a way to help the tens of thousands of migrant workers, some with their families in tow, walking back home after the national lockdown enforced on Wednesday, get to their destination or, at the least, to also ensure they get food and shelter, according to government officials familiar with the matter.Read MoreHouse panel pushes for law to provide security to unorganised sectorHundreds, maybe thousands of workers may have lost their jobs already on account of the Covid-19 crisis and the ongoing 21-day lockdown to combat its spread, but if the government manages to pass a law currently in the works, it could, in the future, provide such workers with much-needed social security and financial benefits.Read More Dedicated units to fast-track approval of new testing kits for Covid-19Approvals for diagnostic devices for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) can be granted within seven to 10 days if necessary conditions are met, the country’s apex drugs and diagnostics regulator Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) has said at a time when India is trying to fast-track the process in the wake of rising cases in the country.Read MoreSurveillance and management now top on govt agendaAs the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients increases, India has turned aggressive and changed its approach to combating the disease from screening people at entry points to the country to reinforcing community surveillance and disease management.Read MoreCoronavirus worries sow an unsure cropThe 21-day national lockdown poses hurdles for the harvest that has already started in some places, despite a Friday order from the home ministry that includes farm hands in its definition of workers providing essential services.Read More India to take part in WHO’s Covid-19 vaccine trials, says ICMRIndia will soon participate in the World Health Organization’s (WHO) ongoing trial aimed at developing vaccines for Covid-19, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said on Friday. So far India hasn’t volunteered as there weren’t enough numbers to participate in the trial, but now that the number of Covid-19 cases has rapidly increased in the country, India decided to go ahead.Read MoreCovid-19 update: High-tech farm management system on anvilAuthorities will harness high-tech systems on an “unprecedented scale” to manage the vast farm sector, which heads into its crucial kharif or summer-sown agricultural season, even as experts wonder if the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) farming will disrupt farming itself.Read MoreIn times of a Covid-19 lockdown, protecting lives and livelihoods | OpinionThe short-term tradeoff between lives and livelihoods is manifest and nobody really knows where the precise balance lies. Too limited a lockout period risks the lives of potentially hundreds of thousands of people; too restrictive a lockout could result in the eruption of serious social unrest, writes Devesh KapurRead MoreFirst images from India of virus causing Covid-19 captured by scientistsThe first images from India of the coronavirus causing the Covid-19 disease have been caught by scientists in Pune, using transmission electron microscope imaging. They were published in the Indian Journal of Medical Research.Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rbi-boost-to-virus-images-covid-19-news-from-india/story-ospG1AraUXUIl3ndYwCcrM.html
28-03-2020||India||Bhopal journalists protest collector’s order on notice over home quarantine||Journalists in Madhya Pradesh’s Bhopal on Friday protested the district collector’s order to paste quarantine notices on the houses of reporters who attended the then chief minister Kamal Nath’s press conference on March 20 after one of them contracted the coronavirus disease.A man, who claimed to be a journalist and attended the press conference, has been hospitalised at AIIMS, Bhopal along with his daughter who tested positive earlier for Covid-19. The notice, which is a warning for other people, reads “Covid-19, Do not visit, Home under quarantine”.The protests began after health department personnel accompanied by the police started pasting the notices on the journalists’ houses. The personnel said they had a list from the collector and the order to paste the notices, said a journalist.Some of the journalists said they are already following the norms over the coronavirus disease and have self-quarantined after the man contracted Covid-19.Vatsal Shrivastava, a journalist, has complained to the Bhopal divisional commissioner against what he said was the ‘highhandedness of the government’.“If the presence of the coronavirus-affected person in the then CM’s press conference is the reason to target the journalists then the then CM, his ministerial colleagues, several ruling party MLAs and several bureaucrats including Bhopal collector too who were present during the press conference should have the notices at their houses,” Shrivastava said.Bhopal collector Tarun Kumar Pithode could not be reached for his comments.Kalpana Shrivastava, the commissioner, said she was not aware who issued the order. “However, I have spoken to the collector and also commissioner public relations in this regard. The issue will be resolved,” she said.The Congress criticised the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over the notices.“This is the real face of BJP as far as its opinion about journalism and journalists is concerned. The BJP has never been in favour of the presence of media in society,” Durgesh Sharma, the spokesperson of the Congress’ state unit, said.The ruling party said chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has been apprised of the issue.“The journalists’ concern was immediately conveyed to the chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and he instructed the authorities to look into the matter,” Lokendra Parashar the BJP’s media in-charge, said.Thirty-one people in Madhya Pradesh have contracted the disease and almost half of the Covid-19 cases are from Indore. Jabalpur is the second most infected city with eight cases followed by capital Bhopal with three cases. Two deaths have been reported, one each from Indore and Ujjain, state officials have said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhopal-journalists-protest-collector-s-order-on-notice-over-home-quarantine/story-4yc4Fmj2PiuS4Ep3y07l6K.html
28-03-2020||India||Covid-19: Be humane while enforcing lockdown, Chhattisgarh DGP tells cops||The Chhattisgarh police chief on Saturday cautioned police personnel against misbehaving with people after videos of cops brutally thrashing people for violating prohibitory orders in the wake of the coronavirus lockdown went viral on social media.“I have asked police to strictly enforce lockdown but also not to behave in high-handed manner. Police should adopt a humanitarian approach. Incidents like thrashing or misbehaving with citizens should not occur and if such cases happen, the senior officer of the district will be held accountable,” Director General of Police D M Awasthi said after the police faced flak for beating people.Awasthi said that entire police force of the state has been deployed to contain the spread of coronavirus which has infected six people in the state. The state has tested 289 samples so far.“We are making all effort to help people in this lockdown and also contain the spread of virus. Our jawans are also helping administration in providing food to the poor and labourers in the state. All SPs are working day and night to contain the spread of the virus,” he said.The police have registered 28 cases since Thursday for violation of lockdown regulations. “Police are taking strict action across the state against those who are violating prohibitory and other orders to check the spread of coronavirus. The violations have ranged from breaking prohibitory orders to ignoring home quarantine protocol and hiding foreign travel history. We have registered 28 cases in the state and more cases will follow,” Awasthi said. The cases were registered under IPC sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-be-humane-while-enforcing-lockdown-chhattisgarh-dgp-tells-cops/story-kUcJZxrqwdfWyKHEO4gfPO.html
28-03-2020||India||Farmers can work, says govt amid nationwide lockdown over Covid-19 pandemic||The government has exempted all agriculture-related operations from a national lockdown currently in force to contain the coronavirus epidemic, which virtually sets a large section of rural India free from an economic curfew. Agriculture and activities related to farming have now been included in the list of essential activities exempt from the lockdown, a senior official said, requesting anonymity. “The government has added one more amendment to its original notification for a nationwide notification. Agricultural activities are now exempt because it has been included under essential services now,” an official said.The countrywide restrictions were announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday, March 24, with complete halt of all public transport, including flights, trains and interstate buses. The lockdown came into effect the next day with only essential services allowed to operate.This has severely jeopardised agriculture, which employs nearly half of all Indians, directly or indirectly. Millions of farmers weren’t able to sow or harvest their crops and their access to markets was cut off, hurting rural incomes.According to the latest order, sowing of crops as well as harvesting stands permitted. Fertilizer and pesticide shops as well as the seed markets can function. Agriculture Produce Market Committees, popularly known as anaj mandis, are allowed to resume operations. Food aggregators, commission agents, forwarding contractors and wholesale buyers – critical to run the farm-to-fork food supply chain – have also been exempted from the lockdown. Millions of farmers across the country can work in their farms throughout the nationwide lockdown put in place over the coronavirus pandemic, the official cited above said. States will decide how to implement this order in a safe manner given the pandemic, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-allows-farmers-to-carry-out-operations-amid-nationwide-lockdown-over-coronavirus-pandemic/story-GsFqQ2KOJCmu5490mo7CkN.html
28-03-2020||India||India to take part in WHO Covid-19 vaccine trials, cases cross 800: Key developments||The number of coronavirus cases in the country crossed 800 on Friday. Kerala and Maharashtra continue to grapple with Covid-19 as states with the maximum number of infected patients. As many as 17 people have succumbed to death because of the virus while more than 60 people have been cured. India entered the fourth day of the 21-day Covid-19 lockdown on Saturday. The Reserve Bank of India made key announcements in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak on Friday. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said that the national capital is now preparing to withstand stage 3 of Covid-19 transmission. Here are the key developments: 1. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) announced the steepest cut in the policy rate since 2008.2. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said India will take part in the World Health Organisation’s coronavirus vaccine trials.3. Delhi prepares for stage 3 of Covid-19 outbreak, ICMR says India still in stage 24. States governments roll out Covid-19 call centres. 5. Doctors and medical students to run virtual diagnostic facilities and prescribe preventive care in over 30 languages to ensure hospitals are seeing only the most severe cases.6. Farmers impacted by unseasonal rain and lockdown. Supply impacted for consumers.7. Kerala’s self-help network of 43 lakh women-run community kitchens to help people tide over Covid-19 crisis.8. Mumbai surgeon suspected of dying due to Covid-19 disease. His son and wife may have contracted the infection.9. First images of coronavirus from India published in Indian Journal of Medical Sciences.10. All domestic, non-scheduled and private flight operations suspended till April 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-india-to-take-part-in-who-covid-19-vaccine-trials-cases-cross-800-key-developments/story-EHpdexYooSwDO4zcXb2fGM.html
28-03-2020||India||Coronavirus: India readies for Stage 3 transmission as Covid-19 cases cross 800||With over 800 coronavirus cases in the country and 17 deaths, the rise in the number of coronavirus patients has seen a sharp rise this month. On Friday, the number of positive coronavirus cases crossed 800 in the country. The administration is leaving no stone unturned in bolstering its response against Covid-19.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), Ministry of Health as well as members of Covid-19 task force maintain that the community transmission of coronavirus is not happening at the moment, however, preparations to tackle such a situation have already begun. On Friday, in a press briefing, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said that his administration is equipped to handle 100 Covid-19 cases in a day. He said that the Delhi government is now working on the plan to tackle stage 3 of Covid-19 outbreak. ALSO WATCH | Health Ministry briefs on Covid-19 death toll in India, guidelines for doctors“At present, things are under control, but in case it slips out of hand where the number of cases increases exponentially, we have to be ready with all the arrangements. The 5-member committee of doctors - which was set up to give us an action plan that would kick in if the city enters stage 3 of the coronavirus spread - has submitted its report,” he said.Also read: US Covid-19 figures cross 100,000, a first for any countryKejriwal said the panel has recommended an action plan in three stages. Stage 1 where the number of patients is 100 per day, stage 2 where the number of patients is 500 per day and stage 3 when the number of patients is 1,000 per day.“Delhi is prepared till stage 1. This means, if we start getting 100 coronavirus patients per day, our hospitals will be able to take the load. What we are now preparing for a scenario where the number of patients is 500 or 1,000 every day. The requirement of isolation beds, ventilators, ICU beds, testing kits and tests to be conducted, ambulances, doctors, nurses, their transportation and accommodation - everything is being worked out. We have the SoP ready now. We are already working on a plan for a stage if have 1,000 patients a day. Hope such a situation does not arise,” the chief minister said.On Friday, Odisha expressed concern that the coronavirus could be advancing towards community transmission in the state. This comes after a 60-year-old man with no recent travel history tested positive.“Now, with the third confirmed case having no foreign travel history, we see a possibility of the outbreak moving into Stage-III, which is community transmission,” Odisha’s COVID-19 chief spokesman Subroto Bagchi said.Stage 1 of the outbreak is in case of only getting cases coming from abroad. It advances to State 2 when the disease transmission happens in people from a known source. Stage 3 is when the source of the infection is not known and becomes difficult to trace. India is also looking to expand its testing facilities by opening gates to private laboratories to carry out testing and increase the number of tests done daily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-india-readies-for-stage-3-transmission-as-covid-19-cases-cross-800/story-otDPZCD9PtCDTolhz6AJGN.html
28-03-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Assam to set up hospitals with 1500 beds within 2 months||Assam government will set up five new pre-fabricated hospitals across the state with 300 bed each within the next two months exclusively for Covid-19 patients, health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on Friday.The government has also decided to convert three medical colleges in the state into exclusive facilities for Covid-19 patients while private hospitals will bear the burden of all non-coronavirus patients and they will be reimbursed as per laid down norms.“Each hospital will cost around Rs 40-45 crore. We should be able to construct four of them with contributions made by MPs from the state, state government employees and donations received from the public,” Sarma said. Assam is yet to record any Covid-19 case, but the government machinery is gearing up to face the outbreak and spread of the coronavirus disease.“From Saturday, all 36 private nursing homes and clinical establishments in Guwahati will take the entire load of patients coming to Guwahati Medical College Hospital (GMCH),” Sarma said.The biggest government hospital will be gradually shut down for all other patients except for cancer, gynaecology and emergency departments over the next two days and will be reserved for Covid-19 cases.The same model will be replicated in Dibrugarh and Silchar medical college hospitals where they will be converted into exclusive Covid-19 facilities. All three will have around 5000 beds in total.While retired doctors will not be called for treatment of Covid-19 patients, their services will be used to train nearly 1000 final year medical and nursing students who will join work after a week’s training.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-assam-to-set-up-hospitals-with-1500-beds-within-2-months/story-ctWXDzfGH32qnyhSIAkmFO.html
28-03-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Following mass violations, Assam shuts vegetable markets||The Assam government on Friday closed all vegetable, fish and meat markets in the state within hours of opening them after mass violations by people on norms of social distancing as a measure to stop or slow the spread of Covid-19.While the state government had earlier announced the opening of only grocery shops, pharmacies and petrol pumps, there was confusion after the Centre’s guidelines on the 21-day lockdown allowed vegetable markets to open.On Thursday, chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal said that vegetable, fish and meat markets in the state will also be allowed to open during the lockdown. In Guwahati, seven vegetable markets were allowed to operate on Friday.But as soon as they opened, hundreds of people rushed to these places to buy goods. Similar scenes were also witnessed from across the state where people crowded without following social distancing.“Our aim is to protect 3.3 crore population of the state from this disease. It is our duty to ensure that the lockdown is followed properly. If people violate it, police will be forced to take stern measures against them,” Sarbananda Sonowal said in Jorhat.Soon after videos of people thronging markets surfaced on social medial platforms and local television channels, the state government announced the closure of all vegetable markets immediately till further orders.“Today, we witnessed markets opening at various places and people thronging them. This violated government’s guidelines on social distancing and hence we decided to close all markets in the state,” announced chief secretary Kumar Sanjay Krishna.Only grocery and pharmacy shops will remain open and grocers will be allowed to sell vegetables, fruits, eggs, water etc. Deputy commissioners of all districts have been instructed to distribute vegetables using mobile vans on alternate days.All meat and fish shops have been ordered to remain shut till March 31.“There was confusion about it yesterday. From now we will implement lockdown strictly. Vegetables and grocery will be made available locally and markets will be closed,” health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said.The confusion over the government’s decision, first to close all markets and then open them, has led to criticism from opposition parties who asked the government to manage the situation in a better manner.“Lockdown became meaningless after the government announced the opening of vegetable markets and encouraged people to rush there,” Debabrata Saikia, Congress legislator and the leader of opposition in the assembly, said.“In order to safeguard the life and health of all, I urge the government to enforce curfew in the entire state. In the meantime they should formulate a proper policy to ensure the public get essentials and medicines during the lockdown,” he added.Assam has not reported any case of Covid-19, the coronavirus disease, till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-following-mass-violations-assam-shuts-vegetable-markets/story-k7H9x8WDP305pP1u2qSwiN.html
28-03-2020||India||Covid-19 update: Kolkata doctors travel 250km with masks, sanitisers for migrant labourers||Two doctors in West Bengal have driven hundreds of kilometres to help out labourers who came back from other states before the 21-day countrywide lockdown was announced to stop the spread of coronavirus.Dr Masuda Khatun and Dr Abdul Aziz from Kolkata distributed masks, hand sanitizer and food items among the labourers in Murshidabad district, 250km away from the state capital.Dr Khatun and Dr Aziz on Friday visited the Lalgola community block in Murshidabad district, which is a source of skilled and unskilled workforce for several states and happens to be one of the most backward areas in the state.Most of the locals, who go to Maharashtra and Kerala in search of work, have returned from these states recently. They have been asked to stay at home and observe if they are showing signs of Covid-19, the coronavirus disease. However, with no wages, they neither have enough food nor the resource to buy masks or hand sanitizer. “We are aware that the virus is spreading very fast. But these poor people don’t have the money to buy hand sanitiser and mask. Also, neither is available in the market because of panic buying and short supply,” Dr Aziz said.“We have arranged these for more than 10,000 people. The distribution started on Friday. We have planned to get the job done in four days,” he added.Enamul Haque, a member of a local charitable trust that arranged the distribution, said they have also got rice and pulses for the labourers.“We are maintaining social distance while distributing the items. Eight vehicles are carrying these from one location to the next,” Haque said.Rahim Sheikh, a resident of Ramchandrapur village, said, “We did not get hand sanitiser and mask in local medicine shops. This is a great initiative to help poor people.”Hundreds of thousands of other migrant labourers, caught in the middle of the lockdown with no work and no way to travel home, have been walking hundreds of kilometres to go back to their villages. The countrywide restrictions announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and a complete halt of all public transport, including trains and interstate buses, came into effect on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-kolkata-doctors-travel-250km-with-masks-sanitisers-for-migrant-labourers/story-acA6Gw5V8QKFUz2srTJKLI.html
28-03-2020||India||Engage Red Cross and religious groups to contain Covid-19 spread: President Kovind||President Ram Nath Kovind Friday asked governors and Lt governors of states and union territories to rope in volunteers from the Red Cross and other religious organisations to contain the spread of coronavirus “at the earliest”, an official spokesman said.Addressing governors and LGs through a video conference, the President expressed hope that the Indian society’s inherent strength of “sharing and caring” and the government’s measures would mitigate the sufferings of the most vulnerable sections of the society, particularly the workers of the unorganised sectors and the destitute.The conference, which was also attended by Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu, was held to find ways to complement the efforts of the Centre and the state governments in meeting the challenges arising from the outbreak of COVID-19.In the video-conference, 14 governors and Delhi’s Lt. Governor were shortlisted to share experiences in their territories as their areas are among the worst-hit parts of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/engage-red-cross-and-religious-groups-to-contain-covid-19-spread-president-kovind/story-8WdmYwGJHTmPumjjjqTAaL.html
28-03-2020||India||Kerala suspends sub-collector for flouting quarantine||The Kerala government on Friday suspended Kollam sub-collector Anupam Mishra, who slipped out of ‘home quarantine’ and left for his home town Sultanpur, in Uttar Pradesh, without informing health officials and the district collector, the Kerala chief minister’s office said.The Kerala police, meanwhile, registered a case against Mishra and informed their UP counterparts about it.Mishra was married to a Kanpur woman on March 2 this year and had gone to Singapore and Malaysia on honeymoon. When the 2016 batch IAS officer and his wife returned from their honeymoon trip last week, health authorities had advised them to remain in ‘home quarantine’ for at least two weeks due to the coronavirus outbreak, officials said.Mishra’s disappearance came to notice when health official went to his official residence on Thursday to inquire about his condition.Later, UP police traced Mishra to Sultanpur. Police officers of Kanpur and Sultanpur have spoken to Mishra, who told them that since he was in isolation “someone advised him” to leave for his hometown, said a UP police officer.“He did follow the advice and came to Sultanpur. He is now in touch with the district magistrate (DM) and superintendent of police (SP) of Sultanpur. They are monitoring his health status and have also got a swab test done again. The report is awaited,” said an officer who spoke to him.His family lives in Niralanagar in Sultanpur. Mishra’s mobile phone was switched off till Friday morning.District magistrate, Kanpur, Brahmdev Ram Tiwari, said the issue was being investigated. Mishra denied having travelled to Kanpur and said he was misunderstood.“In his conversation with officials in Kerala, he told them he was in Sultanpur and they mistook it for Kanpur,” said the official.IG Kanpur range Mohit Agarwal said the officer had been traced and his travel history to Kanpur was being investigated. “I have asked to check his travel history through his mobile location; in case he has travelled and tested positive, all those points and people he came in contact with, will be sanitised and tested,” he said.Mishra’s driver and personal security guard have been put in isolation after his disappearance came to light. Kerala police, meanwhile, said they will take action against them also for failing to report his trip to UP. He reportedly left for Sultanpur on March 21, days before the nationwide lockdown was announced due to the coronavirus outbreak.Kollam district collector B Abdul Nassar told the media persons on Friday that he (Mishra) has given an explanation that when he was told to go into self-isolation, he presumed it was to go to his residence back home in Uttar Pradesh.“This is a serious violation of protocol and I submitted a report to the government,” said Nassar.Kerala fisheries minister J Mercykutty, who hails from Kollam district, said this was a clear case of lack of social commitment. Many ministers have sought strict action against Mishra.Police have registered a case against him under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, including 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 271 (disobedience to quarantine rule), said Kollam SP T Narayanan.Mishra’s sudden disappearance amid the rising coronavirus cases in Kerala (total 140) triggered an outrage in the state. His act also caused embarrassment to the government, which is engaged in a gargantuan task of dealing with one lakh-odd people who are in ‘home quarantine’.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-suspends-sub-collector-for-flouting-quarantine/story-gPbtUoVWR1JHcIWKSA7ynN.html
28-03-2020||India||In Kolkata, woman arrested for spreading coronavirus rumours on social media||A 29-year-old woman was arrested by Kolkata Police’s cybercrime cell on Friday for allegedly posting fake news on social media and spreading rumours related to coronavirus outbreak in the city.The woman had posted that a doctor got infected with coronavirus while treating patients in a state-run hospital. She had also uploaded a fake page of a Bengali newspaper.“This is the first arrest made by the city police in connection with posting fake news and spreading rumours related to coronavirus,” said a senior official of the city police’s detective department.The woman is a singer and an actor in a theatre group. “That was fake news. The state health department had immediately lodged a complaint with the Kolkata Police. No doctor or any health worker in the state has been detected with the virus till date,” said a top official of the state health department. Police have been initiated against her under section 66C of the informational technology act (punishment for identity theft) and relevant sections under the IPC for spreading fear.Chief minister Mamata Banerjee and the city police commissioner Anuj Sharma have been warning citizens not to post fake news on social media and refrain from spreading rumours. A song written by the woman to spread awareness on coronavirus also has a line cautioning people not to pay attention to rumours and fake news.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-arrested-in-kolkata-for-spreading-rumours-on-coronavirus-on-social-media/story-Oo9qJYBQhOwcAfN9HwUjTN.html
28-03-2020||India||Coronavirus update: 70-year-old preacher from Punjab may have infected 27 people||A 70-year-old religious preacher from Punjab’s Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, who returned home from Germany earlier this month, has emerged as a possible super-spreader who likely infected 27 people, government officials said on Friday. The preacher or ‘granthi’, Baldev Singh, died on March 18 and is, until now, Punjab’s only Covid-19 victim.Singh was found to have been infected by coronavirus only after his death on March 18. Since then, health authorities have been racing against time to trace his contact history and quarantining people who came in contact with him.Out of five cases that were confirmed on Friday, four were in contact with Singh. At least 20 villages in three districts – with a total population of nearly 25,000 – have been sealed because Singh visited these areas after his return from Germany on March 7.Banga sub-divisional magistrate Gautam Jain said at least 700 people who had come in close contact with Singh had been quarantined.The 27 people include his two-year-old grandson and 14 other family members. Nearly 333 swab samples of symptomatic people have been taken from these villages so far, a health official said on condition of anonymity.Singh, a granthi in a local sect, accompanied his religious guru during a visit to Germany and visited a number of houses after their return, the official quoted above said. Both attended the Holla Mohalla, a religious fair that began on March 10 and ended on March 12, at Anandpur Sahib, where thousands of devotees had gathered, the official added. The Punjab health department has now launched a statewide search to trace those who attended the fair.On March 16, Singh fell sick and visited two private hospitals in Phagwara and Jalandhar before going to the Jalandhar civil hospital. From there, he was referred to the Banga civil hospital where he died of a heart attack.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-70-year-old-preacher-from-punjab-may-have-infected-27-people/story-oJB7HYfPB5c7T7LetmJKqO.html
28-03-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||By Thursday evening it was clear that the US would overtake China to become the country with the most number of Covid-19 cases in the world. As on Friday evening (India time), the country had over 94,000cases, and had seen more than 1,400deaths on account of Sars-CoV-2, the virus causing the pandemic.On Thursday, the New York Times reported, quoting New York state governor Andrew Cuomo, that the number of people admitted to hospitals increased by 40% -- in one day.On March 9, the US had 704 cases according to worldometers.com. On March 26, it had 85,435. In 17 days, it added, 84,731 cases. On February 27, Italy had 655 cases. On March 26, it had 80,589 – in 28 days, it added 79,934 cases. On March 8, Spain had 674 cases. On March 26, it had 57,786. In 18 days, it added 57,112 cases. On January 22, China had 571 cases. On February 13, it had 63,851 cases. In 22 days, it added 63,280 cases.Purely based on the numbers and nothing else, the rate of infection seems to increase sharply once countries cross a certain threshold. On March 27, the number of cases in India crossed 800. It was 878 at 10:45pm on Friday. Clearly, the next few weeks are crucial for India. The country is in a lockdown till April 15.At last count, at least 15 US states had more than 1,000 cases, indicating a spread of the disease not seen in any other country (including China, where almost 80% of the cases were in Hubei province, and only three other provinces saw more than 1,000 cases.The people at the forefront of managing the coronavirus crisis in India would do well to look at the US closely.Like India, it is a democracy.Like India, it has a federal system of government.And like India, it is geographically vast.The US is, after China and India, the third most populous country in the world (although the gap between India, the second most populous, and it, is huge).Experts say that one of the first mistakes made by the US was its reluctance to adopt widespread testing. This, they believe, may have masked the true extent of the crisis. India has pretty much done the same – following all-too-stringent criteria for testing, and, only as recently as a few days ago, opening up testing to private laboratories. Sure, the criteria India used was what WHO recommends, but the multilateral body’s handling of this pandemic has been far from ideal.But India moved quickly in terms of containment and isolation. It restricted, and then completely barred international flights; it set up screening checks for travellers entering the country; it enforced quarantines; and, finally, it declared a hard lockdown for three weeks to April 15. The lockdown was enforced under a law never used before the Disaster Management Act, which requires the state governments to follow the federal government’s leadership and instructions in managing the pandemic, and which also provides for penalties for anyone not doing so. The US, in contrast, did not. The lockdown was also a sign that India’s leadership took the crisis seriously – it was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in an address to the nation. In the US, President Donald Trump is already talking of easing lockdowns by Easter (April 12).The US also finds itself where it is because of a shortage of medical equipment – from protective wear for doctors to masks to ventilators, which are needed for the most critical patients. India has announced ~15,000 crore to strengthen its health infrastructure and also embarked on expanding local manufacturing of some of these (including ventilators), but it isn’t clear how soon it will be able to build an adequate reserve of these. India on Friday set in place a plan to acquire 40,000 ventilators, which would double the current inventory of the life-saving device.The lockdown has bought India some time, but the US experience with the virus highlights the importance of using this time well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-mQNRirtrlQkaQ2RiFi9VcK.html
28-03-2020||India||Coronavirus update: US announces additional $174 million aid to 64 countries, including $ 2.9 million to India||The United States on Friday announced $174 million financial assistance to 64 countries including USD 2.9 million to India to help them fight the coronavirus pandemic.This is in addition to the $100 million aid announced by the US in February.The newly announced assistance is part of a larger American global response package across multiple departments and agencies, including the Centres for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). The funding is for 64 of the most at-risk countries facing the threat of the global pandemic.The US State Department said it is providing $2.9 million to help the Indian government prepare laboratory systems, activate case finding and event-based surveillance, and support technical experts for response and preparedness, and more.“This builds upon the foundation of more than $1.4 billion in health assistance out of the more than $2.8 billion in US assistance for India over the last 20 years,” the State Department said.According to United States Agency for International Development (USAID) Deputy Administrator Bonnie Glick, the new assistance builds on the US’ record of global health leadership.“For decades, the United States has been the world’s largest provider of bilateral assistance in public health. The US has saved lives, protected people who are most vulnerable to disease, built health institutions, and promoted the stability of communities and nations,” he told reporters.In South Asia, the State Department is providing $1 million in health funding to help it strengthen monitoring and better prepare communities to identify potential outbreaks.To bolster its national COVID-19 action plan, the United States has also redirected more than $1 million in existing funding for training of healthcare providers and other urgent needs.It is providing $1.3 million to Sri Lanka, $1.8 million to Nepal, $3.4 million to Bangladesh and $5 million to Afghanistan to help them fight the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-us-announces-additional-174-million-aid-to-64-countries-including-2-9-million-to-india/story-mULNPoY72dhwf0wLSdKj0K.html
28-03-2020||India||Coronavirus update: ‘Loss of habitat causing zoonotic outbreaks’, finds study||A new study has found that the capacity of a majority of wild species to adapt to environmental changes is threatened because of loss of habitat. The findings are crucial because scientists are trying to unravel how the SARS-CoV-2 may have jumped from bats (most likely reservoir of the virus according to latest research) to humans and several scientists have flagged the role of habitat loss behind zoonotic outbreaks. The study, published in Nature journal on Wednesday, says that many wild species need to adapt to survive. But because of loss of their “niche” habitat, their capacity to evolve is threatened. The global protected area network—forests or other ecosystems protected under law, don’t cover the environmental or climatic conditions required by a majority of 19,937 vertebrate species assessed in the study.For example, the representation of niche habitat in the protected areas globally is inadequate for 93.1% of amphibian; 89.5% of bird and 90.9% of terrestrial mammal species, the study has said. An ecological niche is the role a certain species plays in its environment. The climatic conditions of that place determine how well the species can survive but their capacity to adapt diminishes when they are not connected with their niche.Inger Anderson, executive director, United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) tweeted on Wednesday spelling out how pandemics and habitat loss are linked. “Our priority is to prevent spread of Covid 19. In long term it’s important to tackle habitat, biodiversity loss. Never before have so many opportunities existed for pathogens to pass from animals to people.”The reason for such alarming habitat loss, the study says, is because international conservation policies have neglected considering niche habitats of species when setting targets for expansion of protected areas.The authors from the School of Biological Sciences at the University of Brisbane, RSPB Centre for Conservation Science in UK and Global Mammal Assessment Programme at the University of Rome, among others, have assessed the representation or coverage of various climatic niches of nearly 2000 species by protected areas globally by overlaying maps.“We found that existing protected areas are not adequate for conserving habitats that promote evolutionary processes. Later this year, signatories of the Convention on Biodiversity are meeting again to shape conservation policies for the coming decade—providing a golden opportunity to improve protection of such habitats,” Jeffrey Hanson, co-author of the study wrote, explaining the research paper in Nature. The study also flagged that immune response of many species are affected due to loss of habitat but did not link it with disease outbreaks.The team identified priority areas for expanding the protected area network globally to include niches of species. These priority areas stretch over 33.8% of the earth’s land and inland water area compared to 17%, which is the present target under the Convention of Biological Diversity.Some of the priority areas for conservation include the tropical Andes—where steep environmental gradients and complex topographies have driven evolutionary processes; Cape floristic region and Madagascar; Himalayas, an evolutionary epicentre for bird species .“In a previous study on six different populations of the Giant Panda in China, variations in genes related to the immune system, unique to each population, were found. The destruction of habitat that supports any of these populations will result in the loss of those adaptive genes and, consequently, can be detrimental to the survival of the species,” explained Kartik Sunagar, assistant professor at Evolutionary Venomics Lab, which is part of the Centre for Ecological Sciences at the Indian Institute of Science (IISc).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-loss-of-habitat-causing-zoonotic-outbreaks-finds-study/story-aOtoWftbk2cu9g1YijLKJI.html
28-03-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Sonia Gandhi writes to PM Modi, seeks one-time transport service for stranded migrant workers||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Friday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, expressing concerns over the plight of migrant workers who are forced to take a long walk back home due to the nationwide 21-day lockdown enforced to contain the coronavirus pandemic.In her fresh letter to the Prime Minister, she wrote, “Lakhs of migrant workers are being forced to walk hundreds of miles as there is no public transport available. Several others are stuck in guest houses or hotels and have run out of money to pay their costs.”Gandhi suggested a one-time state transport services be made available to those who are walking to their villages.The district collectors should extend all possible help to those who cannot afford to stay in guest houses and lodges, she urged.The Congress chief said the purpose of the lockdown should not be defeated “by making the most vulnerable bear its cost”.This is her third letter to the Prime Minister in the past five days. The first was about financial help to daily wage workers and the second one sought direct cash transfer to the poor and workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-sonia-gandhi-writes-to-pm-modi-seeks-one-time-transport-service-for-stranded-migrant-workers/story-C0OEUshhxXTkwr8hDo1nNK.html
28-03-2020||India||Coronavirus lockdown day three roundup in key points||Delhi’s coronavirus death toll climbed to two on Friday after a Yemen national, admitted to a private hospital in the city, succumbed to Covid-19.The man tested positive for the infection at the lab of the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences on Thursday. His samples were further sent to All India Institute of Medical Sciences. “A third confirmatory test was done to establish that the person was indeed positive for the disease,” said a government official.So far, 41 coronavirus cases – including the Yemeni man – have been reported from the city. The health ministry had reported another death in the city, but later discounted it as Covid-19 death as the confirmatory test result was negative.As on Friday, there have been 878 cases and 18 deaths in the country, most of them in the month of March. In a little over two weeks, from 50 positive cases, India has seen a substantial increase in the number of positive patients. Authorities, however, maintain that the country has not entered the community transmissions phase.Kerala and Maharashtra continue to be the worst affected with Kerala registering 39 fresh Sars-CoV-2 cases on Friday, the highest single day figure, to record a total of 176 cases, including twelve, who have been discharged. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan described the situation as “really serious” and said stringent measures were needed to contain the virus. In Maharasthra, the total number of positive cases touched 153, a jump of 23 cases in a day. The state government asked for the Indian Army’s help for setting up of makeshift hospitals if situation worsens further. A one-and-a-half-year-old boy, whose father had tested positive two days ago, was among the new cases detected on Friday.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray in his address to the people of Maharashtra, via live stream, said that the state was at a very crucial turn, when the virus can go on multiplying.Among other affected states, Telangana and Delhi government said they were prepared to deal with a sudden exponential jump in the number of positive cases. Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal said a contingency plan to activate new hospitals and to add or divert hundreds of hospital beds for the treatment of coronavirus cases was ready and the national capital at present was prepared to tackle 100 new cases a day.Telangana chief minister K Chandrashekar Rao said the state was ready to deal with any eventuality and while speaking hypothetically, added that even 60,000 positive cases will be dealt with by the state government. Telangana currently has around 60 positive cases.The Central government, too, ramped up its preparation to tackle a surge in outbreak by ordering for 40,000 new ventilators. It also asked all states to track down the tens of thousands of people who have come back from abroad, as any gap in tracking was likely to spread the contagion and will be counterproductive to containment efforts.The government also instructed authorities to ensure that tens of thousands of migrant workers, who began a march on the foot to their homes after the enforcement of nationwide lockdown three days ago, either reach their destinations or are provided with food and shelter. Several state governments including Punjab, Telangana, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh said they will make arrangements for the stranded migrant labourers from other states. Several reports of community kitchens and shelter homes started by NGOs, religious bodies and by the government agencies were received during the day. However, more needs to be done as the huge migrant mass continues to move along the national highways.India also declared that it would participate in the World Health Organization’s (WHO) ongoing trial aimed at developing vaccines for Covid-19, while a Bengaluru oncologist claimed that he along with other doctors was close to preparing an effective treatment for Covid-19 virus through discovery of ways to retrigger the immune system compromised by Sars-Cov-2.The Reserve Bank of India too pitched in to alleviate the suffering on the third day of the national lockdown with a sharp cut in key policy rates, aimed to encourage economic growth, in the aftermath of the negative impact of the coronavirus. In a huge relief to the loan-dependent middle class, it also announced a moratorium on loan repayments for a period of three months. Governor Shaktikanta Das said the deferment will have no adverse impact on the credit history of the borrower.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-lockdown-day-three-roundup-in-key-points/story-8wgjXFj9M6sqvOdL1kqYqI.html
28-03-2020||India||Epics that inspired de facto ‘janta curfews’ three decades ago return in time of Covid-19 lockdown||When Ramayan began airing on Doordarshan (DD) on a cold January morning in 1987, few people, including its enthusiastic creator, producer-director Ramanand Sagar, could have foreseen the staggering phenomenon it was to become in the coming months. And soon after its 78 episodes concluded, came the next epic TV blockbuster: filmmaker BR Chopra’s Mahabharat, which launched in October 1988. Both shows had a Sunday morning slot, a time when the country came to a standstill.Streets would empty out, shops would shut, telephones would be taken off the hook, appointments cancelled and people who had to work on Sundays would mysteriously disappear for the duration of the shows. Cinemas were known to cancel their morning shows. It was almost like a voluntary lockdown.Now, the wheel has turned full circle. Once again, you can watch Ramayan and Mahabharat on DD. The streets outside will still be empty – though, it’s a different kind of lockdown, necessitated by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.When Ramayan and Mahabharat first aired, it was a pre-liberalised India. There was just one television channel: DD. But in the 1980s, a revolution was brewing in the corridors of Mandi House, home to the DD offices. Faced with the proliferation of VCRs and pirated videos, and also to make some money, DD decided to give out programming to independent players (mainly from the film industry) and rope in private sponsors and advertisers as well. India’s first home-grown soap, Hum Log, had already enjoyed a hugely popular run from 1984 to 1985, and was followed up by other hit shows, such as Buniyaad.But Ramayan and Mahabharat were in another league altogether. Within months of its first telecast, Ramayan was earning more money for DD than any other show. Advertisers were desperate to get a coveted ad slot during the show. Eventually, the show was telecast in more than 50 countries and estimated to have a viewership of around 650 million. When Mahabharat was shown in the UK by the BBC, it attracted five million viewers in its afternoon slot.In the case of Ramayan, Sagar essentially took on the mantle of a television-age narrator of the epic, following modestly in the footsteps of legendary narrators such as the great Tulsidas from the 16th century. He tapped into his audience’s devotion to the epic and its intimacy with storytelling traditions such as the Ramlilas, enacted in every neighbourhood during Dussehra-Diwali.TV critics of the time pointed to the slow pace of the serial and to its less-than-sophisticated special effects, but they missed the point. Sagar was not offering his viewers a TV serial, he was offering a devotional experience. Placed firmly in the calendar art style, borrowing from the Ramlila tradition and with a solid history of mythological films behind it, Sagar’s Ramayan brought the gods literally into people’s living rooms every Sunday morning. Newspapers and magazines of the time recorded numerous instances of viewers sanctifying their TV sets by lighting incense sticks and generally behaving as if they were going to get an actual darshan of Ram and Sita. There were public viewings, too, where large gatherings of people would congregate, and offer flowers and prasad.The actors who played the lead roles were greeted with reverence by people when they appeared in public – once again underlying the fact that during Ramlila performances, actors are often seen as embodiments of the gods they are portraying.With the Mahabharat, though, the appeal was less overtly religious and more to do with its sweeping, dramatic story and a cast of towering characters. The style was once again calendar art, but what lifted the show were its powerful dialogues, written by the accomplished Hindi novelist, poet and film writer Rahi Masoom Raza. When Raza’s name was announced, there was opposition from certain quarters – why was a Muslim man writing the dialogues for a Hindu epic? An affronted Raza, who came from Ghazipur in Uttar Pradesh, and was a staunch upholder of India’s syncretic traditions, replied: “I am a son of the Ganga. Who would know the civilisation and culture of India better than I?” He introduced the concept of time as the narrator (“Main samay hoon”) and created words and phrases that are still in currency, such as “pitashri” and “matashree.”The Ramayan casting was cleverly done, even when it came to characters other than Ram and Sita. For example, queen Kaikeyi was played by actress Padma Khanna who had often been the vamp in Hindi films, and Manthra by Lalita Pawar, who, too, had played scheming roles in her film career. Actor Dara Singh, known for his wrestling prowess and action films, was cast as Hanuman. The main stars, of course, went on to become national icons – mainly, the relatively unknown Arun Govil, who played Ram with his trademark smile.Many of Mahabharat’s actors are still identified by their roles in the epic – such as Mukesh Khanna, who, with his declamatory style, played the grand old guardian of the Hastinapur throne, Bhishma.When Ramayan finally ended on July 31, 1988, and Mahabharat on June 24, 1990, both epics acquired a new life. Cassettes, CDs and DVDs of the show sold continuously; today, you can buy both series in digital format.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/epics-that-inspired-de-facto-janta-curfews-three-decades-ago-return-in-time-of-covid-19-lockdown/story-SVZlLWsMqoLU67LfkIkywI.html
28-03-2020||India||One of 4 terrorists in Kabul Sikh attack a 29-yr-old Kerala man||Indian intelligence agencies have confirmed that the terrorist killed in the Kabul Gurudwara attack, who was identified by the Islamic State of Khorasan Province (ISKP) as Indian national Abu Khalid Al Hindi, is indeed an Indian, and from Kerala, although he left the country around six years ago and was radicalised by Pakistani Islamists in Dubai.According to the Islamic State, Al Hindi carried out the March 25 Gurudwara attack to avenge the alleged plight of Muslims in Kashmir, but Indian intelligence officials say there is enough evidence to indicate that this is a classic case of a covert false flag operation with Pakistani deep state involvement. The ISKP claim, they add, is working to substantiate Pakistani’s repeated efforts to brand Indians as terrorists. As many as 28 persons belonging to Sikh minority community died in the dastardly attack, which was actually aimed at the Indian embassy in Kabul.Counter-terror operatives said that Al Hindi’s actual name is Muhsin Trikaripur or Mohammed Muhasin Nangarath Abdulla (as per his UAE health card) and that he was born in Kasargode, Kerala, on March 19, 1991. The 29-year-old attacker comes from a family that runs a small furniture shop at Trikaripur, Kasargode.He left Tirkaripur in 2007 and moved to Bengaluru, Malaysia, Dubai with stints back home in-between. Details of what he was doing in Malaysia and Dubai are sketchy, although it is believed that he worked at a hotel in Malyasia and also in Bengaluru for some time.Intelligence officials said Muhasin left for Dubai two years ago where he came in touch with radicalised Pakistani groups in the UAE. He was with Lashkar-e-Taiba but then left to join the Islamic State in Afghanistan and Syria, they added. Six months ago, they said, Muhasin contacted his mother in Kerala to say that he was active in Afghanistan.“That was the last the family heard from him,” a senior Kerala government official who didn’t want to be named said.The Islamic State in Afghanistan was initially formed by jihadists patronised by the Pakistani deep state and were used to settle scores with other groups operating on the Durand Line and Kabul. While Afghanistan’s national security directorate is still investigating the Gurudwara killing, there are reports that the attackers were communicating in Punjabi and Urdu, not Dari or Pushto.Over the years, Pakistan has been trying to radicalise Indian youth to be used against their own country with groups such as the Indian Mujahideen being the fronts for covert strikes. One such was Fayaz Kagzi aka Abdullah Gulzar Khan who was killed on July 4, 2016 while attempting a suicide bombing attack near the US consulate in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia. While the Islamic State claimed the attack, Kagzi was a member of the LeT and wanted in connection with a 2006 arms haul case in Aurangabad. He fled to Pakistan in 2006 and later moved to Saudi Arabia on Pakistan travel documents. Along the way, he acquired a Pakistani wife.Another was ISKP recruiter Huzaifa al Bakistani, who used to be a member of the LeT media department before he joined the Baghdadi brigade. He was killed on July 18, 2019. Bakistani was radicalising Indians, particularly Kashmiris, to join Islamic State. “If claims of the ISPK is proved correct, Muhasin would be the second Indian to have carried out a terror strike in a foreign soil,” a second senior official in the security establishment, who didn’t want to be named, said. (Sudhi Ranjan Sen contributed to this report)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-of-4-terrorists-in-kabul-sikh-attack-a-29-yr-old-kerala-man/story-Kog7Thb0YF4AI0LO5qE6pJ.html
28-03-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Govt plans to double capacity with 40,000 ventilators, flags gap in screening to states||The Union government ordered for the acquisition of 40,000 new ventilators and separately shot off a letter to all states to enhance efforts to track down the tens of thousands of people who have come back from abroad, intensifying on Friday surveillance and disease mitigation measures to tackle the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Both approaches have been identified by scientists and policy makers as the most crucial in the fight against the pandemic, which has the potential to spread silently and lead to an explosion of cases that could then overwhelm health care facilities and cause an acute shortage of ventilators. The breathing devices can make a difference of life and death for severely ill patients.There is a big gap in the number of international passengers who should have been monitored and the actual number, cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba said in a letter marked to all chief secretaries, warning that it could “seriously jeopardise our efforts to contain the spread of Covid-19”. Gauba’s letter, accessed by HT, did not indicate the total number of passengers who were under surveillance. But it underlined that the Union home ministry’s Bureau of Immigration had “shared details of more than 15 lakh incoming international passengers with the States/UTs for monitoring for Covid-19”.India’s Covid-19 epidemic is mostly made up of cluster infections that are linked to patients who picked up the Sars-Cov-2 virus while they were abroad. As on Friday, there have been 878 cases and 18 deaths — almost all of which have been recorded this month alone.State government officials, however, contend that the Bureau of Immigration list that was sent to them often didn’t have complete and accurate information about the passengers.In Bihar’s Muzaffarpur and Saran districts, for instance, the authorities have been able to locate only 385 of the 500 people mentioned in the Centre’s list.Later on Friday, the Union health ministry said that two public sector units (PSUs) will begin arranging for 40,000 ventilators. “Ventilator shortage has been an issue that the government has been closely monitoring, and several steps are being taken to ensure hospitals are well equipped and face no shortage of ventilators that are essential in managing critical Covid-19 patients,” said Lav Aggarwal, joint secretary, Union health ministry, adding that the acquisition is likely to take a couple of months.A ventilator augments breathing function for a person when lungs are compromised, a condition common to all Covid-19 patients for whom the disease progresses into serious stages. In countries such as Italy and now in New York, a lack of ventilators is feared to be leading to many fatalities that may have otherwise been saved.Improving resources such as medical devices while also ramping up close monitoring of the outbreak are among strategies known as mitigation and suppression — both of which are crucial for countries to “flatten the curve” of peak health care demand so that the number of patients does not exceed the available hospital and ICU beds.According to estimates by Indian doctors and medical equipment industry professionals, India at present has 40,000 of the breathing machines — a number experts say will be woefully inadequate in case of a surge in Covid-19 infections. According to trends seen in China, 5% of all Covid-19 patients need to be admitted to ICUs with acute breathing problems requiring ventilators for life support.“The BEL (Bharat Electronics Limited) has been asked to manufacture about 30,000 ventilators and the other PSU approached for the job will be giving us 10,000 units,” said Aggarwal.India this month lifted controls on producing medical ventilators. According to a government communication reviewed by Mint, the Centre plans to ask all interested manufacturing companies, including automakers, to start producing ventilators.The country has also prohibited export of ventilators from the country. In addition to the 40,000 ordered on Friday, the government placed an order for 1,200 ventilators“Government is taking all necessary measures; there is no need to panic,” said Aggarwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-plans-to-double-capacity-with-40-000-ventilators-flags-gap-in-screening-to-states/story-4ba7wXDwiVRcuAbrdsLnHJ.html
28-03-2020||India||33 years on, what became of the cast of Ramayan?||Mumbai: The main members of the cast of Ramanand Sagar’s Ramayan – Arun Govil, Deepika Chikhalia, Sunil Lahri and Dara Singh, who played Ram, Sita, Lakshman and Hanuman respectively – were treated as living gods for years after the show ended. But what were their lives like before they stepped into these avatars of deities, and what was it like after?Govil was a successful actor before Ramayan. He had Bollywood hits such as Sawan Ko Aane Do (1979) and Jiyo to Aise Jiyo (1979) under his belt, and was extremely popular as the sage Vikramaditya in the TV series Vikram Aur Betaal.After Ramayan, he continued playing Ram in Ramanand Sagar’s Lav Kush, then played more legendary characters, from the Ikshvaku king Raja Harishchandra to Gautam Buddha. In 1992, he also lent his voice, as Ram, to the Indo-Japanese animation film, Ramayana: The Legend of Prince Rama.And then, in the 1997 film Lav Kush, he played Lakshman to Jeetendra’s Ram. Though he did numerous Telugu, Odia and Bengali films, as well as Hindi TV shows, he is still known as the actor who played Ram.Chikhalia was just 22, with very few films in her kitty, when she took on the role of Sita. She went on to star in popular TV shows such as Sword of Tipu Sultan (1990), where she played Tipu’s mother, and in various Hindi, Tamil, Gujarati, Kannada and Bengali films. She reprised her role as Sita in Ramanand Sagar’s Lav Kush. Chikhalia also won an election as a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidate from Baroda in 1991 and served as a member of the 10th Lok Sabha.She made her comeback to films in 2018, and most recently played actor Yami Gautam’s mother in Bala (2019).Sunil Lahri’s career didn’t really take off after Ramayan, despite how popular he was as Lakshman. After playing the same character in Lav Kush, he went on to do some films and TV series, but none that made a mark. He set up a production company with Govil, but the company didn’t produce anything memorable either. This month, Lahri appeared on the Kapil Sharma sketch comedy show with Govil and Chikhalia to celebrate the 33rd anniversary of the launch of Ramayan.Dara Singh was easily the most successful from among the main cast. A champion wrestler before he became a popular actor, after his unforgettable turn as Hanuman, he joined the BJP in 1998 and served as a member of the Rajya Sabha between 2003 and 2009. His last Hindi film was Imtiaz Ali’s Jab We Met (2007). He died in 2012.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/33-years-on-what-became-of-the-cast-of-ramayan/story-OJ60BozI6pDysdQ46AekxL.html
28-03-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Lessons to tackle Covid-19 from the Diamond Princess cruise ship||More than half the 17% of people who were diagnosed with coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on board the cruise ship Diamond Princess were asymptomatic, indicating that a large number of infected people may be undetected, and consequently suggesting that the fatality rate of the disease may be lower than the current global estimate, according to researchers analysing data from what was until last month the site of the biggest outbreak outside China.A total of 712 cases and seven deaths were reported from the Diamond Princess in February.Testing and tracking all confirmed cases on board the Diamond Princess is giving invaluable clues about asymptomatic cases, fatality rate, and the benefits of quarantine to enforce social isolation, according to a yet-to-be-reviewed study by Eurosurveillance (Europe’s journal on infectious disease surveillance, epidemiology, prevention and control), the paper published in biomedical preprint server medRxiv.The ship has become a giant petri dish for researchers to observe exposure, risks, death rate and symptoms (or the absence of them) in 3,711 passengers and crew members, of which around 3,000 were tested, some of them twice, and each death or recovery was mapped.The study estimated that the infection fatality rate on the ship was around 1.3% (ratio of death of all infections, followed till they recovered or died), which is much lower than the 3.8% case fatality rate (nCFR, or ratio of reported deaths to reported cases to date) estimated by the World Health Organization, which reached its initial estimate by dividing China’s total number of deaths by the total number of confirmed cases. According to the WHO’s formula, the nCFR would now be 4.6%.“The case fatality rates are variably reported in various studies to be between 1% and 3%, so probably it’s somewhere around 2%. It’s lower in countries where effective measures have been taken early on, as in South Korea, where it’s 0.6% mortality. So I’d say it’s between 1% and 2%, if adequate public health measures are taken,” said Dr K. Srinath Reddy, president, Public Health Foundation of India.The Euromonitor study also combined the ship’s data with at least 72,000 confirmed cases in China put the estimated the death rate in China to be around 0.5%.Since the average age on board the ship was 58, the researches believe this indicates that the number of asymptomatic carriers of the infection in the younger general population is likely to be higher than some other studies have suggested.Since the Diamond Princess, at least 25 other smaller cruise ships have confirmed Covid-19 cases, including 78 cases on the Grand Princess, which was quarantined off the coast of California.The study underlined that social isolation as a public health strategy. The day the quarantine was introduced, one person could to infect around seven others because of the confined space and high surface contamination, but after room quarantining was introduced on February 3, the average number people who got infected from one infected case fell under one.“India has stepped up testing, but a lot more surveillance needs to be done to get the true picture of the epidemic in India, including in underserved and rural areas,” Dr N. K. Ganguly, former director general of the Indian Council of Medical Research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lessons-to-tackle-covid-from-a-cruise-ship/story-20pGbqUpKQOba0bUYdRoCL.html
28-03-2020||India||Scientists capture first images of virus in an Indian patient||New Delhi The first images from India of the coronavirus causing the Covid-19 disease have been caught by scientists in Pune, using transmission electron microscope imaging. They were published in the Indian Journal of Medical Research.The images of Sars-Cov-2, the virus that Causes Covid-19, are from the throat swab of the first laboratory-confirmed case in India on January 30, 2020. The woman, among three students studying medicine in Wuhan, was diagnosed with Covid-19 after returning home.Covid-19 has infected at least 540,000 people and killed close to 25,000 since the first cluster of cases were detected in Wuhan, China, in December 2019.The images of the virus from the Covid-19 cases from Kerala show that the Sars-Cov-2 virus closely resembles the Mers-Cov virus that causes Middle East Respiratory Syndrome coronavirus in 2012, and the 2002 Sars-CoV virus that causes Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) coronavirus.“Coronavirus have a crown-like appearance and these spikes on the surface give this virus family its name, as corona means crown in Latin. They have evolved to recognise a variety of receptors, including protein receptors and sugar receptors, and enter cells by first recognising a host-cell-surface receptor for viral attachment, and then fusing viral and host membranes for entry,” said Dr Nirmal K Ganguly, former director general, Indian Council of Medical Research.“These images are critical to study mutations in clinical samples and help identify the genetic origin and evolution of the virus, which will help is understand how the virus moved from animals to infect humans, how people-to-people transmission started, and whether it is still mutating, which will inform work on the development drugs and vaccines,” said Dr Ganguly.Gene sequencing of the samples from Kerala done at NIV Pune found the virus was a 99.98% match with the virus in China’s Wuhan.“One particular virus particle was very well preserved, showing features very typical of coronaviruses. This particle was 75 nm in size and showed patchy stain pooling on the surface and a distinct envelope projection ending in round peplomeric (glycoprotein spike on the viral surface). These bind only to certain receptors on the host cell,” said Dr Atanu Basu, deputy director and head of electron microscopy and pathology at NIV Pune, which published the imaging.To get the image, his group used centrifugation to remove the debris from a 500 μl sample from the throat swab of the Kerala Covid-19 case confirmed using the highly sensitive, real-time, polymerase chain reaction.The supernatant (clear liquid) was removed, filed at a final concentration of 1% glutaraldehyde, and adsorbed on to a carbon-coated 200 mesh copper grid. Negative staining was done with sodium phosphotungstic acid, according to the study.The grid was then examined under 100kV accelerating voltage in a transmission electron microscope and the image was captured using a low-dose mode by a side-mounted camera.“Seven negative-stained virus particles that looked like coronavirus-like particles were imaged in the fields scanned. These included the round shape of the virus with an average size of 70-80 nm and a cobbled surface structure having envelope projections that averaged 15±2 nm in size,” said Dr Basu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scientists-capture-first-images-of-virus-in-an-indian-patient/story-euQa2dbeB80wE4zhytIR0H.html
28-03-2020||India||Covid-19 update: High-tech farm management system on anvil||Authorities will harness high-tech systems on an “unprecedented scale” to manage the vast farm sector, which heads into its crucial kharif or summer-sown agricultural season, even as experts wonder if the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) farming will disrupt farming itself. India will deploy an array of smart technologies, from satellites to remote sensing and artificial intelligence to drones, to help authorities track sowing, acreage, crop health, weather and undertake pest surveillance, a government official familiar with the matter said, requesting anonymity. “A lot of information will come from sky, rather than the ground,” he said. Summer output accounts for half of the country’s annual food output. Millions of farmers during the summer-sown season grow a range of food and cash crops, including various types of paddy, soyabean, lentils, oilseeds, vegetables, horticulture crops, coarse cereals, jute; tea, coffee, gram and onion, among others. Agriculture employs nearly nearly 500 million people or half the population in India. According to data from the National Sample Survey Office, India has nearly 90.2 million agricultural households, which accounts for about 57.8% of the total estimated rural households. An agricultural household is defined as a household having at least one member self-employed in agriculture.Sowing of key crops happens with the arrival of monsoon rains in June, but a range of perishables essential to keep inflation under control are grown during spring.There are important intermediate crops that farmers must sow between now and June, such as cotton and maize, apart from some cereals and vegetables. “Cotton seeds must go into the ground by mid-April and then of course maize,” Balwinder Singh Sandhu, agriculture commissioner, Punjab told HT. Cotton offers livelihood to 6 million growers and nearly 50 million are employed in the cotton-textile trade, according to data from the National Food Security Mission.Besides, harvest is due for India’s biggest staple, wheat, apart from crops such as potato. The national lockdown till April 14 has upended farm activities. “Availability of labour to market access, everything is uncertain,”said Amra Ram, the Rajasthan leader of All India Kisan Sabha. The Modi government on Thursday announced that 80 million eligible farmers would be paid Rs16,000 in all under the government’s cash-for-farmers scheme, PM Kisan.The government official cited in the first instance said that the main challenges are twofold: keeping crop data flowing in; and, more critically, ensuring farmers are able to sow. Sowing could be tricky if Covid-19 cases spike and the outbreak continues because farming involves supply of so-called agricultural inputs (anything farmers need for cultivation, from seeds to fertilisers). Yet, the government should be able to get critical nationwide crop-related data flowing fairly robustly and in a timely manner, the official said. Such data is critical to ascertain the progress of farming and make estimates of food output and farm incomes. Essentially, the country’s food security depends on it.The government’s management of agriculture has modernised considerably over the past five years, backed by the Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro), Indian Remote Sensing Centre and the Mahalanobis National Crop Forecasting Centre, New Delhi. These three institutions are gearing up to mount a high-tech, grid-by-grid watch on agricultural operations across states. A grid refers to a unit of area as seen by satellites. During a nationwide experiment last year, authorities flew remote-controlled drones just under 150 feet across 180 districts to monitor horticulture crop health as part of a hi-tech mission aided by Isro applications. “If district agriculture officials are bound by the Covid-19 epidemic from constantly venturing out, drones will be deployed to get the data,” said a second government official who asked not to be named. In fact, ground data in India is often unreliable, militating against precise stocktaking when droughts cut output and food prices rise.“The fundamental aspect is the digitisation of the farm and farmer. We have a platform that is crop and location- agnostic, local language friendly and combines data sources like satellite, field surveys, weather and ground data points,” says Krishna Kumar, founder & CEO, CropIn Technology, a Bangalore-based firm that offers artificial intelligence applications in agriculture.The federally developed “Kisan Suvidha” android app, downloaded for free by over 100 million registered users, will help farmers with relevant information on weather of the current day and next 5 days, market prices, dealers, agro advisories and plant protection, the second official said.An Isro-backed, satellite-based geo-portal platform called “Bhuvan” will be a central server where all information will be seeded to present a comprehensive national picture, according to a third official. “It will be like clearing house for agri satellite data.” Another android app, Bhuvan Hailstorm, is designed to predict hailstorms and losses.The official added that the National Agricultural Drought Assessment and Monitoring System, a remote-sensing based grid-by-grid satellite scanning system will generate vegetation index data to watch out for drought, as will the India Meteorological Department, the country’s main weather bureau.“What is required, first and foremost, now is exempt agricultural activities from the lockdown and offer passes to farmers and those in the sector to carry on,” said Kavitha Kuruganti of the Alliance for Sustainable and Holistic Agriculture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/high-tech-farm-management-system-on-anvil/story-6ecxcbGQZxm37uDYI7mozN.html
28-03-2020||India||Coronavirus cases in India continue to surge, Maharashtra, Kerala with most affected||The total number of Covid-19 positive cases in India climbed to 724 on Friday with the death toll touching 17. In Karnataka, a 10-month-old infant from a village in Dakshina Kannada district tested positive today for Covid-19, health officials said.The infant was admitted to a private hospital in Mangaluru on March 23 with high fever and acute respiratory illness. The throat swab, which was sent to the lab for testing on March 24, tested positive, according to a statement from the district health officer.Across the country, the number of cases started rising with Rajasthan reporting seven fresh cases. The total number of cases in the state have now reached 50.Maharashtra has recorded 23 new cases as 153 people were reported to be coronavirus positive in the state. In the financial capital of Mumbai, 58 people have been affected.Tamil Nadu has reported six new cases of coronavirus taking the state count to 35. The Tamil Nadu government in a statement said it had appointed over 500 doctors to help Tamil Nadu prepare for the pandemic. .Kerala, which surpassed Maharashtra as the state which has been the worst-hit, recorded 39 fresh cases on Friday. The total number of coronavirus positive cases in the southern state touched 164.In an all-out effort to combat the coronavirus pandemic, India went on a lockdown beginning Wednesday. A day earlier, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman unveiled a Rs 1, 70, 000 crore economic stimulus package to help the economically weaker sections of society tide over the immense health crisis.India is soon likely to participate in the World Health Organisation’s ‘solidarity trial’ for developing potential medicines for the deadly coronavirus disease, health officials said on Friday. Health Ministry Joint Secretary Lav Agarwal said India had reported 75 new cases in the last 24 hours. According to the official, a PSU has been ordered to provide 10,000 ventilators, Bharat Electronics Ltd has been asked to buy an additional 30,000 ventilators to manage the shortage of these machines in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-cases-in-india-continue-to-surge-states-continue-to-report-fresh-cases/story-Od8k3iR8dJXUxXFb7S9f3M.html
28-03-2020||India||Coronavirus update: India to take part in WHO’s Covid-19 vaccine trials, says ICMR||India will soon participate in the World Health Organization’s (WHO) ongoing trial aimed at developing vaccines for Covid-19, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said on Friday. So far India hasn’t volunteered as there weren’t enough numbers to participate in the trial, but now that the number of Covid-19 cases has rapidly increased in the country, India decided to go ahead.“We have indicated our willingness to become a part of vaccine trials as and when they start for our population. In case of newer drugs, we are likely to start our participation in solidarity trials, because earlier our numbers were small and contribution was minuscule,” said Raman R Gangakhedkar, head of epidemiology and communicable diseases at ICMR.“We are developing the repurposed molecule for vaccine. We have asked the department of biotechnology to take up the vaccine trials because they have ample infrastructure for vaccine development,” said Gangakhedkar.According to the WHO, many countries have already confirmed that they will join the solidarity trial. The list includes Argentina, Bahrain, Canada, France, Iran, Norway, South Africa, Spain, Switzerland and Thailand.According to WHO, it, along with its partners is organizing a study comparing untested treatments.This large, international study has been designed to generate the robust data needed to show which treatments are the most effective. The solidarity trial provides simplified procedures to enable even hospitals that have been too overloaded to participate. WHO has also created a Covid-19 Solidarity Response Fund, seeking financing for protective equipment for frontline health workers, equipment for diagnostic laboratories, improved surveillance and data collection, creation and maintenance of intensive care units, strengthening of supply chains, acceleration of research and development of vaccines and therapeutics, and other measures. The number of Covid-19 cases and deaths continues to rise in India. Lav Aggarwal, joint secretary, ministry of health and family welfare, on Friday said that 724 COVID-19 cases had been reported in the country with 17 deaths. In the last 24 hours, 75 new positive cases and four deaths have been reported, he added. In a Friday evening update, the number of cases rose to 878 and 18 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-take-part-in-who-s-vaccine-trials-says-icmr/story-4NclqWjw0RYtfO0cNZsaSJ.html
28-03-2020||India||Covid-19 update: Coronavirus worries sow an unsure crop||Raj Singh of Punjab’s Taran Taran district’s Khem Karan village and Sudhir Verma of Uttar Pradesh’s Barabanki district are among millions of farmers across India looking anxiously to the skies and the day’s news. First, unseasonal heavy rainfall and hail damaged their standing winter crop. Now, the 21-day national lockdown poses hurdles for the harvest that has already started in some places, despite a Friday order from the home ministry that includes farm hands in its definition of workers providing essential services. The winter harvest is primarily of wheat, maize, mustard and pulses, which boosts India food security and is the mainstay of the government -run subdised ration scheme for 800 million people across India. The food ministry in February 2020 estimated that the rabi or winter crop harvest, which contributes about 50% to India’s foodgrain production, would be 6.27% to 8.25% more than last year’s on account of a generous monsoon and good winter rain. The highest annual farm growth in the past decade has been 4%, so this was good news. Then the weather decided to take a hand. According to the India Meteorological Department, March witnessed six western disturbances, especially in northwest India, as against an average of two to three for the season, pounding standing crops with heavy rainfall and hail, damaging up to 50% of them in some areas.Unseasonal rain and hail have already destroyed the potato, mustard and wheat crop in Uttar Pradesh; and wheat and mustard in Haryana, parts of Punjab and Rajasthan, according to Bharatiya Kisan Union spokesperson Dharmendra Kumar. “Our crops were first damaged by rains and whatever remains is under the shadow of the Covid-19 lockdown,” said Raj Singh, who expect the harvest to be just 50% of what it was in 2019 this year. “February-end and March is the maturing season for wheat and mustard and moisture deteriorates quality of the produce.”Sukhdeep Singh, 54, said he was gearing for “uncertainty” for whatever crop remains in his 40-acre wheat farm in Uttar Pradesh’s Shahjahanpur district. “The harvester from Punjab was supposed to come on March 22, the day of Janata curfew. Now, he is not taking my call. I am anxiously waiting for his call,” he said, showing his smart phone. “My crop is ready for harvest. If the contractor doesn’t arrive till Sunday, I will have to bear the losses,” he said.Punjab, the most mechanized agricultural state, provides harvester machines to farmers in Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh on rent every year. “Because of the lockdown, there are no machines available,” said Dinesh Gautam, 60, who has grown wheat in his 10 acre farm in of Chandresal village in Kota, Rajasthan.To cope with lockdown restrictions, Haryana’s additional chief secretary (ACS), agriculture, Sanjeev Kaushal, announced mustard procurement from April 15 and the wheat from April 20, if the situation normalises by then. The lockdown is to end on April 15. The Punjab government has also written to the Centre seeking a delay in procurement of rabi crops, supposed to start from April 1, for another 15 days. “We are looking at alternative ways to procure wheat if the lockdown continues for a longer period,” said Punjab’s principal secretary, food and civil supplies, KAP Sinha.“Till the time procurement starts, the farmers should store the harvested food grains in their homes. The Haryana State Agriculture Marketing Board (HSAMB) will also find solutions for the storage of food grains during the pre-procurement period,” chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said on Wednesday.Considering that India has about 750 Covid-19 cases and close to 20 deaths, and looks to be early in the cycle of infections, farmers are expecting an extension of the lockdown period beyond April 15. If that happens, the farmers believe that the entire chain of harvest to procurement to storing the grains in Food Corporation of India (FCI) silos would be affected. The average rabi production in Punjab and Haryana this year is expected to be 25.5 million tonnes in at least 6.5 million hectares of farmland in the two states. This year, more rabi crops were sown compared to previous years because of the above-normal monsoon rains in 2019. The farmers bring crops to 3,000 markets in the two states for procurement by government agencies, which are then transported by thousands of trucks and tractor trolleys to FCI silos. Around 60% of the produce is bought by the government and the rest by the private entities. To be sure, the delay in rabi crop harvest and procurement will have no immediate food security implications as governments have enough food stocks for the next three months. Worker shortage“Earlier, labourers were charging Rs 1,900 to Rs 2,000 to harvest mustard one acre. Now, they are demanding Rs 3,000 for the same area,” said Vijay Bhalothia, a farmer in Bhiwani’s Khurd village, who has sown mustard across 15 acres and wheat on five acres. Similar reports have emerged from Jind, Dadri and Mahendergarh districts in Haryana.More than 800 km away in Uttar Pradesh’s Barabanki district, Sudhir Verma is desperately looking for workers to harvest mustard and tur dal from his 20-acre farm. “At least half of the farmers in the village are unable to find labourers,” he said.In western Uttar Pradesh’s sugarcane belt, there are not enough workers to sow the new sugarcane crop. Lalit Yadav, a farmer of Meerut’s Kareempur village, said: “Labourers are not ready to work as they are afraid that the police will beat (them up for venturing out).” Farmers in the region complain that there is no worker to harvest the ripening mustard crop. “Even if we harvest it ourselves, there are no (curfew) passes to take them to market,” said a Bulandshahr farmer, Mohammed Iqbal.With the national Covid-19 lockdown, labourers from farm-rich areas in Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh have started going back to their villages. On Friday, the Union home ministry included farm hands in its definition of essential services, which should make it easier for farmers to find workers to help them with the harvest. To overcome a labour shortage, the Punjab and Haryana governments are advising farmers to use harvester machines. Farmers said that there are very few machines on offer. “In Haryana the practice is that about 50% of the crop is harvested by combine harvesters and for remaining the farmers hire local labourers for manual harvesting,” said Aditya Dabas, deputy director, Haryana agriculture department.Harinder Singh Lakhowal, general secretary, Bharti Kisan Union, said workers are needed to run harvester machines as well. “Workers are also needed to take harvested crops from fields to homes and then to mandis,” he said. Commission agents at local grain markets said shortage of labour could delay procurement. Covid-19 CostThe delay in harvest and procurement will have implications for the rest of the crop year. The preparations for monsoon (kharif) crops start in Punjab, Haryana, western Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan from mid-May onwards. “Because of the delay in harvest and procurement, the sowing will be delayed,” said Balbir Singh of Ludhiana’s Khamano village.Jagtar Singh Brar of Bathinda’s Mehma Sarja village said the Covid-19 pandemic will have a long-lasting impact on agricultural economics. “Delay in wheat procurement may have serious economical repercussions. Farmers will not be in a position to pay in advance to take land on lease for the next season,” said Brar, who cultivates wheat on 45 acres he has leased.Governments of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh have exempted farming from restrictions of the lockdown. In Andhra Pradesh, farmers said the lockdown has not impacted harvesting work, which started 10 days ago. “Because of the summer season, the harvesting begins as early as 6 am and is completed before noon,” said J V Ramana, a farmer from Ponnuru village in Guntur district.Even as the farmers continue to be anxious, the IMD on March 27 said three weather systems, mainly from Pakistan and Afghanistan, are expected to bring a fresh bout of widespread snowfall and hail in the hills and thunderstorms and hailstorms in the northern plains over the next few days. (With inputs from bureaus in Chandigarh, Jaipur, Hyderabad, Bhopal and Patna)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/virus-worries-sow-an-unsure-crop/story-QP5u6AYL4GTNuZajfYIwsK.html
28-03-2020||India||As Covid-19 cases rise, surveillance and management now top on govt agenda||As the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients increases, India has turned aggressive and changed its approach to combating the disease from screening people at entry points to the country to reinforcing community surveillance and disease management.In a little over two weeks, from 50 positive cases, India has seen an increase in the number of Covid-19-positive patients to 878, suggesting the spread of infection within the community although local scientists deny this. And from no deaths until March 11, 18 people have succumbed to the viral infection as of Friday, March 27.“When the disease has spread to 192 countries, then it means screening at entry points will serve no purpose. India anyway is in a state of lockdown that will show benefits if people follow the do’s and don’ts. Since the disease is here what we need to do now is improve our case management and strengthen surveillance within the community. Our efforts now are concentrating on not letting it spread further,” said Lav Aggarwal, joint secretary in the Union ministry of health and family welfare.Infrastructure scale-upSince the number of Covid-19 infections is rising, the government will need more hospital beds to keep patients in isolation; for treatment of critically ill patients, there will be an increased need for ventilators. Keeping the surge in cases in mind, the centre has directed the states and Union Territories to create a dedicated facility for Covid-19 positive cases. Close to 20 states have already started identifying hospitals that can be used to isolate and treat positive cases.Delhi, for example, has three hospitals run by the Delhi government that are being converted into dedicated facilities for Covid-19 patients. Together, these hospitals will add 3,400 beds for Covid-19 patients, if needed. The All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi, is also keeping its 800-bed National Cancer Institute in Jhajjar, ready to accommodate a higher number of patients.To meet the shortage of ventilators in the country, the government has prohibited export of ventilators, and has also asked two public sector undertakings to manufacture about 40,000 ventilator units. The government is also ensuring adequate supply of personal protection equipment (PPE), N-95 masks and hand sanitisers that are instrumental in infection control. Containing clustersThe initial effort is to stop the spread of infection in certain pockets where cases have seen an unusual jump. The government still maintains there is no community transmission of Covid-19 in the country.“There is no evidence to support community transmission. Our experts at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and other bodies are constantly maintaining a vigil and there is no case to suggest there is spread of transmission within the community that should worry us,” said Aggarwal.Dr Sujeet K Singh, director, National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), said, “Localized clustering does not mean community transmission. There have been a few incidences of localized outbreaks, some of which we have managed to contain and some we are in the process of containment. And in most clusters we have managed to trace the source.”Travel is the culprit, say experts. “If one looks at the numbers, these are mostly travel-related. There has been an increase in numbers because a large number of people have travelled to India in the past few weeks before the lockdown was implemented,” explained Dr Balram Bhargava, director general, ICMR.Community surveillanceClose to 200,000 people are under close monitoring by the local units of Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP). The government is conducting orientation exercises for grassroots-level healthcare workers and also doctors managing patients so that a uniform screening and treatment protocol is followed across India. “AIIMS, Delhi, has begun conducting webinars to train master trainers that has already been attended by at least 3,000 healthcare workers from across the country,” said Aggarwal.Introducing antibody testingIndia is in the process of introducing antibody-based (blood) test that experts say could be a game changer. “The currently used test – PCR (polymerase chain reaction) -- tells us who are currently sick. We are seeing only the tip of the iceberg. The antibody detection blood test will identify people who already have been infected, even those with mild or no symptoms. It will help us to know how many have been able to fight off the infection and have become what is called corona-blocke’,” says Dr Lalit Kant, a senior infectious disease expert.“It is being used for contact tracing in some countries. Indian health system has a lot of experience in doing such tests, like the ones for dengue, chikungunya, so it will be easy to ramp up the screening. Great tool for surveillance, and building up epidemiological data,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/surveillance-and-management-now-top-on-govt-agenda/story-aQewgCkrxrQGDRrpgDzYVK.html
28-03-2020||India||Dedicated units to fast-track approval of new testing kits for Covid-19||Approvals for diagnostic devices for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) can be granted within seven to 10 days if necessary conditions are met, the country’s apex drugs and diagnostics regulator Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) has said at a time when India is trying to fast-track the process in the wake of rising cases in the country.CDSCO has created a coronavirus unit that will examine applications quickly and recommend them for approval. “Since the cases are rising nationally and globally, there is an urgent need to scale up not just testing but also development of therapeutics and vaccine. Expert teams have been holding consultations and decided there was a need to expedite the process of approvals,” said a senior official of the Union ministry of health.“Fast-tracking approvals doesn’t mean compromising on quality. The product will have to meet certain standards; only those that pass the scrutiny of our expert team will be considered for approval,” the official added. As per the current protocol, the country’s apex biomedical research organisation, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), validates testing kits that do not have international approval (US FDA or European CE), and recommend them to CDSCO for final approvals for manufacture, sale and distribution in India.Manufacturers of kits already in use in Western countries can approach CDSCO directly with relevant documents to seek approval for their commercial testing kits. The kits are largely for nasal and throat swab tests.Since it was approached by commercial testing kit manufacturers in the start of February, ICMR’s apex virology laboratory, the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune, has approved four of 15 new test kits that don’t have European Union or US Food and Drug Administration approval.ICMR has also recommended 11 antibody based (blood) rapid test kits with CE-mark, and one out of eight blood test kits without any international approval has been validated.Currently, a part of the Covid-19 test kits are procured from the US and Germany by ICMR-NIV and distributed to the testing laboratories across the country.“Test kits with 100% concordance (match) among true positive and true negative samples are being approved for commercial use in India. There is absolutely no compromise on the quality of product since sensitivity and specificity is of utmost importance when approving a test kit,” said a senior official in ICMR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dedicated-units-to-fast-track-approval-of-new-testing-kits/story-4tewdFsWDCC3B1SUxqfm2I.html
28-03-2020||India||House panel pushes for law to provide security to unorganised sector||Hundreds, maybe thousands of workers may have lost their jobs already on account of the Covid-19 crisis and the ongoing 21-day lockdown to combat its spread, but if the government manages to pass a law currently in the works, it could, in the future, provide such workers with much-needed social security and financial benefits. The Centre’s Industrial Relations Code bill has specified compensation on retrenchments and prohibits establishments that employ at least 100 people from laying off workers without permission from the government.A parliamentary panel’s upcoming report has widened the safety net. The standing committee on labour, headed by BJD leader Bhartruhari Mahtab, suggested that unorganized sector workers, comprising 95% of India’s 458 million workforce, should also come under the act. This is aimed to help agricultural workers, private security guards, even domestic help provided by an agency.CK Saji Narayanan, president of the Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh welcomed the moved and said there is a need for government intervention. “Ease of doing business should not be ease of dismissing (workers) or shutting down. There has to be a system in place to see that wages are being paid,” he added.Narayanan said that the bill leaves out specific worker groups such as domestic help. “The government must ensure these groups are also offered social security and are protected by laws.”The bill states that if a worker enrolled in an industrial establishment is laid-off after a year of service, whether continuously or intermittently, “he shall be paid by the employer for all days during which he is so laid-off, except for weekly holidays.” The bill also specifies compensation amounts. Another provision says that “no worker shall be laid off by his employer except with the prior permission of the appropriate Government or such authority as specified by that Government.”Only if the work is stopped due to “shortage of power, natural calamity, and in the case of a mine, such layoff is due to fire, flood, excess of inflammable gas or explosion” the worker will not be entitled to any compensation, the bill says. The standing committee will submit its report in the next session of Parliament. The panel has expressed its firm view that the unorganized sector needs a specific mention in the code and also recommended the applicability of different provisions of the code including the redressal mechanisms for the daily wage earners. The panel believes that exclusion of the unorganized sector in the Industrial Relations Code will not do “justice” to the vast sector.The panel may also ask the government to take a cue from the recommendation of National Commission of Enterprises and make separate provisions for agricultural workers.Himanshu, Associate professor at the Centre for Economic Studies and Planning,, Jawaharlal Nehru University said the move to allow retrenchment only after securing permission from the government will work on the ground only when the government makes provisions for establishments to be able to meet the financial burden.“For this to truly work, the government must ensure that it takes care of the wage bill of these establishments for at least three months (in a crisis). If there is no support these business will be at a disadvantage,” he said.He also recommended expanding scope of the law to include establishments that have fewer than 100 employees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/house-panel-pushes-for-law-to-provide-security-to-unorganised-sector/story-oERWmUhb13YAnQoZ1dTYMO.html
28-03-2020||India||Coronavirus Update: Food, shelter in government’s aid plan for migrants amid lockdown||The government is working on a way to help the tens of thousands of migrant workers, some with their families in tow, walking back home after the national lockdown enforced on Wednesday, get to their destination or, at the least, to also ensure they get food and shelter, according to government officials familiar with the matter. The Union Ministry of Home Affairs has already issued an advisory to all states to make arrangements for the stranded workers: “States/UTs need to explore measures by involving various agencies, including NGOs, to provide food and shelter with basic amenities like clean drinking water, sanitation,” this said. Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, a member of Parliament from Bihar to which many of the migrants are headed, said that discussions are on at the highest level of government to help these men and women. “The government is alive to their situation. I also appeal to all civil society members to rise up and make provisions for such people,’’ he added. India’s social and religious organisations have started distributing food to the migrants, daily wagers, and the poor, even as the state governments have opened up community kitchens and shelter homes to serve them. “Our project is aimed at providing food to the needy without compromising the restrictions laid out. Our student police cadets and many organisations are helping us in this,” said Kerala’s inspector general of police, P Vijayan. Kerala was among the first states to announce community kitchens and several organisations including the police are engaged in distributing food.In Punjab, gurudwaras have taken a lead in providing food and Punjab police personnel are engaged in distributing food packets. “In the past two days, policemen have distributed 1.5 lakh food packets,” said a Punjab police statement, adding that milk and dry rations are also being handed out. The Madhya Pradesh government has ordered that funds provided under Panch Parmeshwar scheme should be used to provide food and accommodation to the needy. “Food packets will be distributed at Rain baseras (night shelter homes),” CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan said. While these will benefit the homeless and poor in the state, they are also expected to help stranded migrant workers. The Bihar government on Thursday sanctioned Rs 100 crore from the CM Relief Fund to provide food and shelter for daily wage earners, including those from outside the state, who have been stranded in the state capital and other Bihar cities in the wake of countrywide lock-down.In Kolkata, community kitchens are providing food to street dwellers and poor people living in the 27-night shelters run by the Kolkata Municipal Corporation. The Chhattisgarh government is providing food packets to the homeless and poor people in the state in all 28 districts with the help of police. n the north-eastern states, the police in Guwahati, Assam, distributed food in Fancy Bazar area of the city with the help of a local gurudwara and NGO. The Tripura government started providing free food twice a day through community kitchens in urban areas from Thursday. Union minister Prasad said he has spoken to Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, and several district magistrates in Bihar to make special arrangements for the migrant workers. A large section of the migrants are from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, and have been walking from the national capital or metro cities in other states to their villages.“I am happy that he (Adityanath) has promised to look into it, and that Uttar Pradesh will open up its night shelters so that they can be used by the migrants,’’ Prasad said, adding that district authorities in Bihar have assured him that workers would at least be fed.An official in the labour ministry said on condition of anonymity that some changes in some of the lockdown restrictions to help migrant workers are expected in the next couple of days. “There are states like UP and Bihar who are impacted much more by this problem than others. So any plan for the workers will have to keep in mind the local conditions,’’ said the official who asked not to be named. “We don’t want them (migrant labourers) to panic. We want them to know that we are working at a solution.’’The Centre has been in touch with chief secretaries of several states to resolve the issue, and feedback has also been sought from the state transport departments, this person added. According to the 2011 Census, about 13 million of the total 54 million migrants moved to other states for economic reasons such as work, employment or business.More than half of these 13 million migrated out of just three states – Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Rajasthan. Also, more than half of the migrants move to just four states – Maharashtra, Delhi, Gujarat and Karnataka – primarily in search of work in cities such as Mumbai, Ahmedabad and Bengaluru.Interestingly, states didn’t wait for the MHA advisory before responding to the hordes that were seen on highways, attempting the long walk home amidst shut shops and often hostile police authorities..States like Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Odisha and Punjab have issued directions to local District Magistrates to provide transportation arrangements for migrants seen walking on the roads. Gautam Budhh Nagar’s district magistrate on Friday provided pick-up trucks to migrants walking along the Noida-Greater-Noida expressway.On Thursday Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar announced that his government will coordinate with other states and bear the expenses of migrant workers, who might have been stranded there owing to the three-week-long nationwide lockdown. Maharashtra police on Thursday found more than 300 migrant workers crammed inside two container trucks which were carrying essential commodities from Telangana to Rajasthan highlighting the magnitude of the crisis.“Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has been coordinating virtually with his counterparts in the country to help out-of-State workers stranded in Maharashtra,” state cabinet minister Aaditya Thackeray tweeted Friday.Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh,Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren and West Bengal chief minister too reached out to the Maharashtra government to help rescue to rescue migrant workers and others from their respective states stranded in the Western state.“Have written to Home Minister Amit Shah Ji and & Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray to facilitate the evacuation of devotees stranded at Nanded Sahib Gurdwara. The pilgrims have been stranded there for long & we owe them safe return to their homes & families,” Singh tweeted Wednesday.Jharkhand CM Hemant Soren sought help from the Maharashtra government to rescue migrant workers stuck in Navi Mumbai. West Bengal too has sought help to rescue 800 labourers stuck in Maharashtra.“CM Uddhav Thackeray ji has asked all District Collectors to find and reach out to all those from other states- pilgrims, labour etc, stuck in Maharashtra due to lock down and ensure that they are looked after by Maharashtra…this is a time when the federal structures are being tested on compassion. I’m glad all CMs are also connecting to seal the borders, open the hearts and help people,” Aaditya Thackery tweeted Thursday.As the government takes the final call, private airlines also reached out to the ministry of civil aviation offering their help. “GoAir stands with the nation and has offered its assistance to the Government in whatever way is useful, including helping our fellow Indian migrant workers get home, as we navigate this unprecedented crisis together, “Go Air said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-food-shelter-in-govt-aid-plan-for-migrants/story-QFq9CNdJaWWCA0ySgSv1DJ.html
28-03-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Equipped to handle 100 new cases per day, says Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal||The Delhi government has put in place a contingency plan to activate new hospitals and add or divert hundreds of hospital beds to treat coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients in case of a surge in infections, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Friday and also assured the national capital is at present prepared if the outbreak accelerates to 100 cases a day. The announcement came on a day when the capital recorded a fresh infection – a 33-year-old man who travelled to Philippines tested positive – and as concerns grow across the country over whether current resources will be able to cope if the disease takes on the proportions seen in some other parts of the world.“Right now, we are getting three to four positive cases a day. Today, the facilities that we have are enough even if 100 cases are reported each day. We have identified what is needed in scenarios when the numbers go up further and we will start preparing for it,” said Kejriwal, identifying three thresholds for the epidemic’s severity -- 100 cases a day, 500 cases a day and 1,000 cases a day – to sharpen its action plan.The plan was drawn up by a five-member panel of doctors headed by SK Sarin, the director of the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences. In preparation for the most severe third scenario, three hospitals run by the Delhi government are being converted into dedicated facilities for Covid-19 patients: Lok Nayak Hospital, Rajiv Gandhi super speciality hospital, and a new hospital in Burari that has been under construction for several years. Together, these will add 3,400 beds, according to an official aware of the plan, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. Lok Nayak hospital near Delhi Gate is part of preparations for all three scenarios, and officials are converting it into a Covid-19-focussed facility block by block, as suggested by the panel. “For the first scenario, we will set up a 200-bed isolation facility in the emergency building of the department, which can house up to 300 patients. Currently, the new special ward, which is being used to house Covid-19 patients, can hold up to 54 only,” said a senior official from the hospital. To free up the additional beds, the emergency medicine and surgery departments will first be moved elsewhere: surgical is likely to move to Sushruta Trauma Centre run by the hospital in Civil Lines. “Then, for the next scenario if need be, the new medical block can add another 200 beds, the new surgical block another 400. Eventually the whole hospital, with over 2,000 beds, will be converted into a Covid-19 hospital if the numbers shoot up,” said the official. To prevent infection from spreading within the hospital, primary screening has been started outside the out-patient clinics. “Our general out-patient clinics are still operational and to ensure there is no spread of the infection in the hospital, a team of doctors segregate the patients who are suspected to have the disease and those that are not. The suspect patients are directly taken to the Covid-19 treatment area, while others are allowed to go to the clinics,” the official said.The upcoming hospital in Burari will be operationalised with 1,000 new beds, of which 10 to 15% will have ventilators. This hospital will be run by teams from Lok Nayak hospital, according to the committee’s suggestion. Rajiv Gandhi super speciality hospital in Tahirpur has already set aside 400s. “We have stopped all urology and gastrointestinal surgeries to free up beds. Only cardiac procedures are being done. There is a screening mechanism for patients coming to the OPD, which will be suspended when the numbers start rising,” said another senior official from Delhi government health department.Apart from scaling up and strengthening government facilities, the report had also recommended that private hospitals also start reserving isolation facilities. “The report talks about involving the private sector in the management of the patients, in case there is a surge in the numbers. However, the focus is on strengthening our own facilities,” said another doctor part of the committee.The report has assessed the number of isolation and ICU beds, number of ventilators, ambulances, doctors and nurses, as well as testing kits that will be required. “The report has been submitted and I have briefed the minister on what needs to be done to prepare ahead,” said Dr SK Sarin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/equipped-to-handle-100-new-cases-per-day-says-kejriwal/story-GI1nQbeZrgLC6CdUUH9BjO.html
28-03-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Railways steps up cargo ops to boost supply of essentials amid lockdown||The Indian Railways has stepped up its cargo operations to boost the supply of essential commodities such as food and petroleum products amid concerns over the shortage of such items during the three-week lockdown announced in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak in the country. The national carrier has loaded 1,60,000 wagons with goods over the past four days, with nearly 26,000 of them carrying essential items on priority, including grains, vegetables, fruits, salt, edible oil, sugar, milk, coal and petroleum products. “While the whole country continues to be completely locked down due to the pandemic of coronavirus, Indian Railways is fully committed to the welfare of the countrymen and is making all efforts to ensure availability of essential commodities through its uninterrupted freight services,” the ministry of railways said in a statement on Friday.On an average, more than 22,000 wagons of coal were loaded per day and 1,400 wagons of food grains daily, according to the ministry. The unprecedented three-week lockdown, announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday, exempts the transportation of all essential goods. All passengers train services along with other public transport have been suspended till April 14. However, supplies of several products were disrupted on the first day of the lockdown on Wednesday as the authorities amid confusion over activities that are allowed during the lockdown.Truckers alleged that despite carrying essential goods, they were stopped by the state police. More than 2,00,000 trucks are stranded on the national highways, according to Indian Foundation of Transport Research and Training (IFTRT), the apex body tracking the truck industry for over two decades.On Wednesday -- the first day of the lockdown --the Union government had advised states to allow manufacturing units of essential items operate and facilitate inter-state movement of such products.Railway staff -- including workers involved in the facilitation of cargo along freight trains that have been allowed to operate during the lockdown – also said they were facing issues. All passengers train services have been suspended till April 14.Separately, the railways has set up a control room to monitor uninterrupted movement of essential commodities.“During the situation of lockdown in various States, Indian Railways Staff deployed at various good sheds, stations and control offices is working on 24/7 basis to ensure that the supply of essential items for the nation does not gets affected,” the ministry said. “Indian Railways understands its crucial role during this difficult time and requests all the stakeholders to fully support in ensuring faster loading and unloading of essential supplies,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-steps-up-cargo-ops-to-boost-supply-of-essentials/story-ierUQyyf339HwLDma4aiVM.html
28-03-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown: Social, religious groups join hands with govt to provide food to needy||Social and religious organisations have started feeding the needy and migrant workers trekking back home in the absence of public transport , and state governments opened community kitchens at shelter homes, enlisting the staff of the police to hand out packages of food in response to the coronavirus crisis and the distress it has sparked.On the third day of the three-week lockdown, provisions of food appeared to have improved after civil right activists expressed concern that the poor and daily-wage earners were at the risk of going hungry if the state fails to come to their aid. In most states, community kitchens have become operational and ground staff including the police deployed to distribute packets of food to the needy. “Our student police cadets and many organisations are helping us in this,” said Kerala’s inspector general of police, P Vijayan. Kerala was among the first states to announce community kitchens and several organisations including the police is engaged in distributing food.In Punjab, the gurudwaras have taken the lead in providing food to the poor and Punjab police personnel are engaged in distributing cooked meals to the poor. “In the past two days, policemen have distributed 1.5 lakh food packets,” said a Punjab police statement, adding that its personnel were also distributing milk and packets of dry rations. Special chief secretary, revenue and rehabilitation, KBS Sidhu said the government had released Rs 20 crore to provide food and converted all slums in the state into quarantine camps. “This will enable us to provide free food and medicines to them from the State Disaster Relief Fund (SDRF),” he said.The homeless and migrant workers were the hardest hit by the aftermath of the coronavirus crisis, with the latter forced to trek back home after public transport was suspended. According to 2011 Census, India had 1.7 million homeless, with the most number in Delhi, followed by Chennai and Mumbai. The census report also said that 54 million or nearly 5% people living in India migrated had from their place of birth for work.The Madhya Pradesh government has ordered that funds provide under Panch Parmeshwar scheme used to provide food and accommodation to the needy. “Food packets will be distributed at Rain baseras (night shelter homes) among the poor and helpless,” CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan said. The Bihar government on Thursday sanctioned Rs 100 crore from the CM’s Relief Fund to provide food and shelter for daily wage earners, including those from outside the state, who have been stranded in the state capital and other Bihar cities in the wake of countrywide lockdown.In Kolkata, community kitchens are providing food to street dwellers and poor people living in the 27 night shelters run by the Kolkata Municipal Corporation. Women who run community kitchens under the Integrated Child Development Scheme in the districts are sending rice and pulses to the homes of children who are not being able to come to anganwadi centres to be fed meals. Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik has sanctioned a package of Rs 2,200 crore for the poor, which include three months advance subsidised rations to all the 9.4 million beneficiaries. The food supply department is delivering public distribution system foodgrains at the doorstep of each beneficiary across the state. In Rourkela and Berhampur, non-government organisations (NGOs) are cooking and distributing food to the needy. The Chhattisgarh government is providing food packets to the homeless and the poor in all 28 districts with the help of the police. A few Gurudwaras are also serving food to the poor in the state capital, Raipur. Similar reports were received from Maharashtra.In the north-eastern states, the police in Guwahati, Assam, distributed food to the poor in with the help of a local gurudwara and an NGO. In other districts, the police distributed food to the needy and homeless. Members of the Sikh community belonging to the Gurudwara Sri Guru Singh Sabha also distributed cooked food in Shillong, Meghalaya.The Tripura government started providing free food twice a day through community kitchens in urban areas starting on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-social-religious-groups-join-hands-with-govt-to-provide-food-to-needy/story-emIEoDlFX4XF7dzbCSN49J.html
28-03-2020||India||33 years on, what became of the cast of Ramayana?||The main members of the cast of Ramanand Sagar’s Ramayan—Arun Govil, Deepika Chikhalia, Sunil Lahri and Dara Singh, who played Ram, Sita, Lakshman and Hanuman, respectively—were treated as living Gods for years after the show ended. But what were their lives like before they stepped into these avatars of deities, and what was it like after?Govil was a successful actor before Ramayan. He had Bollywood hits such as Sawan Ko Aane Do (1979) and Jiyo to Aise Jiyo (1979) under his belt, and was extremely popular as the sage Vikramaditya in the TV series Vikram Aur Betaal.After Ramayan, he continued playing Ram in Ramanand Sagar’s Lav Kush, then played more legendary characters, from the Ikshvaku king Raja Harishchandra to Gautam Buddha. In 1992, he also lent his voice, as Ram, to the Indo-Japanese animation film, Ramayan: The Legend of Prince Rama.And then, in the 1997 film Lav Kush, he played Lakshman to Jeetendra’s Ram. Though he did numerous Telugu, Odia and Bengali films, as well as Hindi TV shows, he is still known as the actor who played Ram.Chikhalia was just 22, with very few films in her kitty, when she took on the role of Sita. She went on to star in popular TV shows such as Sword of Tipu Sultan (1990), where she played Tipu’s mother, and in various Hindi, Tamil, Gujarati, Kannada and Bengali films. She reprised her role as Sita in Ramanand Sagar’s Lav Kush. Chikhalia also won an election as a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidate from Baroda in 1991 and served as a member of the 10th Lok Sabha.She made her comeback to films in 2018, and most recently played actor Yami Gautam’s mother in Bala (2019).Sunil Lahri’s career didn’t really take off after Ramayan, despite how popular he was as Lakshman. After playing the same character in Luv Kush, he went on to do some films and TV series, but none that made a mark. He set up a production company with Govil, but the company didn’t produce anything memorable either. This month, Lahri appeared on the Kapil Sharma sketch comedy show with Govil and Chikhalia to celebrate the 33rd anniversary of the launch of Ramayan.Dara Singh was easily the most successful from among the main cast. A champion wrestler before he became a popular actor, after his unforgettable turn as Hanuman, he joined the BJP in 1998 and served as a member of the Rajya Sabha between 2003 and 2009. His last Hindi film was Imtiaz Ali’s Jab We Met (2007). He died in 2012.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-became-of-the-ramayan-cast/story-e7B9J0JhzZRdnrj16knnqM.html
