30-03-2020||India||Covid-19: Delhi’s Nehru stadium complex to be used as quarantine facility||Delhi’s Jawahar Lal Nehru (JLN) Stadium complex will be used as a quarantine facility in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak, the government said in an order late Monday.District magistrate Harleen Kaur who also heads the Department Of Delhi Disaster Management Authority (south east) issued the order asking the stadium authorities to hand over the complex to the southeast Delhi District Administration immediately, ANI reported.The national capital reported 25 new cases of coronavirus on Monday to end the day with a count of 97 infected people, the state health department said. Two people have died do far. The capital was staring at more likely cases after the police sealed off a major area in Nizamuddin West where several people had displayed symptoms of coronavirus after taking part in a congregation earlier this month.Over 2,000 delegates, including those from Indonesia and Malaysia, attended the Tabligh-e-Jamaat congregation in Nizamuddin West from March 1-15, officials said. There are fears that some people may have contracted the highly contagious disease.Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal directed that an FIR be filed against a cleric for leading a religious congregation in Nizamuddin West.Kejriwal’s direction came a day after he himself came under fire from Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal following the exodus of thousands of migrant workers from Delhi over the weekend that forced the Centre to ask bordering states to seal their borders and look after the migrants. In his letter Baijal said that the city government’s inability to maintain the lockdown could “lead to widespread infection and loss of lives”.Earlier, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah expressed their concern to Kejriwal over exposing the migrants to health hazard during lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-delhi-s-nehru-stadium-complex-to-be-used-as-quarantine-facility/story-V90KFe4QbS0qsCWRDPNZIJ.html
30-03-2020||India||Mandatory for cable operators to carry 25 DD, RS and LS TV channels: I&B Ministry||The government on Monday asked cable operators to mandatorily broadcast 25 Doordarshan channels and Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha TV, saying “non-carriage” of these channels is liable for action under the law.The Information and Broadcasting Ministry said action against cable operator could be taken under the Cable Television Networks (Regulation) Act, 1995.The ministry has notified 25 DD and Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha TV channels that are to be mandatorily carried by the multiple system operators (MSOs) and cable operators on their networks.“All MSOs and cable operators are accordingly directed to mandatorily carry these channels. Any violation shall invite such action as provided in the Cable TV Act and the Rules framed there under as well as the terms and conditions stipulated in the MSO permission, as the case may be,” the advisory said.If viewers are unable to watch the desired DD channel they can complain to the station head of the nearest Doordarshan Kendra, the ministry said.Last week, Union Minister of Information and Broadcasting Prakash Javadekar had also tweeted about it. “It is mandatory for all cable operators to show DD channels. In your area if it is not being shown, then raise a complaint with your cable operator,” he had tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mandatory-for-cable-operators-to-carry-25-dd-rs-and-ls-tv-channels-i-b-ministry/story-eMvvpwpNzc8SHsdQimCZAM.html
30-03-2020||India||Kerala tycoon donates palatial house, to be turned into Covid-19 hospital||A non-resident Indian businessman in Kerala has donated his 9000 sq feet palatial home in Thrissur to be converted into an isolation ward for Covid-19 patients. Dubai-based entrepreneur Sohan Roy, who turned 53 on Monday, said it was his best birthday gift to his state which is struggling to find space to accommodate the increasing number of patients. On Monday, the number of positive coronavirus cases in the state went up to 234 and those under observation crossed 1.50 lakh.“The majority of the world is in the clutches of the pandemic and Kerala has its own share. The state urgently needs more isolation wards and ventilators. So I feel it is my duty to help my state,” the tycoon said. He owns the Aries Group of companies which has a presence in 16 countries. He said his 9000 square feet house in Desamangalam in Thrissur can accommodate many infected people. He said he will also donate at least 10 ventilators to the 10 worst affected districts.“Many such houses are locked up. If people provide these houses the government can convert them into good isolation wards and hospitals. No doubt the state will have to gear up now,” he said adding his action may encourage other NRIs who own many locked-up homes in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-tycoon-donates-palatial-house-to-be-turned-into-covid-19-hospital/story-R3SAEgW5sD5lXbP9Jum8WJ.html
30-03-2020||India||Amid Covid-19 pandemic, Telangana cuts salaries to overcome financial crisis||The Telangana government on Monday announced drastic pay cuts for all its employees, bureaucrats and public representatives in the wake of a crippling financial position of the state on account of coronavirus that has affected 77 people so far.The pay cuts range from a minimum of 10 per cent to a maximum of 75 per cent A decision to this effect was taken at a high-level meeting convened by chief minister K Chandrashekar Rao at his camp office Pragati Bhavan to review the state’s financial position which has turned precarious due to fall in the state’s own revenues and also in the devolution of funds from the Centre.Follow coronavirus updates here.A statement from the chief minister’s office said there would be 75 per cent cut in the salaries of the chief minister, his cabinet colleagues, MLAs, MLCs, chairpersons of various state-level corporations and representatives of urban and rural local bodies.Salaries of all India service officers including those in the IAS, IPS and IFS will be slashed by 60 per cent. But there was no clarity on how long pay cuts would be in force except that the March salaries to be paid on April will come under the order.In all the other categories of state government employees, including teachers, gazetted and non-gazetted offices, there would be a 50 per cent cut in their monthly salaries. “However, in the case of Class IV employees like peons, sweepers and drivers, and also outsourced and contract employees, the salary cut would be restricted to 10 per cent,” the statement said.Even retired employees of the state government have not been spared. While pensions of all categories of retired employees will be cut by 50 per cent, retired Class IV employees will see their pensions drop by 10 per cent. Similar salary cuts would be imposed in the case of employees working in all public sector undertakings and those operating with government grants-in-aid, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-covid-19-pandemic-telangana-cuts-salaries-to-overcome-financial-crisis/story-x9JiQRirkzjV3NAxbY7ucO.html
30-03-2020||India||With 25 fresh cases, Delhi coronavirus numbers climb to 97||National capital Delhi reported 25 new cases of Covid-19 in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of those infected to 97, the state health department said on Monday.Out of the 97 confirmed cases, 89 are admitted at various hospitals, according to the Delhi Health Department.Till Sunday night, the number of cases of the deadly Covid-19 stood at 72, including two deaths.Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday ordered the registration of an FIR against a maulana for leading a religious congregation in West Nizamuddin in South Delhi after several people who attended it showed symptoms of coronavirus.The Delhi government will launch a house-to-house mapping exercise in two nearby Nizamuddin colonies on Tuesday to check for more coronavirus cases.On Monday, the Delhi Police cordoned off a major area in Nizamuddin West where several people had displayed symptoms of coronavirus after taking part in the congregation earlier this month.Over 2,000 delegates, including those from Indonesia and Malaysia, attended the Tabligh-e-Jamaat congregation in Nizamuddin West from March 1-15, officials said. The south Delhi neighbourhood was virtually sealed following fears that some people may have contracted the highly contagious disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-delhi-case-count-climbs-to-97-as-capital-reports-25-new-cases-in-24-hours/story-iUMWI5nMiZKu7uaod3qPNI.html
30-03-2020||India||Jamiat writes to PM Modi, offers 10,000 Covid-19 isolation centres||The Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind on Monday offered its facilities to set up isolation centres for coronavirus patients that can house up to 10,000 people.Former Member of Parliament and the Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind’s general secretary Maulana Mahmood A Madani in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, wrote, “It has come to our knowledge that the emerging circumstances might require quarantine of large number of people to contain the spread of coronavirus….. We would like to offer the premises under control of our network in various parts of the country. On a rough estimate we can voluntarily accommodate up to 10,000 people. You are requested to please direct the concerned authorities to let us know of their requirements wherever and whenever the need might arise.”Madani also said that Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind has also activated all its state and district units to offer relief to people in need through thousands of locally organised disaster management and relief committees of civilian volunteers.Follow coronavirus updates here.The number of people testing positive for coronavirus has now risen to 1071. Twenty nine people have lost their lives to Covid-19 so far as the country fights to stop community transmission of the virus from taking a hold.India has pulled out all the stops to fight the coronavirus pandemic by drafting in state-owned facilities and production units and private companies to boost manufacture and supply of medical equipment and setting up quarantine facilities.Last week, the Indian Railways prepared the first prototype of an isolation coach for Covid-19 patients. The prototype is equipped with 10 isolation wards per coach. Each zone of Indian Railways has been tasked with manufacturing 10 such coaches a week.The armed forces have also set up several quarantine facilities||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jamiat-writes-to-pm-modi-offers-10-000-covid-19-isolation-centres/story-JVzWVVGBzmrapWrrdN7v8L.html
30-03-2020||India||In Bengal, BJP lashes out at Mamata Banerjee for politicising relief work||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has accused the Trinamool Congress (TMC) government of politicising the distribution of relief material to the needy during the nationwide lockdown to prevent the spread of the coronavirus.Rajya Sabha MP and BJP leader Swapan Dasgupta, and union minister Babul Supriyo lashed out at chief minister, Mamata Banerjee, on Sunday and Monday for using social media platforms for highlighting herself and her party in an hour of national crisis. The party’s national secretary Rahul Sinha started distributing relief material in Kolkata on Monday.“The distribution of relief in all parts of West Bengal has been entrusted to Ministers/ MLAs/corporators of the ruling TMC. It has become a political occasion and the lockdown is being used as a campaign platform for Mamata Didi. This approach will undermine the national fight against the pandemic,” Dasgupta wrote on Twitter on Sunday.On Monday, Mamata Banerjee declared during a meeting with bureaucrats, doctors, nursing staff and health workers at the state secretariat that people involved in work related to Covid-19 will have an insurance coverage of Rs 10 lakh, instead of the Rs 5 lakh that she had announced earlier.Following her announcement, Dasgupta tweeted, “West Bengal govt has increased insurance payout to doctors and health workers from Rs 5 lakh to Rs 10 lakh. In other states they are covered up to Rs 50 lakh by the Centre. For political reasons @MamataOfficial has refused to join Ayushman Bharat scheme. Bengal has lost out. @SuPriyoBabul”Sharing Dasgupta’s tweet, Supriyo, junior minister for environment, forests and climate change at the Centre, wrote on Twitter, “For Didi @MamataOfficial it is all about OneUp(Wo)Manship. It’s She vs the Rest of the World. She has done good work in leading from the front and her media has covered it well but God Help the people in Rural Areas, the ones without Ration Cards, Sr citizens- left helpless in most places.”Incidentally, Mamata Banerjee on Monday also asked district administrations to ensure no one missed out on relief for lack of identity documents.Supriyo also lashed out at her for airing her meeting at the state secretariat live on social media. “What kind of mentality is this? Administrative meetings in districts, even the meeting at the state secretariat at this hour, are being held in front of the media’s cameras! You are so greedy for publicity! Shame @MamataOfficial shame! You have left no scope for respecting you! #Tmchhi @BJP4Bengal @swapan55 @ANI,” he wrote in Bengali in a tweet.In Kolkata, while distributing food grains to slum dwellers, BJP national secretary Rahul Sinha said, “Mamata Banerjee is using the relief work for her own publicity.”BJP’s criticism of the Bengal chief minister came in the wake of the chief minister earning praises from many corners for her leading role in dealing with the situation over the coronavirus.She was seen visiting hospitals, night shelters for the homeless, distributing food among rickshaw-pullers, holding one meeting after another and advising people using the mainstream media and the social media on how to maintain social distancing. Her party’s MLAs and municipal corporators have been distributing relief material to the poor and the needy at their doorstep.“Mamata Banerjee has earned a lot of praise over the past few days for her leading role in this time of crisis. It seems this has frustrated these BJP leaders who are trying to find fault. This is unwelcome,” said political analyst Udayan Bandyopadhyay, a professor of political science at Bangabasi College in Kolkata.Trinamool Congress spokesperson Snehasis Chakraborty said, “Mamata Banerjee has set an example of giving leadership in the hour of national crisis. BJP is feeling jealous and frustrated and stooping too low.”The statewide municipal elections are due in May-June this year and the Assembly elections are scheduled in 2021. In 2019, BJP emerged as TMC’s principal challenger, winning 18 of the state’s 42 Lok Sabha seats, against 22 won by TMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-bengal-bjp-lashes-out-at-mamata-banerjee-for-politicising-relief-work/story-XER7RfhIURxXMfx9uAN3DM.html
30-03-2020||India||Forge collaborations for Covid-19 solutions: PM Modi to Indian missions||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday tasked Indian missions across the globe to ensure the welfare of citizens stranded because of Covid-19-related restrictions and to forge collaborations to find solutions to the pandemic, people familiar with developments said.Modi issued these instructions during a video-conference with heads of some 130 embassies and high commissions – the first such event for Indian missions worldwide – to discuss responses to the global pandemic.The conference, the latest in a string of virtual initiatives undertaken by the government to forge a coordinated response to the pandemic, allowed Modi to outline the vision and general direction to be taken by the envoys, said the people cited above who spoke on condition of anonymity.“Earlier, we had taken steps for the evacuation of citizens. Now, the focus is on the well-being and welfare of our stranded citizens. All the embassies were tasked to be in constant touch with the communities and to provide assistance wherever possible,” said a person who declined to be named.“There was also discussion on the many things we could get from the countries on the frontline – this includes joint research and collaboration, technologies, development of solutions, both therapeutic and vaccines, and testing and diagnostic kits,” the person added.Modi also briefed on the domestic situation and steps taken by the government to alleviate the economic and social situation, including through an economic package, and international and regional engagements to fight the spread of Covid-19.The envoys, in turn, briefed the prime minister on the situation in the countries where they were posted, especially crucial nations such as the US, Italy, Iran, China, and South Korea, and conveyed their sense of what the Indian community is going through, the people said.Ten heads of missions from Beijing, Washington, Tehran, Rome, Berlin, Kathmandu, Abu Dhabi, Kabul, Male and Seoul, offered their perspectives and shared feedback in those countries on the “resolute measures taken by India to combat this pandemic”, an official statement said.The people cited above said there was considerable interest in efforts by countries such as Germany and South Korea to tackle the Coronavirus.“Germany has had a large number of cases but the mortality rate is low, and the reasons for their success are of interest to us. Germany is also converting automobile factories to produce equipment such as ventilators and we can look at the same concept as automobile manufacturers are also being engaged in India,” said the person cited above.South Korea’s policy of “trace, test and treat”, which had worked well, and the use of technology, including an app for monitoring and self-quarantine, were also of interest to India, the people said. South Korea had tested some 400,000 people and not resorted to a lockdown, while its testing protocols and the possibility of joint production of test kits are of interest to India, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/forge-collaborations-for-covid-19-solutions-modi-to-indian-missions/story-SLLhRVJVaGinQckEvWQKaL.html
30-03-2020||India||‘This lapse could impose a heavy cost’: Lt Guv Baijal’s missive to Arvind Kejriwal||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday declared that the authorities had been able to restore order on the capital’s streets in a sharp contrast to the situation on Friday and Saturday when tens of thousands of migrant workers gathered for a ride home to their hometowns in UP and Bihar.“The situation had become a little alarming. In the last two days, the situation has come under control,” Kejriwal said right at the beginning of his video statement on Monday evening. The chief minister also spoke about how the authorities were strictly enforcing the lockdown and turning back people who tried to cross into Delhi from neighbouring Haryana to reach Ghaziabad. “There is very strict patrolling,” the chief minister said.The chief minister’s emphasis on strict enforcement of the lockdown comes a day after Lt Governor Anil Baijal sent him a sharply-worded letter, asserting that the city government’s inability to maintain the lockdown could “lead to widespread infection and loss of lives”.It nudged the elected government to act decisively at this stage.“We must remember that we cannot afford to fail as this is a now or never time for all of us!,” the Lt Governor said.Also Read: Covid-19 outbreak is a test for political systems | HT EditorialBaijal’s letter referred to the numerous joint meetings that they had held where he was always told that all arrangements are in place to provide essential services to the poor and needy to ensure that they stay where they are.He contrasted these assurances with the situation over the weekend when large crowds of migrant workers marched on foot with their families on roads.“This unfortunate situation”, the Lt Governor said in his letter seen by HT, “shows there was perhaps a failure to make adequate and timely arrangements for food, water and shelter and to reach out to these poor workers, which led to their mass exodus”.“This single lapse could defeat the very purpose of the ‘lockdown’ and impose a very heavy cost on the entire nation,” Baijal said.The Lt Governor’s comment echoed the deep concern that had been expressed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah over the possibility that some of the migrant workers may have been infected and may have spread it to others.It was on account of this concern that Home Secretary AK Bhalla had ordered all state governments to place the thousands of migrant workers in government-run quarantine facilities before they can be allowed to return home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/this-lapse-could-impose-a-heavy-cost-lt-guv-baijal-s-missive-to-arvind-kejriwal/story-JrmI2ymlEVIW4OT5RLXLFN.html
30-03-2020||India||All banks in India to remain open during lockdown||India has directed all its banks to remain operational during the three-week coronavirus lockdown as part of essential services and to ensure welfare cash schemes that are part of a $22.6 billion government stimulus reach the poor.“It is very crucial and critical to keep banking channels open and make sure that branches and banking correspondents function throughout the lockdown period, so that people do not face any hassles or problems in their financial transactions,” said a March 27 government order seen by Reuters.Last week, India announced a $22.6 billion economic stimulus plan that provides direct cash transfers and food security measures, offering relief to millions of poor people hit by a lockdown ordered by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to stem the coronavirus pandemic. On Sunday night, State Level Bankers’ Committee (SLBC) of West Bengal issued an advisory to all the banks in the state to remain operational on all working days.In light of the orders, we have “decided to lift the earlier advisory on cluster approach in urban area & alternative day approach in rural areas for opening of bank branches,” the SLBC notice said.A similar notice has been issued in the state of Bihar, according to two sources. After the finance ministry directive, various state governments have been in talks with the bankers’ committee dissuading them from keeping branches temporarily closed. However, in some states such as Punjab, banking hours would be curtailed with minimum staffing, bank officials said.Reuters reported last week that some banks were considering a cluster-based approach across major cities and also mulling that rural bank branches work alternate days to protect employees from the fast-spreading coronavirus and due to a fall in customer presence at bank branches.India now has over 1,000 cases of the coronavirus of whom 29 have died, the health ministry said on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-banks-in-india-to-remain-open-during-lockdown/story-4fepX8fK3MRrGvHWg7NGzN.html
30-03-2020||India||Andhra CM directs officials to isolate Covid-19 suspects in urban areas||Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on Monday directed authorities to step up measures for isolation of coronavirus suspects in the urban areas, with more focus on home isolation as the state recorded two more positive cases. The state’s Covid-19 positive number stands at 23.An official bulletin of the state medical and health department said a 49-year-old male from Kakinada and another 72-year old male from Rajahmundry tested positive on Monday afternoon.“The travel details of these two patients are being traced currently. A total of 33 samples have been tested since last night out of which 31 proved negative and two are positive,” he said.Jagan, who conducted a high-level meeting in the afternoon to review the Covid-19 situation in the state, directed that an adequate number of beds should be set up in every district for isolation. If necessary, the CM added, the district officials should take over all private hospitals and nursing homes and use them for isolation.So far 16,723 beds have been made available at all isolation centres and 5,000 more could be added. The CM asked the officials to sanitise and make use of the halls and hotels, if necessary.The district collectors apprised the chief minister of the preparedness of facilities and number of beds under various categories to meet any contingency. The existing 6,762 non-ICU beds are increased to 8,050 beds, 336 ICU beds to 515, and 148 ventilator beds, they told him.As the virus outbreak in urban areas was more due to the higher density of population and high number of foreign returnees, the CM asked the officials to intensify the measures being taken in urban areas.Jagan said migrant labourers and workers who were stranded at various places across the state and border will be provided with good accommodation and quality food. The officer in charge will monitor the situation at the camps.The chief minister has instructed the officials to ensure clean and sanitised surroundings in urban and rural areas. Monitoring on positive cases reported areas will be intensified, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-cm-directs-officials-to-isolate-covid-19-suspects-in-urban-areas/story-4ZTHgK2sHsZxxR7Z6Teh3I.html
30-03-2020||India||Nadda appeals to party workers to donate to PM CARES Fund, inspire 10 others||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national president J P Nadda on Monday appealed to party workers to contribute at least Rs 100 each to the PM CARES Fund and inspire 10 others to contribute as well, to help fight the Covid-19 pandemic in the country.Nadda said this is the need of the hour and every party worker should do his bit to help.“I appeal to all of you to make your contribution to the PM Cares Fund. Our small support can make a huge contribution. I request every BJP party worker to contribute at least Rs 100 to the PM CARES Fund and inspire 10 other people to contribute as well,” Nadda said in a video message on his Twitter handle.“BJP workers with their small donations can make a big contribution and it can go a long way to help fight the pandemic,” the BJP president said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched the PM’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations Fund as part of the Central government’s efforts to combat the coronavirus and asked people to contribute generously to it.The PM-CARES Fund was set up on Saturday and contributions from corporate houses, industrialists and Bollywood actors started pouring in immediately in an all out effort to fight the deadly Covid-19 disease. The prime minister is the chairman of the new public charitable trust and its members include Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Home Minister Amit Shah and Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nadda-appeals-to-party-workers-to-donate-to-pm-cares-fund-inspire-10-others/story-tXTQETo9dd8lBJETBcKqMO.html
30-03-2020||India||Unlock the box of hobbies this lockdown||At a time when anxiety and panic has gripped us all, courtesy the coronavirus outbreak, there is a need to find a way out to beat the boredom, especially when majority of us are working from home or staying put without work.“Practicing social distancing has limited the human interaction. Suddenly, it seems like the hours in a day have increased. There is nothing to do. Looks like it is the perfect time to get back to hobbies and do things that bring joy in such dark times,” says Shrinkhla Hydar, a teacher.“It is all about making most of this time by being with kids and husbands but then it is also about taking out some me time. With all the extra time on your hands, it is time to go back to the things that once made us happy. With lack of time I hardly use get time to cook at leisure with my daughters. As on any normal day they have school, homework and what not. So in this quarantine period we had a multiple joint cooking sessions,” she says while thanking online portals.“I had the recipes for pancakes, ‘Maal pua’ on my tab and so it was easy to make.”Her husband, who loves gardening, enjoyed planting new herbs and veggies in our terrace and balcony garden with help from kids, all of who are at home.In between, kids got busy with brushes and painted the canvas red. “And as if it was not over, after lunch hours we make it a point to have a session of scramble word game or atlas finder. All this can be fun and learn at the same time,” she says.As the lockdown is on for another few weeks many of us are picking up some old lost interesting hobbies be it wood working, playing musical instrument, gardening, reading or more, for another teacher Vandana Rautela and her real estate businessman Rajeeva.“We have started exploring and revisiting our inner realms. We are reviving our hobbies and what we like to do like I saw my 17-year-old daughter strumming on the guitar and sketching after a very long time meanwhile, my husband tried his hand in culinary skills. Then I got time to put on my earphones to listen to my favourite songs and watching the spring bloom.”Corporate professional, Tyrone Crofton Home feels the lockdown has given him time to go back to his old hobby of spending quality time at home. “My evenings are much more relaxed, knowing that I do not have to wake up early in the morning. My wife and are getting to be together we are sharing all household chores be it tidying up the house and other stuff. Also we are watching films and OTT series. But the best part is I am back to my beloved hobby of woodworking and now I am also learning new woodworking techniques from online videos. I am also indulging in my passion for tools and I have been able to research new tools and ordering them online,” he says.For another corporate head, Anand Sinha and his wife Nishi Anand and daughter Anushi it is all about family jamming courtesy lockdown.“Being a music lover, for me it’s an opportunity to catch up with some music from our college days in 90s. In this digital age, streaming online music and radio stations world over have made life so easy. Best of Rod Stewart, Bob Dylan, Pink Floyd, and Jenny Rogers are just a search away. Good home cooked food in the right company of family adds to the nostalgia. It is time to unwind, possibly rewind, and cherish the memories,” says Sinha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/unlock-the-box-of-hobbies-this-lockdown/story-O3JwzL0dokjCMHRrlUU4ML.html
30-03-2020||India||Covid-19: 200 quarantined, contact tracing on after Delhi mosque gathering||A day after six people who attended a religious gathering near Nizamuddin Dargah tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), authorities are on the lookout for others who took part in the event amid increased police presence in the area.Over the past two days, the Delhi Police and the health department have taken at least 220 people from the Nizamuddin area to two separate quarantine facilities at Tughlaqabad and Lok Nayak Hospital, a police official who did not want to be named said.The gathering, held earlier this month, inside a mosque had many foreign nationals too, a second police official said.People from Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Telangana and Tamil Nadu attended the gathering in the area with high population density in violation of government orders, a Delhi health department official said.This official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, added that the six who tested positive are believed to have travelled from Andaman. They had no history of foreign travel.“They were living with a group of people for some religious gathering,” the health official said. “Now activities are going on to trace others who might have come in contact with them.”Follow coronavirus live updates here.Over 2,000 delegates, including from Indonesia and Malaysia, attended the Tabligh-e-Jamaat congregation in Nizamuddin West from March 1-15, officials told news agency Press Trust of India. Delhi Police and Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) officials and medical teams went to the locality late on Sunday night after reports that a large number of people were showing symptoms of the disease, the officials said.The entire area, which includes residences and the headquarters of the Tabligh-e-Jamaat, a Muslim religious organisation, was virtually cut off. Alarm bells started ringing after a man in his 60s who had attended the congregation succumbed to Covid-19 in Srinagar last week.Earlier this month, the Delhi government banned religious, social, cultural and political gatherings of over 50 people till March 31 in view of the coronavirus outbreak.Later, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a 21-day nationwide lockdown that came into effect from March 25 to prevent the spread of the coronavirus.“The whole city is under lockdown. Now with some cases of people showing symptoms of Covid-19 reported from Nizamuddin area, we have posted more police personnel at the market places and the lanes to ensure that people follow the lockdown. Our officers on the ground are also helping the government officers in Nizamuddin basti area,” deputy commissioner of police (south-east) RP Meena said.Twenty-three people tested positive for Covid-19 in Delhi on Sunday, taking the total number of cases to 72, according to the health officials from the city. This was the largest jump in numbers in a single-day reported from the city.So far, two deaths have been reported from Delhi – that of a 68-year-old woman from Janakpuri and a 62-year-old Yemeni man who was in Delhi for his son’s liver transplant.(with PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-cordon-off-part-of-nizamuddin-after-people-show-covid-19-symptoms/story-ChOXzLNx3mSl490JgyqvKK.html
30-03-2020||India||E-PDS could have helped migrants, but scheme still lacks the scale||The plight of thousands of workers fleeing cities, facing hunger and distress in the aftermath of the coronavirus lockdown, could have been eased by a federal programme launched last year to make subsidised rations portable for migrants. But the programme hasn’t gained the scale and reach to be a mitigating factor, analysts said. A digitised, portable public distribution system (PDS) was to be a boon for beneficiaries of the National Food Security Act who lose out on their monthly quota of subsidised food when they migrate. The programme, known as “one nation, one ration card”, still remains a work in progress. The scheme is still not fully geared for seamless inter-state transactions. Inter-state portability, whereby a migrant draws subsidised food in a state other than his own, is being tried on select “clusters” of 12 “contiguous” states. This means the system is capable of serving only migrants who move to a bordering state in those chosen clusters. “There is also the issue that many migrants are single men who might have their ration cards with their families back in the village. So, with this kind of portability, they would not get rations,” said Dipa Sinha, a professor with Ambedkar University. The government needed a far more high-tech system where every member of a migrant family had individual electronic ration cards, since the ration quota under the National Food Security Act is designed on a per capita basis. Under the law, the poor receive 5kg of foodgrain per person per month at a subsidised rate of Rs2-3 per kg, which has been now increased to 7kg due to the pandemic.“The government is on course to make portability fully operational countrywide by June, 2020,” an official of the consumer affairs ministry said, asking not to be named. Given the pandemic, it might face some delay, he said.Experts say the programme’s design doesn’t account for the scale of internal migration. The Economic Survey 2016-17 used some new metrics to give updated data on migration. It suggested an annual inter-state migration flow of close to 9 million from 2011 to 2016 in a “circular” fashion based on data from railways.The first portability trials were done by September 2018 in clusters in six states. By January 2020, 12 states—Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Gujarat, Maharasthra, Haryana, Rajasthan, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Goa, Jharkhand and Tripura—were in. The system essentially allowed for “state-level portability”, meaning ration-card holders could draw rations from any electronically linked fair price shops within their “district or state”. A novel cohort-based migration metric, a statistical tool developed by former chief economic adviser Arvind Subramanian, revealed an annual “inter-state migrant population of about 60 million and an inter-district migration as high as 80 million” between 2001 and 2011. Subramanian had called for full portability of all welfare doles.“The government’s initiative to start portability of ration cards is a right step, but it requires scale,” said Asit Upadhyay of the Right to Food Campaign. According to Chinmay Tumbe, the author of “India Moving - A History of Migration” and faculty at the Indian Institute of Management (Ahmedabad), India’s migration is circular in the sense that people keep moving from city to city until they return home at one point before moving out again. This means a portable food distribution system has to be capable of continually tracking migrant workers, who make up 29% of the nation’s workforce. Construction is the single largest source of employment for migrant workers in India. According to National Sample Survey Office data, 33.3 million people moved out of farming to the construction sector between 2004-05 and 2011-12.Inter-state portability is on in eight states in contiguous clusters of adjoining Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. Other clusters comprise Gujarat and Maharashtra, Haryana and Rajasthan and Karnataka and Kerala, all contiguous states. Madhya Pradesh, Goa, Jharkhand and Tripura joined these eight states from January 1, 2020, to make a single national cluster, the official said. Full national portability could have rescued a large number of migrants fleeing the Covid-19 lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/still-lacking-scale-e-pds-missed-migrants/story-IowBmqM32Pi8L1dgHcwgnN.html
30-03-2020||India||Tripura gives Ratan Tata a wish list to fight coronavirus||Two days after the Tata Group pledged Rs 1,500 crore to fight the coronavirus pandemic, Tripura deputy chief minister Jishnu Devvarma on Monday wrote to Tata Trusts chairman Ratan Tata seeking material assistance to tackle the virus in the state.Devvarma’s wish list includes 100 ventilators, 50,000 Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) and alcohol-based hand sanitizers each, 1,00,000 N95 masks and 500 makeshift tents for patients. Follow coronavirus live updates here.“.. The situation solicits contribution from every possible side to hold us together. Tata Trusts has been a pioneer organization in stepping up to situations like this. The contribution of your organization to the North East Indian States also has been widely appreciated. I would like to bring to your kind attention about the requirement of following materials to prevent COVID-19 from becoming a huge outbreak in the State of Tripura,” the letter reads.“.... In view of the above, I would request you to kindly look into the requirement and extend your cooperation for donating to the extent possible so that the State may prevent COVID-19 from becoming a huge outbreak,” Devvarma said in the letter. The deputy chief minister also said that his government has already adopted certain preventive steps to contain spread of the disease.The state government asked people to maintain social distancing, stay indoors and avoid coming out of their homes unless it is required during the lockdown period. No one has yet tested positive for positive for coronavirus in Tripura.On Saturday, the Tata Group while pledging the funds to fight coronavirus said they will be utilised for providing protective equipment to medical personnel, respiratory systems for treating increasing cases, testing kits to boost testing in the country and setting up treatment facilities for those already infected. The group has also said that it will train health workers and the general public to empower them against coronavirus||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-govt-writes-to-ratan-tata-seeking-materials-to-fight-coronavirus/story-qX94AbWAssAVzAMbgxW4gO.html
30-03-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown strands over 60,000 people, mostly migrants in Uttarakhand||More than 60,000 people including migrant labourers, tourists and pilgrims from other states are stuck in Uttarakhand due to the lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus, officials said.The majority of them are labourers and most are stranded in the border districts of Haridwar and US Nagar that house the main industrial hubs of the Himalayan state, said officials. In Haridwar district over 5,000 labourers from neighbouring states and state’s hill districts are stranded while in US Nagar there are at least 50,000 labourers from other states as well it sown hill districts are stuck. Follow coronavirus live updates here.District information officer of Haridwar, Archana (who used only her first name) said the administration was taking care of at least 5,000 labourers stranded there. “These labourers are mainly from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar as well as from the hilly districts of our state who work here in various industrial units. As the government has stopped all inter-state and intra-state transport, they are staying here only with their food and other arrangements being made by the district administration,” she said. According to the Haridwar district administration, apart from the labourers, there are at least one thousand tourists and pilgrims from other states who are stuck in the district. Seema Nautiyal, district tourism officer Haridwar said, “As per our information, there are a total 153 foreign tourists and 1,001 domestic tourists and pilgrims stranded in Haridwar. Due to the lockdown, they are staying at their present accommodations only. We are making all possible efforts to help these stranded tourists and pilgrims by providing them with food and other arrangements as required.”The other major bordering district of US Nagar is the one where there are a maximum number of labourers stranded - at least 50,000, said officials. “We hardly have any tourist but maximum labourers from other states and hilly areas here. There are about 80,000 to 1 lakh labourers who work here. Many have already left for their native places while some are still here whom we are providing food,” said Prashant Singh, assistant labour commissioner, US Nagar.Many labourers working at different places had left for their native places in neighbouring states and districts on foot after the lockdown was announced. Apart from this many pilgrims and tourists were also sent to their home states including some Gujarati pilgrims from Haridwar in buses arranged by the government. State cabinet minister and government spokesperson, Madan Kaushik said, “We are ensuring every possible help to the stranded people. The government is providing food to at least 15,000 tourists and pilgrims who are stranded here.”Kaushik said, “As there is no movement of any buses and trains due to lockdown, they are staying at their present accommodations mostly. Government is making all possible efforts to help them.”Earlier on Monday, Kaushik visited the 24-hour Covid1-19 control room in the Police Lines in Dehradun. During his visit, he spoke to the authorities and lauded their efforts. Seven people have so far tested positive for coronavirus in Uttarakhand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-strands-over-60-000-people-mostly-migrants-in-uttarakhand/story-wGv2cdzbf39AlZZrl0dlvN.html
30-03-2020||India||BSNL to offer free validity extension, extra talk time during lockdown||Amid a 21-day nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic, there is some good news for state-run BSNL subscribers. For those people whose validity expired during the last week, BSNL has decided to extend the validity of all such subscribers till April 20 at no extra cost.The service provider has decided to offer an extension of validity to help mobile subscribers to receive incoming calls, BSNL said in a statement.In addition to this, BSNL will also provide free talk time of Rs.10 to all such subscribers who reach zero balance during the duration of the lockdown. These facilities will be extended to help BSNL mobile subscribers communicate in an emergency.“BSNL firmly stands with its subscribers during this crisis and we request the subscribers to “Go Digital” for recharging their accounts. Several options available for recharge include MyBSNL mobile app, BSNL website and other popular wallet services,” Praveen Kumar Purwar, CMD, BSNL said. A day earlier, on Sunday, the Congress party had written to owners of Jio, Vodafone-Idea, BSNL and Airtel seeking free calls on their networks for migrants amid the lockdown in the country due to the outbreak of the Covid-19 disease.“Congress has written to Mukesh Ambani (Jio), Kumar Mangalam Birla (Vodafone-Idea), PK Purwar (BSNL), and Sunil Bharti Mittal (Airtel) urging them to make incoming-outgoing calls free on their networks, for one month, for migrants amid the lockdown due to coronavirus,” Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi said.In the letter, Priyanka Gandhi had written: “Telecommunications companies can have a positive impact on the present situation. Many people who are going home have exhausted their mobile recharges. This means that they cannot make calls to their relatives.”“I request you to continue the incoming and outgoing facilities on your network for the next month for free of cost. This will help people who are facing hardship due to travel to communicate with their relatives,” she had added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsnl-to-offer-free-validity-extension-extra-talk-time-during-lockdown/story-TYmMR8ntUHBAwsSdSoUYFL.html
30-03-2020||India||Covid-19 in local transmission, not community transmission, says govt||The Union health ministry on Monday clarified that the coronavirus pandemic is still in the local transmission stage and has not reached the community transmission stage. “There is no community transmission. There is only local transmission. If the government feels that that the stage of community transmission has set in, it will acknowledge it but it is not there yet,” Lav Aggarwal, joint secretary in the Union health ministry said at the daily briefing on coronavirus.“Kindly allow us to use the word community but not in the context you have interpreted. Our country is in the local transmission stage,” he said responding to questions about a health ministry document that said the country was currently in “local transmission and limited community transmission phase.” . There had been apprehension about community transmission of coronavirus setting in after a health ministry document on Sunday said that “limited community transmission” has begun in India.Community transmission is that phase of the outbreak when the source of a patient’s infection cannot be traced and isolated.A document detailing the standard operating procedure (SOP), issued by the health ministry late Sunday night, said: “This SOP is applicable to current phase of Covid-19 pandemic in India (local transmission and limited community transmission), wherein as per plan of action, all suspect cases are admitted to isolation facilities.”Aggarwal also said that 92 new cases and four deaths were reported in the last 24 hours taking the total number of people infected by coronavirus to 1071 and the number of casualties to 29.Asked about a viral video of disinfectant being sprayed on migrant workers in Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh, Aggarwal said action has been taken against those involved. “Bareilly District Magistrate has clarified that some employees took an overzealous step due to ignorance. Required action has been taken against those employees,” he said.The video showing migrant workers squatting on a road and being sprayed with chlorine-mixed water had sparked outrage on Monday, prompting the Bareilly administration to order a probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-in-local-transmission-not-community-transmission-says-govt/story-cgXXr5GZWRPdLsedPIihAM.html
30-03-2020||India||Gujarat to scale up healthcare infra for migrants after clashes break out||New Delhi: Gujarat administration has said that it would scale-up healthcare infrastructure and measures to provide for migrant workers after clashes between a section of these workers and the police led to the arrest of over 90 of them in Surat on Monday amid the 21-day nationwide lockdown to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) outbreak. The state has reported 60 Covid-19 positive cases and six deaths to date. Gujarat has the sixth-highest number of both Covid-19 positive cases and fatalities. Clashes broke out on Monday after a group of over 500 migrant workers in Surat defied the lockdown and took to the streets in a bid to get back to their native places, while the police tried to stop them from leaving. On Sunday, the Centre had reminded states that the responsibility of preventing the movement of people across their boundaries during the lockdown rests with them. The Centre will hold the respective state police department and district magistrates to account for any lapses. Gujarat government officials said that measures are in place to ensure that migrant workers are looked after during the lockdown. “The state government had instructed all industries, business houses and other firms to ensure effective implementation of the nationwide lockdown, which came into effect from March 25, and not allow their staff and labourers to travel outside. Sufficient lodging and boarding facilities were arranged to ensure labourers could remain indoors,” said an official, requesting anonymity. The official said migrant labourers from adjoining states, who work predominantly in the manufacturing and agricultural sectors, and also as craftsmen were provided help by the government and the non-governmental organisations (NGOs). “The vulnerable sections of the society, who don’t have ration but means of cooking, are being provided ration kits,” the official said. The government has ramped up screening facilities, said a second official amid concerns over the current testing rate of about 100 a day. “A 1,200-bed hospital in Ahmedabad, a 500-bed facility in Surat, another 250-bed hospital each in Rajkot and Vadodara, respectively, have been made operational on an immediate basis. Helpline numbers for enquiries or grievances related to Covid-19 and to provide food and shelter to migrant workers from other states and to shelter people from Gujarat stranded in other states have started,” said a second official. Gujarat claims to be the first state in the country to set up a dedicated 2,200-bed hospital to treat Covid-19 patients, including 1,583 and 635 beds in government-run and private sector, respectively. The state is increasing its facilities to test 1,200 samples a day in six government laboratories and four private ones. Besides, it claims to have 2,360 ventilators, of which 660 are in public hospitals and the rest in the private sector. A statewide health survey is being conducted by over 10,000 female health workers and 4.46 crore people have, so far, been covered for early detection of Covid-19, the second official said. “The chief minister (Vijay Rupani) is supervising the state’s response to the pandemic through the CM dashboard that connects him with the remotest local administration and doctors. He is speaking to the quarantined and infected people, and also on-ground medical staff such as doctors, nurses and paramedics over the phone using the JanSampark service,” said the first official.The state administration claims it has 21 lakh metric tonnes of foodgrains available, which is sufficient for another year, and over 17,000 fair price shops are also operational. “The total distribution coverage of foodgrains in March is 82%, or 54 lakh ration cardholders out of a total of 65.62 lakh ration cardholders. Free food will be made available in April at an estimated cost of around Rs100 crore,” said the first official. Those people, who don’t have ration cards or documents, will also get free ration as a mamlatdar—a gazetted officer of the state government—at a taluka level have been authorised to distribute 10 kilograms per head under the Anna Brahma scheme. The state government has also given relief to large and small industrial units from paying their electricity bills during the 21-day lockdown to lessen the economic downturn on the industry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-to-scale-up-healthcare-infra-for-migrants-after-clashes-break-out/story-aRac3Lb5smxtZSzN7gYOWN.html
30-03-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 5 PM: India assesses Covid-19 sample pooling for tests, says top scientist. How it helps and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion curated for you at 1PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India assesses Covid-19 sample pooling for tests, says top scientist. How it helpsIndia is looking at increasing the capacity of testing for coronavirus disease Covid-19 by pooling of samples. The effort was announced on Twitter by India’s principal scientific adviser Vijay Raghavan.Read full story here.Coronavirus: Delhi government plans to lodge doctors at Hotel Lalit during quarantineChief Minister Arvind Kejriwal-led Delhi government on Monday announced that doctors working at Delhi’s Lok Nayak Hospital and GB Pant Hospital on coronavirus duty will be lodged at Hotel Lalit.Read full story here.‘Frightening picture’: Prashant Kishor tweets video of migrants crying, beggingElection strategist Prashant Kishor has tweeted a video of scores of migrant workers, locked inside a cell crying and asking to be set free, and sought the resignation of Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar.Read full story here.In Uttarakhand, IFS officer tests Covid-19 positive, after testing negative onceUttarakhand’s first Covid-19 patient, a trainee Indian Forest Service (IFS) officer tested positive again after testing negative last week, officials said.Read full story here.Dalgona Coffee is the delish beverage trend sweeping TikTok and Instagram. Tried it yet?With people spending more and more time at home, social media is flooded with a new challenge or trend every other day. The latest trend to spill all over social media is videos on Dalgona Coffee.Read full story here.Asian Institute of Medical Sciences, India launches Covid-19 chatbot: How it worksThere have been quite a few chatbots on Covid-19 available on different platforms. The Asian Institute of Medical Sciences, India has also created a chatbot which can be accessed on mobile and desktop. It is also available in English and Hindi.Read full story here.Apple’s Dad shoes that inspired Versace sold for over Rs 7 LakhAmerican multinational technology company, Apple is known for its high-end luxury gizmos, be it the iPhones that have people lining up outside the Apple store overnight, the laptops, desktops, hand-held devices, watches, etc. Read full story here.‘These two guys, then daylight, then the rest’: Shane Warne names best batsmen of his eraFormer Australian bowler Shane Warne has always spoken fondly about Sachin Tendulkar and Brian Lara and in his recent Instagram Live video, the former leg-spinner has picked both the batsmen as the greatest to wield the willow in his era. Read full story here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5-pm-india-assesses-covid-19-sample-pooling-for-tests-says-top-scientist-how-it-helps-and-all-the-latest-news/story-8Tb9CHoo7Ot8YdoM9yst5I.html
30-03-2020||India||In Uttarakhand, IFS officer tests Covid-19 positive, after testing negative once||Uttarakhand’s first Covid-19 patient, a trainee Indian Forest Service (IFS) officer tested positive again after testing negative last week, officials said.After the test results appeared positive he was again shifted to the isolation ward in Doon Hospital and kept under observation. After initial treatment, he had tested negative in the first test which was done last week.Dr Dinesh Chauhan, additional chief medical officer of Dehradun said that the trainee IFS officer would have been discharged from the hospital if two consecutive tests showed negative after treatment, but he tested positive the second time.“The first Covid-19 patient of Uttarakhand tested positive in the second test after treatment on Sunday. His health is stable and he is being kept under observation. Two more trainee IFS officers who had also tested positive earlier were discharged after they tested negative in two consecutive tests,” said Dr Chauhan.According to the World Health Organisation’s standards, a positive case of Covid-19 is said to be healthy if test results come out to be negative at least twice.On March 15, the first positive case of Covid-19 was confirmed in the state. The 26-year-old trainee Indian Forest Service (IFS) officer was confirmed positive after he recently returned from a tour of Finland, Russia and Spain. He was part of a group of 62 trainee IFS officers who had visited these countries for an educational tour.The trainer officer had been quarantined at a health centre at the Indira Gandhi National Forest Academy Dehradun and was later shifted to the government-run Doon Medical College Hospital in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-uttarakhand-ifs-officer-tests-covid-19-positive-after-testing-negative-once/story-BRvk9nFQctZgYFAJNtuVbO.html
30-03-2020||India||Migration has to be stopped: Govt to SC amid Covid-19 spread fears||The Centre told the Supreme Court on Monday that the exodus of migrant workers from the cities to their hometowns will have to be stopped to ensure that it does not aggravate the threat posed by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Solicitor general Tushar Mehta spelt out the Centre’s stand during a hearing on a petition filed by two lawyers, asking the court to issue directions to the central and state governments to address the threat arising from the mass migration following the three-week national lockdown imposed on March 25.A message should not go out that the government is facilitating the migration, Mehta said. “Migration has to be stopped,”,he said. The lockdown sparked an exodus of tens of thousands of migrant workers, mainly daily wagers who lost their livelihoods, from the cities to their homes in the hinterland of India. In the absence of public transport, many started walking hundreds of kilometres across state borders, posing the threat that Covid-19 may spread to rural India. The petition filed by advocates Rashmi Bansal and Anuj Gupta cited the possibility that many of the migrant workers may have been infected by the virus and become carriers of the disease. Desperate to return home, they aren’t maintaining social distancing, posing the threat that the disease may spread, they argued. The workers shouldn’t be allowed to travel without being sanitized / disinfected, the lawyers said.The Supreme Court, after hearing the Centre and the petitioners through video-conferencing, indicated that it may not be inclined to interfere in the issue since it fell within the executive domain. The bench, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde, remarked that it did not want to complicate the matter when the government was already dealing with it.“I think government is taking certain measures. We do not want to complicate things by issuing orders on things the government is already doing”, the CJI said.The court did not pass any order but allowed the central government to file a status report on the issue. The matter will be heard again on Tuesday.The petitioners also said the people fleeing the cities should be counselled so that they didn’t panic and run away.“This fear and panic is a bigger problem than this virus”, CJI Bobde remarked.The court also sought a status report from the Centre on another petition filed by advocate Alakh Alok Srivastava to address the plight of the migrant workers who are walking hundreds of kilometres to reach their hometowns. Srivastava prayed that such people should be identified and shifted to government shelter homes and provided food, water and medicines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/migration-has-to-be-stopped-govt-to-sc-amid-covid-19-spread/story-EIBfzlcjBAbOAwcPhvgukI.html
30-03-2020||India||Coronavirus patient travelled on Vistara’s Mumbai-Goa flight, other passengers on notice||The Goa Health Department issued an alert Monday asking passengers of Vistara flight UK861 on March 22 to report to the nearest health centre after a passenger was found to be Covid-19 positive.The flight departed from Mumbai at 6.36am and landed in Goa at 7.33am. The passenger who was found positive on March 29 arrived in Mumbai from the Bahamas via New York, and took the connecting flight to Goa on the day that the country practised a voluntary Janata Curfew. While the patient, his family members and those who have come in contact with him have been quarantined in Goa, the health department fears that other passengers on the flight might also be at risk. While the Director of Health Services Dr José de Sa has said that they have requested the airline for the passenger manifest, they have appealed to all who have travelled on the flight to contact a helpline number (0832-2421810/2225538) or report to the nearest health centre. The state has five cases of persons with Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vistara-flight-passenger-ny-mumbai-goa-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-KdQUIRcC5P5wDkf48IcImK.html
30-03-2020||India||Doctors at forefront of Covid-19 battle to be isolated at Hotel Lalit||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal-led Delhi government on Monday announced that doctors working at Delhi’s Lok Nayak Hospital and GB Pant Hospital on coronavirus duty will be lodged at Hotel Lalit.The administration has come with a 14-day shift, 14-day quarantine plan for health workers and medical professionals who are on coronavirus duty in hospitals. The plan will keep the spread of coronavirus in check.“Doctors are on the frontlines of the battle against Coronavirus. All doctors serving in Delhi government’s Lok Nayak Hospital and GB Pant Hospital on COVID-19 duty will now be housed in Hotel Lalit,” Office of the Chief Minister of Delhi tweeted out.  Doctors are on the frontlines of the battle against Coronavirus. All doctors serving in Delhi government's Lok Nayak Hospital and GB Pant Hospital on COVID-19 duty will now be housed in Hotel Lalit.#DelhiFightsCoronaIn a bid to fight the coronavirus crisis in the national capital, the Delhi government has taken a slew of measures. The administration is ensuring free food to nearly 4 lakh people daily and is providing free ration to 72 lakh people in the wake of the Covid-19 crisis.More than 800 centres for food and over 1,000 shops for ration have been made operational. 234 night shelters across Delhi are open to accommodate needy and those hit by the lockdown. The administration is also working toward converting schools into shelters to accommodate migrant workers and daily wage labourers.Kejriwal on Sunday urged migrant workers not to leave the city because it would defeat the purpose of the 21-day national lockdown, while urging property owners not to force tenants to pay monthly rent, and urging factory owners and contractors to ensure the workers got food to eat despite work being stalled.“I request the landlords — do not collect the rent, and postpone it if your tenants are poor and are unable to pay the rent. If your tenant fails to give the rent later, my government will compensate for it. But don’t harass them,” Kejriwal said at a digital press conference on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-delhi-government-plans-to-lodge-doctors-at-hotel-lalit-during-quarantine/story-19sUAlg5vbORKaX1EZDUnO.html
30-03-2020||India||‘Frightening picture’: Prashant Kishor tweets video of migrants crying, begging||Election strategist Prashant Kishor has tweeted a video of scores of migrant workers, locked inside a cell crying and asking to be set free, and sought the resignation of Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar.Thousands of migrant workers have walked hundreds of kilometres from big cities along with their children back to their villages after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the lockdown on March 24.These stranded migrants have said they have left the cities as they do not have the money for food or rent but health experts warned that an exodus would defeat the purpose of the lockdown of breaking the chain of infections.“Another frightening picture of the government’s efforts to save people from the corona infection. For the poor people who have reached Bihar from various parts of the country after facing hardship and trouble, Nitish Kumar’s arrangement for social distancing and quarantine is heart-wrenching,” Prashant Kishor tweeted.He also added a hashtag #NitishMustQuit along with the 2:17-minute video clip.  .#Corona संक्रमण से लोगों को बचाने के सरकारी प्रयासों की एक और भयावह तस्वीर - भारी तकलीफ़ और मुसीबतों को झेलकर देश के कई हिस्सों से बिहार पहुँचने वाले गरीब लोगों के लिए #NitishKumar की #SocialDistancing और #Quarantine की ये व्यवस्था दिल दहलाने वाली है।#NitishMustQuit pic.twitter.com/ot3hygGRk7One of the men inside the cell said he wants to go to his home in Siwan, around 130 km from state capital of Patna, to meet his sick son.“I have come from Ahmedabad. They have been telling us we will let you go since the morning and that a bus is coming. But there has been no bus. They are not letting us go,” the man, weeping with his mouth covered with a handkerchief, is heard saying in the video.“I want to go, Sir. Please get me out,” the man says as others around him issue the same request in tears.Kishor was expelled from the Nitish Kumar’s ruling Janata Dal(United) in January by state his one-time mentor, Nitish Kumar, for criticising the party’s support for the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA). He has been regularly tweeting videos and photographs of migrants and the problems they have been facing during the lockdown announced till April 14.The Centre on Sunday ordered the “effective sealing” of borders to stop the exodus and announced measures to help those in need of shelter and food. The number of people infected with the coronavirus in the country has risen to 1071, including 942 active cases, 99 recovered patients and 29 who died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/frightening-picture-prashant-kishor-tweets-video-of-migrants-crying-begging/story-m2GZDBguTtvkqnWF7UO14I.html
30-03-2020||India||Covid-19: Five reasons you must stay home during lockdown||Virus spreads though contactThe virus spreads between people in close contact (within 6 feet) through respiratory droplets produced when an infected person coughs or sneezes. But the infection can spread before people develop symptoms, which, on an average, take around five days to appear. Some people develop no symptoms and others have mild disease but still infect others. Stepping out also results in contamination of surfaces or objects, from where it can infect people who touch the surface and then touch their own mouth, nose, or eyes. The virus spreads very easily in areas where there is community transmission of the disease, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in US.Infection may occur without close contactScientists have documented a cluster of cases among people who worked in shops, visitors or were staff of a mall without direct contact with an infected person, according to a research document called “Indirect Virus Transmission in Cluster of Covid-19 Cases, Wenzhou” in China published by the CDC on March 12. Indirect transmission may have happened among these unrelated cases from spread via surfaces like elevator buttons or restroom taps, said the paper. For case-patients who were customers in the shopping mall but did not report using the restroom, the source of infection could have been the elevators or asymptomatic patients.Lockdown greatly reduces transmissionA recent study by the Imperial College London’s Covid-19 team found that population-wide social distancing would have the largest impact in transmission reduction; and, in combination with other interventions, such as home isolation of infected people and closure of schools and universities. There are many more scientific studies that prove massive social distancing measures can stabilise transmission and give governments time to prepare for a spurt in infections.Lockdown helped China control the pandemicChina enforced similar lockdowns in phases with far more stringency for over two months. Along with massive lockdowns, electronic surveillance was used in China to track people’s movements. Some 760 million people, roughly half the country’s population, were confined to their homes. A World Health Organization report recently concluded that the cordon sanitaire (restriction on movement of people) around Wuhan and neighbouring municipalities effectively ended infected people travelling to the rest of the country. The team noted a steep decline in new infections because of the lockdown. China’s model has been replicated in Italy, in the US’ New York, Los Angeles and Chicago, the United Kingdom, France, Italy, Spain and other European countries. They have all ordered people to stay at home, threatening them with fines in some cases.Lockdown helps governments track and traceTo contain spread, governments must identify infected cases and isolate them and their close contacts before they step out and infect many others in the community, as it happened in the case of the Sikh granthi who travelled to around 20 villages and put a large number of people at risk of infection before he was diagnosed with the Covid-19. Tracking and quarantining is done through continuous surveillance, which is possible during a lockdown. The lockdown also prevents undiagnosed infected people from travelling and further spreading the infection. The government can also use this time to build health infrastructure, source ventilators, medicines and personal protection equipment like masks and gloves for healthcare workers, train healthcare workers in treatment and infection-control, and accelerate vaccine and diagnostic development for Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-five-reasons-you-must-stay-home-during-lockdown/story-4OT3cD2OQVzEO7VUtOsLDI.html
30-03-2020||India||Ahead of upcoming merger on April 1, PNB unveils new logo||Punjab National Bank (PNB) has unveiled a new logo as it merges United Bank of India and OBC with it, with effect from April 1.The new logo will bear distinct signages of all the three public sector lenders.With this, PNB is set to become the second largest lender in the country.“#PunjabNationalBank is here with #OrientalBankofCommerce & #UnitedBankofIndia in an all new avatar. Be a part of the #TogetherForTheBetter journey with us and experience a smoother and smarter way of banking,” PNB said in a tweet on Monday.Also Read | 10 state-run banks to merge on April 1, says RBIAssuaging concerns regarding the merged entity, PNB also said there is no reason to worry as the three banks are coming together to be better, bigger and stronger.“Together we are bigger, stronger & faster. People & Banking will now be closer than ever before. You will have products fine tuned to your needs,” it said in another tweet. PNB also appealed to its customers to stay indoors due to the coronavirus outbreak and access its services through net banking and PNBONE app.“Now, pay your tax, get interest certificates, track your investments and more with just one app. Have you downloaded #PNBONE app yet? #BankFromHomeAndStaySafe #COVID 18,” the lender said.Ten state-owned banks are to be merged into four bigger and stronger banks with effect from April 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pnb-unveils-new-logo/story-x7gAtDKigaoGhet1nowwbM.html
30-03-2020||India||Covid-19: Kasaragod MP moves SC for opening Karnataka-Kerala border||A Congress Lok Sabha member from Kerala filed a petition in the Supreme Court on Monday seeking directions to the Karnataka government to open its borders which it sealed in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic and allow movement of ambulances, emergency vehicles and vehicles carrying essential items into Kerala.Rajmohan Unnithan, Lok Sabha MP from Kasaragod said in his petition that the decision of the Karnataka government to close its borders with Kerala was a dangerous and ill-planned decision as it has led to the disruption in supply of food and other essential items in his state and resulted in a humanitarian crisis.Follow coronavirus live updates here.The petition pointed out that Kerala is a consumer state and most of the groceries and vegetables come to Kerala from Karnataka through roads and highways connecting the Kasaragod district of Kerala with Mangalore district of Karnataka.“Now all the roads including the National Highways leading to the Karnataka state side are closed by the officials of the Karnataka State in the wake of the nation-wide lockdown against the Covid-19 pandemic which has resulted in stoppage of supply of goods and other essential items from the State of Karnataka to the State of Kerala,” Unnithan submitted. Almost 200 people have tested positive for coronavirus in Kerala so far. In Karnataka, the number is 80.The MP also pointed out that the people from Kasaragod district rely upon medical facilities in Mangalore and due to the blockade by Karnataka, two persons have already died as they were denied entry for urgent medical treatment at a hospital in Mangalore.“The State of Karnataka has closed these roads by making mud mounds on the roads preventing even the pedestrian movement into the State of Karnataka from the State of Kerala. The above acts of the officials of the State of Karnataka are causing many difficulties for the people of Kerala especially of the people of Kasaragod”, he said.Kerala relies on the Kanyakumari-Kochi-Panvel National Highway (NH-66) for the transport of much of its essential goods from the rest of India. The Karnataka government decided to close its borders on March 21 as a precautionary measure to stop the spread of coronavirus. Roads including NH-66 were blockaded consequent to this decision.Unnithan contended that NH-66 is the property of the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) under the National Highways Act and no state government has the authority to block any national highway without the prior sanction of the NHAI. In this case, the NHAI has not given any sanction to block any of its highways, Unnithan told the apex court.The petition also stated that the road closure by the Karnataka government affects the right of citizens to move freely throughout India which is guaranteed under Article 19 of the Constitution.Further, it was also his argument that by impacting the supply of food and essential items, the Karnataka government also trampled upon the right to food of people which is a fundamental right under Article 21 of the Constitution. Unnithan contended that though the blockade by Karnataka was to prevent the spread of coronavirus, the move has resulted in a far graver consequence for Kerala and its people.“It is imperative that the whole country comes together to fight the coronavirus as a whole. That unless there is complete cooperation among the states, it is the people who will suffer as can be seen from the result of the actions of the State of Karnataka”, the plea said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-kasaragod-mp-moves-sc-for-opening-karnataka-kerala-border/story-WRxL3mXqMFhYn6pWajAO0J.html
30-03-2020||India||Coronavirus: 10 injured as clashes break out in Kolkata over distribution of relief material||At least 10 persons, including policemen, were injured when clashes broke out between two groups over the distribution of relief material during lockdown period at Garden Reach in south-west Kolkata in the early hours of Monday.“The clashes broke out over the distribution of relief material. We have arrested seven persons. A few persons were injured. Around six policemen also sustained minor injuries because of brick-batting,” said Syed Waquar Raza, deputy commissioner (port division) of Kolkata Police.The clashes broke out around 1.30am between two groups of people in two adjacent wards of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation. Both wards are under the control of the ruling Trinamool Congress.“One group had entered the other ward to distribute relief material, which led to the clash. The group members attacked each other with iron rods, bamboo sticks and bricks. A few bombs were also hurled,” said Aftabuddin Alam, a resident of ward number 134.A large police contingent had to be deployed and police had to resort to lathi charge to disperse the groups and bring the situation under control.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kolkata-10-injured-as-clashes-break-out-over-distribution-of-relief-material/story-qxURwEVJadZ3R7l97yH40J.html
30-03-2020||India||India assesses Covid-19 sample pooling for tests, says top scientist. How it helps||India is looking at increasing the capacity of testing for coronavirus disease Covid-19 by pooling of samples. The effort was announced on Twitter by India’s principal scientific adviser Vijay Raghavan.“Efforts to increase test capacity by the ‘pooling’ of samples are being evaluated. This is not simple and needs the development and testing of optimization algorithms so that one positive in a large pool is not missed, for example,” Raghavan said in one of the tweets he posted after midnight on Sunday. Efforts to increase test capacity by the ‘pooling’ of samples are being evaluated. This is not simple and needs the development and testing of optimization algorithms so that one positive in a large pool is not missed., for example. 13So what is pooling of samples?The idea has been proposed by scientists in Israel where this method is being used. It involves testing of samples in batches to know the presence of Sars-Cov-2 virus. Only in cases where the virus is found in the group of samples will the individual need to go for own test.The scientists in Israel successfully used 32 or 64 combined sample to test the presence of the virus.This methodology has been devised to ease the burden on testing centres by reducing the load of testing individual samples, and give results in a faster and efficient manner.How will this benefit India?There were just over a million doctors registered with state medical councils in 2017, of which only 80 per cent were estimated to be in active service, according to the government. This means, India has one doctor for every about 1,500 persons; WHO norms suggest that there must be one doctor for every 1,000 persons. In rural India, however, this ratio goes down to as low as one doctor for over 10,000 patients.India has tested just 35,000 people for coronavirus on Sunday, according to the Indian Council of Medical Research, a minuscule portion given its population size.Experts have already suggested an all-hands-on-deck approach to strengthen the healthcare workforce. So, pooling of samples is going to help the healthcare experts a lot in the country.Is pooling of samples an old technique?Actually, it’s not. Pooling has been used since the Second World War and was even suggested for testing patients with HIV in the 1990s.Covid-19 is diagnosed with Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) laboratory technique, which according to US Food and Drug Administration (FDA), is intended to detect the unique genetic sequence of viruses in upper and lower respiratory specimens in sample taken from patients.“There are new tests being rolled-out, globally, for the presence, or traces of the virus having visited a person. These can be useful as a first-pass, even if they are cruder than the ‘gold-standard’ RT-PCR. Indian labs are developing these kinds of tests too,” Raghavan said on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-takes-cue-from-israel-to-use-pooling-method-to-test-samples-for-covid-19/story-IFriWFUaLKR8euVT5WpQTM.html
30-03-2020||India||‘Absolutely fake’: Indian Army crushes rumours of emergency declaration amid Covid-19 crisis||The Indian Army on Monday issued a statement saying that fake messages and rumours are doing the rounds on social media about likely declaration of emergency in India in the wake of coronavirus crisis.“This is absolutely fake,” read a post tweeted by the Army’s official handle on Monday.“Fake & malicious messages are circulating on social media about likely declaration of emergency in mid-April & employment of Indian Army, veterans, National Cadet Corps and National Service Scheme to assist the civil admn. It’s clarified that this is absolutely fake,” the tweet read. Fake and malicious messages are circulating on social media about likely declaration of emergency in mid April and employment of #IndianArmy, #Veterans, NCC and NSS to assist the civil administration.It is clarified that this is absolutely FAKE. pic.twitter.com/YnbLnBZGY0Earlier in the day, the Centre clarified on the false reports of the possible extension of the 21-day coronavirus lockdown in the country.“There are rumours and media reports, claiming that the government will extend the lockdown when it expires. The Cabinet Secretary has denied these reports, and stated that they are baseless,” the Press Information Bureau (PIB) said on Twitter on Monday.“I am surprised to see such reports, there is no such plan of extending the lockdown,” Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba told a news agency.The 3-week nationwide lockdown was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi last week to break the chain of coronavirus infection in the country and keep the spread in check.India on Monday entered the sixth day of the 21-day lockdown.The total number of coronavirus cases in the country have jumped to 1,071, the health ministry said today. While nearly 100 people have been recovered and discharged, 29 Covid-9 patients have lost their lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/absolutely-fake-indian-army-crushes-rumours-of-emergency-declaration-amid-covid-19-crisis/story-9H9vMkDNJbiyFghs3yc72O.html
30-03-2020||India||COVID-19: FACT VS FICTION||If you are a celebrity, people are bound to pay attention to you. Bollywood actors have been posting coronavirus awareness videos on social media. While actor Kartik Aaryan shared a monologue to explain the do’s and don’ts to fight the virus, actor Anushka Sharma and cricketer Virat Kohli’s video urged people to stay at home.However, a recent video posted on Twitter by actor Amitabh Bachchan stated incorrect facts, claims Dr KK Aggarwal, physician and cardiologist. The actor had said in the video that “coronavirus ka mareez agar poore tarike se theek bhi ho jaye tab bhi kuch hafton tak uske mal me coronavirus zinda reh sakta hai.. Yadi aise kisi vyakti ke mal par koi makkhi baith jaaye ya fir woh makkhi phal sabzi aur khane par baith jaye toh usse yeh bimari phail sakti hai (If a fly sits on the excreta of a person who had coronavirus and then sits on fruits, vegetables or any food item, the virus can spread). Dr Aggarwal believes that it’s a false claim that flies can spread coronavirus. The virus is transmitted by respiratory secretions and not flies, he claims.“Creating awareness is good. People treat stars as ‘bhagwan’. But they shouldn’t spread unverified information. One should attribute the information to World Health Organisation while giving out scientific messages. Or else it’s just your personal view,” says Dr Aggarwal, president of the Confederation of Medical Associations of Asia and Oceania and former national president of Indian Medical Association.Dr Aggarwal claims that the belief that the virus spread due to the Chinese eating bats is also wrong. “It hasn’t spread due to eating bats. To bring down body heat in summer, bats wet their wings with saliva. When they move their wings, the sputum spreads aerosol in the air. The virus may have spread because of that,” claims Dr Aggarwal.The doctor also claims that we can’t be sure that rising temperature during summer would kill the virus. “This virus is a protein with a layer of fat. Heat would make it fall on the ground, and if the ground is hot, the heat may kill it. But with the rise in temperature, we’ll use air conditioning, so heat may or may not be able to kill it,” he says.Our attempts to get a reaction from Amitabh Bachchan on the subject failed. HT could not independently verify the claims from either sides.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/covid-19-fact-vs-fiction/story-MbtdDBTcemaYmnJtAYdrvO.html
30-03-2020||India||Dalai Lama lauds India’s efforts to unite Saarc states against Covid-19||The Dalai Lama on Monday called for using “science and human ingenuity with determination and courage” to end the Covid-19 pandemic as he lauded the Indian government’s efforts to unite the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (Saarc) states to overcome the crisis.The Tibetan spiritual leader, who has been based in India since 1959, issued a special message on the pandemic “in response to repeated requests from many people around the world”.“Today, we are passing through an exceptionally difficult time due to the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic,” he said. “In addition to this, further problems confront humanity such as extreme climate change.”He added, “No matter how difficult the situation may be, we should employ science and human ingenuity with determination and courage to overcome the problems that confront us. Faced with threats to our health and well-being, it is natural to feel anxiety and fear.”He expressed his “admiration and gratitude to governments across the world, including the government of India, for the steps they are taking to meet these challenges”.The Dalai Lama, 84, noted everyone is doing their best to contain the spread of Covid-19 and said India’s efforts to forge a coordinated approach among members of the South Asian Association for Regional Countries (Saarc) will serve as “a model for dealing with such crises in future”.He said: “I applaud the concerted efforts of nations to limit the threat. In particular, I appreciate the initiative India has taken with other SAARC countries to set up an emergency fund and an electronic platform to exchange information, knowledge and expertise to tackle the spread of Covid-19.”The Dalai Lama said he took “great solace in the following wise advice to examine the problems before us: If there is something to be done—do it, without any need to worry; if there’s nothing to be done, worrying about it further will not help.”He said in the special message: “Ancient Indian tradition describes the creation, abiding and destruction of worlds over time. Among the causes of such destruction are armed conflict and disease, which seems to accord with what we are experiencing today. However, despite the enormous challenges we face, living beings, including humans, have shown a remarkable ability to survive.”While expressing understanding for lockdowns across the world, he said many people faced “tremendous hardship due to a loss of livelihood”.“For those with no stable income life is a daily struggle for survival. I earnestly appeal to all concerned to do everything possible to care for the vulnerable members of our communities,” he said.The Dalai Lama also offered special gratitude to medical staff, doctors, nurses and other support personnel “working on the frontline to save lives at great personal risk”. He added, “Their service is indeed compassion in action.”He concluded his message by saying: “With heartfelt feelings of concern for my brothers and sisters around the world who are passing through these difficult times, I pray for an early end to this pandemic so that your peace and happiness may soon be restored.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dalai-lama-lauds-india-s-efforts-to-unite-saarc-states-against-covid-19/story-kkjbynvztjImfHROJ8oPZP.html
30-03-2020||India||Can’t thank these kind, humane officers enough: Specially-abled girl||On 24 March, as the government ordered a total lockdown of 21 days to fight the coronavirus pandemic, Virali Modi’s heart raced frantically. She had to act quickly to save herself from a dangerous situation – being trapped in her house without any help. The 28-year-old motivational speaker lives alone in Malad West, Mumbai. Modi has been wheelchair bound for the last 14 years after suffering paralysis from waist down due to a serious illness. Modi’s father lives in the US, and her mother passed away last year. Her domestic help and her driver take care of her daily chores. The thought that they wouldn’t turn up after the lockdown scared her a lot. In a panicked state, she wrote on Twitter that there was no way for her to survive the lockdown without assistance. To her relief, within minutes Modii got a message from Bhagwat Karad, an MP from Aurangabad, who assured her that she would not face any difficulties.Soon, Modi got calls from police officers stationed at Malad, who told her to relax, assuring her that they would provide her all the help she required. “A team of police officers visited me next morning. They asked me to save their phone numbers in case of any emergency. They also issued letters to my house-help and driver so that they do not face any trouble in reaching my house,” says Modi. Her caretakers now visit her for an hour every day to look after her. Virali also gets calls from police officers who take regular update from her about her well-being. “I can’t thank Mumbai Police enough! They are the backbone of my city,” she says.Modi says that while incidents of police brutality are being reported from different parts of India, compassionate and sincere police officers who go beyond their duty set an inspiring, heartwarming example. “While all citizens must act responsibly, kind and humane police officers make the real difference. There’s so much to learn from them,” she says..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/can-t-thank-these-kind-humane-officers-enough-specially-abled-girl/story-8wmUKP3GkyXsa8JotDszDN.html
30-03-2020||India||As Covid-19 spreads across world, oil prices slump to 17-year low||International oil slumped to a 17-year low as coronavirus lockdowns hit major economies, causing demand to contract. In India, petrol and diesel prices have been frozen since March 16, despite the average crude oil import cost dropping by over a fifth. Another excise duty increase is likely soon as the government seeks to reinforce its war chest against Covid-19.The benchmark Brent crude price on Monday dropped by as much as 6.62% to $23.28 per barrel. The price of West Texas Intermediate (WTI), another benchmark in oil pricing fell below 5% to around $20 a barrel.Besides reduced demand because of the coronavirus pandemic, an oil price war between Saudi Arabia and Russia has contributed to the plunge in the price of crude. For the government, it means a windfall gain, boosted by one hike in excise duty earlier this month, to be followed by one more that’s in the works. Government officials and company executives said prices of auto fuels in India had been frozen since March 16 to allow petroleum refiners to make up for inventory losses. And the government is considering increasing excise duty on petrol and diesel again to raise additional revenue to fund the battle against Covid-19.The government raised excise duty on the two fuels by Rs 3 a litre on March 14. A Re 1 per litre increase in excise duty on petrol and diesel would mean an additional Rs 14,500 crore in annual revenue to the government.According to the latest official data, which comes with a lag, India’s average crude oil purchase price (Indian basket) fell sharply to Rs 1,805.22 per barrel on Friday compared to Rs 2,272.08 per barrel on March 16, when oil refiners had last cut prices of petrol and diesel by 16 paise per litre and 15 paise per litre, respectively. In Delhi, petrol is currently selling at Rs 69.59 per litre and diesel at Rs 62.29 per litre.“Excise duty increase on petrol and diesel is imminent and a final view on its quantum will be taken by the finance ministry,” a government official said, requesting anonymity. Hindustan Times on March 21 wrote about the likelihood of another excise duty increase.The official said the proposed excise duty hike will not only provide much-needed funds to meet the immediate requirements arising out of the Covid-19 pandemic but also serve as a cushion against any price surge in the volatile international oil market in the future. The government often reduces excise duty on petrol and diesel to protect domestic consumers from any spike in international oil prices. Currently, the central levies on petrol add up to Rs 22.98 per litre and on diesel to Rs 18.83 per litre.The finance ministry, the petroleum ministry and state-run oil marketing companies – Indian Oil Corporation (IOC), Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL) and Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd (HPCL) -- did not respond to queries rated to fuel price revision and tax matters. A recent research report by State Bank of India (SBI) said the government is expected to limit the fall in retail prices and increase excise duty on auto fuels again. “We thus strongly recommend that the increased excise revenue from oil should not be used for bridging the fiscal gap and pleasing the markets; rather sound economics demands it must be used as a fiscal package for income support to the people working in the unorganized sector who are already facing the brunt of loss of jobs,” the report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-covid-19-spreads-across-world-oil-prices-slump-to-17-yr-low/story-OFD2X2RvUYeLWloNS5l8PM.html
30-03-2020||India||Inquiry ordered after migrant workers get ‘chemical bath’ upon return to UP||The Bareilly administration ordered an inquiry after a group of migrant workers, who arrived in the Uttar Pradesh city in the wake of a 21-day nationwide lockdown prompted by the fast-spreading coronavirus disease (Covid-19), were made to squat on a road and then sprayed with chlorine-mixed water on Monday.A section of opposition leaders and social media users outraged over the treatment of the group after a video of the incident, which took place near a bus station, surfaced on Twitter, purportedly showing people, including children, herded in one corner of the road being sprayed with the disinfectant. Some Twitter users even alleged that the workers were given a “chemical bath”.Ashok Gautam, the nodal officer incharge of the Covid-19 mitigation group, confirmed that the migrants were sprayed with chlorine-mixed water, but maintained the step was necessary to contain a possible spread of the Sars-Cov-2 virus, which is causing the deadly infection. “We tried to keep them safe and asked them to shut their eyes,” Gautam said. “It’s natural they will get wet.”District magistrate Nitish Kumar said some officials may have crossed the line in the sanitisation drive involving the workers who arrived in special buses run by the government.“We have looked into the video. Teams of Bareilly Nagar Nigam (civic body) and fire brigade were asked to sanitise buses. But they went overboard. We have ordered action against the concerned people. Those affected are being treated under the guidance of CMO (chief medical officer),” he tweeted.Action against officials involved in the incident will be taken on the basis of the inquiry report, according to people in the know.Earlier in the day, Kumar said there were orders to carry out medical check-ups on all those entering the city, while hoping that officials must have acted in accordance with the guidelines on sanitisation.Girish Makker, a doctor in Bareilly, said: “Depending on the level of chlorine (mixed with water), it can cause burning and itching if applied on skin.” Mohd Afzal, who was among the workers, said, “About 50 of us were sitting and waiting for food at the bus adda when some men in protective suits came and began spraying water on us. They said that they were from the sanitisation team and were sanitising us. The children began crying...”Afzal, who worked in a courier company in Noida and is a resident of Shahjahanpur, said the children complained of itching in their eyes, while some developed rashes. “...most of us left Bareilly and decided to continue our journey on foot,” he said.According to estimates, over 25,000 migrant workers from other cities have arrived in Bareilly so far, according to a district administration official who did not want to be named.Since Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the lockdown beginning March 25, highways across the national capital and other metropolises have seen scores of people walking hundreds of kilometres with their belongings. Some have reached their hometown with help from officials.While stranded migrants cited the shortage of money and food as reasons for leaving big cities, health experts warned that an exodus could run contrary to the purpose of the lockdown — breaking the chain of infections.Reacting to the Bareilly incident, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra tweeted: “Request the UP government to refrain from such inhuman act when we all are fighting this pandemic. Workers have already suffered a lot. Please don’t bathe them in chemicals. It will not help them but will create more problems to their health.”Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati criticised what she termed a “cruel and inhuman” act, asking the government to immediately look into the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-look-into-it-bareilly-dm-after-allegations-migrant-workers-got-chemical-bath/story-44QXsSP7VKOK0vHIlw8blM.html
30-03-2020||India||Facing The virus of hate||Amidst the corona virus scare, we see prejudice rearing its ugly head once again. There have been reports of people from the Northeast being stupidly blamed for the spread of the pandemic. Incidents of hate have been reported from across India. Recently, a 20-year-old student from Manipur was spat on in the Capital by a man who called her ‘corona’. Another North Easterner, Oinam Devi was targeted by a man in a departmental store in Chennai, who told her that she “neither looked Indian, not behaved like one”.Angellica Aribam, a Delhi political activist was also abused and harassed on Twitter after she commented on a minister’s tweet, suggesting her to address certain issues. Many called her ‘Chinki’ and asked her to wash her hands. These derogatory comments lead her to file a complaint with the cyber crime cell. Aribam says it’s extremely disheartening to be discriminated in her own country. “I came to Delhi when I was twelve, I’m now 28 and I have faced discrimination throughout. This is the time to fight the virus together, but some people are just spreading hate. I have filed a Zero FIR and have also reported this to the cyber crime unit. They have approached Twitter and they will get back to me,” says Aribam.Designer Jenjum Gadi says he could see this coming. “I knew this was going to happen. Even before the lockdown, I was very careful. I didn’t want to give anyone a chance to harass me. I made sure I didn’t go close to anybody. Even while running in the park, I make sure to maintain distance. Otherwise somebody will call me corona. This thought keep playing in my mind. It’s sad,” says Jenjum.Gadi says he doesn’t really care much about such kind of discrimination, as he has ‘become thick skinned’. “But this corona thing is different. People are dying, there is a lockdown and in middle of all this, when somebody calls you corona you can imaginw how you will feel! Imagine the trauma of those who are victims of this ignorant discrimination,” says Gadi.Incidents of racist attacks are being reported from Delhi University as well. A Delhi University student from Nagaland was also called at the metro station. “I was wearing a mask, and I was waiting in the line to buy a ticket. Two boys came up close behind me and started saying corona corona. I was really angry. I confronted them and they smiled. I told them that they can be punished for racism.” The student reached out to the Metro police for help, but was told to contact the customer care desk. “I am Indian, and I am a north-easterner. It hurts when people of my own country treat me badly. It’s not just me, five of my friends from the North East have been made fun of during the outbreak,” he says.Another Delhi University student pursuing Masters in History from DU was about to board a flight to Guwahati, when five men pointed at her and shouted, “Yeh dekho Coronavirus!.” The student says, “I was shocked. It took time for all of this to register. The men were giggling. I was extremely hurt.”Both the DU students said that despite having been made the target of cruel Coronavirus jokes, they didn’t get any assistance from concerned authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/facing-the-virus-of-hate/story-URQok0BQyq6JCeO7ioIWHJ.html
30-03-2020||India||Over 20 lakh protective gear, 40,000 ventilators: Government ups Covid-19 preparedness||The Centre has ramped up its initiatives to meet the growing demand for protective equipment and other medical essentials in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic in the country. The Ministry of Health has already placed an order for the production of at least 40,000 ventilators. Bharat Electronics Ltd. has been asked to manufacture 30,000 ventilators in the next two months in collaboration with local manufacturers. Automobile manufacturers have been asked to manufacture ventilators. Agva Healthcare, Noida has been given an order to manufacture 10,000 ventilators within a month. Their supplies are expected to commence in the 2nd week of April: Ministry of Health and Family Welfare #Coronavirus https://t.co/yxx1J2QZ7AAnother Noida-based company has been given an order to manufacture 10,000 ventilators within a month. Their supplies are expected to commence in the second week of April, news agency ANI reported. The government has also placed an order for the production of around 21 lakh Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) for those involved in the screening and treatment of coronavirus patients. As many as 11 domestic producers of PPE coveralls have qualified for the production.  At present, over 3 lakh PPE coveralls are available with various hospitals in the country. Another 3 lakh donated coveralls will reach India April 4. They are supplying 6-7,000 pieces per day and are expected to go up to 15,000 per day by mid-April. One more domestic manufacturer has qualified today and is being given orders for 5 lakh PPE coveralls: Ministry of Health and Family Welfare #Coronavirus https://t.co/Q8FvGZ2L38According to health ministry, International Committee of the Red Cross has donated 10,000 PPE coveralls to India. India has also ordered 10 lakh PPE kits from a Singapore-based platform.With respect to protective N95 masks, the health ministry has said that two domestic manufacturers are producing 50,000 units daily. The production is expected to go up to 1 lakh per day within the next week.  2 domestic manufacturers are producing 50,000 N95 masks per day. It's expected to go up to 1 lakh per day within next week. Hospitals in India have 11.95 lakh N95 masks in stock. Addl 5 lakhs were distributed during last 2 days & 1.40 lakhs being distributed today:Health Ministry pic.twitter.com/waKxtjSde3“Hospitals in India have 11.95 lakh N95 masks in stock. Additional 5 lakhs were distributed during the last two days and 1.40 lakhs being distributed today,” the ministry stated as reported by news agency ANI. The number of coronavirus cases in the country is on a rapid rise. The Ministry of Health on Monday updated the national tally to 1,071. The figure includes 942 active cases, 99 cases of recoveries and 29 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-20-lakh-protective-gear-40-000-ventilators-government-ups-covid-19-preparedness/story-vsJSWbuIMdCaGrQZYxS40J.html
30-03-2020||India||Mother Dairy seeks to use e-grocers’ network for smooth distribution||With an aim to ensure robust milk supply to those areas where there are no milk booths, Mother Dairy, one of India’s major milk processing companies, has approached online grocery distributors such as Milkbasket, BigBasket among others to join hands for supply of the essential item amid lockdown due to coronavirus pandemic.“During the lockdown the consumption of essential items such as milk has increased. The aim of such efforts is to utilise the distribution platform of online players such as BigBasket, Milkbasket, Super Daily to reach consumers where there are no milk booths and the supply is limited. We have on Saturday written a letter to such food e-commerce players urging them to work as one team to ensure smooth milk supply in Delhi-NCR,” the spokesperson said.Mother Dairy spokesperson said that the company has also written to the Resident Welfare Associations (RWAs) and the district administration in Delhi-NCR to contact the milk processing company to set up temporary milk distribution kiosks. “On the request of certain RWAs we have set up 10 temporary kiosks in Noida today. On our social media platform we are asking people to approach us if they witness shortage in milk supply in their area,” the spokesperson said.Senior executives at Mother Dairy said that ever since the lockdown, the company had been putting efforts to maintain a seamless supply chain and it is ready to increase the production by 10% if required in future.Currently, Mother Dairy is supplying around 35 lakh litre milk per day across Delhi-NCR through its 850 milk outlets and nearly 30,000 grocery stores. On Saturday a special “Milk Train” of Mother Dairy had reached Delhi from Andhra Pradesh containing 6 lakh litres of milk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mother-dairy-seeks-to-use-e-grocers-network-for-smooth-distribution/story-Gvkr7g9xCt9Xx0l7YJpsdI.html
30-03-2020||India||Pollution down, sky clearer: Amateur astronomers have a good time||Amateur astronomers in cities across India are making the best out of a bad situation to observe celestial objects --stars, constellations and planets -- in skies that have become unusually clear because of reduced pollution after the all-India lockdown came into force on March 25 to stop the spread of the coronavirus (Covid-19).The night skies, especially, have brightened with many more stars visible, according to astrophysicists in Kolkata who are monitoring celestial events with a telescope. “The stars, which were earlier only eight times brighter compared to the black sky in the background, have become at least 13 times brighter now compared to the black background. With the help of our telescopes we can now observe stars which were at least three times fainter earlier,” said Sandip K Chakrabarti, director of Indian Centre for Space Physics (ICSP) and former head of the astrophysics and cosmology department at the SN Bose National Centre for Basic Sciences.HT reported on March 24 a general improvement in air quality across the world amid lockdowns to check the spread of Covid-19. The European Space Agency (ESA) has released satellite images showing a plunge in nitrogen dioxide (NO2) levels. In India, the government has cancelled flights and trains and taken public transport off the roads.“Constellations such as the Orion, Auriga, Gemini and Canis Minor have become much brighter now. One can see these constellations much clearly because of the drop in air pollution levels,” said Basudev Bhattacharya, president ofthe Sky Watchers’ Association in Kolkata.The concentration of aerosols that used to scatter light and create a dense haze have dropped because of the lockdown. An analysis by the Centre for Science and Environment in Delhi has revealed that morning and evening peaks in PM 2.5 (particulate matter 2.5, fine, respirable pollution particles) levels have flattened out.“As a result of this, several stars and planets have become much brighter. The Canopus star in the southern hemisphere is looking quite bright. Planets such as Jupiter, Mars and Saturn have become brighter and can be seen before dawn around 4 am. Venus is also looking brighter in the evening sky,” said J Khemchandani, secretary of Ahmedabad’s astronomy club.“The sky is now dotted with stars, many of which were earlier not visible. Earlier, only two objects from the deep sky were visible. But now I can see at least five including the Little Beehive star cluster, Messier 36, Messier 37 and Messier 38. These could be seen in the western sky in the evening. Earlier I could see only two to three stars of the Scorpio constellation. But now I can see the entire constellation. Even the pole star is shining brightly over the last one week or so,” said Sneh Kesari, an amateur astronomer in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pollution-down-sky-clearer-amateur-astronomers-have-a-good-time/story-gSFifrebbOpR4mTGnfqZrL.html
30-03-2020||India||‘Not scientific’: IMA raps Kerala’s ‘liquor prescription’ move amid Covid-19 lockdown||The Kerala chapter of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) has said that the government’s consideration of providing liquor to people with alcohol withdrawal symptoms on doctor’s prescription is not “scientifically acceptable”. It said that symptoms of alcohol withdrawal can be treated at home and at hospitals with medication, news agency ANI reported.“Scientific treatment should be given to those who have alcohol withdrawal symptoms. It can be treated at home or in hospitals with medicines. It is not scientifically acceptable to offer alcohol to them. Doctors have no legal obligation to provide a prescription for alcohol,” it said.  Scientific treatment should be given to those who have alcohol withdrawal symptoms. It can be treated at home or in hospitals with medicines. It is not scientifically acceptable to offer alcohol to them. Doctors have no legal obligation to provide a prescription for alcohol: IMA https://t.co/85LHWyb1xsIt further added that writing a liquor prescription can result in the cancellation of the right to treatment.This comes after Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the government is considering online sale of liquor in the state after liquor shops were shut in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic.Vijayan, in a press conference, said that the sudden unavailability of alcohol may lead to social problems.CM Vijayan had directed the state excise department to provide liquor to those with a prescription from doctors.Many people in parts of Kerala reportedly showed acute withdrawal symptoms and suicide cases were reported in the state due to non-availability of liquor. Five tipplers committed suicide on Saturday in Kerala and four in Karnataka. After the three-week lockdown was announced on March 24, all commercial establishments including liquor shops have been shut down. The state governments have been flooded with reports of people threatening with suicides, violent bouts and withdrawal symptoms from many areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-scientific-to-give-alcohol-to-people-with-withdrawal-symptoms-ima-raps-kerala/story-NPhPFTZMhEW2WVN7SeFQnK.html
30-03-2020||India||Assam doctor who took anti-malaria drug amid Covid-19 outbreak dies||A doctor in Assam, who health officials say took an anti-malaria drug that has apparently shown some effect against the coronavirus disease Covid-19, has died due to a heart attack, his colleagues said.It was not clear if the use of hydroxychloroquine is connected to the death of Utpaljit Barman, 44, a senior anaesthetist at Guwahati-based Pratiksha Hospital, a private health facility.Barman died at another private hospital in the city after he was admitted there on Sunday afternoon following heart-related complications, according to his colleagues.“Several doctors are using hydroxychloroquine as self-medication to prevent Covid-19. Barman too took it,” said Nirmal Kumar Hazarika, Pratiksha Hospital’s medical superintendent.He added that Barman did not have underlying health conditions and that doctors were not sure if his death could be linked to hydroxychloroquine.“We are not sure how many doses he had taken; probably it was two doses,” Hazarika said.Anti-malaria drug hydroxychloroquine has been approved by the national task force of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) as a prophylaxis – a treatment to prevent a disease – for people at “high risk” of contracting Covid-19.No Covid-19 positive case has been found in Assam till date and only government labs and hospitals are authorised to test and treat patients or those showing symptoms of Covid-19. But there are reports of some doctors in private hospitals taking hydroxychloroquine as a precaution. The use of the drug for the infection with flu-like symptoms has been recommended for two categories — asymptomatic (not showing symptoms of the disease) healthcare workers involved in the care of suspected or confirmed cases of Covid-19, and asymptomatic household contacts of laboratory confirmed cases that live in close proximity with patients.The government has warned people against the indiscriminate use of hydroxychloroquine after reports that there has been a rush to buy the medicine, which can have severe side effects in people with a history of heart and kidney ailments, among other underlying conditions.India has also banned the export of this drug. To be sure, large, controlled clinical trials are needed to come to a conclusion on the efficacy of the medicine in Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-doctor-who-took-anti-malaria-drug-amid-covid-19-outbreak-dies/story-mHqu2dLT8gKxLohCk9JkeP.html
30-03-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 1 PM: Coronavirus cases jump to 1071 in India, nearly 100 patients recover and all the latest news at this hour||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion curated for you at 1 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Coronavirus cases jump to 1071 in India, nearly 100 patients recover: A statewise tallyThe number of coronavirus cases in the country is on a rapid rise. The Ministry of Health on Monday updated the national tally to 1,071. The figure includes 942 active cases, 99 cases of recoveries and 29 deaths. Read moreCoronavirus update: Chhattisgarh Congress legislator booked for violating prohibitory ordersChhattisgarh police registered a case against a Congress legislator on Sunday in Bilaspur city for violating prohibitory orders during the lockdown to stop the spread of Covid-19 disease. Read moreCoronavirus positive, suspected patient who escaped from Indore hospital brought backA Covid-19 patient and a person under observation, who allegedly escaped from a government hospital in Madhya Pradesh’s Indore on Saturday night, were brought back on Sunday, a health department official said. Read moreNetanyahu aide diagnosed with coronavirus, unclear if Israeli PM affectedAn aide to Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has tested positive for coronavirus, officials said on Monday, but it was not immediately clear if the 70-year-old leader had been exposed or his work affected. Read moreNo meetings, no window as IPL hopes fadeWith the Covid-19 outbreak creating havoc by the day, it is highly unlikely that the Indian Premier League can be held this year. Read moreCLAT 2020 registration date extended due to Covid-19 pandemicIn view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Consortium of National Law Universities has extended the last date to apply for Common Law Admission Test (CLAT) 2020. A notice regarding this has been uploaded on its official website. Read moreKartik Aaryan donates Rs 1 cr to PM-Cares fund, says ‘Whatever money I’ve earned, is only because of the people of India’Joining the film fraternity in donating graciously for the PM-Cares fund, actor Kartik Aaryan has pledged a sum of Rs 1 crore to do his bit for the worst sufferers of the countywide lockdown. Read moreSpaceX is making hand sanitizers, face masks to combat coronavirusSpaceX, the space research company owned by billionaire investor Elon Musk, is making its own hand sanitizers and building face masks in a bid to combat the coronavirus outbreak. Read moreCoronavirus outbreak: Shopkeepers nod to social distancingThe nationwide 21-day lockdown, announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, focuses on the importance of social distancing to combat Covid-19 pandemic. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-1-pm-coronavirus-cases-jump-to-1071-in-india-nearly-100-patients-recover-and-all-the-latest-news-at-this-hour/story-ISfiQQJocfzDNsistOhizM.html
30-03-2020||India||‘You had all the powers’: Centre’s sharp message to Kejriwal on migrant exodus||Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal has written a strongly-worded letter to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on the exodus of tens of thousands of migrant workers from the national capital Delhi over the weekend that forced the Centre to ask bordering states to seal their borders and look after the migrants. The missive was sent after Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah expressed grave concern over exposing the migrants to health hazard during lockdown to Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal.A home ministry official said the letter was sent on Sunday evening after Home Minister Amit Shah chaired a high-level meeting and called up Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal to deliver explicit instructions that no migrant movement should be allowed. The exodus, Shah told them, defeated the very purpose of the national lockdown.It is learnt that PM Modi and Home Minister Shah had spoken to Delhi chief minister Kejriwal earlier.Also Read: ‘This lapse could impose a heavy cost’: Lt Guv Baijal’s missive to Arvind KejriwalUpset at the Delhi Government allowing the use of DTC buses to cart migrants to the UP border, Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla also told the Delhi chief secretary to place two senior IAS officers under suspension for lapses in enforcing the lockdown.Watch | Can Centre’s 7 steps control migrant crisis amidst lockdown? Also read | States told to stop, shelter migrants walking back home amid lockdownThe exodus of migrants had forced the Centre to order states to quarantine all the migrants who had exited Delhi in state-run facilities for 14 days before they are allowed to go home.“It is going to be a massive exercise… was completely avoidable,” a second home ministry official said, adding that there was concern within the government that the country may have to pay dearly for the lockdown violation.The official said Anil Baijal’s missive to Arvind Kejriwal, which echoes this sentiment, conveys the Centre’s displeasure at the Delhi government’s inability to provide basic facilities and reassurance to the migrant workers that their needs would be taken care of.“It also makes the point that the Delhi government had a free hand to implement the lockdown and had all the powers that it needed,” the official said. The pointed reference to the Kejriwal government’s powers is seen to allude to a long-standing tug-of-war between the central and Delhi government over the distribution of powers to run the affairs in the national capital.Also read | Migrant workers headed home to first spend 14 days in govt-run quarantine: CentreFor the future, the second home ministry official said, Lt Governor Anil Baijal had asked the Delhi government to persuade migrant workers in a humane manner to stay put or move to government-run shelter homes where the state would make all basic facilities available.Baijal is also learnt to have reiterated the Centre’s instructions that require states and union territories to ensure that employers pay the workers their dues without any deductions on account of the lockdown and the consequent loss of workdays.Delhi Chief Secretary Vijay Dev has already ordered the Delhi Transport Corporation, which runs a skeletal bus service, to make sure that it only ferries government employees on essential duty and other people carrying valid passes or identification cards.Also read: Small steps could have prevented migrant exodus from Delhi | Opinion||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/you-had-all-the-powers-centre-s-sharp-message-to-kejriwal-on-migrant-exodus/story-vu4bjpsbSR2gd17JFJhz8K.html
30-03-2020||India||Coronavirus cases jump to 1071 in India, nearly 100 patients recover: A statewise tally||The number of coronavirus cases in the country is on a rapid rise. The Ministry of Health on Monday updated the national tally to 1,071. The figure includes 942 active cases, 99 cases of recoveries and 29 deaths.Maharashtra and Kerala continue to sit at the top of the Covid-19 tally with the highest number of cases in the country.Here’s a statewise breakup of coronavirus active cases, deaths and recoveries across the country.MaharashtraWith 193 Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra is the worst-hit state by coronavirus infection. The state has registered 8 coronavirus deaths so far while 25 patients have been recovered and released.KeralaThe southern state has 194 positive cases of coronavirus as per the latest data by the Ministry of Health. The state has witnessed one Covid-19 death. 19 people have successfully recovered.KarnatakaThe state has recorded 80 Covid-19 cases and 3 deaths. 5 people have been cured and discharged.Uttar Pradesh75 people have been infected from Covid-19 in the state. While 11 people have recovered from Covid-19 in Uttar Pradesh, no one has died from the infection here.Telangana69 positive cases of coronavirus have been reported here so far. One person has made a recovery from the virus while one has died from Covid-19.DelhiAs many as 53 people have been tested positive of coronavirus in the national capital. Two people have died from the infection while 6 people have made a recovery, as per the health ministry’s data. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has urged citizens not to step out of their homes and has assured that no one will go to sleep on an empty stomach. He also assured a smooth supply of all essential commodities across the National Capital Territory and said that the administration is prepared to handle 100 Covid-19 cases in a day.GujaratPrime Minister Narendra Modi’s home state has registered 58 coronavirus cases and one recovery so far. As many as 5 people have died from the infection in the state.RajasthanThe state has 57 positive cases of coronavirus with no reported cases of fatalities. Three patients have recovered from the infection.Tamil Nadu The southern state has registered 50 Covid-19 cases and seen four recoveries. Tamil Nadu has seen one patient die from Covid-19.Haryana and PunjabThe neighbouring states have 33 and 38 Covid-19 cases respectively. While one person has died in Punjab, Haryana has seen no deaths. 17 people have been recovered from coronavirus in Haryana, one in Punjab.Madhya PradeshThe state has reported 33 positive cases of coronavirus. Two people have died from Covid-19 here.Besides this, Jammu and Kashmir has 31 positive cases of coronavirus. Two people have died from the infection while one was cured. Andhra Pradesh has 19 positive Covid-19 patients and one case of recovery. West Bengal has 19 people who tested positive for the infection with one death.In Chandigarh, 8 people were found infected from Covid-19. Chhattisgarh has recorded 7 cases of coronavirus. In Bihar, 11 people have tested positive for coronavirus, one has died.Uttarakhand has 7 coronavirus patients, two patients have recovered from the virus. Goa has reported 5 cases of Covid-19 infection. Himachal Pradesh has 3 cases, one patient has died. Odisha also has three Covid-19 positive patients. Andaman has recorded 9 coronavirus cases.States and Union territories with just one positive Covid-19 case include Manipur, Mizoram and Pondicherry.On Monday, India entered the sixth day of the 21-day long nationwide coronavirus lockdown announced by PM Modi to break the chain of Covid-19 infection in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-cases-jump-to-1071-in-india-nearly-100-patients-recover-a-statewise-tally/story-dPh3IhCNghzjCprE7eOqgJ.html
30-03-2020||India||Fire breaks out at high-rise in south Kolkata, no injuries reported||A fire broke out on the 16th floor of a block in a high-rise residential building in a posh neighbourhood in Bhawanipore area of south Kolkata on Monday morning. “No one is trapped. No one has been injured,” Jagmohan, the director-general of the fire brigade, said. Twelve fire tenders have been pressed into service, officials said.A video shot by a local resident showed smoke billowing out of the building.The fire was first noticed around 10.15 am in the building, which has hundreds of people, the residents said.Hydraulic ladders were brought in to reach the source of the fire but could not be operated till 11am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fire-breaks-out-on-16th-floor-of-apartment-in-kolkata-s-bhawanipore/story-wBV3XRxai08AmT84CJbpFL.html
30-03-2020||India||Coronavirus Update: West Bengal records 2nd Covid-19 death, 44-yr-old dies in Kalimpong||A 44-year-old woman resident of Kalimpong town in West Bengal, who was admitted to a hospital in Siliguri after contracting Covid-19, died early Monday, officials said.“The patient died at 2am on Monday,” Dr Praloy Acharya, the chief medical officer of Darjeeling district, said.Dr PK Deb, principal of North Bengal Medical College and Hospital (NBMCH) where she died, also confirmed her demise.According to the state health department bulletin on Sunday, a total of three people, including the Kalimpong woman who died later, had tested positive in the state.The other two patients are two men, aged 52 and 66 respectively. The former is a serving doctor with the Indian Army, who is admitted at the army hospital in Kolkata. The Kalimpong district authorities have started tracing other people who came in contact with the woman.The woman saw a doctor at a private nursing home in Kalimpong on March 20, a day after she flew into the state from Chennai with her daughter.“The patient had normal blood pressure and no other ailments. Her only problem was that she was extremely overweight,” the private doctor, who is now in home isolation, said.A family member of the woman said she went to Chennai alone on March 7 and returned with her daughter on March 19 in a Chennai-Bagdogra flight that took off early in the morning.“On March 20, she was running a high fever. On the same evening, she went to a private nursing home in Kalimpong and saw a doctor,” he said while speaking to HT.Joint family, contactsHer daughter studies engineering in Chennai and recently underwent a surgery. The woman lived in a joint family.Eleven members of her family, the doctor who treated her and his wife have been asked to stay in isolation at home, Kalimpong district officials said on condition of anonymity as they are not authorised to speak to the media.The doctor, who treated her initially and is also attached to the Kalimpong district hospital, said the woman told him that she had returned from Chennai and had a fever.“She was coughing as well. When I saw her, I was wearing apron, mask and gloves. I suspected viral infection and suggested medicines and advised her to stay in isolation at home.”Also read: A marriage ceremony that turned into a Covid-19 hotspot in BengalThe doctor said she came back to his private chamber in the afternoon of March 25 and said though she had no fever she was suffering from dry cough.“I advised her to go for an X-Ray. The report suggested viral pneumonia. I advised her to go for a test for tuberculosis and asked her to go to Siliguri and see a specialist,” said the doctor.“I stopped seeing patients at the nursing home since March 25 evening after I suspected that the lady could have been infected by the coronavirus. I am staying in isolation since Saturday evening,” he added.Also read: Bengal men self-quarantine on tree to keep others safeDr Gyalmit Lecpcha, owner of the private nursing home said, “We are trying our best to identify people with whom the doctor came in contact with since March 20.”On March 26, a second X-Ray and CT scan done at a private diagnostic centre in Siliguri reconfirmed the woman had viral pneumonia. She was admitted at the isolation ward of NBMCH in Siliguri, 65km from Kalimpong, on the same day. Her samples were sent to Kolkata for tests since there is no testing facility in north Bengal.When her condition deteriorated, she was shifted to the intensive care unit (ICU) and kept under ventilation, said a doctor at the hospital, requesting anonymity.R Vimala, district magistrate of Kalimpong, and Prakash Barui, chief medical officer of health of Kalimpong district did not respond to calls from HT.Though members of the woman’s family claimed she had limited interaction with others, locals in both Kalimpong and Siliguri fear she and the doctor could have come in contact with many people.“On March 19, while she was on her way to Kalimpong from Bagdogra, she spent an hour at the home of a relative at Jyoti Nagar in Siliguri,” a member of the woman’s family said.According to the state health department’s daily bulletin issued on Sunday, 20 people have contracted Covid-19 in West Bengal and apart from the Kalimpong resident, another man has died till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-west-bengal-records-2nd-covid-19-death-44-yr-old-dies-in-kalimpong/story-4LYTPOfYV4GpdfYL9npuYP.html
30-03-2020||India||Message brings hundreds of migrants on road in Kerala, police say it’s fake||The police in Kerala are facing a peculiar problem while trying to ensure that the 21-day lockdown to control the spread of coronavirus disease is successful.A message is being circulated among the migrant labourers in the state, telling them about trains being arranged by the government to send them home. The message led to 2000 labourers hitting the road in Kottayam on Sunday seeking trains to their homes in West Bengal and Odisha.It took three hours for the police to convince these labourers that the message is fake; the cops also informed the labourers that trains will resume only after the lockdown is over.According to the police, such fake messages were circulated in north Kerala, particularly in Kozhikode and Malappuram. They have launched investigation and have even arrested one person in Malappuram for spreading such messages.The state government has deployed cops in large numbers in Kozhikode to avert assembling of workers. In fact, the government has made arrangements to make announcements in their local languages asking the labourers to not believe in such messages.The police have warned strict action against those who spread such fake messages.Kerala is home to at least 25 lakh migrant workers mainly from West Bengal, Bihar and Odisha. It is the first state in the country to report coronavirus cases. Kerala has 202 positive cases, and nearly 1.5 lakh people are under observation. The coronavirus disease has claimed one life in the state.Since Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the lockdown, highways across the country have teemed with people walking hundreds of kilometres with their belongings. While stranded migrants cited the shortage of money and food as reasons for leaving big cities, health experts warned that an exodus could run contrary to the purpose of the lockdown - breaking the chain of infections.On Sunday, the Centre asked state governments and Union Territories to “effectively seal” state and district borders to stop the movement of the migrant workers. Those who have already reached their destinations will be put in 14-day quarantines for violating the lockdown to make sure they haven’t contracted the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/message-brings-hundreds-of-migrants-on-road-in-kerala-police-say-it-s-fake/story-0KGDH6XXzDrvLixPHJnkKK.html
30-03-2020||India||Kerala government considering online sale of liquor to those with doctor’s prescription||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan-led Kerala government is considering the option of online sale of liquor in the state after liquor shops were shut in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, news agency ANI reported. Vijayan, in a press conference, said that the sudden unavailability of alcohol may lead to social problems. CM Vijayan has directed the state excise department to provide liquor to those with a prescription from doctors, ANI reported. Kerala government has also asked authorities at the excise department to provide free treatment to those with withdrawal symptoms and admit people de-addiction centres.The move comes after many reportedly showed acute withdrawal symptoms and suicide cases were reported in the state.On Saturday, in Kodungaloor in Thrissur district, a youth committed suicide by jumping into the river after suffering from withdrawal symptoms.In another incident, a 38-year-old man working in a barbershop in Kayamkulam consumed shaving lotion after he didn’t get alcohol.  Kerala govt also has asked Excise Dept to provide free treatment to and admit people with withdrawal symptoms to de-addiction centers. CM had said that the govt is also considering option of online sale of liquor as the sudden unavailability of alcohol may lead to social problems https://t.co/yQjTXADNeMWith over 200 coronavirus cases, Kerala is one of the worst affected states in the country. However, as per the figures by the Ministry of Health, the state has 194 active Covid-19 cases.Vijayan on Sunday said that the state will pursue rapid testing to detect possible community transmission of coronavirus.“@WHO has stressed the importance of testing in the fight against the pandemic. Kerala has decided to pursue a rapid testing for COVID-19. Blood samples of those under observation will be collected to detect possible community transmission,” Vijayan tweeted out.  Rapid Testing | #COVID19 Response @WHO has stressed the importance of testing in the fight against the pandemic. Kerala has decided to pursue a rapid testing for COVID-19. Blood samples of those under observation will be collected to detect possible community transmission.As per the data released by the ministry of health, the national tally of Covid-19 cases stands at 1,071 of which 942 are active cases, 99 people have been cured and 29 people have died from Covid-19. Over 15 lakh people have been screened at various airports till now.(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-covid-19-lockdown-kerala-government-considering-online-sale-of-liquor/story-LwE6uD4ZniF9CORtvIP4yI.html
30-03-2020||India||Coronavirus Update: Odisha asks district collectors to focus on Covid-19 surveillance, contact tracing||With 2,856 people of the State, who have returned from abroad during the last 14 days untraceable by district surveillance teams, Odisha government has asked all collectors and municipal commissioners to focus on surveillance and contact tracing of people who have returned from coronavirus affected areas.“These persons could infect others unless home quarantined,” said Odisha health secretary Nikunja Bihari Dhal asking the officials to contact them at the earliest to ensure their home quarantine. The state surveillance teams have so far identified 167 people, who came in contact with the three Covid-19 patients in the state, including 112 contacts of the latest patient.Dhal said active surveillance is the foundation of prevention and containment. The three most important pillars of the state’s containment strategy is active surveillance, risk-based testing and quarantine of contacts of confirmed cases irrespective of symptoms, he said.Odisha has so far seen only three Covid-19 cases after testing of 370 samples.Also read: Odisha suggests release of 1700 inmates to decongest jailsIn a related development, the Odisha government has decided to provide extensive training to medical students so that they can be deployed in case of any emergency arising out of the coronavirus outbreak. As the treatment and management of Covid-19 cases require extreme caution and professionalism, the state government is planning to impart necessary training to the medical students as per the prescribed protocols.The state government decided that seventh, eighth and ninth-semester students of medical colleges will be trained so that they could be deployed in case a need arises. Private medical colleges have also been asked to train their doctors and students simultaneously.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-odisha-asks-district-collectors-to-focus-on-covid-19-surveillance-contact-tracing/story-usXnADgosqtqxGnbcjEsPK.html
30-03-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Chhattisgarh Congress legislator booked for violating prohibitory orders||Chhattisgarh police registered a case against a Congress legislator on Sunday in Bilaspur city for violating prohibitory orders during the lockdown to stop the spread of Covid-19 disease.Dipanshu Kabra, Bilaspur inspector general of Police (IGP), said while speaking to HT Civil Lines police got information on Sunday morning Pandey was distributing ration to a large number of people at his residence.“Police rushed to the spot that found a crowd which was a serious threat to life and could spread coronavirus. As we all know that section 144 has been imposed in every district of Chhattisgarh, this gathering was a clear violation,” Kabra said.Also read: Politician in Chhattisgarh asks nurse to vacate house over Covid-19, bookedHe said a first information report (FIR) was filed against the member of legislative assembly under sections 269 and 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).“Investigation in the case is going on,” Kabra said.Pandey said he was helping poor people affected by the lockdown in the past few days and was ensuring social distancing norms were being followed.‘However, when I spotted a huge crowd outside my official residence for collecting ration today, I immediately called up the police,” he claimed.Police have registered 36 cases for violation of locking down, quarantine and hiding information about foreign travel in the last 24 hours.There are seven Covid-19 patients in the state so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-chhattisgarh-congress-legislator-booked-for-violating-prohibitory-orders/story-I2TNvjcbtMqqJRAVfZYXZL.html
30-03-2020||India||No plan to extend 21-day lockdown, says government||The government has said that reports claiming that the 21-day lockdown period will be extended are “baseless”. The lockdown was imposed to check the spread of coronavirus disease Covid-19.“There are rumours and media reports, claiming that the government will extend the lockdown when it expires. The Cabinet Secretary has denied these reports, and stated that they are baseless,” the Press Information Bureau (PIB) said on Twitter on Monday. Alert : There are rumours & media reports, claiming that the Government will extend the #Lockdown21 when it expires. The Cabinet Secretary has denied these reports, and stated that they are baseless#PIBFactCheck#lockdownindia #coronaupdatesindia #IndiaFightsCorona“I am surprised to see such reports, there is no such plan of extending the lockdown,” Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba told a news agency.The lockdown came into effect on Wednesday (March 25) after Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed the nation. In his address a day before, PM Modi had said that the step is being taken to break the chain of infection and control the spread of coronavirus disease Covid-19.He also urged people to avoid travel and stay wherever they are.More on Covid-19:• Covid-19: Your guide to staying safe• Covid-19: What you need to know today• Can Covid-19 spread after symptoms end?In his first address, on March 19, the Prime Minister had alerted the country to the dangers of the pandemic and called for a Janta Curfew for a day on March 22.The lockdown, acknowledged by experts as a necessary preventive measure, has disrupted economic activity and caused an exodus of migrant workers from cities towards their villages, often on foot - in the process enhancing the risks of spreading the disease. PM Modi again spoke to the countrymen on Sunday, this time through ‘Mann ki Baat’, his monthly radio address, where he apologised to citizens, especially the poor, for harsh decisions that have caused difficulties.But the PM added that he was confident he would be forgiven because there was no other way for a country of India’s size to battle the pandemic, which had, in a way, chained the entire world. He underlined that it was important to battle an illness at a nascent stage, for if it escalated, defeating it would become far more difficult.The total number of Covid-19 cases crossed 1000 on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/reports-on-plan-to-extend-21-day-lockdown-baseless-says-government/story-IK3gi5R1YvHy3Y9hsCWh2O.html
30-03-2020||India||Prevent movement of migrant workers, ensure 50% services for essential service providers: DTC||Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) has directed all authorities to prevent the movement of passengers, including migrant workers and daily wage earners, in Delhi. In an order dated 29 March 2020, the DTC directed all regional managers and depot managers to comply with the lockdown measures taken in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak. As per the directive, only 50% of services are to be made available to essential service providers who carry designated ID proofs or passes with them. The buses must have stickers pasted on the left wind screen in the front which says “for staff of essential services only & on government duty”. Regional Managers & Depot Managers are directed to comply with following order - They should ensure that the buses should have stickers pasted on the front left wind screen "For Staff of essential services only & on govt today".: Delhi Transport Corporation, Govt of NCT of Delhi pic.twitter.com/DOGhY1X8TKDefaulters and violators will be charged for non-compliance under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code, the order read. This comes a day after the Cente rapped state authorities for allowing the movement of migrant workers and daily wage earners during the Covid-19 lockdown. The authorities have been directed to ensure all possible support and assistance to migrant workers at the place of their work along with their daily wages. “There has been movement of migrant workers in some parts of the country. Directions were issued that district and state borders should be effectively sealed. States were directed to ensure there is no movement of people across cities or on highways. Only movement of goods should be allowed. DMs and SPs should be made personally responsible for the implementation of these directions which have been issued under the DM Act,” the directive read.“It has been advised that adequate arrangements for food and shelter of poor and needy people including migrant laborers be made at the place of their work. Centre had yesterday issued orders for use of SDRF funds for this purpose. Sufficient funds are available with States in this head,” the release read.India entered the sixth day of the 3-week lockdown announced by PM Modi last week to break the chain of coronavirus infections in the country. So far, over 1,000 people have been infected by the virus in the country while 27 people have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-prevent-movement-of-migrant-workers-ensure-50-services-for-essential-service-providers-dtc/story-bOfiQ8spN0rH88szYZbkoJ.html
30-03-2020||India||Covid-19: Manipur launches website to help those stranded by lockdown||The Manipur government on Sunday launched a website to reach out to citizens stranded outside the state after the nationwide lockdown to tackle the outbreak of Covid-19.The website (www.tengbang.in) has been developed by CubeTen, a private firm, in coordination with the Information and Technology (IT) department as part of their corporate social responsibility activity.“The government is also ready to launch a mobile app version of tengbang (assistance). It will be available as soon as Google and Apple clear the application for hosting on their Play Store and App Store,” chief minister Nongthombam Biren Singh said while launching the website in Imphal.Also read: With fewer cases so far, North-east stays on maximum alertThe website is also integrated with a payment gateway so that people who want to donate to the Chief Minister’s COVID-19 Relief Fund, which was created last week for making available funds promptly for emergency requirements with a corpus fund of Rs 10 crores, can do so online.“We are also thinking of adding a feature for permanent persons of Manipur origin residing in metros like Mumbai, Delhi and Bangalore to volunteer/act as a nodal point for the state in distributing/assisting so that the reach of the state government is increased,” Biren added.He said the condition of a Covid-19 patient, who is undergoing medical treatment at the JNIMS hospital, is improving and is stable now and called upon people to pray for their speedy recovery. Manipur reported its first Covid-19 case on March 24.Dr Radheshyam Yumnam of MANTRON & MANIDCO, L Susindro of Loktak Development Authority, Dr Rajesh Kumar, additional chief secretary (IT) and Nambam Deben director (IT) besides Haobam Joyremba of CubeTen, a website developer, were also present at the launch.Many citizens from Manipur, mostly students, are stranded in various states of India after the Centre clamped a 21-day nationwide lockdown.The state government on Saturday appointed PK Singh, the resident commissioner at the Manipur Bhawan in New Delhi, as the nodal officer to help and guide the stranded citizens of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-manipur-launches-website-to-help-those-stranded-by-lockdown/story-QD4qCBZ4zS8OkZ9Yuh1G2M.html
30-03-2020||India||Steps for migrants and PM’s appeal: Covid-19 news from India||The government ordered the closure of borders on Sunday to stop migrant workers who have been marching on foot hundreds of kilometres to reach their villages. Authorities also announced steps to provide food, shelter and wages to them, looking to ease their hardship in the wake of the 21-day nationwide lockdown. In a radio address, Prime Minister Narendra Modi sought apology from citizens, especially the poor, for the hard decisions his government had to take to contain the fast-spreading coronavirus disease (Covid-19). And to pull out all the stops in the fight against the deadly infection, authorities might rope in medical and nursing students to bolster the health care workforce.States told to stop, shelter migrants walking back home amid lockdownIndia on Sunday took urgent measures to halt the march of hundreds of thousands of migrant workers across states in an exodus prompted by a 21-day national lockdown to control the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), with the government ordering the closure of borders and announcing steps to ensure food, shelter and wages to informal workers who form the backbone of the economy.Read More‘Seek forgiveness, there was no other way’: PM Modi on nationwide lockdownPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday apologised to citizens, especially the poor, for harsh decisions that have caused difficulties — yet reiterated the importance of the nationwide lockdown as the only way to beat back the coronavirus disease pandemic — while reaching out to a wide range of individuals affected by the disease and its aftermath.Read MoreMedical students in final-year MBBS, PG may join Covid-19 fightMedical and nursing students could join the fight against Covid-19 as authorities consider various options to strengthen the health care workforce and provide protective cover to ageing doctors who are themselves at high risk of contracting the infection and, possibly, dying of it, people in the know said on Sunday.Read MoreCovid-19: What you need to know todayDeaths in the US from Covid-19 crossed 2,000 on Sunday, including at least 965 in New York State alone, but US President Donald Trump has had second thoughts about a quarantine of the New York region. Instead, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention merely issued an advisory against non-essential travel in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut.Read MoreMigrants must be tested, states toldAll migrant workers-- either homebound or staying at a state-run shelter in the cities- must be screened for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the Centre has told directed state governments, and those who have already left the cities for their home state will serve a mandatory 14 days in quarantine at their destinations.Read MoreGovt forms empowered groups, task force to deal with Covid-19 outbreakThe Centre on Sunday formed 10 empowered groups and a strategic task force comprising senior civil servants to deal with the Covid-19 outbreak and its aftermath. The setting up of the groups and the task force, which together have 68 bureaucrats, is an attempt to forge a planning and implementation machinery that acts in concert to minimise the impact of the disease the World Health Organization (WHO) has declared a global pandemic.Read MoreKerala will pursue rapid testing to detect possible community transmission of Covid-19Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Sunday announced that Kerala will pursue rapid testing to detect possible community transmission of coronavirus (Covid-19) in the state that was the first to report the disease in the country and is the worst hit by the pandemic along with Maharashtra.Read MoreGovt relaxes restrictions on transportation of goodsThe Union home ministry said on Sunday that all goods in addition to essential commodities will be allowed to move across states, relaxing rules in order to unclog highways where hundreds of trucks have been stuck since Tuesday, when the government ordered a nationwide lockdown in order to stop the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.Read MorePM to interact with missions, NGOsPrime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with major non-governmental organisations (NGOs) as well as the heads of Indian missions on Monday evening to get their feedback on the Covid-19 measures and shore up the confidence of those at the front-lines of the battle against the disease.Read MoreLiving in isolation is hard... but it’s not without benefits, writes Abhilash TomyNaval officer Abhilash Tomy says living in isolation is not without benefits. It is a time to blow the dust off those books and read, to make those calls which you have been deferring, to practise a hand at cooking, to make paper planes and to pursue those innumerable things that you postponed because you felt you never had the time.Read MoreCoronavirus: Cabin fever can lead to rage and anxiety; talking is a de-stressor | OpinionThe hopelessness and helplessness from the threat of an unstoppable virus may heighten depression and anxiety disorders and cause irritability, insomnia and problems with memory and concentration in healthy people.Read MoreMuslims perform last rites of Hindu neighbour as relatives unable to reach amid lockdownSeveral members of the Muslim community in Uttar Pradesh’s Bulandshahr performed the last rites of their Hindu neighbour on Friday as the relatives of the deceased could not reach his home owing to the nationwide lockdown.Read MorePregnant woman, her husband forced to walk over 100km without food; rescued by localsAn eight-month pregnant woman and her husband were offered monetary help and an ambulance in Meerut to cover the rest of their journey from Saharanpur to Bulandshahr after they were forced to walk over 100 kms on their way home without food when the latter’s employer turned them out without any money.Read MoreIndia’s only F1 track to turn into a quarantine facilityOfficials of the Gautam Budh Nagar administration on Sunday decided to use India’s Formula One racing track — the Buddh International Circuit — as a shelter home with quarantine facility for the stranded migrants.Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/steps-for-migrants-and-pm-s-appeal-covid-19-news-from-india/story-MlYlqSMaeifEDPavOJDWlM.html
30-03-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Can Covid-19 spread after symptoms end and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion curated for you. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Coronavirus update: Can Covid-19 spread after symptoms end?Some Covid-19 patients might be capable of transmitting the virus even after all symptoms of the disease disappear, a new study has found, and recommended that the quarantine period for seemingly cured people be extended to avoid any possibility of infection. Read moreCoronavirus update: Bengal men self-quarantine on tree to keep others safeWith no separate rooms in their homes, seven men in West Bengal’s Purulia district spent days on a tree after they were advised to stay in isolation over fears they could be infected with coronavirus when they returned from Chennai to their village on March 24. Read moreCoronavirus update: Vizag man walks home from Jamshedpur to see sick mother, brought backA man in Jharkhand’s Jamshedpur had set out on foot for a nearly 800km journey to Visakhapatnam to see his sick mother during the national lockdown for Covid-19 before being brought back by the police. Read moreCoronavirus update: 14-year-old charged for playing prank, coughing on groceries in US storeA 14-year-old boy was charged over a prank in which he allegedly coughed on produce at a grocery store in northwest Harris County, amid the coronavirus scare in the US, officials said on Sunday. The grocer called 911 and reported a disturbance, following which the deputies arrived the store, they said. Read moreFootball may never be the same again“I want to see the trophy go through the Shankly gates!” US-based British comedian John Oliver screamed and gesticulated in the latest episode of his late-night talk show, shot in New York without a studio audience and broadcast earlier this month. Read moreKanika Kapoor pens emotional post after testing positive for Covid-19, says ‘I hope my next test is negative’Singer Kanika Kapoor, who has tested positive for novel coronavirus for the fourth time, has shared an emotional post on Instagram. As fans showed concern for the singer, she made it clear that she was “not in the ICU” and was waiting to meet her kids and family. Read moreCOVID-19: Rs 2.5-cr grant challenge for medtech entrepreneursIn order to speedily augment the supply of ventilators and personal protection equipment (PPE) to combat the spread of coronavirus, the Marico Innovation Foundation (MIF) on Sunday threw a challenge #Innovate2BeatCOVID for medtech entrepreneurs. Read moreCovid-19: Here’s how lying face down improves breathing in severe casesIn order to fight novel coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic, which has killed more than 16,000 people globally, Chinese researchers have found that lying face down is beneficial and improves breathing in severe cases of COVID-19. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-can-covid-19-spread-after-symptoms-end-and-all-the-latest-news/story-O1DwMnjYbXebdVpkwiOOgL.html
30-03-2020||India||Lockdown-hit Haryana poultry farmers bury starving birds alive||The 21-day national lockdown to control the outbreak of coronavirus disease has hit the poultry sector hard and left farm owners in Haryana’s Bhiwani, Dadri, Rohtak and Jind districts with no other option but to bury thousands of chickens alive.Many farmers have adopted this measure due to drop in demand and lack of chicken feed.Rajbir Singh, owner of a poultry farm in Bhiwani, said he has buried over 12,000 birds alive in last 10 days due to acute shortage of feed.“I have suffered a loss of Rs 23 lakh in last four months. Now, experts are saying that the situation is unlikely to improve till August,” he said.Vikas Mehla, another such farmer from Bhiwani’s Mandhan, said he buried 6,500 birds on Thursday.“The nationwide lockdown has snapped the supply of bajra and feed. We buried them so that they do not die of starvation and further spread disease,” he added.Subhash Deswal, a feed supplier from Jind, said chicken was being sold in the market at Rs 2 per kg against production cost of Rs 75 per kg of bird.“Prices of chicken and eggs in the market have come down drastically owing to rumours linked to coronavirus. I suffered a loss of Rs 1.5 crore as poultry farmers are staring at huge losses with the demand nosediving,” he said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday apologised to citizens, especially the poor, for harsh decisions that have caused difficulties. In his monthly Mann ki Baat radio address, the PM explained the rationale of his decision to impose the 21-day lockdown, asked citizens to strictly abide by it, spoke about how this period can be used to enhance emotional bonds, asked for empathy and understanding for those who were infected by the virus or were in quarantine, spoke to patients and doctors to understand their experiences of the disease and acknowledged the role of those in the front-line of battling the pandemic and keeping essential services running.He reiterated the importance of the nationwide lockdown as the only way to beat back the coronavirus disease pandemic and reached out to a wide range of individuals affected by the disease and its aftermath.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-hit-haryana-poultry-farmers-bury-starving-birds-alive/story-gWPCZBceESiMGTniPm6smK.html
30-03-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Vizag man walks home from Jamshedpur to see sick mother, brought back||A man in Jharkhand’s Jamshedpur had set out on foot for a nearly 800km journey to Visakhapatnam to see his sick mother during the national lockdown for Covid-19 before being brought back by the police.M Venkat Raju, who had started on Friday, was spotted by West Singhbhum police in Goilkera—122.9km from Jamshedpur—around 1pm on Saturday, officials said on Sunday.“M Venkat Raju was rescued by Goilkera police station officer-in-charge and block development officer (BDO) on Saturday afternoon when he was walking along the railway track. He has been provided food and out in quarantine,” Indrajit Mahatha, West Singhbhum’s superintendent of police (SP), said.Sudhir Prakash, Goilkera BDO, said Venkat has been put under isolation in Goilkera Panchayat Bhawan. “As lockdown is in force and there is the threat of coronavirus spreading, we got him checked but he showed no symptom of Covid-19,” said Prakash.Vikas Kumar, Goilkera police station’s officer in charge, said he told them he was walking all the way to Visakhapatnam where his family lives.“He said he was informed by his family on Thursday that his mother was seriously sick. Subsequently, he decided to walk his way to Visakhapatnam to see his mother. He works as daily wage labour in a factory in Jamshedpur,” said Kumar.Venkat said he had exhausted almost all his money and savings since the lockdown and there was no other way to earn as the factory also closed down.“My family informed me that mother was seriously sick after which I decided to walk along the railway track all the way to Visakhapatnam. I had reached Sonua station by Friday night and set out again on Saturday but police caught me at Goilkera. I want to go to Visakhapatnam,” said Venkat.Kumar said they had sought the guidance of higher authorities if Venkat could be sent back to Jamshedpur as sending him to Visakhapatnam under the lockdown was not possible.Police have said hundreds of such migrant workers are being seen every day across West Singhbhum, East Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan districts under Kolhan division of Jharkhand. They have set up 63 community kitchens in as many police stations in the three districts for those who need them.“Lockdown means stay wherever you are so that the scope of coronavirus spread is minimised as much as possible. Yet people are coming in hundreds risking lives of their own and others as well,” said Mahatha.“We have set up 11 community kitchens providing food to such migrant workers, homeless, destitute and poor people daily. So far, 500-700 people have been catered to,” he added.East Singhbhum senior superintendent of police (SSP) Anoop Birthare said Jamshedpur Police also have set up 35 community kitchens in as many police stations.“Many people are not getting food due to lockdown. That’ why we have set up community kitchens from where we are providing packaged food to people in need. This service will continue till lockdown is in force,” said Birthare. According to Seraikela-Kharsawan SP Kartik Kumar, 17 community kitchens have been running in the district by the police.“Food is being provided to migrant workers, poor and homeless twice a day between 11am and 6pm,” said Kartik.Kolhan deputy inspector general of police Kuldeep Dwivedi said community kitchens have been set up in the three districts as per state director general of police MP Rao’s directive and guidance.“These community kitchens will provide cooked food to the poor and needy during the lockdown period. We will operationalise a few more kitchens in coming days,” said Dwivedi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-vizag-man-walks-home-from-jamshedpur-to-see-sick-mother-brought-back/story-wu3EEoRhyGtOLahfIXN5LK.html
30-03-2020||India||PM Modi tweets out yoga videos, asks people to get active during Covid-19 lockdown||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday shared links of yoga videos from his Twitter handle. This comes a day after the Prime Minister was asked about his fitness during his radio address Mann ki Baat. The yoga videos are available in different languages for people to follow them and practice easily.“During yesterday’s Mann ki Baat, someone asked me about my fitness routine during this time. Hence, thought of sharing these Yoga videos. I hope you also begin practising Yoga regularly,” PM Modi tweeted out.PM Modi said that yoga has been an integral part of his lifestyle for many years. During yesterday’s #MannKiBaat, someone asked me about my fitness routine during this time. Hence, thought of sharing these Yoga videos. I hope you also begin practising Yoga regularly. https://t.co/Ptzxb7R8dN“I am sure many of you also have other ways of remaining fit, which you also must share with others,” PM Modi’s tweet read. On Sunday, during his Mann Ki Baat address, the Prime Minister asked people to engage in hobbies during this period of lockdown to make use of time productively. He also said that the “harsh measure” of lockdown is essential to fight against coronavirus.“I apologize for taking these harsh steps which have caused difficulties in your lives, especially the poor people. I know some of you would be angry with me also. But these tough measures were needed to win this battle,” PM Modi said on Sunday.Right after taking charge as the Prime Minister during his first term in 2014, Prime Minister Narendra Modi rallied for the cause of spreading the benefits of yoga across the world.In 2015, his efforts led to the United Nations announcing June 21 as the International Day of Yoga.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-tweets-out-yoga-videos-asks-people-to-get-active-during-the-covid-19-lockdown/story-ZbmQH4jCP1xeKX9Q70OmyI.html
30-03-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Bengal men self-quarantine on tree to keep others safe||With no separate rooms in their homes, seven men in West Bengal’s Purulia district spent days on a tree after they were advised to stay in isolation over fears they could be infected with coronavirus when they returned from Chennai to their village on March 24.The men worked as wage labourers in the capital city of Tamil Nadu.They stayed on a machan, wood and bamboo platform, that was already set up by residents of Bansgarh village to save themselves from wild elephant herds that often wander into human habitations in this region in search of food. Also read: 57-year-old Bengal man’s source of Covid-19 infection unknownThe machan is equipped with lights, said an officer at the local Balarampur police station.“Since our homes are small, we cannot afford to spare a room for just one person. We thought the machan was a ready solution. We did not have any sign of flu when we returned but were asked to stay away from our families,” Bijoy Singh Loya, one of the seven men, said.Also read: Trinamool Congress uses Covid-19 lockdown to reverse electoral fortunesThe administration came to know about the arrangement from local media reports and the men were taken to a government facility.“Local people create shelters on trees so that these can be used when herds of elephants enter their villages. These seven persons used such pre-existing shelter to isolate themselves from their families,” Rahul Majumdar, Purulia’s district magistrate, said. “On Saturday, we arranged for their isolation at a government facility,” Majumdar said.Eighteen people have contracted Covid-19 and one man has been killed in the state till date, according to the Union ministry of health.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-bengal-men-self-quarantine-on-tree-to-keep-others-safe/story-K0aq4BMNQ2TyuvnBBIYoXN.html
30-03-2020||India||Covid-19 cases cross 1,000, Kerala to try rapid testing: Key developments||On Sunday, the number of coronavirus cases crossed the 1,000-mark. According to the data released by the ministry of health, the national tally now stands at 1,024 cases of which 901 are active cases, 95 people have been cured and 27 people have died from Covid-19. Over 15 lakh people have been screened at various airports till now.Here are the key developments:1. Maharashtra and Kerala continue to be the most Covid-19 affected states in the country with over 200 cases. 2. The tally in the national capital is inching toward the 100 mark. Delhi reported a steep rise in the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases on Sunday, adding 23 new infections of SARS-CoV-2 that took the Capital’s tally to 72 from 49.3. PM Modi will interact with major non-governmental organisations (NGOs) as well as the heads of Indian missions on Monday evening to get their feedback on the Covid-19 measures.4. Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed the nation via his monthly radio programme Mann ki Baat on Sunday and said that the “harsh measure” of lockdown is essential to fight against coronavirus. 5. On Sunday, the Centre rapped the state governments and directed them to ensure that no movement is allowed within cities, on highways or across the borders. The Centre said that states have enough funds to look after the migrant workers and ensure that they get all possible assistance along with their daily wages at the place of their work. 6. Delhi Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday urged migrants not to leave the city because it would defeat the purpose of the 21-day national lockdown. 7. India’s top research organisations are taking the Covid-19 challenge headon . The National Institute of Immunology in Delhi will sequence the virus to see whether the one infecting travellers from different parts of the world is the same or has undergone changes.8. The Centre said on Sunday that all goods in addition to essential commodities will be allowed to move across states, relaxing rules to unclog highways where hundreds of trucks have been stuck since last week.9. The government on Sunday said that those migrant workers and daily wage earners who moved in the period of the lockdown to go to their native place will need to be quarantines at government facilities for at least 14 days. 10. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Sunday said that the state will pursue rapid testing to detect possible community transmission of coronavirus (Covid-19).The country entered the sixth day of the 21-day long nationwie Covid-19 lockdown on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-cases-cross-1-000-kerala-to-try-rapid-testing-key-developments/story-Fr3G9Q657587DTbDnLm0mO.html
30-03-2020||India||Protecting, empowering frontline workers to fight Covid-19: Centre’s science adviser||Scientists in India are working along with several agencies and have linked with every level in the health system to put up a fight against the coronavirus disease in the country, the government’s principal scientific adviser has said.In a series of tweets, K Vijay Raghavan explained how scientists are helping the government in containing the “powerful but unintelligent” deadly coronavirus, which has infected nearly 1000 people and killed more than 25 in India.Vijay Raghavan listed out two necessary conditions to succeed against coronavirus—a shared sense of purpose with everyone in India and across the world, particularly the poor and vulnerable, and the ability to take well-thought-out steps. “Both are needed to pushback the disease. Our scientists have both,” Vijay Raghavan tweeted.Their task, he said, was to address all aspects of the short-, medium-, and long-haul “in a manner where we are never fatigued, but the virus is”.Also read: What you need to know todayThe principal scientific adviser said on the frontline are the ministry of health and family welfare, Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR), National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA), State Disaster Management Authorities and state health ministries. He also listed other departments and ministries which are working to integrate and work on information available.These agencies, he said, deal with testing every aspect of the disease and act on that information nationally and through states.“In this background, our scientists and industry are helping empower our health-workers in the frontline, protecting them. Testing and large surveys. Drugs and vaccines,” Vijay Raghavan said.Also read: Top Indian scientists join global fight against coronavirusOn the demands for more diagnostic tests, the principal scientific adviser said ICMR is amplifying test sites and more laboratories are being opened across states.“Efforts to increase test capacity by the ‘pooling’ of samples are being evaluated. This is not simple and needs the development and testing of optimization algorithms so that one positive in a large pool is not missed., for example,” he said.“There are new tests being rolled-out, globally, for the presence, or traces of the virus having visited a person. These can be useful as a first-pass, even if they are cruder than the ‘gold-standard’ RT-PCR. Indian labs are developing these kinds of tests too,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-protecting-empowering-frontline-workers-to-fight-covid-19-centre-s-science-adviser/story-YdZnj72AvLNh9NlZ7bTayK.html
30-03-2020||India||Covid-19 pandemic: Maintaining more than an arm’s length new normal amid||At a pharmacy in a south Delhi colony, customers were standing outside the store with a one-metre distance between each other on Sunday. One of the customers handed over his debit card to the pharmacist but wasn’t allowed to enter the PIN himself. He had to announce the four-digit code to the pharmacist at the counter who made the transaction and handed over the card with his gloved hands.Another customer wanted the pharmacist to speak to the customer’s employer because he could not pronounce the name of the medicine he wanted. “Please ask your employer to message us. We cannot speak on your mobile phone with him,” the pharmacist said. The man appeared puzzled and disappointed because he couldn’t get the medicine his employer needed. Other customers explained to him that sharing phones was not possible anymore because of the spread of Covid-19. There are several such instances of how daily life has changed —one of them being grocers throwing bags of grain at customers to ensure minimal contact.We will not be the same again after the lockdown lifts. Not only because of the devastating economic impact of the lockdown but because SARS-CoV-2 infections will continue to affect us. The new normal for several months will be to maintain social distance in everything we do, maintain personal hygiene and get used to relatively slow life in cities.Sociologists expect better hygiene practices to develop among the population, but some also worry whether these practices can be carried out in urban slums or even rural areas with little access to water or soap.The first and most positive behavioural change is likely to be the maintenance of cough hygiene as people realise that coughing into the crook of their arm is good for them and others.“Rarely have we been mindful of others when we sneeze or cough; that might change. We may begin to realise that how others behave will keep us healthy. This may lay the groundwork of an enduring policy for public health where everybody matters and no wall is high enough to protect classes and people from each other,” Dipankar Gupta, a sociologist, said.However. the question is how such behaviour will be practised in slums, where around 24% of the urban population in India lives, according to a World Bank estimate. “The government should have made a specific policy for densely populated areas by now because the infection will spread there. How the future unfolds for them will depend on those policies,” Dr T Jacob John, veteran virologist, emeritus professor at the Christian Medical College, Vellore, said.Amita Baviskar, a sociologist who specialises in social inequality and environment, said, “Everything depends on who is this ‘we’ we are talking about. A middle class ‘we’ has access to water, exercises the choice of who they wish to socialise with, lives in a way you can maintain distance with people, has the flexibility of how he or she wants to work. The middle class is already secluding themselves and may continue to do so by maintaining a physical distance. But this middle class is also extremely dependent on plumbers, electricians and domestic workers. These needs will dilute the extent to which disease can be controlled.”There is scientific evidence to back the need to continue social distancing. A study by Leverhulme Centre for Demographic Science, University of Oxford & Nuffield College, the UK, which is yet to be printed, has said the demographic and social structure of Italy has made it vulnerable to the onslaught of Covid-19. Italy has the second-highest population of old persons with 23.3% of its population over the age of 65, compared to 12% in China. Italy is also characterised by extensive intergenerational contact, with most children living with parents and grandparents. Children travel for work to cities and come back home to live with elders.A 2007 study reviewing the public health interventions of the 1918 influenza pandemic found cities in which multiple interventions like closing of schools and theatres, and social distancing were implemented at an early phase of the epidemic had peak death rates nearly 50% lower than those that did not.“Humanity is no stranger to this kind of epidemic but every age expects its relationship with nature and disease will be different. I find that somewhat arrogant. It’s very difficult to say how we will behave socially,” Satish Deshpande, a professor of sociology at Delhi School of Economics, said.The health ministry has launched a psycho-social-behavioural helpline on Sunday which has a toll-free number—08046110007 and is supposed to address people’s mental health concerns.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maintaining-more-than-an-arm-s-length-new-normal/story-gungf4vTFsDPkcc0Oo1EhO.html
30-03-2020||India||Coronavirus cases in India cross 1000-mark, says govt; toll rises to 27||The total number of positive cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the country increased by 106 on Sunday to reach 1,024, according to government data. Eight more people died due to Covid-19 to take the nationwide toll to 27, the latest health ministry figures said.National capital Delhi reported a steep rise in the number of Covid-19 cases on Sunday, adding 23 new infections of SARS-CoV-2 that took the tally to 72 from 49 a day earlier, according to data released by the Delhi health department.Among the new cases, officials were not immediately able to establish the source of the infection for six Covid-19 patients - they did not appear to have a known history of foreign travel or direct contact with another confirmed patient.Experts have raised concerns over possible signs of the Covid-19 outbreak entering the community transmission phase, when the source of an infection can’t be traced. Officials have, however, denied that the outbreak has entered the next stage.More on Covid-19:• Covid-19: Your guide to staying safe• Covid-19: What you need to know today• How coronavirus is different from seasonal flu and common cold• Can Covid-19 spread after symptoms end?The government, meanwhile, took urgent measures on Sunday to halt the march of hundreds of thousands of migrant workers across states in an exodus prompted by a 21-day national lockdown to control the spread of Covid-19, with the government ordering the closure of borders and announcing steps to ensure food, shelter and wages to informal workers who form the backbone of the economy.Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana launched coordinated efforts to control swelling crowds of migrant workers retreating from the National Capital Region (NCR), arranging about 2,500 buses to take people off the streets and ferry them to their hometowns.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in his ‘Mann Ki Baat’ radio broadcast, sought the nation’s forgiveness for the hardships caused by the stringent nationwide lockdown, saying it was necessary because the country was fighting a battle between life and death.He, however, expressed confidence that “we will definitely win the battle” against the coronavirus menace and praised the front-line workers in this fight against as well as countless workers delivering the essential services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-cases-in-india-cross-1000-mark-says-govt-toll-rises-to-27/story-UeoV2PrFcnQf6MxrovyzzN.html
30-03-2020||India||Supply clogs cause scarcity of packaged consumables||Packaged snacks, biscuits and certain medicines have disappeared from shelves of stores in the city market since a 21-day lockdown was put in place by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to check Covid-19.According to pharmacists, medicines are not available in ample quantities at the stores. They, however, maintained that the shortage was because of distribution problems and they will be able to replenish their stock as soon as they obtain curfew passes and are able to send their staff to fetch more consignments.Similarly, grocery store owners stated that items — such as biscuits, instant noodles, namkeen, packed juice, tomato puree, and soft drinks — were either out of stock or witnessing a curtailed supply in view of the lockdown. Lack of curfew passes with distributors, they said, was one of the essential reasons for supply trucks being held up at Delhi borders.However, traders maintained that the supply and availability of essential items was ample.“On the day the lockdown was announced, a lot of people indulged in panic buying and stocked up on essential medicines in large quantities. Now we are not receiving supplies from our distributors,” said Tarun Chawla of Mediworld Pharmacy in Kailash Colony.To deal with this situation, some pharmacies have started to cap the amount of medicine they sell to a customer at a time. Shikhar Gupta, of 3G Chemist in Defence Colony, said, “Those who have the money can purchase in bulk. But what about those who can’t? We have decided not to give more than two strips of medicine to anyone,” he said. A similar situation was witnessed at grocery stores. Traders said that even though essential items are available, certain commodities were disappearing from the shelves. “Namkeens, noodles, and biscuits may not be essential, but these have become the most sold consumables. Sunday was the fifth day of the lockdown, but the supply of many of these items has been irregular,” said Navankur Dhama, a trader in east Delhi’s Laxmi Nagar.Some retailers also said they were collecting stock directly from the distributors.“We ourselves have to lift the goods from distributors as many of them are yet to get passes. In many cases, trucks of suppliers are held up at borders,” a grocery supermarket owner in Model Town, Paramveeer Bagga, said.Delhi’s food and civil supplies minister Imran Hussain assured that there was enough stock of essentials. “There is no need to panic as we are making all possible efforts to ensure proper supply of goods,” Hussain said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supply-clogs-cause-scarcity-of-packaged-consumables/story-UwhdUMw2c0Pn983uBFAFQP.html
30-03-2020||India||Bus staff to be booked if found illegally ferrying passengers: Govt||The Delhi government Sunday said bus service employees will be booked if the transport vehicles are found to be ferrying unauthorised personnel during the lockdown.It also said that the Delhi Police will ensure complete sealing of all interstate borders and allow movement of only those exempted from the restrictions on movement.“No bus, whether run by DTC or under cluster operations, shall ferry any passenger who does not have any government ID card/authorised passed,” an order issued by chief secretary Vijay Dev said. “In case any unauthorised passenger is found to be ferried, strict criminal action... FIR under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of IPC shall be lodged against the concerned DTC employees or cluster employees as the case maybe,” it added.Later, an FIR was registered against employees linked to a bus that was allegedly ferrying unauthorised people in central Delhi.An advisory on social media that appeared to be issued by the Delhi Police’s Dwarka district warned of legal action against those found loitering outside their homes without a valid pass or reason. The advisory also asking the public to “avoid reasoning, logic and intelligence” and “follow the orders of the administration” at a time like this.But, the Dwarka DCP Anto Alphonse, said he wasn’t immediately aware of any such order and said it may have been issued at police station level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bus-staff-to-be-booked-if-found-illegally-ferrying-passengers-govt/story-goyzZAAPmPI635YAehqq8M.html
30-03-2020||India||Covid-19 update: 68-year-old Hoshiarpur man dies, is Punjab’s second coronavirus fatality||A 68-year-old Hoshiarpur man succumbed to Covid-19 infection at the Guru Nanak Dev hospital (GNDH) in Amritsar on Sunday, taking the death toll due to the respiratory virus to two in the state.Amritsar civil surgeon Dr Prabhdeep Kaur Johal said Harbhajan Singh, a resident of Moranwali village in Garshankar sub-division, was a close contact of Banga ‘ragi’ Baldev Singh who had died of coronavirus on March 18. Harbhajan had tested positive for virus on March 21 and was admitted to the Hoshiarpur civil hospital.The patient was referred to the GNDH, a unit of government medical college, on March 23 as his condition showed no improvement.In a tweet, Karan Bir Singh Sidhu, special chief secretary of Punjab, said, “He (Harbhajan) was medically vulnerable as he was suffering from diabetes and hypertension”. “His sugar was fluctuating and was not in control”, said Anurag Aggarwal, health secretary.“The patient was complaining of fever, cough and breathlessness. During his stay, his blood sugar was controlled with regular insulin and dietary management. On March 28, the patient developed acute breathlessness. On pulmonologist’s opinion, he was given high-form oxygen supplementation. At 8 pm on Sunday, patient developed cardiac arrest, and despite all measures, he could not be revived. He was declared dead at 8.30 pm”, GNDH medical superintendent Dr Raman Sharma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-68-year-old-hoshiarpur-man-dies-is-punjab-s-second-coronavirus-fatality/story-HmqBF2UJ8ZjmSgSslFl81I.html
30-03-2020||India||Proactive approach helps Saket cope with isolation||New Delhi On March 6, days after the first positive case of Covid-19 was reported in the National Capital Region (NCR), residents of Block H in Saket arranged for a talk on the control and prevention of the deadly virus by a doctor from Max hospital. “By that time, we had already been discussing ways to ensure adequate precautions are taken for residents of the colony,” said Reena Ramachandran (80), a resident of the block. “As the number of cases kept increasing, we came up with several measures. Visitors are to be screened and have to sanitise their hands, and residents are given access to whatever essentials they need inside the colony’s premises itself,” she added.With the nationwide lockdown announced to control the spread of the coronavirus disease, the 15 blocks at Saket have become like fortresses. Residents’ Welfare Associations (RWAs) at each of the blocks have come up with plans to restrict the entry of visitors. All except one gate at each of the blocks have been locked, and those visiting are made to wash their hands before entering. The entry of domestic helps and garbage collectors have been restricted, and only some vegetable vendors and chemists are allowed in, that too with gloves and masks.On Sunday, the fifth day of the lockdown, the silence on the streets of the upmarket colony was deafening. While some grocery stores are open in the residential areas of the colony, set up by the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) over the 1960s and 70s, not a soul was to be seen in the malls, cinema theatres and eateries in surrounding areas.“The first step we had taken when news of the virus began to break was to increase the number of security personnel, and asked them to evict visitors from the three parks inside the block,” said Pawan Suri, president, Block J RWA. “Over time, we have locked up 12 gates in the block, and only one is open. I saw a few residents walking around in the parks on Saturday, so we have decided to lock the gates of the parks from Sunday,” he added.With senior citizens comprising more than 50% of the population in the neighbourhood, according to RWAs in the area, residents have tried to ensure they are provided for, on priority.“We have drawn up a list of names of all the elderly who live by themselves here, and we are ensuring that grocery and medicines are delivered to them periodically,” said Suri.Other residents have pitched in on their own, sending food to elderly neighbours, several of whom have been left to fend for themselves after the lockdown, which has restricted transport in the city, limited several workers’ ability to travel.Members of the RWA agree that the absence of domestic help has turned into a major issue for senior citizens who live by themselves, and said they have spoken to the local police to see if some of the helps can be provided with a pass to enter the area.“Most residents inside the blocks are cooperating. However, our bigger concern is with what is happening in the surrounding areas. The Select City Walk and Anupam market are places which people frequent. The police need to ensure that people do not crowd these areas,” added Ramachandran. While the mall and shops in Anupam market have been shut, residents worry that people will still visit these areas, socialise, and set back the objective of a lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/proactive-approach-helps-saket-cope-with-isolation/story-kBCElQOHPzGss36oOoVApO.html
30-03-2020||India||Delhi CM asks migrants to stay, assures them food, shelter||Delhi Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday urged migrants not to leave the city because it would defeat the pupose of the 21-day national lockdown, while urging property owners not to force tenants to pay monthly rent, and urging factory owners and contractors to ensure the workers got food to eat despite work being stalled.Kejriwal also warned those pressuring tenants and threatening them with eviction of strict action. “I request the landlords — do not collect the rent, and postpone it if your tenants are poor and are unable to pay the rent. If your tenant fails to give the rent later, my government will compensate for it. But don’t harass them,” Kejriwal said at a digital press conference on Sunday. The statement came hours after the Union home ministry issued an advisory, asking states to ensure that landlords do not seek rent payments during this lockdown period and, industrialists and contractors pay wages. The chief minister reiterated his appeal to migrant workers to not cross the border to neighbouring states of Uttar Pradesh and Haryana, warning that their action would impact the fight against Covid-19. He also appealed to his party volunteers to not indulge in any kind of politics, “even if other parties do.”Besides the press conference, Kejriwal posted a note in Hindi on Twitter and also dedicated a special video message to all migrant workers, in which he assured them that they will be provided food and shelter in the Capital. On Saturday, over 100,000 had gathered at the Anand Vihar bus terminal to board buses to return home, from across the border in Uttar Pradesh’s Kaushambi.“Some people are desperate to go to their villages. The Prime Minister has appealed to everyone that people should stay put where they are. I also appeal to all of you not to go to your villages and remain where you are. Gathering in such large numbers make you more vulnerable to contracting coronavirus. And then through you, the virus will reach your village and your family. It will reach different parts of the country. After this, it will become extremely difficult for the country to contain this epidemic,” Kejriwal wrote in the note.“I am assuring you that the Delhi government has arranged for your shelter and food. It is in the interest of the country that you do not go to your villages at the moment,” Kejriwal added.On Saturday, too, Kejriwal had urged the migrants to stay back during the 21-day lockdown that was imposed from March 25, pointing out that his government was serving lunch and dinner to over 400,000 people in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-cm-asks-migrants-to-stay-assures-them-food-shelter/story-aQgQ2gHDYYaK5aciAT9fSM.html
30-03-2020||India||Covid-19 update: SpiceJet pilot, Air India staffer test positive for coronavirus||A SpiceJet pilot and an Air India ground staffer have tested positive for Covid-19, officials familiar with the matter said on Sunday.The pilot’s test report confirmed the infection on Saturday. SpiceJet has said that the officer had not operated any international flight in March.The last domestic flight that he operated was on March 21 from Chennai to Delhi and since then he had quarantined himself at home. The airline is now undergoing a contact tracing exercise to establish how many people he came in contact with. As a precautionary measure, all crew and staff who had been in direct contact with him have been asked to self-quarantine by staying at home for the next 14 days. All measures are being taken to provide appropriate medical care to him...,” the airline said.The Air India ground staff has been admitted to a government hospital in Jogeshwari after she tested positive for Sars-Cov-2. The employee, working for Air India Air Transport Services Ltd. (AIATSL), was on duty for the last flight that landed at Mumbai airport before domestic operations were shut.Officials said the employee complained of breathing issues and fever, after which she was admitted to the hospital. While AIATSL’s head did not respond to HT’s calls till the time of going to press, people familiar with the matter said the employee is doing better. “She will be kept in isolation for 14 days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-spicejet-pilot-air-india-staffer-test-positive-for-coronavirus/story-OT4NpTXWzcbkiniLwo77oI.html
30-03-2020||India||India’s only F1 track to turn into a quarantine facility||Officials of the Gautam Budh Nagar administration on Sunday decided to use India’s Formula One racing track — the Buddh International Circuit — as a shelter home with quarantine facility for the stranded migrants. The district magistrate of Gautam Budh Nagar, BN Singh, said the decision was taken in order to create additional facilities to provide healthcare and shelter to people in Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway areas. The Buddh circuit forms a part of Jaypee Sports City. Besides this, the administration has identified at least 20 such buildings that will be turned into shelter homes to house those leaving Delhi-NCR due to panic and walking to their hometowns. The Uttar Pradesh government wants to put them into such shelters to ensure that infected persons, if any, do not end up reaching their hometowns and spread Covid-19, said officials.“As of now, we have identified the facility. We will figure out how many persons can be accommodated here on Monday. We are creating these facilities so that stranded migrants in Gautam Budh Nagar can use them till April 14, 2020,” an official of the Gautam Budh Nagar administrations said, on the condition of anonymity.The Buddh International Circuit is India’s only Formula One track. The Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority had recently sealed this world-class facility, including the sports city, after the developer failed to clear ₹600-crore financial dues.“As per provisions under Chapter 12 of the Uttar Pradesh pandemic Covid-19 guidelines, 2020, we have decided to use Jaypee Sports City, along Yamuna Expressway, as shelter home to provide medical, food and residential accommodation to those, who are from Gautam Budh Nagar district or stuck without homes in our district,” said Singh.He directed Yamuna authority’s officer on special duty, Navneet Goyal, along with other officials, to start operations at this facility so that shelter, medical, food and other services can be started here at once.Goyal will coordinate with Sudhir Lamba, who takes care of the Sports City, and other officials concerned so that all necessary arrangements can be made at haste, the order stated. “Bed, mattress, toilets and other facilities should be created immediately at Sports City so that those who are stuck in our district can take shelter properly,” the DM said.Other buildings have also been identified, said officials, for being operated as temporary shelter homes and isolation centres.Meanwhile, in a bid to provide shelter to those out on the roads amid the lockdown, the Noida district administration has set up makeshift shelter homes at 28 locations across the city. “A total of 7,000 people can be accommodated in the 28 shelter homes in Gautam Budh Nagar,” said Rakesh Chauhan, district information officer, Gautam Budh Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-only-f1-track-to-turn-into-a-quarantine-facility/story-Ejp5goNmH7Zlj84eYnd1UN.html
30-03-2020||India||States unite to see off migrants||Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana have launched coordinated efforts to control swelling crowds of migrant workers retreating from the National Capital Region (NCR) amid a 21-day lockdown over the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, arranging about 2,500 buses to take people off the streets, and providing shelters and food to them.Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a three-week lockdown on Tuesday to break the chain of infections of the disease, which has killed at least 32,000 people worldwide. The decision, however, left millions of people who live off daily earnings out of work, as factories, hotels and other businesses shut to facilitate “social distancing” measures. The migrant workers began leaving big cities for their hometowns hundreds of kilometres away, a phenomenon that experts said ran counter to the objective of the lockdown.The Centre on Sunday ordered the “effective sealing” of borders to curb mass movement and announced measures to aid those in need of shelter and food. However, the three states kept in constant touch to transport the hordes of migrant workers – about 100 million of them across India form the backbone of the economy – to their hometowns or back to their rented accommodations in NCR.OVERNIGHT EFFORTS AT ANAND VIHARAuthorities were able to disperse thousands gathered in Delhi late on Saturday by ferrying them to ISBT Kaushambi in Ghaziabad and then deploying UP State Road Transport Corporation buses to take them back to their hometowns. Visuals of hordes of people walking along arterial roads and gathering at the Anand Vihar bus terminal were widely shared on social on Saturday, highlighting the plight of the stranded workers of the informal sector.Overnight, the size of the gathering at Anand Vihar reduced to about 2,000 from 50,000 the night before. The work to clear the area began at 11pm, when the Delhi government pressed into service 570 buses and the UP government sent around 1,000 buses.To reduce the movement of migrant workers within the Capital and just outside its borders, the city administration suspended the movement of its DTC and cluster buses, except a few that were seen carrying workers of essential services.“It was an overnight operation and by 5am, Anand Vihar was mostly cleared. Our DTC and cluster buses were deployed to ferry people to areas that were within the 50-70km radius. The entire operation was carried out in coordination with the Delhi police and the UP and Haryana governments,” said transport minister Kailash Gahlot.“For longer routes such as Bareily and Kanpur, the Anand Vihar ISBT was opened to allow private buses sent by the UP government and ensure orderly movement of passengers with appropriate social distancing,” the minister said.“Similar steps were also taken by the authorities of the adjoining states, as they anticipated that the total objective of the nationwide lockdown to prevent the spread of Covid-19 would fail if such mass exodus that involved the gathering of people in close proximity was not stopped immediately,” he added.Jagtap Singh, who worked at a toy factory in Shahdara before it was shut, said: “We have been told that UP buses are waiting at Lal Kuan to take us to the interiors of the state. I have to go Itawa.” He spent Saturday night shuttling between the Anand Vihar and Kaushambi bus terminals but failed to board a bus due to the massive crowd.ACTION SHIFTS TO LAL KUANBy Sunday morning, the action shifted from Delhi to Lal Kuan on the Delhi-Meerut Expressway, where hundreds of buses were deployed to transport migrant workers to different cities. According to estimates by officials, at least 150,000 arrived at ISBT Kaushambi. This prompted the Uttar Pradesh government to contact officials in Delhi and Haryana to control the situation and enforce the lockdown.The Haryana government, responding to the call by the UP administration, sent a large fleet of about 1,000 Haryana Roadways’ buses to evacuate the stranded migrants. “The buses from Haryana have come to Lal Kuan via Eastern Peripheral Expressway and ferrying passengers free of cost to different cities in UP. The payment to the Haryana government will be made through government-to-government transfer of funds. But nothing is charged from passengers,” said Praveen Kumar, inspector general (Meerut range).“We hope that the ferrying of passengers from Lal Kuan will also be stopped soon, probably in a day or two, otherwise more and more people will keep coming,” he added. The buses of Haryana arrived from different depots at Delhi, Sonepat, Panipat, Rohtak, Jind, Palwal and Faridabad continued ferrying stranded passengers to Gorakhpur, Lucknow, Rampur, Bareilly and Agra among others till late on Sunday.Krishan Kumar, a driver from the Delhi depot of Haryana Roadways, said: “Our drivers have come with buses that have diesel tank capacity of 250 litres and 400 litres. The first set of buses can reach up to 300km distance and come back while the other category of buses (400 litres) can go up to 1,000km and return. Our drivers are not well-versed with UP areas and roads but we are taking help of Google Maps for the purpose. We have been told to ferry passengers free of cost.”By afternoon, an estimated 50,000 people had gathered at Lal Kuan. They were boarding and leaving in buses till late at night. “We are also trying to dispatch maximum of migrant workers who have gathered at Lal Kuan. Our officials are in touch with Delhi government and Delhi Police and making efforts that no more people arrive at ISBT Anand Vihar. At present, we are not allowing people into Ghaziabad from the Delhi border but the figures of those still waiting at Delhi-UP border should not swell. Otherwise the purpose of sealing the borders get defeated,” said Prashant Kumar, additional director general (Meerut zone).Ombir Sharma, vice president, Haryana Roadways, said: “We are helping migrant labourers who are stuck due to the lockdown. Delhi-Gurugram border has been closed therefore we are taking them to Uttar Pradesh border via Manesar and Rajasthan.”“After the lockdown, workers from different states started heading towards their homes in different districts of Haryana as well as states such as Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh, and some to Madhya Pradesh. Following the directives given by the state government, we are running buses from the Gurugram and Faridabad borders to drop them to nearby locations,” said Sharma.Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, in a video conference with officials of different districts, directed to close the state and district borders.Sanjay Rawat, inspector, Vasant Kunj police station, was deployed at the Gurugram-Delhi border and said they had orders not to allow migrant labourers to cross the stretch in a group. “This move is to ensure they are protected and social distancing is maintained to prevent transmission of coronavirus,” said Rawat.On National Highway-48, the Gurugram Police could be seen sending back groups of migrant workers towards Manesar. They followed the migrants to ensure they did not resume retreating to their hometowns.Lankesh Singh, who worked as a farmhand in Pataudi and wanted to board a bus to Bareilly, said: “We have returned from the Delhi border. But we will again go back till they don’t allow us. We cannot stay here as there is no work for us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-unite-to-see-off-migrants/story-cVmsRVfAXmtaTgZfhwSKcI.html
30-03-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||Deaths in the US from Covid-19 crossed 2,000 on Sunday, including at least 965 in New York State alone, but US President Donald Trump has had second thoughts about a quarantine of the New York region. Instead, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention merely issued an advisory against non-essential travel in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut. Sure, some states have said travellers from New York have to undergo a mandatory 14-day quarantine, but the absence of lockdown in one of the Sars-CoV-2 virus’s known hot spots is puzzling. New York State now has at least 59,000 cases and neighbouring New Jersey around 11,000.Experts have blamed poor and inadequate testing, poorer leadership, and an unwillingness among people to practice social distancing and self-isolation for the US’s problems, which seem far from over. Last week, a data analytics firm released heat maps of mobile phones on a Florida beach where Spring Break parties were being hosted — you read that right, Spring Break parties — and then tracked those phones as they made their way across the country (see page 6). To get on with life as if nothing has changed may be a sign of bravery and fortitude at times of war (or even terrorist attacks); to do so at a time when a highly contagious virus is ravaging the country is a sign of idiocy.Which is why it is important that India get its hands around the migrant workers crisis. The 21-day lockdown — Sunday was Day 5 — will be of no use if this issue isn’t handled properly. While some states have managed to convince migrant workers to stay behind, others have not. As a result, anything between several tens of thousands and a few hundred thousand migrant workers have flouted the lockdown to travel back home — typically to rural and backward areas where the quality of health care isn’t very good. States that have allowed migrant workers to travel back to areas in their hinterland need to have an effective quarantine and tracking mechanism in place. It will be difficult, but it is required and the ministry of home affairs order to this effect, issued on Sunday, is welcome (see page 1).This is a critical week for India. The number of cases crossed 1,000 on Saturday. If the trajectory of Covid-19 cases in other countries is any indication, this is the point when the curve starts trending upwards, sharply, in terms of number of cases. India’s promptness in scanning travellers, restricting and then entirely barring international travellers from entering the country, and announcing a nationwide lockdown (include complete cessation of train and air travel) till the middle of April should start kicking in now, hopefully flattening the curve. And as this writer has repeatedly said, India should use this time, which it has bought at a significant price, to strengthen its health care infrastructure — both hard and soft. For instance, some experts have suggested using final year MBBS (undergraduate medical), and nursing students to augment the strength of doctors and nurses (see page 1). It is a good idea — and easy to implement.India should also use this time to learn more about the enemy. Is the strain of Sars-CoV-2 infecting people in India still the same indicated by initial studies? What explains the emergence of hot spots affected by the virus? Why is the death rate in Italy as high as it is (almost 11%)? How does the virus react to heat and humidity? Why is it that Germany has a high number of infections (60,659) but only 482 deaths (a death rate of 0.8%)?Some of these answers could hold the key to keeping India safe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-qLLeg0oJud9KQ0m0KGvzjO.html
30-03-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Send back children in conflict, says Centre in view of Covid-19 crisis||The Centre has advised childcare institutions to send back home children in conflict with the law in view of the coronavirus crisis. The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights, in an advisory dated March 28 said that this directive was in line with a Supreme Court order (writ petition (c) No 1/2020) asking all states to release prisoners on parole or interim bail to reduce overcrowding in jails, and said that a high-powered committee will be formed to implement this. The NCPCR asked state governments to prepare a list of such children in observation and special homes so that they can be released. In its advisory, the NCPCR has also asked states to take care of children of migrant workers making their way home. “Some children may be moving with their families or alone or in group of migrant laborers from other States. In the best interest of the child, such families/children should remain in the same place where they are. In case of families, adequate measures may be taken as deemed appropriate by the competent authority,” the NCPCR said in its advisory.In addition to that, faced with the constraints of the 21-day lockdown, officials involved with children in institutional care have issued special guidelines to states to deal with the Covid-19 crisis. At the forefront of these efforts are ChildLine as well as the NCPCR. In an advisory to states on March 23, the ministry of women and child development said that the Centre’s round the clock hotline for children in distress, ChildLine will function as the emergency response and support for children. It directed states to exempt ChildLine from lockdown norms, and asked ChildLine to ensure that its partner organisations and call centres remain functional. Another ChildLine official said that given the dire need of children of migrant labourers making their way back to their hometowns, the staff has been involved in providing children and their families food as well. Experts in the field, however, wondered if sending a child back home is advisable, especially in the case of children in need of protection and care. In Trichy, 2,757 children among the total 4,803 children in institutional care from 72 institutions were sent home after the breakout of the Covid-19 crisis. In Haryana, the chairman of the Juvenile Justice Monitoring Committee has asked children in conflict with law to be released. Bharati Ali of HAQ Centre for Child Rights said that if states are sending as many as 60% of children home, it defeats the purpose of a care home. In the lack of a reference point for how many children are in institutional care, the WCD had started an exercise to map 9,589 homes, including observation homes, special homes and open shelters across the country. The ‘Mapping and Review Exercise of Child Care Institutions’, conducted between December 2015 -March 2017, released last year, said that in India, 3,77,649 children were found to be under institutional care across the country. These included 7422 children in conflict with law and 3,70,227 children in need of care and protection.The study also said that 53.6% homes did not have an adequate number of caregivers per child and only 28.7% homes had adequate food. Preeti Patkar who runs a child care institution in Maharashtra’s Raigarh said that an uniform policy for all children could do more help than harm. “Some children need to be away from home for their own protection and might be headed home. In other cases, children who were going to be restored will now be stuck due to the lockdown,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-send-back-children-in-conflict-says-centre-in-view-of-covid-19-crisis/story-KFFL5wEJIpP4vEfpmASjrL.html
30-03-2020||India||Coronavirus update- ‘Seek forgiveness, there was no other way’: PM Modi on nationwide lockdown||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday apologised to citizens, especially the poor, for harsh decisions that have caused difficulties — yet reiterated the importance of the nationwide lockdown as the only way to beat back the coronavirus disease pandemic — while reaching out to a wide range of individuals affected by the disease and its aftermath. In his monthly Mann ki Baat radio address, the PM explained the rationale of his decision to impose the 21-day lockdown; asked citizens to strictly abide by it; spoke about how this period can be used to enhance emotional bonds; asked for empathy and understanding for those who were infected by the virus or were in quarantine; spoke to patients and doctors to understand their experiences of the disease; and acknowledged the role of those in the front-line of battling the pandemic and keeping essential services running. This was the third time the PM was speaking to the nation in less than 10 days. In his first address, on March 19, he had alerted the country to the dangers of the pandemic and called for a “janta curfew” for a day on March 22. In his second address, on March 25, Modi announced the three-week lockdown (except essential services) and advised people to stay home. The decision, acknowledged by experts as a necessary preventive measure, has disrupted economic activity and caused an exodus of migrant workers from cities towards their villages, often on foot — in the process enhancing the risks of spreading the disease.The PM took into account precisely this situation at the beginning of his 35-minute address, and said: “I first want to apologise to the citizens of this country. We have had to take some decisions which have caused difficulties. Many people would be angry at me — and wonder how I have locked everyone at home. I understand your pain and difficulties.” But the PM added that he was confident he would be forgiven because there was no other way for a country of India’s size to battle the pandemic, which had, in a way, chained the entire world. He underlined that it was important to battle an illness at a nascent stage, for if it escalated, defeating it would become far more difficult. Amid reports that those who had got infected, or were in quarantine, were facing a degree of stigma, the PM said that he was deeply pained to hear this. “This is deeply unfortunate. They are not criminals...in fact, they are staying in quarantine to protect others. They are displaying responsible behaviour.” He added that this was a period where social distancing had to be enforced and increased, while emotional distancing had to be decreased. Modi also spoke about people who thought that by staying at home, they were doing a favour to others, or did not understand the importance of social distancing. “Don’t be under any such illusion. With this lockdown, you are saving yourself, you are saving your own family...There are people who are still not understanding the gravity of the situation. If you break the rules of the lockdown, you will find it hard to save yourself from the virus.” The PM, as he had done in the previous two addresses, once again acknowledged the role of the front-line workers in this battle — doctors, paramedics, nurses, safai karamcharis, those who had kept the supply chain intact for essentials, those who had kept basic infrastructure running, those at the forefront of banking services, and others. He then spoke to patients who had recovered from the infection — and who narrated the sequence of how they got infected, the process of getting tested, the hospital care they received — and to doctors — who spoke about how they were providing care specific to the disease as well as counselling to those infected and fearful of the future. Modi also conveyed the experiences of those who were staying home and using this period to strengthen their bonds with their children, contribute to household work, and pursuing hobbies. Congress spokesperson Jaiveer Shergill said: “The Prime Minister need not apologise for imposing lockdown but must apologise for the unplanned lockdown impacting especially the 48-crore strong labour force in the informal sector. The moot question is that he gave three days notice for ‘taali and thaali’ ceremony but only three hours notice for locking down 1.2 billion people. As they say, better late than never, it is high time that the Prime Minister provide solutions.” Neelanjan Sircar, political scientist at Ashoka University and Centre for Policy Research, said, “PM Modi’s greatest strength is as a communicator with the people, which he has leveraged in times of distress — like demonetisation and the coronavirus outbreak. He is well-suited to get the people focused on social distancing — the need of the hour to slow the spread of the virus. But his biggest strength will continue to be to address the needs of the most vulnerable over the course of the lockdown, as they will need government assistance to meet basic needs.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/seek-forgiveness-there-was-no-other-way-modi/story-IqwI2icjyjMd9lHst3518O.html
30-03-2020||India||Covid-19 update: 23 new coronavirus cases in Delhi: 13 with travel history, 4 contacts, 6 source unknown||New DelhiDelhi reported a steep rise in the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases on Sunday, adding 23 new infections of SARS-CoV-2 that took the Capital’s tally to 72 from 49 a day earlier, according to data released by the Delhi health department.Among the new cases, officials were not immediately able to established the source of the infection for six Covid-19 patients — they did not appear to have a known history of foreign travel or direct contact with another confirmed patient.Experts have raised concerns over possible signs of the Covid-19 outbreak entering the community transmission phase, when the source of an infection can’t be traced. Officials have, however, denied that the outbreak has entered the next stage.“The reports of these people who tested positive have just come to us and our teams are right now in the field trying to trace their contacts. At the moment, we do not know the source of infection in six cases. Now we have many labs in the city testing people but they do not necessarily collect history,” said an official from the state disease surveillance programme.Thirteen of the remaining fresh cases were traced to recent foreign travel history, while four others were linked to direct contact with another infected person.The six people whose infections could not be traced to their source recently came to Delhi from Andaman to attend a religious function. There are nine positive cases in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. “They had come to Nizamuddin Dargah [Delhi]. They only had history of travel from Andaman, no history of foreign travel,” an official said on condition of anonymity.Among the total cases in Delhi -- two patients died of the disease -- five have been discharged and one has migrated out of the country, the Delhi health department said.Some of the other patients who tested positive on Sunday were in Okhla, Kotla Mubarakpur, Gonda, Sangam Vihar, Nizamuddin West, Ghitorni, Shahpur , Vasant Kunj, and Khichripur. The total number of samples sent for testing from Delhi now stands at 2,049 and reports for 1,680 have been received, the department said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/23-new-cases-in-capital-13-with-travel-history-4-contacts-6-source-unknown/story-6bw03u6oeimMA483hsojzI.html
30-03-2020||India||Coronavirus update: States told to stop, shelter migrants walking back home amid lockdown||India on Sunday took urgent measures to halt the march of hundreds of thousands of migrant workers across states in an exodus prompted by a 21-day national lockdown to control the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), with the government ordering the closure of borders and announcing steps to ensure food, shelter and wages to informal workers who form the backbone of the economy.Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana launched coordinated efforts to control swelling crowds of migrant workers retreating from the National Capital Region (NCR), arranging about 2,500 buses to take people off the streets and ferry them to their hometowns. While officials worked through Saturday night to transport stranded workers from Anand Vihar in the Capital to bordering areas, by Sunday morning, the operation shifted to Lal Kuan in Ghaziabad. From Lal Kuan, long-range buses took people to their villages in several districts of Uttar Pradesh.Since Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the lockdown beginning March 25, highways across the national capital and other metropolises have teemed with people walking hundreds of kilometres with their belongings. While stranded migrants cited the shortage of money and food as reasons for leaving big cities, health experts warned that an exodus could run contrary to the purpose of the lockdown — breaking the chain of infections.On Sunday, the Centre asked state governments and Union Territories to “effectively seal” state and district borders to stop the movement of the migrant workers. Those who have already reached their destinations will be put in 14-day quarantines for violating the lockdown to make sure they haven’t contracted the infection.In an order, the Union home ministry said: “Movement of a large number of migrants have taken place in some parts of the country so as to reach their home towns. This is a violation of the lockdown measures on maintaining social distance.”It said that to effectively implement the lockdown “and to mitigate the economic hardship of the migrant workers”, district magistrates and police officers were being directed to take a host of measures. The five measures are: temporary shelters and provision of food for the poor, including stranded migrants; 14-day quarantine of those who have already moved; uninterrupted wages and exemption from paying rent for a month.“If any landlord is forcing labourers and students to vacate their premises, they will be liable to action,” the government said.Many of India’s estimated 100 million migrant workers have walked along arterial roads in the National Capital Region (NCR), tried to hitch rides in commercial vehicles and gathered in thousands at bus terminals to leave for their towns and villages since Tuesday midnight.The number of cases of Covid-19, caused by the pathogen Sars-CoV-2, rose to 1,139 on Sunday, according to official data from the states. The death toll climbed to 30, a sharp jump from 21 a day earlier.On Sunday, thousands gathered at the Anand Vihar bus terminal, images of which were widely shared on social media to portray their plight amid the unprecedented lockdown. The crowds thinned as about 500 buses ferried them in an emergency move. However, many still waited to be picked up, sleeping on pavements and surviving on food packets provided by the government and passersby.Many have walked for days to reach their villages in neighbouring Uttar Pradesh, with the government having completely shut down Indian Railways passenger trains, interstate buses and Metro rail services. The governments of Delhi and UP and Haryana arranged buses in concerted efforts to bring the migrant workers back to their villages and control the swelling crowd.Jagtap Singh, who worked at a toy factory in Shahdara before it was shut, said: “We have been told that UP buses are waiting at Lal Kuan to take us to the interiors of the state. I have to go Etawah.” He spent Saturday night shuttling between the Anand Vihar and Kaushambi bus terminals but failed to board a bus due to the massive crowd.At a news briefing, home ministry joint secretary Punya Salila Srivastava said: “We have asked the states to make arrangements for shelters so that the migrant workers who have violated the lockdown and travelled could be put in quarantined for 14 days at their destinations. Health workers are being prepared for this.”The government said DMs and police officers should be made personally responsible for the implementation of the directions.“It was noted that, by and large, there has been effective implementation of the lockdown guidelines across all States and UTs. Essential supplies have also been maintained. Situation is being monitored round the clock and necessary measures are being taken as required,” the government said. It was impressed upon all the states that three weeks of strict enforcement is essential to contain the spread of coronavirus; this is in the interest of everyone, it added.In a video conference with chief secretaries and state police chiefs, cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba and Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla asked them to ensure there was no movement across cities or on highways.Prime Minister Narendra Modi apologised to the public on Sunday for imposing the three-week national lockdown, calling it harsh but “needed to win” the battle against the Covid-19 pandemic, which has killed at least 33,000 worldwide.“I apologise for taking these harsh steps that have caused difficulties in your lives, especially the poor people,” Modi said in his Mann Ki Baat radio address. “I know some of you will be angry with me. But these tough measures were needed to win this battle.”In a column published in The Indian Express on Sunday, Nobel Prize winners Abhijit Banerjee and Esther Duflo said that more aid for the poor was needed because of the situation arising from the lockdown. “Without that, the demand crisis will snowball into an economic avalanche, and people will have no choice but to defy orders,” they wrote.Delhi reported 23 fresh positive cases on Sunday, taking its count to 72, while more people tested positive in adjoining Noida, Maharashtra and Bihar, among other states. The new cases included a SpiceJet pilot with no history of international travel, a doctor and a junior commissioned officer in the Indian Army.Globally, the death toll crossed 33,000 on Sunday, with more than 20,000 deaths in Europe itself. Nearly one-third of the world population is under lockdown to check the spread of this virus, with jobs, manufacturing and all economic activities coming to almost a standstill. The confirmed infections worldwide has topped 700,000, with the US topping the list.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-told-to-stop-shelter-migrants/story-QwLDlaaKRyDuZkWUI2O34M.html
30-03-2020||India||Covid-19 update: Florida spring breakers’ phones show vast spread||People in the United States continued with their usual activities — travelling between cities, going to work and school, and even celebrating Spring Break on beaches — while the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) continued to grow around them, cellphone location data from mid-March has shown, demonstrating how the country squandered away the initial days when social distancing may have contained the disease.On Sunday, the total number of cases in the United States rose beyond 124,000 — 62 times the 2,000 confirmed infections in the country on March 13, when US President Donald Trump announced the epidemic is a national emergency. In the weeks leading up to March 13, thousands of college-goers from across the country’s central and eastern parts, descended upon the sunny beaches of Florida for the annual spring break revelry. From sharing space on a single Fort Lauderdale beach, the phones were tracked back to across the United States, according to a visualisation released by Tectonix GEO. “Through a partnership with X-Mode, we analyzed secondary locations of anonymized mobile devices that were active at a single Ft Lauderdale beach during spring break,” said Tectonix, while posting the visualisation on Twitter. The phones – each representing an individual — were seen spreading up to Maine and the eastern coast during the remainder of March, raising the possibility of these people introducing the infections to new locations. The authorities in Fort Lauderdale cancelled the beach parties on March 14, and it wasn’t until March 27 that stay-at-home orders were issued in the coastal city.A similar visualisation for New York – which now accounts for 42% of the American infections – shows thousands of people left the city on March 22 to head to cities across the country. The recorded movement came on a day when total infections in New York state reached 11,000 and nearly a week after the city’s mayor Bill de Blasio ordered the city’s bars, theatres and cinemas to close down on March 16. In addition to what the data demonstrates about how the potential for the spread of the disease is immense in the absence of lockdowns or effective social distancing, it exposes the level of sensitive private data collected by private firms. X-Mode, the company that collated the location information, describes its services as “industry-leading, powerful location collection technology”. The company says it can help clients “boost income, utilize location data, and grow your influence network”. Its representatives did not respond to requests for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/florida-spring-breakers-phones-show-vast-spread/story-I1ZADEFcyUhC8ukHVrwCNJ.html
30-03-2020||India||Coronavirus update: BSF warns personnel against negligence||Border Security Force (BSF)’s interim director general, S S Deswal, on Sunday urged his personnel to follow the protocol devised to prevent the spread of coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic while warning them of strict disciplinary action in case of any negligence, according to officials aware of the matter. Deswal’s appeal came a day after a BSF officer was tested positive for Covid-19 and 50 personnel, including two top officers who had attended meetings with him, were put under home quarantine. The officer’s wife had travelled to the United Kingdom, but she has tested negative for Covid-19, an official said.In an a message sent to all the formations, Deswal called the pandemic a tough time for the country and an unprecedented situation. He underlined the force is trained to be at the service of the nation in all eventualities at the borders and within.All the formations have been directed to follow the guidelines related to safety measures to be taken including reporting to the authorities if any family members of the personnel have recently returned from a foreign country.Deswal, who heads the Indo-Tibet Border Police (ITBP), said all the forces are in the state of complete readiness. “We have already arranged several facilities for Covid-19 patients and equipments have been kept ready. More facilities like our barracks, training centres and other buildings are being identified for more isolation beds. Although we are on the border, this [pandemic] is another dangerous enemy which we have to fight and we are prepared.”Deswal praised ITBP’s team at Delhi’s Chhawla quarantine facility, where many have been treated since February, The central paramilitary forces have, separately, also asked around 450 doctors recruited recently to join immediately as the forces are ramping up their healthcare facilities to deal with the pandemic.They have also reached out to retired medical officers and modalities are being worked out to hire doctors on contractual basis to man hospitals and quarantine centres across the country with a strength of around 7,500 beds.All the paramilitary forces currently have a combined strength of over 2,000 doctors apart from other paramedical staff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsf-warns-personnel-against-negligence/story-GczdsAxjXvNLlJbGQaVBAM.html
30-03-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Two new cases in Army; both had history of domestic travel||Two soldiers, including an army doctor, tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday at a time the force is taking aggressive measures to tackle the spread of the disease within its ranks, two army officers said on condition of anonymity.While the doctor is a colonel posted at the Kolkata-based Eastern Command hospital, the other soldier is a junior commissioned officer in Dehradun, said the first officer cited above.“Both had history of domestic travel in the first/second week of March. Necessary contact tracing is being done and identified persons have been quarantined. The two affected persons are keeping good health and are stable,” said the second officer cited above.The colonel, 52, travelled from New Delhi to Kolkata by flight on March 17 and showed symptoms of Covid-19 a few days ago after which he was tested and found to be positive. The JCO, who is 47, travelled from Delhi to Jhunjhunu on February 25 and from Jhunjhunu to Chakrata near Dehradun on March 10.He was admitted to a hospital in Chakrata on March 25 after he showed symptoms and shifted to the military hospital in Dehradun on March 26.The two new cases come days after a 34-year-old soldier tested positive for the novel coronavirus in Leh on March 18, becoming the first case in the army. The soldier from Ladakh Scouts has recovered.The army, which is at the forefront of the country’s fight against the pandemic, has taken a raft of preventive measures to stop the spread of the infection within its ranks.These measures include cancellation of all non-essential training, conferences and travel, a freeze on postings and foreign assignments, avoiding any assembly that involves more than 50 personnel, postponing all courses for officers and encouraging personnel to work from home wherever possible.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-new-cases-in-army-both-had-history-of-domestic-travel/story-CGMMiHXo42BSwM5mbkrd3M.html
30-03-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Stranded truck drivers seek help from Centre, warn of shortage of essential goods||The nationwide lockdown has resulted in millions of migrant workers flooding the streets and resorting to walking in the absence of any public transport. The state government’s intervention on Saturday finally allowed some migrants to be evacuated before the Centre stepped in stop the exodus and issued a warning to states to seal their borders.Parallel to this another crisis has been brewing with lakhs of truck drivers stuck in limbo.Since the lockdown a total of six lakh cargo carrying trucks are currently stranded across the country, according to the All India Motor Transport Congress.For about 15,000 stranded drivers and labourers at Asia’s biggest truck pit-- the Sanjay Gandhi Transport Nagar, there has been no respite from either the local administration, state government on Central government since the day the ‘Janta Curfew’ was announced. Consignments from as far as Nepal, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal are lying stranded at the hub that is situated near the Grand Trunk Road, India’s busiest highway. Drivers warn of an immediate threat to disruption of supply of essential goods too.“Drivers are stuck in thousands. They have no food or shelter. Our local associations are trying whatever bare minimum food we can arrange for ourselves. They have shut road-side food stalls. Where will the driver go to eat on the highways? There has been no help from the government so far neither from the state or the Centre. This is Asia’s biggest transport hub and we are living in such conditions where not a single penny in aid has been provided. Some drivers have even left their trucks and fled on foot,” Amrick Singh, a member of the Sanjay Gandhi Transport Nagar union says.Abysmal living conditionSwamped in close quarters with no permission to move, the drivers are living with an eminent fear of either contracting the virus or dying of hunger.“Drivers are living in abysmal conditions in an 8x8ft cabin, it is like a jail. One has to live and sleep in it, there is no facility either for toilet or water,” says 27 year-old Jitender Tiwari who drove his consignment from Bihar.Amrick Singh says there is an imminent threat of drivers contracting the disease. “There is a man who ran a dhaba (food stall) who has been lying sick since days. The poor guy has not been getting any food or water as no one wants to go near him out of fear. He will die of hunger alone if not of coronavirus. We have called the authorities many times but no one has bothered to take him. The police came in once after we called multiple times but no one did anything.”About 1500-2000 labourers who were not allowed to cross the borders by the state police have also taken refuge at the transport pit. “We have nowhere to go. I have a 3-year-old infant with me. My village is in Hardoi near Lucknow. I have been told even buses are not running anymore. We are stuck here,” says Geeta, a daily wage labourer who had walked from Rohini.Movement stalledEven as movement of some cargo trucks ferrying perishable goods are being allowed drivers are facing hurdles of long queues and unloading the cargo in the absence of labourers. Drivers say they are also being asked to pay fees by local police to cross the barricades.“Even essential goods vehicles are having issues. Some are stuck in huge jams. Perishable items are being allowed little bit at night but dry ration consignment is stranded here like rice. Drivers can’t even leave the trucks and go as it might be stolen. Some drivers stuck on highways are just leaving their vehicles and fleeing on foot to their villages. No buses have been arranged for us like the labourers. Some drivers who were helping carry labourers were stopped by police and got beaten up. I have faced harassment by the police in Punjab who threatened to give me a challan of Rs 2000 for releasing my truck,” Ranjit Singh, who drove his consignment from Ludhiana, says.Shortage of essential goodsThe lockdown has hampered the supply chain as lakhs of trucks carrying essential commodities are stranded on national highways. A threat of shortage of essential goods looms as the supply logjam continues.“There are several trucks which were already in transit since 19-20 March, before the announcement of the lockdown. They should have at least let them pass. We have been in touch with the government but even state governments are not agreeing. This virus will eventually be controlled but if there is a shortage of essential goods supply there will be a severe war-like situation. Given the present situation it is 100% certain that there will be a shortage and the government is unable to understand the gravity of it,” All-India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC) president Kultaran Singh Aitwal said.“When the industries have been shut and there are no labourers left, how will trucks even be loaded and unloaded? Highway transport is the lifeline of the economy and we are facing a loss of about Rs 2000 crore on an average,” he added.Government interventionThe Union government has issued several circulars asking states to keep units manufacturing food and essential items going and allow transport of intermediary goods.A committee to look at transport logistics has also been formed by the Centre including the secretaries of ministries of civil aviation, road transporter, railways, shipping, health, drugs and textiles.In its first meeting held on Saturday the transport minister had raised the issue of condition of truck drivers who have been stranded at highways, according to officials aware of the development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-stranded-truck-drivers-seek-help-from-centre-warn-of-shortage-of-essential-goods/story-2vvDvVgddKHA2apm2CIMqN.html
30-03-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Pregnant woman, her husband forced to walk over 100km without food; rescued by locals||An eight-month pregnant woman and her husband were offered monetary help and an ambulance in Meerut to cover the rest of their journey from Saharanpur to Bulandshahr after they were forced to walk over 100 kms on their way home without food when the latter’s employer turned them out without any money.Local residents Naveen Kumar and Ravindra spotted the exhausted couple, Vakil and Yasmeen, when they arrived at Meerut’s Sohrab gate bus stand on Saturday and informed Prempal Singh, a sub inspector at Nauchandi police station, about their problem. Ashutosh Kumar, the Nauchandi police station in charge, said Singh and the residents gave the couple food and some cash besides arranging for the ambulance to drop them to their village--Amargarh in Bulandshahr’s Syana. Also Watch | Coronavirus: Can Centre’s 7 steps control migrant crisis amidst lockdown?Kumar said Vakil was employed at a factory and covered the 100 km distance with his wife over two days. Yasmeen told police they lived in a room the factor owner had offered them. “But he asked us to vacate it after the lockdown was announced and refused to give us any money to go our village,” she said.With no alternative, the couple started walking on Thursday from Saharanpur to reach their village. Yasmeen said that they had no food for the past two days because of complete closure of restaurants along the highway.The three-week lockdown announced on Tuesday to curb the spread of the coronavirus pandemic has left millions of migrant labourers jobless and forced them to walk hundreds of kilometres to their villages in absence of any means to sustain themselves.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday apologised to the country’s poor over the hardships they have been facing because of the lockdown even as the government on Thursday announced an economic stimulus plan to provide direct cash transfers and food to them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/locals-help-pregnant-woman-her-husband/story-s9QEWktmfZ4sKXDx3KUkYI.html
30-03-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Muslims perform last rites of Hindu neighbour as relatives unable to reach amid lockdown||Several members of the Muslim community in Uttar Pradesh’s Bulandshahr performed the last rites of their Hindu neighbour on Friday as the relatives of the deceased could not reach his home owing to the nationwide lockdown. Ravishankar died on Friday after suffering from cancer. His relatives expressed their inability in joining the last rites in Gaddha colony of Saatha locality in Bulandshahr due to the restrictions. “Ravishankar was suffering from cancer and died on Friday. His family members telephoned their relatives and friends for last rites but they expressed their helplessness due to lockdown,” said Zahid Ali, the village chief Afroji Begum’s son.The Muslim men in the area carried Ravishankar’s bier, following all Hindu rituals. “Seeing their problem, we gathered at his home and called a local seer to perform the rituals at home and thereafter carried the bier, chanting what the Hindus do. We also arranged for pyre and other requirements for his last rites at cremation ground on the banks of Kali River,” Ali said. Several others helped Ali in the funeral rites, including Shahzad, Haji Israel and Mohd Ikram. A nationwide lockdown was put in place to curb the Covid-19 outbreak in the country on March 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/muslims-perform-last-rites-of-hindu-neighbour/story-JT6tBwvTNojIM5hedYfYcM.html
30-03-2020||India||Coronavirus Update: Lockdown forces Goa residents to scramble for food, medicines||Residents of Goa continue to face an acute shortage of supplies, including groceries like bread and milk, fresh vegetables as well as medicines,three days after chief minister Pramod Sawant said that shops selling essential items would remain open 24X7. Speaking to the press on Sunday, Sawant said that the food shortage was on account of wholesale dealers and suppliers being afraid to move their goods on account of police action. “Hoarding is not the (reason). We are ensuring these hurdles are eased,” he said. “All grocery stores should stay open as long as possible. The godowns which are closed will have to open else we will send civil supplies inspectors to their doorstep. Stock has run out because the suppliers were afraid to move their vehicles and supply. We have asked them to keep the food chain running,” Sawant said.The CM also requested restaurants to keep their kitchens running so as to maintain the food supply chain.Several residents across the state, and particularly North Goa’s Pilerne, Porvorim and Socorro, complained that they were unable to buy supplies even after grocery shops re-opened on Friday.“People are scrambling for food wherever they can find and the administration is completely overwhelmed and cannot cope. Others are exchanging and sharing the last of the vegetables among themselves while trying to help each other out and set up their own networks,” Sapna Sahani, a resident of Alto-Pilerne area of Porvorim in North Goa, said.“We are working with suppliers who complain that they are facing issues in other states and hence are not willing to risk bringing fresh stock into the state,” A Potekar, deputy collector of North Goa, said. He was unable to provide a timeline of when the issue would be resolved.In South Goa too, local body representatives complained that the government had passed the buck onto them without the means to help out. “The government has asked to home deliver, but what will be delivered when there is no stock. Several grocery stores are willing to open but what will they sell when everything has run out,” Allwyn Jorge the sarpanch of the Carmona, a coastal village in South Goa, said. On Saturday, the CM tweeted that online delivery of food via delivery services Swiggy and Zomato would be permitted, and that food buses providing meals to the needy had started running in the state. Goa, which reported its first positive case 24 days after the first case of local transmission was reported in the country on March 2 — has been reeling under a supply shortage of essentials and a clampdown on movement, ever since the state observed the Janta Curfew on March 22, based on prime minister Narendra Modi’s televised appeal asking people to stay indoors voluntarily. The state extended the curfew by three days. Following the announcement of a 21-day national lockdown on Tuesday, the CM insisted on a “100% lockdown and a 100% curfew” shutting down grocery shops, chemists and other such shops. The state also called Central Reserve Police Force personnel to ensure that people do not break lockdown in the state where on last count five persons have tested positive.Sawant said that essentials would be supplied by the district to people’s doorsteps, and helpline numbers would be circulated among residents, but neither materialised.“I got in touch with the local panch and the sarpanch, who they said would be responsible for the home delivery of groceries, but they have told me that they themselves have not received stock of supplies to be distributed among the people,” Sahni said. “The problem is not only in Goa but from across the border in Karnataka where the supplies come in from. We cannot open our store because we have no stock of groceries and neither do we have staff who do not have the means to come to work. At least the buses should have been operational,” Prakash Pereira, owner of popular supermarket store Defino’s, said.Last week, a resident approached the Goa bench of the Bombay High Court asking that the state make essentials available to the residents. “The complete closure grocery shops without any proper system to effect home deliveries or to account for people who have no means to even avail home deliveries might possibly make it extremely difficult for people to access essentials, which, as the term implies, are essential to life and essential to endure the unprecedented, but necessary lock-down. However, at the same time, any blanket relaxations might have the tendency to frustrate the very purpose of having a lock-down of such proportions,” the High Court observed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-forces-goa-residents-to-scramble-for-food-medicines/story-3Mv1uHrJSvXRGaB7kBwiRO.html
30-03-2020||India||In times of coronavirus, work as usual for Prime Minister Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with major non-governmental organisations (NGOs) as well as the heads of Indian missions on Monday evening to get their feedback on the Covid-19 measures and shore up the confidence of those at the front-lines of the battle against the disease.The heads of missions will include those in countries most affected by the crisis – including the US, Spain and Italy – to get a better understanding of how to respond to the pandemic, officials familiar with the matter said.PM Modi is observing a Navratri fast during the auspicious period that ends on April 2 while “working from home” at 7, Lok Kalyan Marg during the 21-day lockdown. Senior officials in the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) told HT that strict protocols have been placed to ensure the health and safety of the PM, with visitors screened for temperature and other health checks, and travel history, before meeting him.“There has been no deliberate curtailing of visitors apart from strictly observing social distancing, and there are no restrictions on the PM handling files or notes,” said an official who asked not to be named. Cabinet meetings and other important discussions have been taking place at his LKM office as usual.In the past 10 days, Modi has spoken to state chief ministers through video-conferencing, and specifically to the CMs of Maharashtra, West Bengal and Delhi over the spread of the coronavirus disease and related issues such as the migrant movement, which he has been deeply concerned about, officials said. They added that Modi and Kejriwal spoke in detail about the migrant exodus, and how it could fail the entire purpose of the lockdown if left unchecked.During the lockdown, Modi also talked to business leaders across the spectrum with the objective of picking up ideas and inputs from. The PM-CARES Fund, launched on Saturday, was a result of such brainstorming discussions.On the foreign affairs front, Modi has had conversations with all the P5 leaders (the UN Security Council’s five permanent members - China, France, Russia, UK and US), while engaging with the G20 community and the Saarc countries to contain the spread of the disease by pooling in efforts.He is also closely monitoring empowered committees on Covid-19 headed by principal secretary PK Mishra and cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba through video conference. While the fight against Covid-19 takes up the majority of time, officials said that the PM is routinely briefed by external affairs minister S Jaishankar, National Security Adviser Ajit Doval and R&AW chief Samant Goel on the diplomatic and national security issues, such as the attack on Kabul gurdwara.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-to-interact-with-missions-ngos/story-whsv6eSZSBW5wkekROyjEM.html
30-03-2020||India||Differently-abled doctors being denied exemption from during Covid-19 lockdown: Activist||Despite a government order to exempt people with disabilities from work during the ongoing lockdown, health care personnel with disabilities across several states have complained of being pushed into service since the sector is part of the essential services.On March 27, the department of personnel and training (DoPT) issued an order that all ministries and departments, while drawing up a roster of staff required to attend essential services within their respective ministries and departments, should keep in mind that persons with disabilities are exempted.The DoPT’s order to exempt doctors with disabilities, however, is not being followed said Dr Satendra Singh of Doctors with Disabilities: Agents of Change, a disability rights group. “In many states in government run as well as private hospitals doctors and other healthcare personnel are not being allowed to remain home; despite the fact that most of them have either co-morbid conditions or have low immunity. Disabled doctors also face a lot of problems navigating, because they need to hold on to railings will walking which makes them susceptible to catching infections,” he said.HT spoke to three doctors with disabilities in two states who claimed their departments turned down their request to work from home. “In my department we are doing only minimal invasive procedures, since aerosols are prohibited because of the threat of infection, there is very little we can do. But it is difficult to maintain protocol for distancing,” said a dentist who has been denied leave.A second doctor who is wheelchair bound said, her leave has also been turned down; even though the department she works for has scaled down operations substantially.“The OPDs are not running to capacity, yet we are being forced to show up. I understand this is a health emergency, but my specialization does not even require me to see patients who test positive for corona virus. However, being the hospital exposes me to risks and my wheelchair that goes everywhere in the hospital can become a mode of contamination for my family,” the second doctor said.A third doctor, also a wheelchair user said the doctors have to work with minimal PPEs, increasing their risk of catching the infection. Two of these doctors are attached to government-run hospitals.Referring to the gap in supplies of PPEs, Singh said it makes imminent sense for hospitals to allow their health care staff to work in batches. “This is a health emergency and we need all hands on the deck, but the doctors need to be protected as well,” he said.In a letter to the union ministry of health and family welfare, Singh said the number of health care personnel present during the procedure should be limited to only those essential for patient care and procedure support. “Professionals with disabilities may be exempted while performing Aerosol-Generating Procedures, work restriction and sick leave policies for them should be non-punitive, flexible, and consistent with disability accommodations as per the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016,” the letter sent on March 22 said.An official of the social justice and empowerment ministry, the nodal ministry for issues related to disability said, “Our guidelines are clear; those with visual impairment and severe disability should be exempt from service. Hospital administrations will take a call on how to interpret this.”On Saturday, the department of empowerment of persons with disabilities (DEPwD) under the ministry urged the union home ministry to ensure minimum support services during the lockdown period. In a letter to the home secretary, DEPwD said persons with disabilities are very vulnerable in situations of risk, need continuous care and support and many of them are dependent on caretakers.It has demanded that a letter for issuance of instructions to law enforcement authorities in the states and UTs to take immediate steps to issue passes to the caregivers of persons with disabilities on a priority basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/differently-abled-docs-being-denied-exemption-activist/story-WfB3HC0qCOXFqllcNAOsrJ.html
30-03-2020||India||Rlys resumes parcel trains to boost supply of essentials||New DelhiThe national transporter will resume parcel train services in a bid to increase supply of essential items like medical supplies, medical equipment and groceries in small parcel sizes, in addition to freight trains that are already plying on the Indian Railways’ network.The decision to boost supply of medical equipment comes after the Centre formed a logistics committee for transportation for medical supply. The committee includes secretaries of ministries including transport, civil aviation, shipping, railways, heath, drugs and textiles.“The decision to run special parcel trains will help in movement of small quantities as well of essential items like dairy products, medical equipment and medicines, groceries, edible oil and other necessary items,” the ministry of railways said.“Supply of essential items in small parcel sizes is going to be very important during the lockdown in the wake of Covid-19. In order to fill this vital need, Indian Railways has made railway parcel vans available for quick mass-transportation across the nation for the e-commerce entities and other customers, including state governments, to transport such goods,” the ministry said.The national carrier has loaded 1,24 lakh wagons carrying essential items, including grains, vegetables, fruits, salt, edible oil, sugar, milk, coal and petroleum products over the past five days. On March 27, 34,648 wagons carried supplies to keep the supply chains functional. Of these, 23,682 wagons of essential commodities were ferried by Indian Railways in 425 rakes to ensure that the supply chains keep functioning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rlys-resumes-parcel-trains-to-boost-supply-of-essentials/story-1R6nJf1Td3FDaH7vpoKDRO.html
30-03-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Govt relaxes restrictions on transportation of goods||The Union home ministry said on Sunday that all goods in addition to essential commodities will be allowed to move across states, relaxing rules in order to unclog highways where hundreds of trucks have been stuck since Tuesday, when the government ordered a nationwide lockdown in order to stop the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.The latest directive was among two communications sent to all states, laying down more clarifications on what constitutes as essential commodities and services that can be carried out during the lockdown. The ministry also reiterated that states need to ensure the lockdown is enforced strictly and the movement of migrant labours is halted.“With the first addendum, transportation of all goods, without distinction of essential and non-essential, have been allowed,” said the letter sent on Sunday to all state chief secretaries by Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla.The reference to the first addendum was to an order issued on March 25 by the home ministry, adding “inter-state movement of goods and transport for inland and exports” as one of the exceptions in the rule banning all air, rail and road transport.“Allowing transportation of all goods would mean that truckers stuck in highways across the country after the lockdown would be able to reach their destination. It would also let truckers who are not stuck and without items, freeing up more capacity for essential services,” said a government official aware of the discussions to add the exceptions, asking not to be named.“Should the need arise for mass transport of items to any corner of the country, transportation capacity would hence be available,” the official added. While non-essential items will be moved, the ban on their sale – including through websites such as Amazon and Flipkart -- continues. Home secretary Bhalla and Union cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba also spoke to chief secretaries and state police chiefs on Sunday morning, when it was communicated that individual district officials will be held responsible for the implementation of the lockdown. The home ministry reiterated that groceries, earlier classified as an essential commodity, will also include items such as handwash, surface cleaners, battery cells, toothbrush and oral care products. The services of the Red Cross have also been included in the list of those exempted from the ban. The letter also referenced other directions in the second order, which include prohibiting home owners from seeking rent from people for a month and employers from withholding salaries.“Our top priority at this time is delivery products that customers need the most. We continue to resume services gradually, adding in more cities as we get the necessary clearances and passes from the local authorities. We are first serving existing orders for essential products and accepting new orders for these items only. We continue to work with the Central and local authorities to urgently enable us to deliver essential products to customers, so that they can continue to stay home and keep India safe,” digital retailer Amazon said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-relaxes-restrictions-on-transportation-of-goods/story-6X67hz2UE9QpuxUjLnypBK.html
30-03-2020||India||Next 24 hours are crucial for the migrant workers. States must act now | Opinion||A human tragedy of untold magnitude is unfolding before our eyes, bringing back painful memories of Partition. Covid-19 and the lockdown by the central and the state governments has led to one of the greatest migrations in human history. In an attempt to stem the spread of this deadly contagion, the curfew and the lockdown across the nation has thrown up a new set of real and potential victims.Daily wagers and migrant labour are bearing the brunt of the shutdown in ways that we, sitting in comfort, cannot even fathom. With the countrywide curfew and the attendant stoppage of all forms of public transport, this multitude of daily wagers and itinerant labour along with their families have taken to the highways, risking a desperate trek covering hundreds of miles – without the means to reach their villages. News pours in of their tribulations, of hungry children and of some succumbing to death due to exhaustion. For the below poverty line population, the struggle is for daily food and shelter. Today, it is their desperate desire to return to their homes, having been abandoned by employers who have shutdown operations, and by landlords who have perhaps coerced them to vacate.Their hope is that in their distant villages they would have access to food, shelter and survival. With the shutdown and sealing of state and district borders, they are now trapped in a no-man’s land, in their own country. When the Prime Minister in his first speech requested the private sector to be generous to its employees and ensure payment of salaries, it was perhaps hoped that the social and economic impact of this lockdown would be contained. But for that, the states had to plan and act in collaboration with each other and for the Centre to coordinate with the states to ensure containment and care of this vast segment of Indians. Containment by police alone is not the solution.Saturday’ scenes at Anand Vihar ISBT at Delhi, showed a fraction of numbers on the move. The tragedy that may unfold if such movement of people is not contained in time by the State Governments reaching out with food, aid and shelter, may be of far greater proportions. It is a given that this mass migration may, and will result in transmission of the infection to villages, where medical facilities are scant and mostly absent.While there has been sporadic action by some state governments in easing food supplies and opening government buildings to the population on the move, each state administration must ensure food, shelter, medical care and safety to the scared populace. The state governments (who it is believed were on board prior to the lockdown), especially those which export interstate migrant labour ought to have not limited themselves to the clampdown, but should have thought ahead of this anticipated mass movement of people. Under Schedule VII of the Indian Constitution, public health, sanitation, public transportation, relief to disabled and unemployed, markets, production supply and distribution of food, water supplies are all matters within the jurisdiction of the state governments. In the past few days we have seen mainly NGOs, individuals and private institutions reach out to local authorities to provide essential food and care to the poor.Today, there is no place in India which is not impacted by the consequences of the shutdown. It is imperative for the states therefore to ensure that a cohesive and coherent strategy both within each state, with adjoining states and with the Centre is formulated within next 12 – 24 hours to prevent the greatest disaster of our times. It is not to say that the state governments are bereft of experience. Large scale movement of kanwariyas (pilgrims) traversing Rajasthan, UP, Uttarakhand, Bihar and Delhi on foot, with tents along highways to provide food, toilets, water and resting places, and vehicles patrolling at roads to pick up the sick and infirm is one example of state action. Kumbh melas are another such example.With public transport buses no longer plying or reduced services, there is idle capacity which is available for emergency services. There are empty schools and colleges and other buildings which can be converted into camps providing shelter and access to toilets. The lockdown has also resulted in supply chains being disrupted hindering the movement of food, medical supplies and essential life saving equipment. Trucks and goods carriers are said to be parked at State borders awaiting clearance to move. The next 24 hours are crucial, and if the state administrations don’t act now by providing assurance, food, water, toilets, shelter to these now homeless migrants, the human cost will be immense and posterity will never forgive our generation. With all the resources at their command, it is the imperative need of the hour for state governments to act and for the Centre to coordinate and to work cohesively to ensure that lives are not lost to starvation and diseases in 2020, while we battle Covid-19.Just as the manner of Partition was termed among the “follies of empire” by the scholar Yasmin Khan, we can only hope that this lockdown, which started as an essential life saving measure, should not be termed the “Folly of 2020”.(Sidharth Luthra is former Additional Solicitor General of India, and Ketaki Goswami is a lawyer)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/next-24-hours-are-crucial-for-the-migrant-workers-states-must-act-now-opinion/story-oSMFYeP8gtq6qEtAinzxDN.html
30-03-2020||India||Coronavirus update- Lessons from the Black Death: Quarantines work, but come at a cost||To beat the Covid-19 pandemic, India has imposed a tight curfew on its 1.3 billion people. Lockdowns elsewhere seem unprecedented. Yet quarantine as a medical strategy is centuries old. Evidence shows it works, but imposes long-term costs, according to a wide variety of literature reviewed by HT.From the time of the Black Death in the mid-1300s and the first outbreaks of cholera in recorded history to the 1918 influenza pandemic, quarantines have always been a form of public-health response to pandemics as far back in history as one could go.There’s evidence that quarantine helped to shorten the first influenza pandemic of the 21st century: the 2009 influenza H1N1 outbreak, mainly by preventing more people from getting it.Italy had, at the time of going to print, 9,134 Covid-19 deaths. Italians have historically paid a high price to pandemics. Earliest forms of quarantine were, not surprisingly, born in Italy.Quarantine comes from the Italian “quaranta,” denoting “obligatory means of separating persons”, according to the US Centres for Disease Control.The Back Death or the Great Bubonic Plague emerged first in Italy. It was the most devastating plague in history, decimating nearly 200 million, according to medical historian Cohen’s book mentioned above. The plague was thought to have broken out first among sailors arriving in Sicily. The contagion spread like wildfire in Florence, Venice and Genoa. That’s when organised quarantine first took shape. “The epidemic had abated but not disappeared; outbreaks of pneumonic and septicemic plague occurred in different cities during the next 350 years,” according to a research article, “Lessons from the History of Quarantine”, by Eugenia Tognotti, professor of the history of medicine in Italy’s University of Sassari. According to the author, the first instance of an organised quarantine as a state-led strategy was “first introduced in 1377 in Dubrovnik on Croatia’s Dalmatian Coast”. “City-states prevented strangers from entering their cities, particularly, merchants and minority groups, such as Jews and persons with leprosy.” At the time, 40 days of isolation was thought necessary.Yellow fever in ports of France, Spain and Italy by the turn of the 18th century forced governments to use quarantine again. The initial response to the first waves of cholera outbreaks was essentially physical separation. With medical advances, some believed that quarantines would no longer be necessary until the catastrophic 1918 influenza pandemic struck the human race in three waves between 1918 and 1919. Quarantine was back. The emergence of the SARS in 2003 brought massive lockdowns in the early 21st century. SARS set off in Guangdong Province, China. Likewise, MERS too necessitated quarantine measures.There’s strong evidence to show quarantine works to stop the spread of communicable diseases. Hubei is proof enough, experts say. Mass quarantine resulted in a sharp fall in Covid-19 cases there from an average 1,693 cases a day in early February to 36 cases on March 8. The social and economic costs can be devastating. Lockdowns hurt livelihood, push nations into deep poverty and can leave governments under massive piles of debt. It can also have lasting psychological impacts. ‘The Lancet’ published evidence from five studies that compared “psychological outcomes for people quarantined with those not quarantined”. Those quarantined were found “likely” to report exhaustion, detachment from others, insomnia, poor concentration, etc. WHO recommends that the extent of quarantine should not exceed the level of threat to public health. As technologies keep us virtually connected, home quarantines are no longer the dreary confinement they historically used to be.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/quarantines-work-but-come-at-a-cost/story-Mx3Cv9tQsZ89VgA49JWJiK.html
30-03-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Can Covid-19 spread after symptoms end?||Some Covid-19 patients might be capable of transmitting the virus even after all symptoms of the disease disappear, a new study has found, and recommended that the quarantine period for seemingly cured people be extended to avoid any possibility of infection.The findings hold significance for India, which is not only struggling to tamp down on quarantine breakers but also has one of the lowest rates of testing in the world. Many experts say the low testing rate has left the government with inadequate data on the scale of the infection spread. The study, published in the American Journal of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine on Friday by researchers from China and the US, examined patients treated at the Chinese PLA General Hospital in Beijing between January 28 and February 9. The patients studied had a median age of 35.5 and were mild Covid-19 cases.For the study, the researchers collected throat swab samples from the patients discharged after their recovery and confirmation of negative viral status by two consecutive polymerase chain reaction (PCR) tests.“The most significant finding from our study is that half of the patients kept shedding the virus even after resolution of their symptoms,” said Dr Lokesh Sharma, department of medicine, Yale School of Medicine. “More severe infections may have even longer shedding times.”The primary symptoms in these patients included fever, cough, pain in the pharynx and difficult or laboured breathing. For these patients, the time from infection to onset of symptoms (incubation period) was five days among all but one patient. The average duration of symptoms was eight days, while the length of time patients remained contagious after the end of their symptoms ranged from one to eight days. “If you had mild respiratory symptoms from Covid-19 and were staying at home so as not to infect people, extend your quarantine for another two weeks after recovery to ensure that you don’t infect other people,” said Lixin Xie, professor, College of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, Chinese PLA General Hospital, Beijing. The paper noted it was unclear whether similar results would hold for more vulnerable patients such as the elderly, those with suppressed immune systems and patients on immunosuppressive therapies, and called for more research.This finding about the shedding window – the time period in which a person can shed the virus and therefore spread the infection – holds special significance for countries such as India, which are still in the initial phase of the outbreak but are hampered by poor healthcare infrastructure and monitoring. “The main importance of these finding is that patients needs be monitored for viral negative status [two consecutive times, separated by at least 24 hours] after resolution of the symptoms. This is the standard protocol followed by most of the countries,” said Sharma.But he admitted that such protocol could be tricky in South Asian countries including India, where testing facilities have been limited. “In these cases, patients should remain quarantined at home or at hospital [which can be difficult] even after the resolution of symptoms for at least two weeks to ensure that they do not spread the virus,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-covid-spread-after-symptoms-end/story-AjG46e6EkQzoBTFFGHFmZI.html
30-03-2020||India||Top Indian scientists join global fight against coronavirus||India’s top research organisations are taking the Covid-19 challenge head on, with the Indian Institute of Science, the National Institute of Immunology, and the Translational Health Science Technology Institute, among others, working on vaccine development and therapeutics.The National Institute of Immunology in Delhi will sequence the virus to see whether the one infecting travellers from different parts of the world is the same or has undergone changes. “The virus changes. By the time you may develop a vaccine it could have changed form. It’s important for us to understand how its changing. First is to see if people who have travelled from Italy, Germany, China, US, etc are infected with the same strain. That can happen through ribonucleic acid (RNA) sequencing. We saw such mutations during the H1N1 outbreak,” said Amulya K Panda, director, National Institute of Immunology (NII). NII is also studying what protein the virus is made up of -- something which will be crucial to vaccine development.The team will also analyse blood samples (once they have access) of some of the 46 people who have recovered, to analyse antibodies that protected them. “Remember that every third vaccine used globally is developed in India. We will be able to deliver. But it’s a matter of time and safety. We will definitely get the virus but if our facilities are not well-contained, we will end up spreading the infection. It is lethal stuff. We have a BSL 3 [Biosafety level 3] laboratory where these tests can be conducted,” Panda added. Biosafety level 3 laboratories are high containment labs aimed at ensuring the virus is contained and does not infect lab workers . Panda said it is difficult to give a clear timeline for the development of these antidotes. “We have to wait for things to cool down and see what’s possible when.” Till a vaccine and therapeutics emerge, massive scale social distancing is the only option to control the spread of the infection, he added.The Indian Council of Medical Research’s National Institute of Virology has already isolated the strains of SARS-CoV-2 from three infected persons who travelled from Wuhan and found it to be very similar the virus isolated in Wuhan. These were the first three infections in India, dating back to January.The Translational Health Science and Technology Institute (THSTI) is working on a diagnostic kit which has a timeline of only a few months. Potential therapeutics, which may take more than a year, include repurposing of existing drugs, studying new chemical compounds, designing new compounds based on the structure of the virus and using monoclonal antibodies from infected patients to treat new patients. “The development of a vaccine may take whole of next year depending on access to samples. The work on developing a diagnostic kit is also on hold now because THSTI will need an import license to get the virus which can happen after the lockdown is lifted,” said Gagandeep Kang, director of THSTI.The office of K Vijayraghavan, Principal Scientific Adviser to the Government of India, issued a memorandum on March 21 which said that national research laboratories are permitted to carry out clinical testing for Covid-19. They are also permitted to access samples from any government approved clinical testing site subject to ethical approval for such research. Labs with BSL3 and BSL3 + facilities are also permitted to culture the virus. Hospitals have been asked to share samples with such labs. Kang said over the phone that her organisation will be attempting to tie up with a hospital in Delhi NCR to use samples for research.At the Indian Institute of Science (IISc) in Bengaluru, a group of at least 30 researchers have come together to prepare research proposals to investigate aspects of molecular epidemiology (study of causative, protective, genetic susceptibility or predisposing factors) and host-pathogen interactions (how the virus sustains in humans). These proposals will be submitted in the coming week to funding agencies for funding to begin research activities on Covid-19, said Umesh Varshney, Professor, Department of Microbiology and Cell Biology and Chair, Division of Biological Sciences at IISc. To begin with, IISc will need a host of approvals from the government which it has already applied for. IISc is also starting work on vaccine development and Covid 19 testing using ICMR approved reagents. “We are very much concerned about the Covid-19 pandemic…we are happy to extend our expertise to the approved labs for Covid-19 testing,” Varshney said in an email.The International Centre for Genetic Engineering & Biotechnology (ICGEB), Delhi, will collaborate with the ICGEB, Trieste (Italy), where substantial progress has been made on diagnostics and therapy, Dinakar M Salunke, Director of ICGEB said.Experts from the National Centre for Biological Sciences were not reachable for a comment but the institute’s website states that it is contributing to national efforts on Covid-19 with immediate and medium-term solutions like disease surveillance, modelling, use of genomics and bioinformatics to understand the evolution of the virus and map disease susceptibility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-indian-scientists-join-global-fight-against-virus/story-CKRGfycsjBJD2ypLcbJPHM.html
30-03-2020||India||Govt shifts staff from 2 Afghanistan embassies||New DelhiIndia has shifted all personnel at its consulates in Herat and Jalalabad to the Afghanistan capital of Kabul because of concerns related to the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic, people familiar with developments said on Sunday.The people cited above said on condition of anonymity the decision to move the diplomats and other staff was made because the consulate at Herat is located very close to the border with Iran and the region has seen a massive influx of Afghan refugees and workers from the neighbouring country that has been hit hard by the coronavirus.It was also felt that the medical facilities in both Herat and Jalalabad were not as good as those available in Kabul, the people said.This is probably the first step taken by the Indian government to relocate its diplomatic staff due to Covid-19-related concerns. It also came in the wake of reports that Islamic State terrorists targeted a Sikh place of worship in Kabul due to the strong security measures at the Indian mission in the Afghan capital.There was no official word on the development from the external affairs ministry. The exact number of personnel involved could not immediately be ascertained.India has four consulates in Afghanistan at Herat, Jalalabad, Kandahar and Mazar-e-Sharif. Herat, the third largest city in Afghanistan, is located a little more than 100 km from the border crossing to Iran at Islam Qala.According to the World Health Organization, Iran has so far recorded 32,332 infections and 2,378 deaths while Afghanistan has reported 106 infections and two deaths. Herat has been described as the epicentre of the virus in Afghanistan and experts believe the reported figures for the country do not present an accurate picture.“We fear that Herat will turn into another Wuhan,” Afghan public health minister Ferozuddin Feroz has been quoted as saying by The New York Times. Provincial authorities imposed a lockdown in Herat from Wednesday.The Afghan health ministry has estimated that half of the country’s estimated 34 million people will contract the virus and more than 110,000 could probably die. Experts believe the worst-affected areas will include cities such as Herat and regions along the 921-km border with Iran. The International Organisation for Migration (IMO) has said more than 115,000 Afghans returned from Iran between March 8 and 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-shifts-staff-from-2-afghanistan-embassies/story-UrJaK2SC9s5SK1Vzdr5dXL.html
30-03-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Kerala will pursue rapid testing to detect possible community transmission of Covid-19: CM||Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Sunday announced that Kerala will pursue rapid testing to detect possible community transmission of coronavirus (Covid-19) in the state that was the first to report the disease in the country and is the worst hit by the pandemic along with Maharashtra.“@WHO [World Health Organization] has stressed the importance of testing in the fight against the pandemic. Kerala has decided to pursue a rapid testing for COVID-19. Blood samples of those under observation will be collected to detect possible community transmission,” Vijayan tweeted.WHO director General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus on March 16 said the organisation has a simple message to all countries—test, test, test—and called mass testing the best way to slow the advance of the pandemic.Rapid diagnostic tests have a detection time of about 45 minutes and they are especially useful in resource-limited countries like India, according to the WHO. The US last week approved the first rapid coronavirus diagnostic test as the country struggled to meet the demand for testing.Health experts say rapid tests involve blood rather than swab samples of patients and are quicker than the current testing technique that requires 24 to 36 hours for results. The rapid tests are much cheaper and cost between Rs 500 and 1,000 against Rs 3,500 to 5,000 in case of swab tests.The experts say in case of rapid tests, nurses can take blood samples unlike in case of swabs that need experts to collect samples. They say blood samples can be taken by the bedside of a patient unlike the swab collection that requires closed enclosures.Dr Sreejth N Kumar, an Indian Medical Association functionary, said they have to go by the WHO guideline of test, test, test. “We have been telling the government for quite some time that rapid tests can help increase our surveillance and spot new cases outside the pool of quarantined and imported ones. It is high time for the state to ramp up its medical infrastructure,” said N Kumar.Officials said the state is entering the next phase of surveillance foreseeing a community spread. They say when people started testing positive outside the quarantined pool and have no foreign travel history, it will be initial indications of a community spread.The state health department has released interim treatment guidelines to deal with Covid-19 patients. As per the guideline, patients have been categorised into three segments--A to C--depending on various stages of infection. It has put out advertisements in major newspapers and electronic media to raise awareness about the disease.Officials said as the state is getting ready for a long haul, it has ramped up its efforts to enhance the medical infrastructure and approached premier institutes like the Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre in Thiruvananthapuram for ventilators and reclining beds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-will-pursue-rapid-testing-cm/story-YxDSk2HjJBHxNzc5py3LYJ.html
30-03-2020||India||Empowered groups to tackle outbreak||New Delhi: New Delhi: The National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government on Sunday formed 10 empowered groups and a strategic task force comprising senior civil servants to deal with the Covid-19 outbreak and its aftermath.The setting up of the groups and the task force, which together have 68 bureaucrats, is an attempt to forge a planning and implementation machinery that acts in concert to minimize the impact of the disease the World Health Organisation (WHO) has declared a global pandemic.It underlines the recognition by the Narendra Modi government of the need for a more comprehensive approach towards tackling the outbreak, which has posed an unprecedented public health crisis, and its aftermath, expected to bring wide-ranging social and economic consequences.The groups will consult frequently over video conferencing or meetings to provide suggestions to the government. They will also monitor their areas of ambit daily and are empowered to take decisions, indicating the pace with which the Centre wants these groups to act.The six-member strategic task force will deal exclusively with issues related to the lockdown announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi for three weeks starting on on March 25. Dr. VK Paul, a member of he policy think tank Niti Aayog; home secretary Ajay Kumar Valla; secretary (coordination) VP Joy and three officials from the Prime Minister’s Office -- AK Sharma, Arvind Srivastava and Abhishek Shukla -- will be members of the team.The first empowered group will oversee “the medical emergency management plan” and is headed by V Paul, a member of the government policy think tank Niti Ayog. It also has four other members -- representatives of the health ministry, the National Disaster Management Authority and the department overseeing Direct Benefits Transfers. The second group will look into “availability of hospitals, isolation and quarantine facilities, disease surveillance and testing and critical care training”. Headed by CK Mishra, secretary of the ministry of environment, forests and climate change, the panel comprises Vinod Yadav, chairman of the Railway Board; Dr. Randeep Guleria, director of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi; and one senior official each from the defence and health ministries.All the ten empowered groups have a representative each from the cabinet secretariat as a member.The biggest group will deal with “facilitating supply chain and logistics management for availability of necessary items such as food and medicine”, indicating the importance of the supply chains in making the lockdown successful. Headed by Prameswaran Iyer, secretary of the department of drinking water and sanitation, the panel has 10 other members including consumer affairs secretary Pawan Agarwal; Guru Mahapatra, secretary of the department for promotion of industry and internal trade; textiles secretary Rajiv Kapoor and senior officials from the Prime Minister’s Office, Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs, the ministry of external affairs,ministry of health and department of health research.With a large section of the political establishment worried about the social and economic fallout of Covid-19 —as evident from tens of thousands of migrant workers heading home from the cities and the shutdown of commercial and industrial establishments -- the government has also formed a separate group on “economic and welfare measures.”It is headed by Atanu Chakraborty, secretary of the department of economic affairs. Expenditure secretary TV Somnath, labour secretary Hiralal Samariya and rural development secretary Rajesh Bhushan are its members along with officials from the PMO and the financial services department.Ministry of micro, small and medium enterprises Arun Panda will head a panel on “augmenting human resources and capacity building” and information and broadcasting secretary Ravi Mittal will preside over a group on “information communication and public awareness”.Ministry of electronics and information technology secretary Ajay Sawhney leads the panel on technology and data management and Amit Khare, secretary of the human resources development, the panel on public grievances and suggestions.Achirangshu Acharya, economist with Viswabharati, said, “The government forming so many empowered group of secretaries indicate that they want a more coordinated approach among different ministries on issues to tackle. I must say this could have happened earlier and also a mechanism should be set up with the states.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/empowered-groups-to-tackle-outbreak/story-QLzwudylcSTTO87ypsiPXK.html
30-03-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Migrants must be screened for Covid-19, Centre tells states||All migrant workers-- either homebound or staying at a state-run shelter in the cities- must be screened for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the Centre has told directed state governments, and those who have already left the cities for their home state will serve a mandatory 14 days in quarantine at their destinations.The workers will be screened and quarantined on the basis of their risk score, calculated on the basis of their age, co-morbid conditions and history of contact with people who may have travelled abroad or may be Covid-19 patients or suspected to be carrying the virus. “Like we did passenger screening at the airports, similarly we will also do risk profiling of these migrant workers. Depending on the risk score, they will be accordingly quarantined,” Lav Aggarwal, joint secretary, Union health ministry, said at a press conference.“Directions have been given to all states in this regard,” he added.The Centre on Sunday issued a formal order directing state governments and Union Territories (UT) administrations to effectively seal state and district borders to stop the movement of migrant workers during the 21-day lockdown period ending April 14.Cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba and Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla, during a video conference, asked chief secretaries and directors-general of police (DGPs) to ensure there is no movement of people across cities or on highways when the lockdown is in force. And the states have been directed to, accordingly, make arrangements for the food, shelter and other necessities of migrant workers.In the absence of a source of income, and landlords evicting them, thousands of migrant workers have been moving across borders on foot towards their hometowns. Most of them could be seen carrying children on their shoulders and even elderly parents on their backs. Many hadn’t had a full meal in days, largely surviving on food distributed by good Samaritans.“Only goods vehicle should be moving across borders; no migrant worker should be on the roads. There have been special arrangements suggested for migrant workers that the states and UTs will have to follow,” said Punya Salila Srivastava, joint secretary, home ministry.District magistrates and superintendents of police have also been directed to look into the issue and make adequate arrangements for implementation of these directions by the central government.“Government is taking all possible measures to handle this issue. Directions have been issued to the states to provide food and shelter to the stranded migrant workers, and those who have already left for their home states will have to be placed under a minimum of 14 days’ quarantine at the point of destination under standard healthcare protocol,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/migrants-must-be-tested-centre-tells-states/story-qCCN4I6CLS5jfgyhKGLnDO.html
30-03-2020||India||Coronavirus update: UP DMs, CMOs told to screen migrants||The state government on Sunday directed the district magistrates and chief medical officers (CMO) of all 75 districts to screen and quarantine all the migrants who reached their villages from Delhi, other states and foreign countries, for 14 days.Addressing a joint press conference, additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Kumar Awasthi and principal secretary, health said chief minister Yogi Adityanath had directed the district magistrates and CMOs of all the districts to screen and quarantine the migrants. The state government had also contacted the 58,000 gram pradhans and ward councillors across the state to assist the district administration in screening and quarantine of the migrants. Those asymptomatic would be admitted to hospitals and other migrants would be home quarantined, he said.Awasthi said there was no community spread of Sars-Cov-2 in UP yet. The number of positive cases in the state was 68 till Sunday evening. All the patients had travel history or the people who came in contact with the travellers were infected. In Noida, around 20 workers in a factory were found positive as some people in the factory had travelled to United Kingdom, he said.Principal secretary, health, Amit Mohan Prasad said none of the positive patients admitted to the hospital was on ventilator. The condition of all the 54 was stable. Fourteen patients had recovered and discharged from the hospital. To strengthen the facilities in the hospitals, the state government had decided to purchase 200 ventilators, he said.Prasad said the state government had decided to establish hospitals for coronavirus in all the 75 districts. The community health centres would be converted into dedicated Sars-Cov-2 hospitals. The specialised hospitals would be established on the premises of the SGPGI Lucknow, KGMU Lucknow, BRD Medical College, Gorakhpur and Government Medical College, Meerut. All the other medical colleges and district hospitals at divisional headquarters would be also converted into corona hospitals, he said.Prasad said the state government was also tying up with the private hospitals to convert their premises into corona hospital.Awasthi said chief minister Yogi Adityanatth had urged the people in other states not to move out and to follow the lockdown rules. The nodal officers appointed by the state government for various states would coordinate with the local administration to provide food and shelter to the migrants, he said. He said the state government had issued order that landlords would not demand rent from the labourers and working class people living on their premises. The private companies would open their offices on March 30 and 31 to transfer salary into the account of the employees. The employers would not deduct the salary of the employees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-dms-cmos-told-to-screen-migrants/story-GDlcsf9X09nnN3CXMcppBM.html
30-03-2020||India||‘Serious Lapse’ during lockdown leads to action against top officials||Two senior Delhi government officers were suspended and two others were served show-cause notices for lapses in implementing government orders during the nation-wide 21-day lockdown, a government release said on Sunday.Additional chief secretary for the transport department Renu Sharma and principal secretary of the finance department Rajeev Verma, also the divisional commissioner, were both suspended, said the home ministry release.Additional chief secretary for home and land buildings Satya Gopal and SDM of Seelampur Ajay Arora were served show-cause notices.The release didn’t state the specific reason behind the disciplinary action against the officers but it did state that they were found guilty of dereliction of duty.“These officers have failed to ensure public health and safety during the lockdown restrictions to combat COVID-19,” the release said.The development comes amidst an ongoing crisis of migrant workers’ exodus from Delhi to destinations in their home states, chiefly to Uttar Pradesh and Bihar among others in violation of the lockdown orders and Centre’s directives to provide shelter, food and health services to the migrant workforce at the place of their work.The moving mass of migrants, several authorities feared, could defeat the purpose of the lockdown and trigger community transmission of the disease apart from creation of a humanitarian crisis for authorities to deal with.“Due to the serious lapse in performance of their duties, the competent authority has initiated disciplinary proceedings against the following officers,” said the release.The officers have been prima facie found guilty of failing to follow the instructions of the National Executive Committee, which is the topmost authority under the Disaster Management Act, which was invoked for issuing lockdown orders.“It has been brought to the notice of the competent authority that the officers, who were responsible to ensure strict compliance to the instructions issued by chairperson, National Executive Committee, formed under Disaster Management Act 2005, regarding containment of spread of COVID-19, have prima facie failed to do so,” the order said.The lockdown was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday in a bid to combat the Coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-ias-officers-suspended-two-others-served-notice-for-failure-to-implement-lockdown/story-cg8Muqg09uXq1fEllyBuqO.html
30-03-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Medical students in final-year MBBS, PG may join Covid-19 fight||Medical and nursing students could join the fight against Covid-19 as authorities consider various options to strengthen the health care workforce and provide protective cover to ageing doctors who are themselves at high risk of contracting the infection and, possibly, dying of it, people in the know said on Sunday.The development came after sector experts suggested an all-hands-on-deck approach with strategic protection to older specialists. The health ministry said in a recent guideline that dentists could be roped in for the anti-Covid-19 effort too.“There are not more than 40,000 anaesthetists, who are specifically trained to handle ventilators, practising across the country. At least half of them are above the age of 50, who we would be putting at risk in a Covid-19 ICU. Of the others, most are in the cities. When we plan for the surge in cases, we should think of an AIIMS or other hospitals in the city which are usually training centres and have resident doctors,” said Dr Devi Shetty, chairman and founder of Narayana Health group.“The district hospitals, which would handle the bulk of the patients, have maybe 15 or at best 25 specialists and only about two anaesthetists. If these 200 to 300 bed hospitals are converted to critical care facilities, who will handle the cases? The latest national health profile shows an 85% shortage for the existing work,” said Dr Shetty.To be sure, there were just over a million doctors registered with state medical councils in 2017, of which only 80% were estimated to be in active service, according to the government. This means, India has one doctor for every about 1,500 persons; World Health Organization (WHO) norms suggest that there must be one doctor for every 1,000 persons. In rural India, however, this ratio goes down to as low as one doctor for over 10,000 patients.Every year, nearly 38,000 postgraduation and 70,000 MBBS students graduate from colleges in India.“Right now, we are in the process of procuring ventilators, but not all the doctors working currently are trained to handle ventilators. So, the first step would be to train a large number of people to use ventilators. We may also look at training postgraduation and BSc nursing students,” said Dr Srinath Reddy, president of Public Health Foundation of India and a member of the national task force on Covid-19.“Those MBBS students who are doing their final internship might be allowed to take care of less critical patients. The option of allowing foreign medical graduates awaiting certification can be explored.”“There are no hard and fast rules. If need arises, states can explore options of identifying people and training them as per the need. They can involve students or even AYUSH practitioners for screening of patients. When there is an emergency, it is an all-hands-on-deck situation,” said a health ministry official.Some experts have also suggest mobilising human resources from various departments within hospitals while others say various forms of medical training recognised by the Medical Council of India (MCI) could be provided.“Many doctors, nurses and technicians have already been freed up by stopping elective procedures. If there is a surge in the number of cases, doctors from other clinical departments who don’t usually manage critical care can be roped in after a short training. Then, there are several private medical colleges that are underutilised but have good ICU facilities and the necessary staff as per MCI requirements; these can be utilised too,” said Dr MC Misra, former director of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi.In Delhi, doctors can be diverted from various hospitals to centres managing Covid-19 patients, according to Dr SK Sarin, who headed the committee guiding chief minister Arvind Kejriwal in readying a preparedness model.“We are preparing infrastructure and manpower for a surge of up to 1,000 cases a day. Right now, we are not even getting 100 cases in a day, but in case that happens we have two hospitals ready,” he said.MCI allowing people with various forms of training to join the Covid-19 fight will increase young manpower, said Dr Devi Shetty.“Around 50,000 postgraduate students are training in various specialties, including some who might have failed the certification exams before. They have experience of working in hospitals and can be allowed to treat Covid-19 patients without waiting for examinations. The MCI had derecognised the College of Physicians and Surgeons in Maharashtra that has trained 40,000 specialists; we can ask them to work in district hospitals in return for recognition. There are 2,000 specialists who have been trained by the Society for Emergency Medicine and another 2,000 in cardiology by IGNOU; MCI can recognise all of them and let them work in district hospitals,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/medical-students-in-final-year-mbbs-pg-may-join-covid-fight/story-yeFBjoms51eDsq2BbgkyoM.html
30-03-2020||India||2 IAS officers suspended for Delhi lockdown violations, 2 other officials face action||Two top IAS officers in the Delhi government have been suspended and two more officials face action for charges that failed to enforce the Covid-19 lockdown in national capital Delhi over the last few days.Renu Sharma, a 1988 batch IAS officer who was posted as Additional Chief Secretary (Transport) and Rajeev Verma, a 1992 batch IAS officer who was Principal Secretary, Finance, in the city government have been suspended.Their suspension orders, seen by Hindustan Times, said the Union home ministry’s competent authority was satisfied that the two officers had prima facie violated the lockdown orders to contain Covid-19.The two officers, the home ministry said in identical orders, had failed to maintain absolute integrity and devotion to duty. It added that the government intended to initiate action for imposing major penalties against them.Home Ministry officials said action is also being taken against the city government’s Additional Chief Secretary, Home and Land Building, and the Sub Divisional Magistrate Seelampur.Home Ministry officials did not elaborate on the precise nature of the allegations against the four officials. But there were indications it was linked to the arrangements by the Delhi Transport Corporation to ferry migrant labour from different parts of the capital to the Delhi-UP border over the last two days.Just hours earlier, Delhi Police had filed FIRs over 44 DTC buses headed to the UP border with migrant workers. The first FIR registered by the police had indicated that the buses had been deployed on orders of government officials.According to the FIR accessed by HT, when the police asked the bus staffer “why are they carrying migrant passengers, that too without issuing any ticket to them, all them told that ‘they had orders from superiors’.” The FIR listed registration numbers of 44 buses.At meetings with states over video conference with Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba and Home Secretary AK Bhalla, the Centre had already made it clear that it was upset with the tens of thousands of migrant workers landing up on the UP-Delhi border to go home.“This is a violation of the lockdown measures on maintaining social distance,” the home ministry said in its order issued earlier in the day that sent a clear warning to states. In this order, the Centre reminded states to “effectively seal” state and district borders to stop the movement of the migrant workers. For those who have already reached their destinations, the Centre has prescribed a 14-day quarantine to make sure they haven’t contracted the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-4-senior-delhi-government-officials-face-action-for-lockdown-violations-2-suspended/story-AyIeYCwjazhhnREp26CjtO.html
30-03-2020||India||Former minister Mahesh Sharma returns to primary profession to tackle Covid-19||For the past eight years, Mahesh Sharma has been a full time politician, handing over the running of his Kailash Group of hospitals in Noida, to his doctor wife, Uma. But for the first time since he became a legislator in the Uttar Pradesh assembly in 2012 and then a union minister in 2014, Sharma has switched back to his white lab coat. It is not because he is no longer a minister, but because his hospital’s staff members seemed to be crumbling under the work and mental pressure unleashed by the Covid-19 pandemic.“I just got a call that a coronavirus positive patient had come to the hospital,” he said. “The first reaction of my staff was to feel hesitant, to back off a bit. I think when I go and stand with the patient, it helps them feel stronger. The staff members feel reassured that I’m here.”For 25 years, Sharma practised general medicine after studying in UCMS College in the Capital. Graduating to becoming an administrator, Sharma started and quickly expanded his chain of hospitals along with his gynaecologist wife. Their two children are also doctors and he did not have to bother with the daily operations of hospital administration, till the full impact of the coronavirus hit India.“For the last two weeks, I’ve been here for at least 14 hours daily. It’s not that I’m consulting or it is my area of work but I am back to managing the place,” he said. As research about the disease is still evolving, Sharma’s main firefighting has been to mentally prepare his staff. All hospitals, even private ones, have been roped in by district authorities to keep a certain number of beds for Covid-19 patients.“The other day, a brigadier died and his body had to be taken. One driver told the other that he had died from coronavirus. The driver panicked to such an extent that he just abandoned the body and didn’t come for two days and still has not come back,’’ said Sharma. ``We had to then address all staff members, especially the other driver. We told him that brigadier didn’t die of corona. And even if he did, they had protective gears like masks and gloves and so they can safely do their jobs. You have to be a human and do your duty.”Sharma said there was a direction to all hospitals to treat all respiratory disease patients like coronavirus, until it is proved otherwise. “So we first take their samples and send it for testing,’’ he said. No patient had tested positive at his hospitals yet but they did have half a dozen suspected cases.His son Dr Kartik Sharma welcomed his help and advice. “It’s good to have his guidance on this. Even when we are home, we are constantly discussing how to get more equipment, whether it is N95 masks or personal protection equipment.”“It isn’t possible to do testing at a mass scale here. Even America can’t afford to do that. My friend there tells me they have no gloves or mask. Compared to that, India is much better off. I don’t think we will face any shortages any time soon,’’ the doctor said.So how does a doctor like him stay safe? “I leave my clothes here and the ones I wear at home I just dip in detergent. This virus is detergent sensitive and so I do this and then shower before meeting my family.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-minister-mahesh-sharma-returns-to-primary-profession-to-tackle-covid-19/story-UsAUVVvz6MHqdlj53kQ5bJ.html
30-03-2020||India||Covid 19 Update: 23 people linked to Noida fire safety firm test positive, 6 on Sunday||On Sunday, six more persons were found positive for Covid-19 in Gautam Budh Nagar who had direct or indirect link with a security and fire safety solutions company in Sector 135 where 22 people were infected. After district officials informed the police that some of the company employees hid their foreign travel history, an FIR was registered against it for negligence.The total number of cases in the district is now 32. The infection is thought to have come about after a Briton visited the firm, Ceasefire Industries Pvt Ltd, in the third week of March for an audit and met its managing director. Ever since the first confirmed case — that of the managing director’s wife — was brought to the notice of the authorities last Tuesday, they began an intensive contact tracing exercise.The newly identified patients are a 19-year-old woman employee of the company who stays in a rented apartment in Sector 27, a 34-year-old employee of the company and his brother and sister-in law, both 35-years-old, and a 31-year-old employee from Bismoli village in Dadri. The sixth person is a 42-year-old employee and a resident of Hazratpur Wajidpur village in Dadri.The initial report of the 34-year-old man had come negative but the health officials decided to test him again as his mother and wife were found positive. “He was quarantined and tested again because we had our doubts. His current report has confirmed him positive,” said a senior health department official.The new patients were isolated at the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) and they were said to be stable.On Saturday, the district chief medical officer had ordered an FIR against the company the managing director had a travelled to the UK and the Briton had violated their quarantine period that allegedly led to the spread of the virus.Administration officials are going to seal the whole area where the newly identified patients live in Dadri and sector 27. The residential society in sector 137 was sanitised when the man’s wife and mother were found positive for the virus.“More reports are awaited from the same exercise,” said Dr Anurag Bhargava, district chief medical officer (CMO).He wrote to the Expressway police station that appropriate legal action should be taken under the Uttar Pradesh Epidemic COVID-19 Act 2020. Following this, station house officer Yogesh Malik said they have registered a case under section 45 (Punishment of offences committed within India), 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-22-people-linked-to-noida-fire-safety-firm-test-positive-5-on-sunday/story-0w6X9gsdY467OFdezSuC9L.html
30-03-2020||India||Covid-19: How India Post is helping deliver testing kits, medicines||New Delhi: On Wednesday, state-owned India Post got an urgent request. A Covid-19 automated testing machine on its way to Pune was stranded in Chennai. Confronted with logistical issues like lack of train services and commercial flights following the 21-day lockdown, the postal service had to be innovative. It turned to the express delivery service Blue Dart, which has its own cargo aircraft, to ferry the package.The flight took off from Chennai at 10.30pm on Friday; the package reached Sasson General Hospital in Pune 12 hours later via Mumbai. “We were supposed to deliver the machine on Tuesday,” Vishnu Raja, owner of Techbio Solutions that supplied the machine, told Hindustan Times. “We reached out to many providers after the lockdown, but it was only thanks to India Post that we could manage the delivery.” Postal services, classified under the Essential Services Maintenance Act (ESMA), have remained functional despite the lockdown although it has been hamstrung by the lack of transport services following the shutdown. The postal service is still doing its bit. With 1,55,531 post offices, India Post is the largest postal network across the world. According to the Department of Post’s annual report 2018-19, it employs 4,18,818. Of these, around 39,000 are postmen in urban areas and 1,25,000 are gramin dak sevaks (or mail deliverers in rural areas). “We are concentrating on essential commodities,” director general (post) Arundhaty Ghosh said. “We are facing problems due to railways and passenger flights being curtailed, but our arrangement with Blue Dart helped us streamline the process to deliver the Covid-19 testing machine.” India Post personnel collected the consignment in Chennai after taking precautions like using masks and gloves, chief postmaster general (Tamil Nadu) Selva Kumar said. India Post made several exceptions like putting aside the bureaucratic procedure of sorting mail, picked up the package in Mumbai, cleaned and sanitised it and sent it directly to Pune. “We faced a half-an-hour delay since we didn’t know the size of the package,” postmaster general (Mumbai) Swati Pandey said. “We had arranged for a Tata Sumo, but then called for a van.”The machine, which was imported at the end of February from the US, will help the Pune hospital increase the number of samples it can test and reduce the risk of error. “Automation makes the process simpler and quicker,” Raja said. “Spain, US, Germany and Italy are doing it in a big way. India is not even testing those without a travel history yet, but eventually we will have to so that we can identify clusters and prevent the spread of the virus.”India, at present, has one of the lowest testing rates across the world. “We are also in the process of supplying another model to AIIMS {All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi} which should reach early next week,” Raja added. But the delivery of the machine is not the only thing India Post is doing to ease lockdown troubles. “We are also delivering medicines,” Pandey said. “Day before yesterday, I shipped medicines to an old woman who lives in Andheri East. We are also in the process of tying up with Welcome Pharmaceuticals to supply medicines to various metro cities.” The Mumbai unit of India Post is also aiming to deliver old-age pensions at the doorstep so people don’t have to visit the post office to collect them, Pandey added. “The post banks are open,” she said. “Even during lockdown, people have come to open accounts. We just want to ensure that they can access their money.” A similar approach is being taken in Uttar Pradesh. The priority is keeping India Post Payment Bank (IPPB) functional. “Mail being delivered a day or two late isn’t really a problem,” said Rajeev Umrao, director of postal Services. “Our priority is to ensure that people from less privileged background are able to access their money, so we are working to ensure the IPPBs are functional.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-how-india-post-is-helping-deliver-testing-kits-medicines/story-K67MzfJwW5xQO6G3feXapO.html
