31-03-2020||India||Hundreds from Telangana, AP attended event at Nizamuddin||Nearly 2,000 followers of the Tablighi Jamaat from Andhra Pradesh and Telangana are estimated to have attended the March 15-17 congregation of the Islamic missionary movement in New Delhi’s Nizamuddin, which has since emerged as a coronavirus (Covid-19) hotspot, raising deep concern among governments of the two states at a time when the pace of the disease’s spread has escalated.Telangana officials said six people from the state, who attended the congregation, had died of Covid-19, and the government was trying to trace the people who they had been in contact with. Andhra Pradesh discovered 11 people who had been infected by the virus after attending the event; three contacts too tested positive.At least 25-30 people from each district of the two Telugu-speaking states attended the congregation, said a statement released by the Andhra Pradesh government on Tuesday. Telangana has 33 districts and Andhra Pradesh 13 districts. The Andhra government has so far identified around 800 people who attended the Jamaat congregation. The Telangana government has identified 1,030 people who did so.“Officials are gathering information from the event organisers, police officials, the railway department as they travelled in trains, and from various other sources and tracking down everyone,” said the statement released by AP chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy ’s office on Tuesday evening.According to a bulletin issued by the Andhra Pradesh government on Tuesday, as many as 17 new positive cases of Covid-19 had been detected in the state since Monday night. Out of these, as many as 14 were connected to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation: 11 of them had attended the event and three are relatives of attendees.Chief minister Reddy, expressing concern over the development, appealed to the people who attended the congregation and the people they came in contact with to voluntarily step forward for medical treatment. He ordered the health department and the police to coordinate and identify fellow travellers of the Jamaat, test them, and shift them to quarantine centres in case they exhibited any symptoms.In Telangana, health minister Etala Rajender asked all those who returned from the congregation to get themselves tested and remain under quarantine so that the disease doesn’t spread. Mohammad Irfan, a professor of electronics at the Indian Institute of Information Technology (IIIT), Nuzvid, in Andhra Pradesh’s Krishna district, who attended the Nizamuddin event, said it was a peaceful congregation of Jamaat members to reaffirm their faith in Islam.He said no one exhibited any Covid-19 symptoms at the event. “We returned safely on March 18. Later, I was put in quarantine at Nellore government hospital along with a few others. So far, none of us has developed any symptoms for Covid-19 and we are safe. We are being taken care of by the doctors and government officials well. There is no need to create unnecessary panic about the Delhi meeting,” Irfan said on the phone from quarantine.Mohammad Akbar, who runs a business renting out tents for outdoor functions in Vijayawada, said he, too, had returned from the Delhi convention without any symptoms of Covid-19. “Maybe a small number of people might have tested positive for Coronavirus, but I can say 95% of those who returned from there are safe. As per the government instructions, I am maintaining home quarantine since my return,” Akbar said.According to the official statement, arrangements for the Tablighi Jamaat followers in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh to participate in the congregation were supervised by Ikram Ali, leader of the organisation based in Hyderabad’s Mallepall, who took care of their accommodation and food.HT couldn’t reach Ikram Ali , whose phone was switched off.In Telangana, out of the 1,030 people who were identified as having attended the meeting, as many as 603 were from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits.“We conducted a joint operation in coordination with the health department since Monday night and started tracing the people who came in contact with those who attended the congregation,” said Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation commissioner Lokesh Kumar.Six people from Telangana who attended the congregation died in hospitals after they were infected by the Coovid-19 virus, a statement from the chief minister’s office on Monday night. On Tuesday, 15 more tested positive. Apart from Greater Hyderabad, the other districts that recorded a high number of travellers to Delhi included Nizamabad (80), Nalgonda (45),Warangal Urban (38) and Adilabad (30 ) .Telangana police said they were are on the lookout for those who came in contact with the six people who died of Covid-19, after returning from the Tablighi Jamaat event.Director-general of police, M Mahender Reddy, who held a teleconference with officials late on Monday, directed all district officials to immediately trace the contacts and put them under quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hundreds-from-telangana-ap-attended-event-at-nizamuddin/story-ao0afFw3gzszDputDtFWlL.html
31-03-2020||India||Coronavirus Update: Over one lakh people put in home quarantine in Bengal||A 48-year-old woman, who died in a state run hospital on Monday night, was posthumously detected with Covid-19 taking the total death toll due to infection in the state to three, even as five fresh cases were detected and more than one lakh people put into home quarantine in West Bengal within the last 24 hours.West Bengal has a total of 27 positive cases now, of which three were ‘cured’ as stated in a bulletin issued by the government on Tuesday. More than 1.48 lakh people are now quarantined in home and hospitals across the state. The state government has, meanwhile, started identifying the people who attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area. Authorities didn’t issue any official figures. State home secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay tweeted: “All those from West Bengal who have participated in the event are being identified and will be immediately tested for Covid-19 and put under mandatory 14 days quarantine.” Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee donated Rs 5 lakh each to PM National Relief fund and to Bengal state emergency fund. She said the donations were made from her limited resources.“Out of my limited resources, I am contributing Rs 5 lakhs to the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund & another Rs 5 lakhs to the West Bengal State Emergency Relief Fund in an attempt to support our country’s efforts in fighting the COVID-19,” Banerjee tweeted. Meanwhile, a bulletin issued by the state health department on Tuesday said that at least three persons who were earlier detected with coronavirus have been ‘cured’.This includes a UK-returned 18-year-old boy who was the first coronavirus patient of the state. The boy, a son of a senior bureaucrat, was slammed and trolled on social media along with his family for not practicing social distancing.Following the woman’s death in a state-run hospital in Howrah district, a section of the hospital’s nurses alleged that she was treated in the general ward with 30 other patients for nearly four hours before being shifted to the hospital’s ICU.They said that the superintendent of the hospital didn’t isolate the patient despite being repeatedly warned by nurses that she was a suspected Covid-19 patient. The superintendent could not be contacted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-over-one-lakh-people-put-in-home-quarantine-in-bengal/story-FZmgK9VUjyfC8f5ZCt82eP.html
31-03-2020||India||Economic fallout will be extremely serious for Punjab and the nation: Amarinder||The Punjab government stepped up efforts to check the spread of the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic and clamped a curfew before the Centre declared a nationwide lockdown for the purpose. Amarinder Singh, the Punjab chief minister, spoke to Navneet Sharma about these efforts and how he plans to deal with the impact of the lockdown on the state’s economy. Edited excerpts:What impact is the Covid-19 outbreak likely to have on Punjab?It is too early to give an assessment. Our efforts currently are focused on preventing the spread of the disease and ramping up the health infrastructure to meet any eventuality. I am monitoring the situation and we are prepared to handle any eventuality. The government machinery is fully engaged so that people are not inconvenienced. The impact of the outbreak is likely to be an extended one, though it is not possible to put any timeline. Also, I do not think any section of society will remain untouched by the crisis. But we, Punjabis, are resilient, and will undoubtedly come through this crisis.Have you been able to figure out the broader spread and how do you plan to deal with it?The situation is a very dynamic one and changing every day. As of now, there is no apparent community transmission. However, as the danger still looms, and we cannot rule out escalation in the coming days, we have geared ourselves fully. We have planned three levels of care centres. One, critical care, where all Covid-19 patients with HDU [High Dependence Units] and ICU [Intensive Care Units] requirement would go. Two, patients with mild symptoms would be admitted in isolation facilities created in government hospitals with total bed capacity of 5,000 . Three, in case of broad spread of Covid-19, hostel buildings of colleges would be converted into care centres. This plan would enable us to take care of over 25,000 positive patients at any given point. What is your main worry as India is entering into a critical phase where we can either flatten the curve or see a sharp spike in cases?Fortunately, we have not entered the Stage-3 of community transmission and hope we do not have to face such an eventuality. However, if a broader spread does occur, then the focus will have to be on flattening the curve so that there is no rush of positive patients to the hospitals and each patient is properly taken care of. The low number of positive cases in the last few days gives us cause for optimism. We have adopted more aggressive testing and more contact tracing strategy to put Covid-19 positive cases in isolation. We hope it will help prevent the situation from escalating.How serious is the danger that Non-Resident Indians (NRIs) and others who have returned recently from abroad pose?When reports of the outbreak started coming in, we screened over 95,000 passengers who had arrived at the two international airports and two land ports at Wagah and Kartarpur Sahib. Subsequently, we received a list of 55,000 international passengers from the government of India. We have put these passengers under home quarantine of 14 days and are keeping a strong vigil. It is true all Covid-19 positive cases in Punjab have been traced back to persons with history of foreign travel. But it would be unfair to say that NRIs pose a special danger of Covid-19 because if we consider the percentage of persons, who came from abroad and showed its symptoms, then we will see that it is a very small percentage.What is the impact of the lockdown on Punjab’s economy likely to be?It is too early to predict anything, especially considering that we are still in the midst of the crisis. Right now, we are diverting all resources to coping with the problem and providing all possible support to our people. I have asked finance minister Manpreet Badal to draw up a detailed financial contingency plan to deal with the situation. But given the extent of the problem, the economic fallout is going to be extremely serious, and may take a long time to recover, not just for Punjab but the entire nation,and, in fact, the whole world. Punjab is heavily dependent on migrant workers for harvesting and they are returning to their homes. What challenges do you forsee?I have instructed all the departments that not a single migrant labourer should be out on the streets. Industry and brick kiln owners have been asked to shelter the migrants. Also, we are in talks with the Radha Saomi Satsang sect to help accommodate the migrant labourers in their Satsang Bhawans so that they can help out with the wheat harvesting that is due to begin in two weeks. The government has also made elaborate arrangements to provide food and shelter to those left in the lurch because of the sudden lockdown.How has India’s response to the challenge been?The nation has, by and large, responded very well. The challenge of locking down 1.3 billion people overnight was an extremely tough one, and naturally it was not possible to put in place foolproof systems. Yet, given the scale and enormity of the challenge, things have been largely smooth, barring the exodus of migrant labour from some states, which is also now being managed. In retrospect, one can of course think of many things that could and should have been done differently. But things are getting normalised and I am sure every state is doing everything in its power to manage its people while extending full support to the Centre.What steps should the Centre take to help the states?We have shared a detailed list of steps needed urgently to be taken by the Centre. These include immediate release of our the GST [Goods and Services Tax] compensation, payment of dues under MGNREGS [Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme], deferment of industrial and agriculture/crop loan instalments by commercial banks, special insurance for police and sanitary workers in line with the one announced by the Centre for health workers and incentives for farmers to ensure staggered transport of wheat grain.Does Punjab have the facilities for testing on a large scale as experts are calling for more and more testing?When this problem started, we had testing facilities at PGIMER [Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh] with a capacity of 40 Covid-19 cases per day and then we got approval for testing facilities at GMCs [government medical colleges] at Patiala and Amritsar. GMC, Faridkot, will also get an approval very soon. In the next 3-4 days, we will increase the testing capacity to 850 cases per day. Regarding testing protocol, we have been broadly following the ICMR [Indian Council of Medical Research] guidelines, which allow very limited testing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/economic-fallout-will-be-extremely-serious-for-punjab-and-the-nation-amarinder/story-HKGAqukpVGfrRBBnl72QyI.html
31-03-2020||India||Can lemon, turmeric prevent coronavirus? I&B launches Twitter handle to bust fake news||In the latest in a series of efforts to curb what it calls the “infodemic” of fake news over the coronavirus epidemic, the Information and Broadcasting ministry on Tuesday formed a special Twitter handle which would spread the correct information while busting fake news.According to government sources, fake news is a major challenge during the lockdown period as incorrect information can spread panic. The official said there was a view that the recent rush of migrants from Delhi also happened because of attempts to paint an incorrect picture.As part of these efforts, the Information and Broadcasting ministry formed a special handle on Twitter @COVIDNewsByMIB.“We should not get infodemic while fighting against the CoronaOutbreak. It is important to be updated with correct information on COVID 19,” the ministry said in the first post.In another post it sought to bust a myth.“Does consumption of lemon or turmeric prevent Coronavirus? Answer: No”Significantly, the government’s Press Information Bureau is making efforts to alert citizens about fake news on important issues and provide correct news, while the Public broadcaster’s online platform Prasar Bharati News Service has also been trying to counter wrong information.News agency ANI quoted Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla saying that rumours were being spread about Covid-19 in the country leading to misinformation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/does-lemon-or-turmeric-prevents-coronavirus-i-b-launches-twitter-handle-to-bust-fake-news/story-3qcz5JVSOGI6REv1mXn8xJ.html
31-03-2020||India||Study links climate crisis to changes in monsoon patterns over last 30 years||New Delhi: Parts of India are facing a severe impact of the climate crisis with reduced rainfall and increase in dry, or no rain, and heavy rain days during the monsoon season, an India Meteorological Department (IMD) study on changes in monsoon patterns over 30 years has found.The monsoon, which generally begins in June and retreats by Sept, delivers around 70% of India’s annual rainfall. It is crucial for the cultivation of rice, wheat, sugarcane and oilseeds in the country where farming employs over half of its people. The monsoon is key to replenishing reservoirs, groundwater and addressing water shortages.The study, which was released on Monday, found there were “significant decreasing trends” in the south-west monsoon from 1989 to 2018 in the Ganga basin states like Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and West Bengal, which are known to have among the most fertile lands in the country. Meghalaya, where Cherrapunji is known as one of the places with the highest precipitation globally, Nagaland and Arunachal Pradesh recorded a decreasing trend along with Himachal Pradesh.The study found a significant increase in heavy rainfall (6.5 cm or more) days in Gujarat’s Saurashtra and arid regions of Kutch and south-eastern Rajasthan, as well as northern Tamil Nadu, northern Andhra Pradesh, south-west Odisha, parts of Chhattisgarh, south-west Madhya Pradesh, parts of West Bengal, Manipur and Mizoram, Konkan, Goa and Uttarakhand.Goa has recorded the maximum monsoon rainfall over the past 30 years (2878.0 mm) followed by Meghalaya (2702.4 mm). Tamil Nadu reported the lowest (311.7 mm) followed by Rajasthan (414.2 mm).Pulak Guhathakurta, who heads the IMD’s hydrometeorology wing in Pune, said a Parliamentary standing committee had asked for a report on the impact of the climate crisis on monsoon in the recent decades. “The ministry of earth sciences presented this analysis to the Committee in February but it is being made public today [??],” said Guhathakurta, who has also conducted long-term studies on monsoon patterns with 100-year data. Guhathakurta said there is multi-decadal variability. “For example, 1940 to 1970 was a wet period for us and now we are in a dry period. But there is a clear imprint of climate change on monsoon which is something that farmers have been trying to deal with. The Ganga basin is recording a significant increase in dry days.”The IMD has put out individual detailed reports for states on variability in monsoon so that they can plan accordingly.In a press statement issued on Monday, IMD (Pune) said the monsoon rainfall shows high temporal and spatial variability. “Further, in view of ongoing climate changes, there have been significant changes in the mean rainfall pattern and their variability exclusively in terms of the intensity and frequencies of heavy rainfall events.” The IMD in January highlighted how monsoon onset dates had also changed in several parts of the country.“The onset and withdrawal dates for south-west monsoon recognised by the IMD were based on monsoon pattern between 1901 and 1940. But monsoon patterns including onset and withdrawal across the country have recorded significant changes in the recent decades and hence will be changed,’’ Union earth sciences ministry secretary M Rajeevan said in January.Rajeevan on Monday said they will announce the new dates for monsoon onset to states sometime in April so that there is no disruption. All meteorological forecast and data are being shared with farmers, he added.There was a bad start to the monsoon season last year with June being the driest in five years. This followed average precipitation in July before heavy rains in August caused flooding in some states. In October, the IMD said monsoon rains were 10% above average in 2019 and the highest in 25 years.“This monsoon will be bad. One challenge is when do farmers sow etc because of the unpredictable monsoon pattern but also because livestock is a major source of income for small and marginal farmers. Both fodder and water for livestock will be impacted if drought conditions extend. I fear there will be a deep crisis situation particularly for crops other than wheat and paddy for which there is no procurement policy. Markets are mostly closed owing to lockdown and outbreak. If you look at the past ten years data, money earned by migrated labour comes into the village and used for agriculture. Now all those labourers have migrated back so there will be major stress on earning from the little agricultural plots in most parts of the country,” said GV Ramanjaneyulu, Chief Executive Officer of Centre for Sustainable Agriculture||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/study-links-climate-crisis-to-changes-in-monsoon-patterns-over-last-30-years/story-rcMx9EoeGRzGXmL9ezgZFL.html
31-03-2020||India||Lack of public support has increased coronavirus hotspots in country: Govt||The number of coronavirus hotspots in the country has increased as a result of “lack of public support” at some places and failure to inform authorities in time about suspected cases, the Health Ministry said on Monday.With over 1,200 COVID-19 cases reported in the country so far, Heath Ministry officials asserted that rigorous contact tracing and cluster containment strategies are being implemented strictly to check the virus from spreading further.Addressing the daily press conference to provide updates on the COVID-19 situation in the country, Health Ministry Joint Secretary Lav Agarwal said 227 cases have been reported in the last 24 hours. He further said wherever even a single case of the pandemic is reported it is as good as a hotspot for the government.The official said a group of Union ministers Tuesday took stock of the situation and stressed on the need for readying dedicated COVID-19 hospitals. “With over 1,200 cases of COVID-19, the number of hotspots in the country has increased. The reason for this sudden increase in cases has been due to lack of public support in some locations and failure to inform authorities in time,” Agarwal said while underlining the need for collective support to fight the battle against coronavirus. “The entire society may have to bear the brunt for the lack of cooperation on the part of even one individual,” he said.Agarwal also asserted that the government is making efforts towards increasing the availability of protective gear for medical professionals.He said besides making efforts towards developing indigenous products, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) has identified suppliers in South Korea, Turkey and Vietnam to improve the capacity of PPE, N-95 masks, ventilators and other equipment as well as to boost logistics in the country during the COVID-19 crisis.“We have told our procurement agencies and have discussed with Ministry of External Affairs that whichever country we plan to procure any of the items from, they should follow the required standards and technical guidelines,” he said. While acknowledging that there have been cases in a few locations of healthcare workers getting infected and also infecting their colleagues, he clarified that it was “not due to any negligence”.“With respect to infection associated with healthcare workers, it is a major area of concern for us and as part of our strategy to manage COVID-19 we have been taking up exhaustive training across the country to ensure that the healthcare staff is aware about what precautions need to be taken when it comes to COVID-19 management,” he said.Seeking cooperation from the public to fight the pandemic, Agarwal said there was no need to panic.  As far as home-made masks are concerned, he said international bodies like WHO have not given any categorical opinion on their usage so far. He, however, said anticipating that a need may arise to make them available, the whole issue was being technically examined by the health ministry and suitable guidelines will soon be issued.  He also said not everyone needs to wear masks and stressed on social distancing being a more important measure to prevent the spread of COVID-19.Talking about the epidemiology of the virus which will impact research on vaccine development, Dr Raman R Gangakhedkar, head of the Epidemiology and Communicable Diseases at the ICMR, said so far there was no evidence to suggest that strains circulating in India were any less virulent.He further said so far 42,788 samples have been tested for coronavirus infection out of which 4,346 samples were tested on Monday.“This represents 36 per cent of India’s capacity,” he said, adding, 49 private labs have been given permission for testing so far and 399 patients were tested in such laboratories on Monday.He further said the ICMR will work with the Department of Bio-technology, Department of Science and Technology and Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) to further the agenda of developing a vaccine for the COVID-19 and diagnostic kits.Commenting on a cluster of cases being reported from the Nizamuddin area here after a religions congregation, Agarwal said it was not the time to find faults and emphasised on implementing containment strategies.“With respect to the Nizamuddin area, we all need to understand and appreciate that this is not the time to do fault finding. What is important for us is to take action as per our containment process in whatever areas we find a case,” Agarwal said, adding that necessary action in the matter has been taken by the Delhi government.The ministry on Tuesday also identified the essential features for ventilators to be used for the treatment of COVID-19 patients. The features have been framed in collaboration with the Director-General (Life Sciences), Defence Research & Development Organisation (DRDO), officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-hotspots-in-country-have-increased-due-to-lack-of-people-s-support-health-ministry/story-Fd4qhAzDRMyusOeCbM8MmL.html
31-03-2020||India||Infections surge in Maharashtra, Assam becomes latest state on Covid-19 map||The number of coronavirus infections in India rose to 1,397 on Tuesday, casualties mounted to 35 while Assam became the latest state to come under the grip of the pandemic.Much of Tuesday’s figures were boosted by Maharashtra where 82 new cases surfaced with Mumbai accounting for 59 of them, the state health department said. The total number of infections in Mumbai stood at 151.Maharashtra now has 302 positive cases, followed by Kerala at 241. Tamil Nadu which reported 50 new cases, now has 124 cases, said Beela Rajesh, Tamil Nadu Health Secretary.Follow coronavirus live updates here.Kerala recorded seven cases son Tuesday after 50 infections in the last two days. The state also recorded its second Covid-19 casualty when a 68-year-old former police officer died at a hospital in Thiruvananthapuram.In Delhi, 23 positive cases were reported taking the total number of cases in the national capital to 120, the state government’ s health department said.Over the past couple of days, Nizamuddin area has become the coronavirus epicentre in Delhi and there are fears that the contagion could spread further after it emerged that thousands of people from various states had travelled to the national capital to take part in a religious congregation According to a Union home ministry document, about 824 foreigners associated with the congregation had fanned out to different Indian states for religious teachings and states had been directed on March 21 to identify them.Also on Tuesday, the Delhi Police filed a case against Maulana Saad and others of Tableeghi Jamaat under Epidemic Disease Act 1897 and other sections of the Indian Penal Code for alleged violation of government directions given to the management of ‘Markaz’ (religious congregation) of Basti Nizamuddin about restrictions on gatherings.Late Tuesday evening, the government decided that any foreigner who wishes to visit India and take part in Tablighi Jamaat activities would not be issued tourist visa.Almost a week into the 21-day lockdown to prevent the spread of coronavirus, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced that government would triple the scale of feeding the poor people in the capital.“So far, we were feeding around 4 lakh people twice a day. From tomorrow (Wednesday), we will be able to feed as many as 12 lakh people twice a day,” Kejriwal saidAssam joined the long list of states hit by coronavirus after a 52-year old man in Silchar tested positive as the pandemic continued to expand its footprints in India.In Rajasthan, 17 evacuees from Iran have tested positive for Covid at the army quarantine facilities in Rajasthan to take the number of infections in the state to 93. .Kashmir reported six fresh coronavirus cases taking the total number of positive cases in Jammu and Kashmir to 55. Government authorities said all new patients, including a 10-year-old boy, are contacts of earlier cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/infections-surge-in-maharashtra-assam-becomes-latest-state-on-covid-19-map/story-6UKONA0K6229zqjoAmUAiM.html
31-03-2020||India||Ordinance makes PM CARES fund donations eligible for tax rebates for 2019-20||Centre issued an ordinance on Tuesday to give effect to several relief measures including the extension of the deadline to file Income Tax Returns and Aadhaar seeding with PAN card, announced by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on March 24 in view of the coronavirus outbreak.The ordinance also makes donations made under PM CARES Fund, announced last week, eligible for deduction from taxes under section 80G. The tax deduction benefit for donations made to PM CARES, like for other relief funds, can now be claimed in financial year 2019-20. Keeping in view the challenges faced by taxpayers in meeting the compliance requirements after cessation of economic activity and announcement of a nationwide lockdown, Sitharaman announced several relief measures relating to statutory and regulatory compliance matters across sectors on April 24.The ordnance provides for the extension of various time limits under the Taxation and Benami Acts.Some of the important features and time limits which get extended by this ordinance are as under:Direct Taxes & Benami:(i) Extension of last date of filing of original as well as revised income-tax returns for the FY 2018-19 (AY 2019-20) to 30th June, 2020.(ii) Extension of Aadhaar-PAN linking date to 30th June, 2020.(iii) The date for making various investment/payment for claiming deduction under Chapter-VIA-B of IT Act which includes Section 80C (LIC, PPF, NSC etc.), 80D (Mediclaim), 80G (Donations), etc. has been extended to 30th June, 2020. Hence the investment/payment can be made up to 30.06.2020 for claiming the deduction under these sections for FY 2019-20.(iv) The date for making investment/construction/purchase for claiming rollover benefit/deduction in respect of capital gains under sections 54 to 54GB of the IT Act has also been extended to 30th June 2020.(v) It has provided that a reduced rate of interest of 9% shall be charged for non-payment of Income-tax (e.g. advance tax, TDS, TCS) Equalization Levy, Securities Transaction Tax (STT), Commodities Transaction Tax (CTT) which are due for payment from 20.03.2020 to 29.06.2020 if they are paid by 30.06.2020. Further, no penalty/ prosecution shall be initiated for these non-payments.(vi) Under Vivad se Vishwas Scheme, the date has also been extended up to 30.06.2020. Hence, declaration and payment under the Scheme can be made up to 30.06.2020 without additional payment.Indirect Taxes:(i) Last date of furnishing of the Central Excise returns due in March, April and May 2020 has been extended to 30th June, 2020.(ii) The last date for filing of appeal, refund applications etc. under the Central Excise Act, Customs Act to be filed between 20th March and 29th June 2020 will be extended to 30th June 2020.(iii) Last date of the filing of Service tax and appeals etc extended to 30th June 2020.(iv) The date for making payment to avail of the benefit under Sabka Vishwas Legal Dispute Resolution Scheme 2019 has been extended to 30th June 2020.(v) An enabling section empowers the govt to extend due dates for various compliances inter-alia including statement of outward supplies, filing refund claims, filing appeals, etc. specified, prescribed or notified under the Act, on recommendations of the GST Council.The Ordinance also amended the provisions of the Income-tax Act to provide the same tax treatment to PM CARES Fund as available to Prime Minister National Relief Fund. Therefore, the donation made to the PM CARES Fund shall be eligible for 100% deduction under section 80G of the IT Act. Further, the limit on deduction of 10% of gross income shall also not be applicable for donation made to PM CARES Fund.Hence, any person including corporate paying concessional tax on the income of FY 2020-21 under new regime can make a donation to PM CARES Fund up to 30.06.2020 and can claim deduction u/s 80G against income of FY 2019-20 and shall also not lose his eligibility to pay tax in concessional taxation regime for income of FY 2020-21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ordinance-makes-pm-cares-fund-donations-eligible-for-tax-rebates-for-2019-20/story-j8irlio8CzIO8GqxqhYdHP.html
31-03-2020||India||Govt bans issuing tourist visa to foreign Tablighi activists||The government has decided not to issue tourist visa to any foreigner who wishes to visit India and take part in Tablighi activities, officials said on Tuesday.The decision was taken after it was found that about 2,100 foreigners have come to India since January 1 and indulged in Tablighi activities in different parts of the country. Many of them have tested coronavirus positive.The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) has been advised that missions may be requested to refrain from granting tourist visa to such foreigner who is likely to use it for Tablighi activities, a home ministry official said.The home ministry told the MEA that it should ensure that details regarding place of stay and return ticket as well as financial means to defray expenses in India by such visa applicants must be examined carefully before granting them tourist visas.In addition, the home ministry told the Delhi Police Commissioner to caution the Tablighi headquarters located in Delhi’s Nizamuddin and ensure that those who are promoting missionary activities on the strength of tourist visa are treated as visa violators.They must not be allowed to conduct Tabligh activities on tourist visa, the ministry said.In a statement, the ministry also said it is estimated that from January 1 onwards, approximately 2,100 foreigners had visited India for Tablighi activities.As on March 21, approximately 824 foreigners, were dispersed in different parts of the country and 216 of them were staying at Nizamuddin Markaz.The home ministry said a total of 303 Tablighi activists had symptoms of COVID-19 and were referred to different hospitals in Delhi.Another 1,339 were quarantined in different centres in the national capital.Tablighi Jamaat workers, both foreigners as well Indians, indulge in preaching tours or ‘Chilla’ across the country throughout the year. Various nationals, particularly from Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand, Nepal, Myanmar, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka and Kyrgyzstan come for Tablighi activities.All such foreign nationals normally report their arrival at Tabligh Markaz at Banglewali Mosque in Hazrat Nizamuddin, the statement said.From here, they are detailed for ‘Chilla’ activities to different parts of the country, the home ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-bans-issuing-tourist-visa-to-foreign-tablighi-activists/story-x3eYBhLwDjLi77lgAyaBYN.html
31-03-2020||India||Centre steps up ops for medical equipment supply after shortfall complaints||The Centre has begun making additional arrangements for supply of medical cargo, including arrangement of special flight operations and special parcel trains. The ministry of civil aviation has launched ‘lifeline Udan’ for operating medical cargo across the country. Sixty two flights of medical cargo have been operated since March 26 ferrying 15.4 tonnes of medical supply. Carriers involved in Lifeline Udan operations include Air India, Alliance Air, Indian Air Force (IAF) and Pawan Hans. Private carriers like IndiGo, Spicejet and Blue Dart are operating medical cargo flights on a commercial basis. This comes days after issues of shortfall were pointed by government’s nodal agency for medical procurement HLL Lifecare Limited. The state-run company had pointed towards a shortfall of supply of equipment due to high demand and issues in logistics since the lockdown. The state-run company had also written to the Indian Railways citing the same issue. “Since we have been made the nodal agency we have to procure the medical equipment and push the supply chain. Since the lockdown demand has gone up and there have been many issues with transportation and also due to reduced manpower at factories. Due to this we are unable to give definite dates for the delivery,” an HLL official said on conditions of anonymity. The union government has also formed a committee under the ministry of home affairs for enabling supply of medical equipment. The committee on logistics comprises secretaries to the ministries of aviation, health, drugs, textiles, consumer affairs, shipping, apart from the railway board chairman. The committee is tasked with ensuring unhindered supply of essential and medical goods during the lockdown and coordinating on relief operations. The committee is scheduled to hold a meeting daily and the issue of ramping up supply of domestic cargo was discussed by the committee. The committee has also discussed the issue of the logjam across highways with lakhs of trucks stranded as movement has been stalled since the lockdown. The civil aviation ministry on Tuesday said special flights have been arranged to ferry cargo, including COVID-19 related reagents, enzymes, medical equipment, testing kits, Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), masks, gloves and other accessories across the country. The Lifeline Udan flights are planned using a hub and spoke model. Cargo hubs have been established at Delhi, Mumbai, Hyderabad, Bangalore and Kolkata. Lifeline Udan flights connect these hubs to each other and from there to different parts of the country. The Indian railways has also begun special parcel train services in a bid to increase supply of essential items like medical supplies, medical equipment and groceries in small parcel sizes, in addition to freight trains that are already plying on the Indian Railways’ network. In addition the directorate general of shipping on Tuesday also issued an advisory to all ports to not levy any demurrage charges, ground rent or performance related penalty or additional charges including storage. “The Government is working towards smooth functioning of the Ports and its operational organisations, given the nation-wide lockdown some delays in evacuation of goods from the ports have become inevitable due to the effect on the downstream services. As a result of these developments some cargo owners have either suspended their operations or are finding it difficult to transport good/cargo and complete the paper work, resulting in imposition of demurrage, ground rent beyond the allowed free period penal anchorage/berth hire charges and other performance related penalties due to reasons beyond their control,” the advisory said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-steps-up-ops-for-medical-equipment-supply-after-shortfall-complaints/story-8gT579q6wfpgIGTmUm1T3M.html
31-03-2020||India||Maulana who led Nizamuddin gathering booked for violating govt orders||Delhi police on Tuesday booked the cleric who led a huge religious gathering in Nizamuddin West earlier this month for violating government orders on not organising public gatherings and maintaining social distance to contain the COVID-19 outbreak, an official said.The case will be investigated by the crime branch, said the police PRO Mandeep Singh RandhawaThe markaz (centre) in the south Delhi neighbourhood organised a Tabligh-e-Jamaat from March 1-15 and at least 2,000 people, including foreigners and Indians from across the country, attended it. On Sunday night, many residents of the centre started showing symptoms for coronavirus infection and police and paramilitary officials locked down the area but authorities fear a spread of the virus.The police have been using drones to patrol the area to check any violations.The Telangana government said Monday six people who attended the congregation died due to the virus. On Tuesday, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said 24 Jamaat participants have tested positive and more than 440 residing at the markaz have been hospitalised after they showed symptoms for the disease.Delhi police officials said they registered a case against Maulana Saad of the Nizamuddin markaz under sections of the Epidemic Disease Act and the Indian Penal Code for violating government orders on management of the centre in relation to social, political or religious gathering.Markaz Nizamuddin, the international headquarters of the Jamaat for nearly 100 years, has said after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the “Janta Curfew” on March 22, the centre discontinued ongoing programmes but a large number of people were stuck because of the closure of transport services.Authorities have launched a nationwide search to trace the people who attended the gathering in Nizamuddin West, which has become the new epicentre of the virus.The Health Ministry, however, said it was not the time to find faults but to take action.“With respect to the Nizamuddin area, we all need to understand and appreciate that this is not the time to do fault-finding. What is important for us is to take action as per our containment process in whatever areas we find a case,” Joint Secretary Lav Agarwal said at a press briefing.Delhi has reported 97 coronavirus cases and and two deaths, according to government data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maulana-who-led-nizamuddin-gathering-booked-for-violating-govt-orders/story-RBxXbZcInrWNocjhoaHbDK.html
31-03-2020||India||Cornavirus Update: 13 new cases take Karnataka tally past 100||Karnataka reported 13 new cases on Tuesday which took the total number of Covid-19 positive cases in the state to 101, which includes eight people who have been discharged after getting cured and three who have died. Bangalore continues to lead with 45 cases followed by Mysore at 14, Chikkaballapura at 9 and Dakshin and Uttara Kannada districts with 8 cases each. All the new cases have been isolated at designated hospitals in the respective districts.Principal Secretary to Health and Family welfare department, Government of Karnataka, Jawaid Akhtar appealed to those who had attended the Tablighi Jammat in Delhi’s Nizamuddin between March 8th and 20th to voluntarily turn themselves in and get quarantined. He said 78 congregants of the Jamaat including several foreign nationals have been quarantined and efforts were on to contact trace all those who come in touch with the attendees.Thousands of participants of the Tablighi Jamaat held in mid-March in Nizamuddin, which is also home to a famous Dargah of a sufi saint of the same name, are known to have returned to their homes in virtually every state including Telangana, West Bengal, Karnataka and Gujarat.In other important development, the Karnataka government clarified that everyone need not wear a mask. The clarification became necessary because of mixed messaging on the subject. It was reported that some authorities and establishments were advising people to wear masks.The Commissionerate of Health and Family Welfare Services in an advisory said a person is supposed to wear a mask only when he or she has symptoms of cold or cough or fever or any other respiratory problem.It said a person who is caring for Covid-19 suspect or is a confirmed patient should wear mask.Also, a health worker who is attending to a patient with respiratory symptoms should wear a mask.The advisory also noted that those treating or handling Covid-19 suspects or patients need to wear N95 mask, while others can wear a triple-layer surgical mask.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cornavirus-update-13-new-cases-take-karnataka-tally-past-100/story-6ZAZfBhr5abf2Z5HzJLzsJ.html
31-03-2020||India||Odisha announces deferment of salaries of ministers, MLAs and all India service officers||After Telangana and Maharashtra governments announced salary cuts for state government employees and public representatives due to the economic cost of fighting coronavirus, Odisha government on Tuesday announced the deferment of wages and salaries of chief minister, ministers, MLAs, chairperson of corporations, elected representatives of all local bodies as well as all India service officers.A state government press release said there will be a 70% deferment in the gross salary of chief Minister, ministers, MLAs, chairperson of corporations and elected representatives of all local bodies. Similarly, there will be a deferment of 50% of the gross salary of IAS, IPS & IFS officers with immediate effect.Telangana government has imposed salary cuts ranging from 10 per cent to 75 per cent for its employees, executive and political representatives. Similarly, Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray has also announced 60 per cent cut in March salary for MLAs while the Grade A and B officers will get a 50 per cent salary deduction. However, there will be no salary cut for Grade D employees.Meanwhile, chief spokesperson of Odisha on Covid-19, Subroto Bagchi today said Odisha can’t afford to relax despite having just 3 positive cases. “Since we have only three positive cases, there is nothing to rejoice nor is this the time to relax regulations. We have to consider that our per sq km population density in district headquarters is the same as that of Rome and New York. Therefore, if we are not cautious there is a possibility of it spreading like a wildfire,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-announces-deferment-of-salaries-of-ministers-mlas-and-all-india-service-officers/story-AIsIrU6qmIbfx1zvjKkxWJ.html
31-03-2020||India||Assam reports first case of coronavirus, carries out aggressive testing||Assam on Tuesday joined the long list of states hit by coronavirus after a 52-year old man tested positive as the pandemic continued to expand its footprints in India.This is the third positive case in the northeast, after one each was recorded in Manipur and Mizoram last week.Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma took to Twitter to break the news on Tuesday evening informing that the patient is now at Silchar Medical College Hospital in Cachar district of Barak Valley.“A 52-year-old person has been found positive for coronavirus and is Assam’s first Covid-19 patient. He is undergoing treatment at Silchar Medical College. His condition is stable,” Sarma tweeted. #IndiaFIghtsCoronaA 52-year-old person has been found positive for #Coronavirua and is Assam's first #Covid19 patient. He is undergoing treatment at Silchar Medical College. His condition is stable.Sarma told a local news channel that the patient had first shown symptoms of Covid-18 on March 18. There are unconfirmed reports that he had gone for treatment of another disease to Delhi and had returned to Assam on March 11.“The patient was under our notice since Monday and we sent his samples to NIV, Pune to confirm. We have taken his travel history and done contact-tracing. The persons who were in contact with him have already been either quarantined or kept in isolation. So there is no need to panic,” he said.Sarma said that the details of the patient, his travel history and list of persons he may have come in contact will be made available officially on Wednesday.Follow coronavirus live updates here.According to Assam government, a total of 356 people from the state were present “in and around” Tablighi Jamat gathering at Hazrat Nizamuddin in Delhi. Test samples from those who returned to the state have been taken and their results are awaited.“On Wednesday evening we are likely to receive the test results of those persons who had returned from Nizamuddin. We will be able to know the status of Covid-19 spread in Assam only after the results arrive,” Sarma said. Last week, a 23-year-old student who returned to Manipur from UK was found Covid-19 positive—making her the first patient in northeast. She is under treatment at the Jawaharlal Nehru Institute of Medical Sciences in Imphal and is stated to be in stable condition.This was followed by a 50-year-old pastor from Mizoram, who had returned this month from Netherlands and tested positive for the virus. He is at present under treatment in Aizawl.The four other states in the region - Nagaland, Meghalaya, Tripura and Arunachal Pradesh are still free of coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-reports-first-case-of-coronavirus-carries-out-aggressive-testing/story-AFvN7xyUSqmfN3Kg5505dN.html
31-03-2020||India||Nizamuddin Jamat members traced to 16 Delhi locations, immediate action sought||Delhi police special branch has written to the Delhi government’s health department seeking immediate action to mitigate the “grave threat” of coronavirus infection spreading in at least 16 different locations in the national capital that were not conducive to maintaining social distancing and were close to 200 members of the Tablighi Jamaat, headquartered in Nizamuddin’s six storey building, including foreigners, were staying.The letter from the Delhi police, which has been seen by Hindustan Times, also says that the places where these religious preachers/activists are staying are for common use (Mosques) and therefore pose a “grave danger to public health”.The locations mentioned in the letter are well spread out to different corners of the state, from Bhalswa Dairy in the northeast to Pul Prahladpur in the south. The letter lists other areas-- Chandni Mahal, Turkman Gate, Wazirabad, Malviya Nagar, Hauz Rani, Shashtri Park and Welcome--- where these individuals have spread out and asks for immediate necessary action.A home ministry release earlier today had said that it has directed all states to identify, locate and quarantine people who had fanned out from the Nizamuddin base of the Jamaat and could possibly aid in spreading the infection in other states. States like Tamil Nadu and Telangana have reported cases of infections from among the people who came in contact with some of these preachers.The exercise to identify people from Tabligh Jamaat has assumed greater importance since it came to the light that 24 of the congregants of the religious gathering in Nizamuddin had tested positive and over 400 others had shown symptoms, following which they are being monitored in quarantine.Several hundreds of Jamaat members, including close to a thousand foreigners, have spread out to over a dozen states including Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Telangana, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh and Jharkhand among others and effort are on to trace them.Delhi police today registered an FIR against the organizer of the Jamaat amid questions if the gathering had violated the ban on religious gatherings or the lockdown provisions put in place to enforce social distancing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nizamuddin-jamat-members-traced-to-16-delhi-locations-immediate-action-sought/story-MohyspxvCaQFwKks1og6tM.html
31-03-2020||India||Kerala reports second Covid-19 death, number of infections rise to 241||Kerala reported its second Covid-19 death on Tuesday when a 68-year-old former police officer died at the Government Medical College Hospital in Thiruvananthapuram, doctors said.He was admitted a week ago and was on a ventilator for the last five days. Doctors said he had undergone a bypass surgery and suffering from multiple ailments.Worryingly, he had no travel history. After his death, police and health authorities have imposed a complete shutdown across an area of five panchayats and directed people not to venture out. Though 300 of his contacts put under observation, health officials are now looking for his new contacts as he had attended two weddings and many other functions in the last one month. Follow coronavirus live updats here.A 69-year-old man, who came back from Dubai, was Kerala’s first coronavirus casualty. He died in Kannur three days ago.But there was some relief for the state where only seven positive cases of coronavirus were detected on Tuesday after it reported more than 50 cases in the last two days.Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan called for extra care and surveillances as the number of infections rose to 241 in the state.“We are undergoing an extraordinary situation. We need extra care and surveillance. If there is some lapse we will have to pay a heavy price,” Vijayan said.The CM has also announced a separate action plan for Kasaragode, one of the ten hot spots identified by the Union Health Ministry. Of 241 cases in Kerala, 163 are from Kasaragod. Two senior IAS and IPS officials have been given charge of the district. The police were assigned to supply essentials to the people who are not allowed to come out of their houses for the next two weeks.Vijayan also warned of strict action if anyone indulges in pranks on April Fools’ day. “This is not time for jokes and pranks. We will take action against those who indulges in such acts,” he said. He also said separate ID cards will be provided to migrant workers in the state. Two days back workers had defied the lockdown and came out on the streets demanding they be sent back to their homes. The CM said at least 48 people from the state reportedly attended the religious meet in Nizamuddin and efforts are on to trace all of them after many of those who attended the meet tested positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-reports-second-covid-19-death-number-of-infections-rise-to-241/story-0NgwIkZKud0w4mfN3IRs8J.html
31-03-2020||India||Covid-19: 2,000 people from Telangana, Andhra attended Nizamuddin event||Amid Delhi emerging as a coronavirus hotspot, officials in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh estimate that around 2,000 members of the Tablighi Jamaat from the two states attended the Mashoora (convention) between March 15 and 17at its headquarters in the national capital’s Nizamuddin area.An official note from the Andhra Pradesh government said at least 25-30 members from each district in both the Telugu speaking states attended the congregation held once in two years at Hazrat Nizamuddin.The AP government has so far identified around 800 people who attended the Jamaat congregation, while the Telangana government has identified 1,030 people in a massive contact tracing exercise. Follow coronavirus live update shere.“Officials are gathering information from the event organizers, police, railway department as they have travelled in trains, and from various other sources and tracking down everyone,” said an official statement from AP chief minister’s office on Tuesday evening.According to an official bulletin issued by the Andhra Pradesh government on Tuesday, as many as 17 new positive cases of Covid-19 have been detected since Monday night. Out of these 17 new cases, 14 are related to the Tablighi Jamaat meeting held in Delhi – 11 of them had attended the meeting and three are their relatives.Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy appealed to the travellers from Nizamuddin and their contact persons to voluntarily come forward for treatment. He instructed health department and police department to coordinate and identify the fellow travellers, test them, and shift them to quarantine centres in case of any symptoms.Mohammad Irfan, a professor in electronics in Indian Institute of Information Technology (IIIT), Nuzvid in Krishna district, who attended the Nizamuddin conference said no one at the congregation showed signs of infection.“There were no symptoms of anybody suffering from Covid-19 at the meeting. We returned safely on March 18. Later, I was put in quarantine at Nellore government hospital along with a few others. So far, none of us has developed any symptoms for Covid-19 and we are safe. We are being taken care of by the doctors and government officials well. There is no need to create unnecessary panic about the Delhi meeting,” Irfan said on phone.Mohd Akbar, a tent house owner from Vijayawada, said he, too, had returned safely from the Delhi convention without any symptoms. “May be a small number of people might have tested positive for Coronavirus, but I can say 95 per cent of those who returned from there are safe. As per the government instructions, I am maintaining home quarantine since my return,” Akbar said.Both Irfan and Akbar were put under a 14-day quarantine.“From the Telugu states, the programme was supervised by Ikram Ali, leader of Tablighi Jamaat in Mallepalli in Hyderabad, who took care of their accommodation and food,” the Andhra government’s official note said.Efforts to reach out to Ikram Ali for comment drew a blank as his phone was switched off.In Telangana, out of 1030 people who were identified to have attended the Jamaat conference, 603 were from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits.“We conducted a joint operation in coordination with the Health department since Monday night and started tracing the people who came in contact with those who attended the congregation.Six people from Telangana who attended the same congregation died of Covid-19. Apart from Greater Hyderabad, the other districts that recorded high number of travellers to Delhi include 80 from Nizamabad, 45 from Nalgonda, 38 from Warangal Urban and 30 from Adilabad.Meanwhile, the Telangana police said they are on the lookout for those who came in contact with the six who died of Covid-19 after returning from Delhi.Director-General of Police M Mahender Reddy, who held a tele-conference with officials late on Monday, directed that all the district officials immediately trace the people who came in contact with the six persons and keep them under quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-2-000-people-from-telangana-andhra-attended-nizamuddin-event/story-Q5FrsErqXATAQX1LI3zLKK.html
31-03-2020||India||1,000 foreigners in India for Tablighi Jamaat activities, may be blacklisted||The 1,000-odd foreign nationals who are in the country to participate in Tablighi Jamaat activities could be barred from returning over violation of their visa conditions, a government official said on Tuesday. The official said most of them had entered the country on tourist visas, but appeared to be involved in activities that require a missionary visa.The visa status of the foreign Tablighi Jamaat workers came into focus after 24 people living in the headquarters of the religious sect in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area tested positive for coronavirus on Monday. Authorities rushed to evacuate the five-storey building and test the hundreds of inmates who were still around for the highly contagious Sars-Cov-2 virus. More than 300 others have symptoms of Covid-19, a Union home ministry statement issued on Tuesday evening said.The home ministry said 1,203 Jamaat workers at the Hazrat Nizamuddin Markaz had been medically screened, an exercise that started on March 26. Those who had symptoms have been sent to hospitals; others to state-run quarantine centres at Narela, Bakkarwala and Sultanpuri. By the evening, the government said, every Jamaat worker would be moved out of Nizamuddin Markaz.The home ministry also cited several messages that had been sent to the states alerting them to the need to locate, identify and screen the foreign and Indian workers of the sect. One of the earliest messages was sent on March 21, after one of the Jamaat volunteers was reported positive for the virus.The last one was on March 29 from the Intelligence Bureau director, telling state police chiefs to track down these workers and their contacts for the Sars-Cov-2 pathogen.Simultaneously, the home ministry has also asked state police officials to report back if their activities were consistent with their visa. A senior government official suggested that all of them appeared to have violated their visa conditions since they entered the country on a tourist visa, not a missionary visa.Of the 1,746 persons staying in Hazrat Nizamuddin Markaz on March 21, the home ministry said 216 were foreigners and 1,530 were Indians. Apart from them, there were 824 foreign Tablighi Jamaat workers in different parts of the country for missionary work.The security establishment carries out rigorous checks for requests for a missionary visa as compared to tourist visa applications.“Usually, all the foreign nationals visiting India as a part of the Tabligh team come on the strength of a tourist visa. MHA (Ministry of Home Affairs) had already issued guidelines that they should not indulge in missionary work on tourist visa. State Police would be examining categories of visas of all these foreign TJ workers and take further action in case of violation of visa conditions,” the home ministry statement confirmed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-000-foreigners-in-india-for-tablighi-jamaat-activities-may-be-black-listed/story-6bv4lsAJTuFO43s7JniwVO.html
31-03-2020||India||Fake WhatsApp messages spurred migrants’ exodus from Delhi to UP, say officials||Fake messages widely circulated on social media could have played a key role in spurring the exodus of migrants from Delhi to Uttar Pradesh, said state government officials.The arrival of thousands of migrants into the state threw the social distancing protocol to the winds and poses a big risk of community transmission of Covid-19 infections in rural areas.One of such WhatsApp messages, circulated among the migrants in Delhi, said the Uttar Pradesh government was operating buses from Delhi border to ferry its residents stranded in the national capital to their home.“Important Information: If anyone of you is from UP and is trapped in Delhi, the UP government has made arrangements to take you back home. Buses will be available from the Anand Vihar bus terminal also. Contact these numbers (011-26110151 and 011-26110155) to go back to Uttar Pradesh,” the message written in Hindi said. Interestingly, the numbers given in the message belonged to the Uttar Pradesh Bhawan in Delhi, where the government has set up a control room to help any UP resident in a coronavirus related emergency.UP Bhawan manager Rajesh Chaube said, “The WhatsApp messages were fake and it added fuel to fire. The UP Bhawan’s phone numbers mentioned in it are of the control room that has been set up here, but it is not meant for enquiring about bus operations.” Chaubey said hundreds of calls landed on these numbers for three days, all enquiring about buses.However, desperate to leave anyhow, most migrants did not even bother to dial the numbers given in the message and all started reaching the Anand Vihar bus station and other locations.“On Friday, I received a WhatsApp message on my mobile, that said buses would be available at Anand Vihar to ferry us to our home in UP and when I informed many of my friends, they said that they, too, had received a similar message,” said Anuj, a resident of a village in Kasganj district.Anuj, who works and stays in a hotel in Delhi’s Dariyaganj area, started packing up after receiving the message and set out on foot for the Anand Vihar bus station.“Luckily, I got a city bus that dropped me at Anand Vihar only to find out that there were no buses plying to UP,” he said.He claimed thousands of people started leaving after they got the WhatsApp message that was also shared on Facebook. An investigation, however, revealed that the circulated messages were fake because no such announcement was made by the UP State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) or the UP government.“A mischief appears to have been played to misinform gullible migrants because we never issued such appeals through any social media platform,” UPSRTC managing director, Ghaziabad, AK Singh said.He said it was only after thousands of migrants swarmed Anand Vihar, Kaushambi and Lal Kuan bus stations in Delhi that the government asked UPSRTC on Friday to evacuate all of them. Some also alleged that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government in Delhi not only operated city buses despite the lockdown but also offered migrants a free ride to UP borders.Accusing the Delhi government of a conspiracy to get rid of UP’s migrant workers by spreading rumours, Delhi BJP leader Kapil Mishra even released a video in which a vehicle is seen making an announcement in the night that buses were being operated from Delhi borders for UP, though AAP leaders, including Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, refuted all such charges through tweets.Sources said the central government’s announcement of relief measures for three months also triggered fear that the lockdown might get extended beyond the current three weeks.“Rumours about buses being operated for them from UP borders only facilitated the mass exodus. Now, identifying and putting all such migrants in quarantine in their villages has emerged as a big challenge for the UP government,” officials pointed out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fake-whatsapp-messages-spurred-migrants-exodus-from-delhi-to-up-say-officials/story-waRWcUzgh5cZk5JQS7iJqL.html
31-03-2020||India||Maharashtra tally hits 302 after sharp rise, officials explain why||A total of 82 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) were detected in Maharashtra on Tuesday, a health official said as the state’s tally reached 302.This was the highest rise in the number of cases in a day in Maharashtra so far, but officials assured that there was nothing to worry and that the rise was on account of results from private laboratories.Mumbai accounted for 59 of the new cases, according to the state health department. The total number of infections in the city stood at 151. Ahmednagar reported three cases, while two cases each came to light in Pune, Thane, Vasai, Virar and Kalyan-Dombivali cities, he added.The health ministry’s website put the death toll in the western state at eight. Maharashtra, which was the first state to declare shutdown to contain the epidemic on March 22, has the highest case count and fatality among all Indian states.“The number of 59 cases are an accumulation of test reports conducted by private laboratories in the last three days that was validated by the state laboratories,” said Bhushan Gagrani, a senior Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer who is also a member of the control room set up to deal with the outbreak.As per guidelines issued by the central government, first 10 test reports of a private laboratory need to be validated by a state-run laboratory. Only after that, test reports of private labs are considered final. This is the reason that test reports of the past three days got accumulated, creating an impression that there is a spike, said another senior health official.At present, the state has a capacity to test over 5,000 samples a day. Of them, the capacity of 13 government laboratories stands at 2,300 samples a day. Eight private laboratories can test 2,800 samples a day, said state health minister Rajesh Tope. “Since, there is no need to conduct sample-testing at such a level, we are not using testing facilities at full capacity,” Tope said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-tally-records-sharp-rise-stands-at-302/story-TMK5pI8cWm7AX4DmcKfUSO.html
31-03-2020||India||Coronavirus Update: FIR against NizamuddinMarkaz organisers after 24 positive cases||Delhi police filed a case against Maulana Saad and others of Tableeghi Jamaat under Epidemic Disease Act 1897 and other sections of the Indian Penal Code on Tuesday for alleged violation of government directions given to the management of ‘Markaz’ (religious congregation) of Basti Nizamuddin, regarding restrictions on gatherings, reported a news agency.Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had asked for registration of an FIR on Monday after several members of the congregation in Nizamuddin were found to be infected with coronavirus and several others had to be hospitalised after they were detected with symptoms.Earlier today in a press briefing, Kejriwal said a total of 1,548 people have been brought out of the Markaz and 441 of them were symptomatic, who were being tested further. He also added that 1,107 tested congregants were asymptomatic but had still been quarantined as a precautionary measure.Questions have been raised about such a large religious congregation taking place in the heart of the city despite the ban on mass gatherings and religious functions in the capital followed by a nation-wide lockdown to enforce social distancing to counter the looming threat of Covid-19 spreading through community transmissions. A Union home ministry document said on Tuesday that as on March 21, there were about 1746 persons staying in Hazrat Nizamuddin Markaz. Of these, 216 were foreigners and 1530 were Indians. It added that all the Tabligh Jamaat workers staying at Hazrat Nizamuddin Markaz were being medically screened since March 26.It also says that about 826 foreigners associated with the Muslim sect had already fanned out to different Indian states before March 21 and mingled with local population and states have been instructed to identify, locate, test and quarantine them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-fir-against-nizamuddinmarkaz-organisers-after-24-positive-cases/story-8WSbloDqvzjKimkpYGbQrK.html
31-03-2020||India||States told to trace, screen, quarantine those who attended Nizamuddin gathering||A Central home ministry document detailing the activities of the Tablighi Markaz, at the centre of about two dozen Covid-19 infections recently detected in Nizamuddin area of the national capital, says that about 824 foreigners associated with the religious congregation had fanned out to different Indian states for religious teachings and states had been directed on March 21 to identify them.The government document says these foreigners had travelled to at least 12 states, most of them to Uttar Pradesh (132), Tamil Nadu (125), Maharashtra (115) and Haryana (115). They were also in Telangana, West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka in significant numbers. The states had been asked to identify them, get them medically screened and quarantine them. However, the document doesn’t say how many of them have been traced so far.These foreigners had left the Nizamuddin facility before March 21, a day before the self-imposed Janta Curfew and three days before the announcement of a three-week-long national lockdown by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.“It is estimated that from January 1 onwards this year, approximately 2100 foreigners had visited India for Tabligh activities. While approximately 824 of them, as on March 21, were dispersed in different parts of the country, approximately 216 of them were staying at Nizamuddin Markaz. Others might have left the country before the lockdown,” the government document says. 24 religious preachers of the Muslim sect-Tabligh Jamaat—who were staying at a six-storey Nizamuddin hostel, have been detected with coronavirus and a few infections in states like Tamil Nadu and Telangana have also been traced to some of these preachers who had travelled to different states from Nizamuddin.MHA document says, the states were also advised to collect the names of Indian Tabligh Jamaat workers from the local coordinators, locate them on the ground, get them medically screened and quarantine them. It says about 2137 such persons have been identified in different states so far, but several others were yet to be traced.The document adds that various nationals, particularly from Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand, Nepal, Myanmar, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka and Kyrgyzstan come for Tabligh activities and report to the Tabligh Markaz at the Banglewali Mosque in Hazrat Nizamuddin in New Delhi. From here, they are detailed for “Chilla” activities to different parts of the country.The document states that as on March 21, there were about 1746 persons staying in Hazrat Nizamuddin Markaz. Of these, 216 were foreigners and 1530 were Indians.It adds that the residents were being medically screened since March 26 and a total of 1203 Tabligh Jamaat workers have been medically screened, out of which 303 were referred to different hospitals after they were found with the symptoms of Covid-19. Rest of them have been moved to different quarantine centres at Narela, Bakkarwala and Sultanpuri in Delhi.The process to move every Tabligh Jamaat worker out of Nizamuddin Markaz will continue through the day, the document adds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nizamuddin-fallout-824-foreigners-spread-out-to-states-before-march-21/story-cg7bWyedi39p7lgCE8xYaM.html
31-03-2020||India||No free treatment in Mumbai’s private hospitals for Covid-19 patients||The free medical treatment for Covid-19 patients under the Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana (MJPJAY) from April 1 announced by Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope look like a non-starter as none of the private hospitals in Mumbai listed under the scheme have coronavirus isolation wards.Under the scheme, poor patients have medical insurance of Rs 1,50,000 at the empanelled hospitals. Considering the growing cases of Covid-19, Tope in a webcast address via Facebook on March 26 said that the scheme will provide free treatment at private hospitals for Covid-19 from April 1. A total of 42 hospitals in the city offer the scheme. This includes 27 private hospitals including a few dialysis centres. HT has the list of the health centres. But none of the enlisted hospitals under the scheme like HCG, Apex, Sushruta, KJ Somaiya, HJ Doshi, Lifeline Hospitals among others have COVID-19 isolation wards which is compulsory to treat patients with SARS-CoV-2 as per the rules of Union Health Ministry. Follow coronavirus live updates here.“If they don’t have the isolation wards then why did the government declare that it would provide free treatment from April 1? Is this an April Fool joke? The state health government should have thought about the emergency situation beforehand,” said Dr Ravikant Singh, a health activist. Currently, the state government has approved around 100 isolation beds in 15 private hospitals- Jaslok, HN Reliance, Hinduja, Kokilaben, Raheja, Bombay, Lilavati among others. However, none of these hospitals come under MJPJAY.That means, people will not get free treatment until either the government starts isolation wards in their registered hospitals or brings all the private hospitals in the city with Covid-19 facilities under its umbrella. The Maharashtra health department is yet to formulate a policy about it.“Under the scheme, we have 1,000 hospitals so we need to make a policy decision if we should treat coronavirus patients in all hospitals or at limited hospitals for the safety of all the other patients,” said Sudhakar Shinde, CEO of MJPJAY.“But this benefit will be given only to those who are taking treatment at our empanelled hospitals. If anyone wants to take treatment in Lilavati or Breach Candy hospital, we can’t cover them,” he added. But granting permission to all hospitals to start isolation wards has its own shortcomings in a state where the state government is grappling with a shortage of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE). “Not all hospitals have the required infrastructure to treat Covid-19 patients which can put the lives of other uninfected patients at risk. Also, we don’t have enough materials to supply PPE, sanitizers or masks to so many hospitals. Thus, we need time to inspect and make a list of the hospitals,” said a senior health officer on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-free-treatment-in-mumbai-s-private-hospitals-for-covid-19-patients/story-YvQ6TMEoxpiaXmJaTjgg2K.html
31-03-2020||India||Govt’s five-member technical team to monitor Covid-19 grievance cases||The empowered group of officers, constituted under Union Human Resource Development (HRD) secretary Amit Khare to address public grievances, said on Tuesday that a five-member technical team will do “focused tracking, monitoring, and disposal of public grievances” related to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.“The team has already has been set up,” an official in the Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances (DARPG) told Hindustan Times. “It will provide technical support to the empowered group. We are responding to a large number of grievances. Some are suggestions and some are evacuation requests. We need to process all of them in a careful manner,” he said.Health grievances will be given the top priority. “There is a massive data dump that we need to process,” the official said. “So far, DARPG has received 216 grievances. They will be processed and forwarded to the respective ministries/departments for redressal,” he added. The five-member empowered group comprising Khare; Kshtrapati Shivaji, secretary DARPG; Ashutosh Agnihotri, joint secretary, Union Ministry of Home Affairs, (MHA); and Meera Mohanty, director, Cabinet Secretariat; met senior officials from the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) on Tuesday. The team is one of the 11 empowered groups that were formed by the government on Sunday. The groups have been constituted under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, to ensure timely implementation of Covid-19 response activities.“In pursuance of this objective the DARPG shall set up a technical team comprising five officials for preparation of daily reports on Covid-19, comprising a summary and list of suggestions and grievances received/disposal status on the CPGRAMS (Centralized Public Grievance Redress and Monitoring System) portal,” the Union Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions said in a statement.The DARPG will also lay down “guidelines for all central ministries/departments and state governments for improved monitoring of Covid-19 public grievance cases”.Each department/ministry will have to appoint a nodal officer to handle public grievances. The personal details of the officer – name, phone number and e-mail – have to be uploaded on respective departmental/ministerial websites. Each department/ministry has also been instructed to create a separate Covid-19 section in the CPGRAMS for the complaints. This has been done to ensure “focused tracking, monitoring, and disposal of public grievances,” according to a press release issued by the ministry.“Considering the urgency and importance of redressal of Covid-19 grievances, it shall be incumbent on every ministry/ department to prioritise these grievances at the earliest preferably within a timeline of three days to provide redressal,” it said. Similar guidelines for state government departments will also follow soon, it added. “The DARPG will expeditiously finalise the Covid-19 National Preparedness Survey 2020 in which 266 IAS officers who have served as assistant secretaries in the government in the last five years have responded to a 23-point questionnaire to identify the hotspot districts and adopt suggestions for improved preparedness,” said the release. The survey was conducted from March 25 to 30. The government has received 46,000 suggestions that are being “duly processed for implementation” and will be collated on mygov.in, a citizen engagement platform.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-s-5-member-technical-team-to-monitor-covid-19-grievance-cases/story-sJuzwXQ0xIAq8SlF80gyqO.html
31-03-2020||India||Delhi CM spotlights empty Vatican, Mecca to urge against religious gatherings||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday said Delhi had not entered the feared community transmissions phase of coronavirus and local transmissions were under control amid concerns over two dozen new cases of Covid-19 infections detected on Monday in the national capital’s Nizamuddin area.The chief minister also promised action against anyone found guilty in the Nizamuddin religious congregation case in which he had requested for the registration of an FIR on Monday. “Delhi Govt wrote to Lieutenant Governor for registration of FIR in this case, I have full hope he will give orders soon. If any negligence is found on part of any officers then action will be taken against them also,” Arvind Kejriwal was quoted as saying by ANI.Twenty four participants of a religious gathering in Delhi’s Nizamuddin were detected with coronavirus yesterday, raising questions on the staging of the congregation despite social distancing and lockdown measures being in place. An intense screening was carried out in Nizamuddin area to gauge the scale of infections. Some of the infected congregants are suspected to have spread the virus further in their home states as well.Earlier today, a Health ministry official said the need of the hour was to focus on containment and not on fault finding.Kejriwal said that Delhi cases including those from the Markaz (religious gathering) had been analysed and there were no cases of community transmissions so far.  “We have analysed 97 cases including 24 cases from Markaz, 41 foreign travellers, 22 close relatives of foreign travellers. The situation is under control, there is no community transmission,” Kejriwal said.He asked people to support the government in “our collective fight” against Covid-19 and said religious leaders should refrain from organising mass events.“Navratri (a Hindu festival) is going on, but there is no one in temples, Gurudwaras are empty, Mecca is vacant, Vatican City is empty. This illness hasn’t spared even the developed countries, if we act irresponsibly in such situation, we will have problems,” Kejriwal said.Giving further details on the Nizammuddin case, the chief minister said that a total of 1,548 people have been brought out of the Markaz and 441 of them were symptomatic.“We have shifted them to hospitals and their tests are being conducted. 1,107 who did not show symptoms have been sent to quarantine,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-kejriwal-s-pan-religion-appeal-to-guard-against-nizamuddin-like-gathering/story-yNYF0WgGaousyi321iaSrK.html
31-03-2020||India||Coronavirus update: India must urgently consider long-term infection containment measures: Study||India needs to urgently think of long-term infection containment measures because the ongoing 21-day national lockdown is unlikely to be enough to reverse the rapid rise in Covid-19 cases and rate of transmission, a new study has suggested.The paper, based on mathematical modelling of disease and demographic data by two researchers at the University of Cambridge, also concludes that old people in India are at particular risk of contracting the infection at home – more than global hotspots such as China and Italy – because of the high number of three-generational households.Click here for complete coronavirus coverageThe finding comes amid a debate on whether the hard lockdown should be extended with the government clarifying on Monday that it had no immediate plans to impose further curbs beyond April 15.But that may be a mistake, the study suggested.In their analysis, the researchers found that while a 21-day lockdown led to an immediate decrease in the number of infected people, the number rose sharply after the curbs were lifted. A second scenario in which a 28-day lockdown was imposed after five days of easing also showed that the number of infected people rose once the second lockdown was lifted.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here But in two scenarios, the rate of new infections decreased. The first was a protocol of three consecutive lockdowns of 21 days, 28 days and 18 days spaced by five days of suspension. If a single lockdown had to achieve the same impact, it would have to last 49 days, the modelling showed.“While these numbers are hypothetical, it underlines the need to think of different strategies of containment after 21 days of lockdown. It also shows that the rate of rise of infection is steeper than the rate of decrease and it takes less time for infections to double and more time for it to halve,” said Ronojoy Adhikari, one of the authors of the paper.“This essentially means that for every day of non-lockdown, we need more than one day of lockdown,” he added.The paper, slated to be published in the Physical Review Research Journal, noted two big differences between India and other global hotspots such as China and Italy: the big numbers of three-generational families residing in the same homes and the large number of young people.Also read: ‘Not the time to find fault’: Govt says focus in Nizamuddin on containmentSecondly, the model also showed that unlike Italy and China, the above-60 population and the below-30 population were in close contact at homes. Because the former demographic is high-risk for Covid-19, it made the home very important for anti-infection policy.“This indicated that social distancing and isolation protocols are not just for workplaces and public spaces, but also for homes. Because of India’s huge youth population, they are at greater probability of contracting the disease, and then bringing them into homes and transmitting it to older people, who have high fatality risk,” said Adhikari.The authors suggested three long-term responses: Social distancing and isolation to be practised in homes, especially by older people; a close watch on schools and colleges to check for young people catching the disease; and extensive testing to find out the extent of the outbreak.Also read: Covid-19 could fundamentally change India’s political economy“We suggest that even when the national lockdown is over, we need to look at keeping schools and colleges shut for some time. Or look at local lockdowns in hotspots, determined by extensive testing,” Adhikari added.The study has made two important assumptions: that all cases of Covid-19 are symptomatic, and that the impact of the lockdown is instantaneous without any lag in implementation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-must-urgently-consider-long-term-infection-containment-measures-study/story-I9jI4caMVvwh2zqDyn7dwN.html
31-03-2020||India||Covid-19: Uttarakhand to release 835 prisoners to decongest jails amid pandemic||Uttarakhand government will release 835 prisoners including 215 convicts on parole and 620 undertrials on bail from 11 jails in the state to check the spread of the coronavirus pandemic, officials said on Tuesday.The development comes a few days after the Supreme Court ordered all the states and Union Territories to decongest their jails in an attempt to contain the coronavirus pandemic by releasing the convicts who have been sentenced for less than seven years and undertrials who face a maximum sentence of seven years.“We have decided to release 215 convicts on parole for six months and 620 undertrials on bail following the order of the Supreme Court,” said PVK Prasad, Inspector General of Police (Jail), Uttarakhand.Follow coronavirus live updates here.Prasad said the jail administration has informed the respective district administrations and police departments who will make the arrangements to “take the released inmates to their home.”Uttarakhand has 11 jails with a capacity of 3,420 but they are overcrowded with 5,000 inmates.The officer also said that a slew of measures have been implemented in all the 11 jails to prevent the spread of coronavirus. Uttarakhand has reported seven positive cases of coronavirus so far. Two of them have recovered.“All the jail staff and inmates are maintaining social distance inside the jails. Also, jail premises are being cleaned every six hours to ensure cleanliness with the staffers working with masks and gloves,” said Prasad.Among the other measures, jail administration has also prohibited the meetings of inmates with the family members till April 30.“We have also set up two quarantine wards, including one in the jail and other in the doctor’s room. If any inmate develops any symptoms of the deadly virus then he or she would be quarantined there only. We are also quarantining any inmate who is coming to jail for 15 days before allowing him to go among the other inmates lodged inside,” said Prasad, adding, “So far there has been no infectionin jail.”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-uttarakhand-to-release-835-prisoners-to-decongest-jails-amid-pandemic/story-OELb8c6Vls9RWpTp9b15BK.html
31-03-2020||India||Coronavirus update: H-1B workers seek 180 instead of 60-day stay in US amid layoffs||Foreign IT professionals, a majority of them Indians with H-1B visas in the US, have urged the Trump administration to extend their permissible stay from 60 to 180 days after job loss, amidst the massive layoffs in America due to the coronavirus pandemic.The H-1B visa, most sought after among the Indian IT professionals, is a non-immigrant visa that allows the US companies to employ foreign workers in speciality occupations that require theoretical or technical expertise.Companies depend on it to hire tens of thousands of employees each year from countries like India and China.The current federal rules require an H-1B visa holder to leave the US along with their family within 60 days of losing their job.Click here for complete coronavirus coverageEconomic experts fear massive layoffs in various sectors of the American economy due to the current economic distress that is only going to deteriorate in the coming months.A record 3.3 million Americans have filed initial jobless claims for the week ending March 21.Even as the peak of coronavirus in the US is some two weeks away, millions of people in the country have lost their jobs.According to an estimate, some 47 million people could be rendered unemployed.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Those on H-1B visas are neither eligible for unemployment benefits nor entitled to the social security benefits, even though there is deductions from their salary for this purpose.Initial reports suggest that a large number of H-1B employees are being laid off. In some cases, companies have already informed their H-1B employees that they are on top of the list of being fired.As such, the H-1B visa holders have started a petition campaign on the White House website to extend the timeline for their stay in the US after their job loss.“We request the government to temporarily extend the 60-day grace period to 180 days and protect the H-1B workers under these difficult times,” says the petition which has so far attracted more than 20,000 signatures.It requires a minimum of 100,000 petitions to get a response from the White House.The COVID-19 situation is getting worse with massive lay-offs expected. The economic conditions may have a significant impact on H-1B workers, the petition says.“Under regulations, H-1B workers have a 60-day grace period of unemployment time during each authorised validity period to stay in the US legally. They must find new work within 60 days otherwise they have to leave the country.“Most H-1B workers are from India and cannot travel home with children who are US citizens as many nations announced an entry ban, including India. H-1B workers cater to the economy at large, mainly supporting the IT Industry with high tax contributions,” the petition says.A total of 782,365 COVID-19 cases have been reported across more than 175 countries and territories with 37,582 deaths reported so far.America has the highest number of cases with a total of 161,807 infections, according to Johns Hopkins University data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-h-1b-workers-seek-180-instead-of-60-day-stay-in-us-amid-layoffs/story-hPyCjOCFI4vx5WuLbRf7oO.html
31-03-2020||India||Covid-19 Update- ‘Time to act, not find fault,’ says health ministry on Nizamuddin cases||The Centre said the Delhi government was taking necessary action to deal with the containment of Covid-19 spread in Delhi’s Nizamuddin, where at least twenty four people were reported to have picked up the deadly infection in a religious gathering, suspected to have been held in violation of the lockdown rules and social distancing measures. The health ministry official said the focus was presently on containment and not “on fault finding”.“We all need to understand and appreciate that this is not the time to do any fault-finding or otherwise. It is important for us to act to contain the spread of disease in any area which reports a positive case,” said Lav Agarwal, joint secretary, health ministry.Watch | ‘No time for finding fault’: Government on Nizamuddin, Covid-19 hotspots Agarwal added that all necessary steps were being taken to contain any further spread of the disease in the cluster. “Delhi government is already taking necessary action including, quarantining, hospitalisation or health profiling for symptomatic cases,” Agarwal said at the daily briefing held to update on the status of coronavirus spread in the country and the efforts to contain it.Aggarwal was responding to a question if there was an “intelligence failure” behind the administration’s perceived inability to prevent the religious ‘markaz’ of the Tablighi Jamaat--a Muslim sect-- that is feared to have played a role in spreading the infections in Nizamuddin.Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain had earlier said that over 1,000 people have been evacuated from the Nizamuddin area and around 300 people have been sent to hospitals, while around 700 have been sent to different quarantine facilities.He also said that a part of Nizamuddin was sealed.1,500-1,700 people, including 227 foreigners, are believed to have attended the annual religious gathering at the six-storey hostel-like headquarters of Tablighi Jamaat, a Muslim sect, earlier this month in south Delhi.Several hundreds of the religious preachers who were at the Nizamuddin facility left for their home states and some of them were traced as the primary source of some of the new infections detected in Tamil Nadu and Telangana.States are aggressively looking to identify the participants of the Nizamuddin congregation from their states in order to ascertain if they are carrying infections and stem its further spread.The health ministry official added that with over 1,200 cases infected with coronavirus, the number of hotspots in the country has increased.Agarwal refused to give any specific definition for designating areas Covid-19 hotspots and added that identification of even a single positive case is treated like it was a hotspot. “Our containment efforts increase significantly, if more cases than found in a cluster, but every single case is like a hotspot for us,” Agarwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-time-to-act-not-find-fault-says-health-ministry-on-nizamuddin-explosion/story-cRKtWc19PAayMBlgnzI3jP.html
31-03-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Govt identifies 500 companies to map Covid-19 solutions and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion curated for you. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Coronavirus update: Govt identifies 500 companies to map Covid-19 solutionsThe government has identified at least 500 entities in the field of diagnostics, drugs, ventilators, protection gear, disinfecting systems,etc, as an effort to map coronavirus disease (Covid-19) related technology capabilities in start-ups, academia, research and development labs and industry, in an effort to bolster its ability to contain the spread of the pandemic in the country.Read full story here.Covid-19 cases rise in Delhi, third highest in country after Kerala and Maharashra: A statewise tallyOn Monday, the Ministry of Health updated the number of coronavirus cases in the country to 1,251. The figure includes 1,117 active cases, 101 cases of recoveries and 32 deaths.Read full story here.Covid-19: Nizamuddin markaz says 1500 members broke away before quarantineBy early March, Covid-19 cases were surging across the world and in India. A lockdown in the country was several days away. Ignoring the pandemic, an estimated 2500 Sunni Muslim men belonging to several nationalities, each identically dressed in white gowns and skullcaps, checked into a five-storey house called Markaz in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area, part of a year-round routine.Read full story here.Yogi Adityanath’s last warning to errant officials is 2 words: ‘Sudhar Jao’Noida district magistrate BN Singh who was told to shut up during a meeting chaired to review the surge of Covid-19 cases in the district isn’t the first bureaucrat to have been called out by Yogi Adityanath.Read full story here.Internet Archive’s National Emergency Library will offer 1.4 million e-books for freeWith people stuck at home due to the coronavirus lockdown, Internet Archive, the American digital library, has opened the National Emergency Library. Read full story here.This hearing impaired doggo just won netizens’ hearts. WatchMisunderstandings are usually not cute at all and if anything, just a hassle in any fruitful relationship. But trust this canine cutie named Tucker to introduce us to a misunderstanding that is actually making netizens smile!Read full story here.‘Bit like Ashes’: Australian Test captain’s huge comment on rivalry with IndiaAustralian Test captain Tim Paine has made a huge comment about the rivalry with Team India. Paine, who was in charge when Australia lost their first ever home series to India in 2018/19, compared the rivalry between the two teams to the Ashes.Read full story here.Life in the times of Lockdown: Why I regret buying that Zara dress over a kettleWhen Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the 21-day lockdown, most of us corporate slaves rejoiced. We didn’t care that we could possibly die from the apocalyptic coronavirus, we were just glad that our tired bodies and minds would finally feel the warm embrace of ‘work from home’.Read full story here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-govt-identifies-500-companies-to-map-covid-19-solutions-and-all-the-latest-news/story-ZbWCCNwfxMBAfMeyl4rxtL.html
31-03-2020||India||‘No one is now on road’: Centre to Supreme Court on migrant workers leaving in droves||The Supreme Court on Tuesday ordered the central government to ensure that basic facilities like food, water and medicines are provided at shelter homes where thousands of people including migrant workers, who were fleeing cities for their native villages, have been temporarily housed.The directions by the top court came after the central government informed the court on Tuesday that the large scale exodus of migrant workers has been brought under control and all of them have been taken to shelter homes.“I have instructions to state that no one is now on the road. Anyone who was outside has been taken to the available shelters”, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, Centre’s second senior-most law officer, told the court.The apex court was hearing two petitions, one by advocates Rashmi Bansal and Anuj Gupta and another by advocate Alakh Alok Srivastava which brought the plight of the migrant labourers to the notice of the court.The lockdown in the country, which began on March 25, led to an exodus of labourers from large cities to their far-off native towns and villages. The situation in Delhi took a turn for the worse when thousands of persons crowded the Anand Vihar Bus station in East Delhi to travel to their native state of Uttar Pradesh. Further, many of them set out on foot along with their families as public transport was not available. The top court had, on Monday, sought a status report from the central government in this regard.In its affidavit filed before the court on Tuesday, the centre detailed the various steps taken by it to mitigate the threat of Coronavirus.It said that the first step to address concern came on January 7 when the union health secretary addressed state health secretaries to take actions to deal with the situation, including ensuring adequate hospital preparedness.It submitted that there was an institutional response by the Centre and the situation was monitored at the highest political and executive level by the Prime Minister.The affidavit also stated that thermal screening of passengers from China, Hong Kong started on January 18 at three international airports. Further, various travel advisories were issued, the first one coming as early as January 30 and by March 4, thermal screening was initiated for all international flights and symptomatic patients were directly taken to isolation wards in tertiary care hospitals attached to airports.The Centre also drew the attention of the court to fake and inaccurate reporting of news connected with the coronavius threat, claiming that such news can cause panic and serious harm to the entire country. It, therefore, prayed that a direction should be issued to the print, electronic and social media not to publish anything without first ascertaining the true factual position by way of a mechanism provided by the central government.The bench, comprising Chief Justice of India SA Bobde and Justice L Nageswara Rao, asked the Centre to form a committee of experts to address queries of citizens regarding the coronavirus threat. It also underscored the need to prevent the spread of false and incorrect information through social media platforms and gave a green signal to the authorities to take strict action against those spreading fake news.Further, the hearing on Tuesday was also privy to the discussion on steps to be taken to avoid panic among residents of shelter homes. The centre suggested roping in services of trained counselors and religious and community leaders to counsel those lodged in shelter homes, a suggestion which the court readily accepted.The case will be heard next on April 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-one-is-now-on-road-centre-to-supreme-court-on-migrant-workers-leaving-in-droves/story-dh2Pd7aX8Fq8XPH9Z0kYxI.html
31-03-2020||India||Coronavirus update: China to add asymptomatic Covid-19 patients to disease tally||China will start making public asymptomatic coronavirus cases from Wednesday, health authorities have announced with Chinese experts saying that one such patient could infect more than three others.The existence of an unknown number of such carriers, who are infected but do not show symptoms of the Covid-19 disease, means that they could be spreading it without themselves being aware of being infected.In a separate announcement, China on Tuesday delayed its annual national college entrance exam by a month as authorities continue to contain infected travellers returning from abroad who are triggering new cases, raising concern over the threat of a second wave of infections.Click here for complete coronavirus coverageThe announcements came as China reported 48 new imported Covid-19 cases until early on Tuesday, taking the number of confirmed cases on the mainland to 81518 with 3305 deaths. No new death was reported in the past 24 hours. China now has 771 cases of imported cases.Until now, China has not added the number of asymptomatic patients to its daily disease tally, raising questions whether the official numbers actually reveal the true picture of the state of infections in the country.China will start reporting on asymptomatic coronavirus cases that have been confirmed in the mainland from Wednesday, the NHC’s Chang Jile said on Tuesday.Follow latest coronavirus updates hereSpeaking at a daily press conference in Hubei, Chang added that all asymptomatic virus cases would be centrally quarantined for 14 days.As of Tuesday, the number of asymptomatic patients under medical observation in China was 1541 of which 205 were overseas cases.The existence of a substantial but unknown number of coronavirus carriers displaying no symptoms has raised concerns among the Chinese public that people could still be spreading the virus without knowing they are sick.China state media reported that Premier Li Keqiang has stressed the importance of tightening controls around asymptomatic patients.Also read: Covid-19 could fundamentally change India’s political economyLi was quoted as saying on Monday that the information of such patients must be disclosed as soon as they are detected, adding it was important to track people who had contact with asymptomatic patients as well.The number of asymptomatic patients could, in reality, be much higher.Yang Zhanqiu, a Wuhan-based virologist, told the tabloid Global Times that there could be at least 200,000 virus carriers with no symptoms currently in China. Also read: ‘Marriage can wait, not my patients’: Kerala doctor puts service ahead of marriage“The asymptomatic patients have strong physical immunity or carry weak virus with less virulence, which is why they don’t show symptoms but they still spread the virus in the early stage of infection,” Yang explained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-to-add-asymptomatic-covid-19-patients-to-disease-tally-delays-annual-college-exams/story-8pAmKsUnmV0SSqfhpkrlVK.html
31-03-2020||India||Coronavirus update: £75 million fund to airlift Britons stranded in India, elsewhere||Facing trenchant criticism over alleged lack of action to repatriate thousands of Britons stuck in India and other countries, the Boris Johnson government has announced a £75 million plan to charter flights as part of a new partnership with several airlines.Besides online petitions, the British news media have widely reported the conditions of British citizens – including those of Indian origin – in various states, particularly in Goa, Kerala and Punjab. In some cases, they reportedly faced hostility and scrounged for food and water.Click here for complete coronavirus coverageForeign secretary Dominic Raab said he has spoken to external affairs minister S Jaishankar and foreign ministers of other countries. An agreement has been reached with airlines such as British Airways, Virgin, Easyjet and Jet2 to implement the repatriation.Raab said: “This is a worrying time for many British citizens travelling abroad. We’ve already worked with airlines and governments to enable hundreds of thousands to return home on commercial flights, and we will keep as many of those options open as possible”.Follow latest coronavirus updates hereCharter flights are being arranged to bring Britons from various airports in India, the Foreign Office said. British authorities in India have been fielding a large number of calls and queries from Britons stranded in the country.The Foreign Office has advised Britons against all non-essential travel to India and elsewhere.Also read: Govt identifies 500 companies to map Covid-19 solutionsAlso read: Covid-19 could fundamentally change India’s political economy||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-75-million-fund-to-airlift-britons-stranded-in-india-elsewhere/story-rUiWPbmkJiulrRy3i1aqdI.html
31-03-2020||India||Two mohalla clinic doctors among 10 in cluster of cases in Northeast Delhi||A doctor couple from mohalla clinics in Northeast Delhi are central of one of two coronavirus disease (Covid-19 clusters in the city. The 49-year-old husband who worked in a mohalla clinic in Maujpur got diagnosed on March 18 after getting infected from a patient who had returned from Saudi Arabia. His 48-year-old wife, who worked in a neighbouring clinic in Baburpur, and 17-year-old daughter tested positive for the disease on March 25.So far, 10 people have got infected from the index patient of the cluster, who is a 38-year-old Dilshad Garden resident who had returned from Saudi Arabia. At least 2,300 people who had come in contact with the 10 who tested positive -- including patients from the two mohalla clinics -- are being tracked by the city’s Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme to check for symptoms.“Both husband and wife are doctors and used to work in two clinics not very far from each other. We are monitoring all the people they came in touch with including those who visited their clinics,” said an official from Delhi’s health department. There are around 450 mohalla clinics across the city. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had said last week that the mohalla clinics will continue to remain open after the doctors tested positive.“A mohalla clinic doctor, his wife and daughter have tested positive for Covid-19. This is a sad news but it has led to a lot of rumours that the mohalla clinics will be closed. The mohalla clinics will continue to remain open because if we close them down then people will have to go farther, to bigger hospitals,” the CM had said.Delhi has reported 97 cases so far, of which 24 are from another cluster in Nizamuddin.The 38-year-old index patient had returned from Saudi Arabia on March 10; she tested positive for the disease on March 18. Before that, she had visited her 65-year-old mother and 35-year-old brother living in Jahangirpuri. Two of her other relatives – sisters aged 24 and 26 – living in Dilshad Garden also got the infection from her. They tested positive on March 20 and 21.She had also gone to the evening clinic of the 49-year-old doctor, who got the infection from her and tested positive of March 21. His wife and daughter tested positive for the disease on March 25.Later, another friend of the index patient – a 35-year-old man from Jahangirpuri – and his relative tested positive for Covid-19.On Monday, among the seven cases that were not linked to the Nizamuddin cluster, was another person from Maujpur, who had come in contact with one of the patients of the mohalla clinic doctors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-mohalla-clinic-doctors-among-10-in-cluster-of-cases-in-northeast-delhi/story-Ij8JZFqUoDPiIrlD23Y6tM.html
31-03-2020||India||‘Sudhar Jao’: Yogi Adityanath’s last warning to officials before the axe||Noida district magistrate BN Singh who was told to shut up during a meeting chaired to review the surge of Covid-19 cases in the district isn’t the first bureaucrat to have been called out by Yogi Adityanath.There have been several instances of the Uttar Pradesh chief minister pulling up senior officials for lapses, negligence or simply, because they weren’t doing enough. It is something that has been a key element of his governance style since 2017 when he took over as chief minister after the BJP rode a superwave to power in the state elections.After the riots in Lucknow over Citizenship Amendment Act protests in January this year, Yogi Adityanath had upbraided the Commissioner and Inspector General Lucknow in public, telling them they had shamed him by doing nothing. He blamed them both for inaction and passiveness in handling the riots.Known for putting long hours in administration work with a hands-on approach, he told the District Magistrate Bandha before he was transferred out that he knew exactly what the officer was up to and warned him to change his behaviour. Normally, in these meetings over video conference, the chief minister is flanked by his principal secretary SP Goyal and state chief secretary R K Tewari.He virtually accused a Bareilly senior police officer and another superintendent of police of corruption by telling them that he knew what they were up to every minute. “Sudhar jao”, is normally the final call before the chief minister effects a change.In Noida, the chief minister is reported to have been furious that the district administration had let off a security and fire solutions company that is linked to 25 of the district’s 35 Covid-19 patients. “How can a company hide its details regarding the pandemic, right under the nose of the district administration? Now, I want stern action against such violators, nothing else,” the chief minister said, telling the DM that his job wasn’t over with filing an FIR against the company.As a video of Yogi Adityanath’s outburst appeared, the official put out his request for three-months leave. Lucknow responded by transferring him out and ordering an inquiry for leaking his leave application. Yogi Adityanath brought in LY Suhas, the IAS officer who was DM of Prayagraj during the Kumbh mela. He is also a para-badminton champion and ranked No.2 in Men’s Singles in para-badminton.At an earlier video conference meeting, the former Noida DM had come wearing a mask to the meeting, according to senior UP officials. When asked about the mask, Singh said that he had not been feeling well and did not want to pass it on to his juniors. Yogi wryly told him to take care of himself since the DM probably didn’t practise yoga.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yogi-adityanath-s-last-warning-to-errant-officials-is-2-words-sudhar-jao/story-1zLOm4RsUrKByBpjBvGggK.html
31-03-2020||India||Coronavirus: 20,000 modified train coaches to accommodate 3 lakh beds for isolation, says Indian Railways||The Indian Railways has said that its isolation prototypes can accommodate over 3 lakh beds for coronavirus patients.The ministry has stepped up efforts in creating prototypes of train coaches that can be converted into isolation wards for Covid-19 patients. As many as 20,000 coaches would be modified which can accommodate over 3 lakh beds for isolation purposes, the ministry said.Five Zonal Railways have already prepared prototypes for such quarantine/isolation coaches.Meanwhile, the North-Western Railways (NWR) has planned to convert 266 train coaches as isolation facility for coronavirus patients. Five Zonal Railways have already prepared prototypes for the quarantine/isolation coaches. These modified 20000 coaches can accommodate up to 3.2 lakh possible beds for isolation needs: Ministry of Railways. https://t.co/Z6W3cfJphVThe decision was taken by the Railway Board, NWR PRO Abhay Sharma said on Tuesday. During last week’s routine cabinet meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, various ministries discussed ways of using state-owned facilities and production units for boosting manufacture and supply of medical equipment and setting up quarantine facilities in the country.Indian Railways has already begun work on using locomotive production units to manufacture ventilators and other medical equipment. “There is a plan to use vast pool of non-AC coaches for setting up isolation wards and about 20,000 such coaches had been identified for the same. Railways has also begun production of masks, sanitisers and other supplies,” a railway ministry official said.Indian Railways has also been tasked with using its large manufacturing and locomotive production units and workshops for manufacturing essential medical equipment such as ventilators, hospital beds, and stretchers, among others, on a war-footing.The national carrier has issued directions to production units - the Integral Coach Factory in Chennai and Diesel Loco Works in Varanasi - among others. The Railway Board has asked production units and workshops to assess the feasibility to manufacture these items in large quantities, as may be required, at a short notice.On Sunday, the ministry said it will make all its hospitals available to serve central government employees in the wake of the coronavirus lockdown.“Indian Railways is committed to discharging its professional as well as social responsibilities. At this difficult time, every Railway hospitals will be available to serve any central government employee,” the tweet read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-20-000-modified-train-coaches-to-accommodate-over-3-lakh-beds-for-isolation-says-indian-railways/story-OQ9DL1hr0rPynLYdViT3cO.html
31-03-2020||India||Covid-19: Nizamuddin markaz says 1500 members broke away before quarantine||By early March, Covid-19 cases were surging across the world and in India. A lockdown in the country was several days away. Ignoring the pandemic, an estimated 2500 Sunni Muslim men belonging to several nationalities, each identically dressed in white gowns and skullcaps, checked into a five-storey house called Markaz in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area, part of a year-round routine. Markaz is a clearing house for these committed teams of Islamic missionaries known as Tablighi Jamaat. Individual missions are small, consisting of four or five men, each booked on flights and trains to various states and countries. The building isn’t a mosque. It’s a facility with bare dormitories. “It’s actually a transit point, where logistics are planned,” said Navaid Hamid, the president of All-India Muslim Majlis-e-Mushwarat. Authorities now fear the markaz waypoint has become a coronavirus transmission hub, with 24 preachers testing positive, according to Delhi health minister Satyendra Jain’s comment to NDTV. The markaz facility is also known as the global headquarters of Tablighi Jamaat, a preaching movement founded in 1927 by Maulana Mohd Ilyas in Haryana’s Mewat. Tablighi Jamaat (Arabic for ‘group that propagates faith’) is one of the most widespread missionary movements in Islam globally but seeks to be low-profile. It is not a sect in itself. Members often describe Tablighi Jamaat to be non-political, committed to nothing more than goading Muslims into following Islam. Participation is purely voluntary and most members belong to professional occupations. “Our groups aren’t large. We can’t afford it. It’s at best three or four,” said Syed Iran Malik, a resident of the old Delhi, who travelled to Malaysia and Indonesia in 2017 as a preacher.Preachers usually put up in mosques and lecture people. Preachers usually carry nothing more than food stuff, sleeping bags and cooking stoves.One key task is to make non-conformist Muslims to ‘return’ to the faith. They frequently quote from the Quran, highlighting passages that speak of certainty of hellish punishment for sinners and rewards for the virtuous. Positive coronavirus cases among these preachers have set off alarm bells now, but the organisation says its members were trapped because of the lockdown. Authorities made no arrangement to evacuate them in time, it said in an official statement. “On March 21, 2020, a large group of visitors who had to depart by railways got stuck in the markaz premises. On March 22, 2020, the Janata Curfew was observed and visitors were advised not to venture out until 9pm,” the statement said.According to the markaz’s statement, on 24th March 2020, a notice was issued by police, seeking closure of the premises. “The same was responded to on 24th March 2020, stating the compliance of the directions regarding closure of markaz is already underway,” it said. Alarmingly, a day before the notice, i.e. on March 23, around 1500 preachers had already managed to leave for various destinations, thus leaving around 1000 visitors “belonging to different states and nationalities inside the markaz”, the organisation said.A few of them started developing symptoms, such as a temperature and cough, but nobody thought of the possibility of getting the coronavirus, a member of the markaz said. Members continued to be cramped because of the lockdown.Tablighi Jamaat has no central administrative structure and its activities are coordinated by volunteers. Without an authority, there was no general guidelines to prevent Covid-19. An administrator of the markaz house however said: “During this entire episode, markaz Nizamuddin never violated any provision of law. It did not let them (preachers) violate medical guidelines,” the statement said. “Why did the authorities fail to move out the preachers to government quarantine facilities? Why were foreigners not separated from Indian nationals? The local magistrate should be sacked,” said Hamid of the Majlis-e-Mushwarat.Since the 9/11 attacks, the group has been under scrutiny everywhere, including in India, because terror outfits have been found to disguise themselves as Tablighi Jamaat members. “This is a conspiracy against us. Coronavirus is worrying but Allah will guard us,” said Malik, the former Tablighi Jamaat member quoted above.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-nizamuddin-markaz-says-1500-members-broke-away-before-quarantine/story-8fHWdVtOkRwSIbZcFyR7pO.html
31-03-2020||India||‘Marriage can wait, not my patients’: Kerala doctor puts service ahead of marriage||Sunday, March 29 was supposed to be one of the happiest days in the life of a young Kerala doctor as she was all set to get married to a Dubai based businessmen. However, the critical battle against coronavirus meant that instead of getting married, she decided to don her protective gear and treat patients afflicted by the dreaded virus.Meet 23-year-old, Dr Shifa M Mohammed, a house surgeon, who was busy at the isolation ward of the Pariyaram medical college hospital in Kannur on Sunday, March 29. Instead of bridal finery, the young anti-Covid-19 warrior donned the personal protection equipment (PPE) that day. ‘Marriage can wait, not my patients, who are struggling for their lives in isolation wards,’ she had told her groom and parents. Both of them readily agreed to her decision.“In every girl’s, life wedding is an important event. But my daughter has put her social responsibility and professional commitment before her personal needs. When she suggested postponement of her wedding, we readily agreed to it,” said her father Mukkam Mohammed, a leader of the Nationalist Congress Party and LDF district convenor in Kozhikkode.“When we approached the groom Anus Mohammad, a businessman in Dubai, he also readily agreed to it. I am a social worker and my wife is a teacher. Both my daughters have imbibed this spirit from our social work,” Mohammed added. His elder daughter is also a doctor and currently posted at the Kozhikkode medical college hospital. Initially Dr Shifa was reluctant to speak about her decision, which she said was “not out of the ordinary”, but after much prodding, she said “I didn’t do anything great. I did only my duty. I don’t want to talk about it much. There are many like me who postponed their personal engagements. I am only one among them,” she said over the phone after coming out of the isolation ward.“It is true, on marriage day I was in the corona ward and some of my friends teased me saying I was dressed in my best attire (PPE). But I always enjoy serving my patients. I don’t want to talk much about it as I did my duty only,” she said, and added that as a house surgeon, she can’t talk about her patients and other details.As the number of Sars-CoV-2 infected have gone up significantly in Kerala, the state government has recently converted Pariyaram medical college hospital in Kannur to a dedicated facility to treat Covid-19 patients. The state has reported two disease-related deaths and 234 people are in isolation wards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/marriage-can-wait-not-my-patients-kerala-doctor-puts-service-ahead-of-marriage/story-c52pGesdyFclgR5N4O2FNI.html
31-03-2020||India||Coronavirus update: No pranks on April Fool’s Day, Maharashtra minister warns||Maharashtra’s home minister Anil Deshmukh has asked people ahead of April Fool’s day on Wednesday not to spread false information as the state reported more than 245 Covid-19 cases on Tuesday.“Tomorrow is April 1, April Fool’s Day. In the current situation, I appeal to everyone to not spread rumours and misinformation,” Anil Deshmukh said according to news agency ANI.“Strict action will be taken against those who indulge in rumour-mongering,” Deshmukh warned.The state has reported the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the country with 248 infections and 10 deaths till Tuesday and taken a slew of measures to stop the spread of the coronavirus outbreak.The Shiv Sena-led government has said it will cut salaries of elected representatives and state government employees for March as it fears a significant drop in revenue receipts for 2019-20 fiscal amid the coronavirus disease outbreak.Deputy chief minister and finance minister Ajit Pawar announced the decision on Tuesday after he met members of the government employees’ unions. Elected representatives, including from chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to gram panchayat members, will take 60% cut in their salaries and receive only 40% in March. Class A and B employees of the government will take a 50% pay cut.Clerical staff in Class C will get 75% of their monthly remunerations. There will be no salary cuts for Class D employees such as peons and office assistants.Also read: Read, write, record your take while social distancing, self-isolationThe state had on Monday demanded a Rs 25,000 crore package from the Centre to deal with the outbreak that has hit its economy. Ajit Pawar had demanded an immediate release of the central dues to the tune of Rs 16,654 crore towards the devolution of the taxes and grant-in-aid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-no-pranks-on-april-fool-s-day-maharashtra-minister-warns/story-JZzjUj1YXfhySIKMR2E4IL.html
31-03-2020||India||Codid-19: 10 evacuees from Iran test positive at army quarantine facilities in Rajasthan||Ten people, all evacuees from Iran, have tested positive for Covid-19 at the army’s quarantine facilities in Rajasthan, two officials said on Tuesday on condition of anonymity. Nine of them were lodged in a facility at Jaisalmer while the tenth was housed in Jodhpur.The nine people who tested positive in Jaisalmer are among the 484 evacuees from Iran who arrived in Jaisalmer in batches between March 15 and March 17. Another evacuee in Jaisalmer tested positive around a fortnight ago. The sole person who tested positive in Jodhpur is among the 552 people who were brought from Iran in two batches --- on March 25 and March 29.Preliminary screening of the evacuees is conducted by medical teams at the airport after which they are moved to the quarantine facilities (the army calls them wellness facilities created under Operation Namaste).The armed forces operate six quarantine facilities at Hindan, Manesar, Jaisalmer, Jodhpur, Ghatkopar and Chennai.In addition, five hospitals run by the armed forces are equipped to carry out Covid-19 tests and six more would be added to the list soon. The armed forces have earmarked 28 service hospitals for managing Covid-29 cases.More than 1,200 people have tested positive for coronavirus across the country so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/codid-19-10-evacuees-from-iran-test-positive-at-army-quarantine-facilities-in-rajasthan/story-7MUR27OD3WnQWootrPxDcN.html
31-03-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Mumbai-based CISF head constable tests negative in latest report||A Mumbai-based head constable of the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), who tested positive for novel coronavirus (Covid-19) on March 27, has tested negative in the latest report, officials said. Rajesh Ranjan, director-general, CISF, confirmed to Hindustan Times that the latest test results of the head constable proved negative. “However, he will remain in quarantine for 14 days,” he said.All personnel have been ordered to report to their commanders if any of their family members have recently returned from abroad, he added.“We are taking all the precautions while performing our duties such as maintaining a safe distance, keeping the workplace sanitised. Besides, each and every personnel, who are showing even mild symptoms, are being quarantined,” the DG, CRPF said. A Border Security Force (BSF) officer tested Covid-19 positive last week and his wife, who had returned from the United Kingdom, is also suspected to be infected. CISF officials are maintaining a similar level of alertness at airports, which are currently shut because of the 21-day nationwide lockdown due to the Covid-19 outbreak, but the personnel have been asked to take care of their personal hygiene. The CISF has also extended the leaves of personnel, who have gone home on vacation. The BSF has warned that any personnel found violating the Covid-19 protocol or guidelines issued by the Union ministry of home affairs will be penalised. The central paramilitary forces, including BSF, CISF, Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB), have jointly arranged around 7,500 beds for Covid-19 patients and are in the process of identifying their other locations that can be turned into hospitals/quarantine facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-based-cisf-head-constable-tests-negative-in-latest-report/story-cfV3eyF7MZfUuRGqmPJ2yL.html
31-03-2020||India||Covid-19 cases rise in Delhi, third highest in country after Kerala and Maharashra: A statewise tally||On Monday, the Ministry of Health updated the number of coronavirus cases in the country to 1,251. The figure includes 1,117 active cases, 101 cases of recoveries and 32 deaths. Kerala accounts for the maximum number of Covid-19 cases in the country with over 200 patients, Maharashtra closely follows.Here’s a statewise breakup of coronavirus active cases, deaths and recoveries across the country.KeralaWith 202 coronavirus patients, Kerala sits at the top of the tally. As per the latest data by the Ministry of Health, the state has witnessed one Covid-19 death while 19 people have successfully recovered.MaharashtraWith 198 Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra is the second worst-hit state by coronavirus infection. The state has registered 8 coronavirus deaths so far while 25 patients have been recovered and released.DelhiAs many as 87 people have been tested positive of coronavirus in the national capital. Two people have died from the infection while 6 people have made a recovery, as per the health ministry’s data.Delhi’s Nizamuddin area has emerged as the hotspot of coronavirus disease after several cases of Covid-19 emerged in people who were a part of a religious congregation in the area earlier this month. According to reports, more than 2,000 delegates from countries like Indonesia and Malaysia attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin West from March 1-15.Also Watch | ‘No time for finding fault’: Government on Nizamuddin, Covid-19 hotspots KarnatakaThe state has recorded 83 Covid-19 cases and 3 deaths. 5 people have been cured and discharged.Uttar Pradesh82 people have been infected from Covid-19 in the state. While 11 people have recovered from Covid-19 in Uttar Pradesh, no one has died from the infection here.Telangana71 positive cases of coronavirus have been reported here so far. One person has made a recovery from the virus while one has died from Covid-19.GujaratPrime Minister Narendra Modi’s home state has registered 69 coronavirus cases and one recovery so far. As many as 6 people have died from the infection in the state.Tamil NaduThe southern state has registered 67 Covid-19 cases and seen four recoveries. Tamil Nadu has seen one patient die from Covid-19.RajasthanThe state has 59 positive cases of coronavirus with no reported cases of fatalities. Three patients have recovered from the infection.Jammu and Kashmir 48 positive cases of coronavirus have been reported here. Two people have died from the infection while two were cured. Madhya PradeshThe state has reported 47 positive cases of coronavirus. Three people have died from Covid-19 here.Haryana and PunjabThe neighbouring states have 36 and 38 Covid-19 cases respectively. While one person has died in Punjab, Haryana has seen no deaths. 18 people have been recovered from coronavirus in Haryana, one in Punjab.Andhra Pradesh has 23 positive Covid-19 patients and one case of recovery. West Bengal has 22 people who tested positive for the infection with two deaths.In Chandigarh, 8 people were found infected from Covid-19. Chhattisgarh has recorded 7 cases of coronavirus. In Bihar, 15 people have tested positive for coronavirus, one has died.Uttarakhand has 7 coronavirus patients, two patients have recovered from the virus. Goa has reported 5 cases of Covid-19 infection. Himachal Pradesh has 3 cases, one patient has died. Odisha also has three Covid-19 positive patients. Andaman has recorded 9 coronavirus cases.States and Union territories with just one positive Covid-19 case include Manipur, Mizoram and Pondicherry. The official figures for Tuesday were not released by the health ministry when this copy was being written. On Tuesday, India entered the seventh day of the 21-day long nationwide coronavirus lockdown announced by PM Modi to break the chain of Covid-19 infection in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-cases-rise-in-delhi-third-highest-in-country-after-kerala-and-maharashra-a-statewise-tally/story-YldlUMu0yvDT2hB2txiZtO.html
31-03-2020||India||Covid-19: Of 1,800 people in Delhi’s Nizamuddin, most were from Tamil Nadu||More than half of the 1,800 people who participated in the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin came from two states - Tamil Nadu and Assam - officials have said. The Jamaat’s headquarters in Nizamuddin area has emerged as one of the biggest coronavirus disease hotspots in India with 24 people testing positive and nearly 200 others showing symptoms of Covid-19.Giving statewise break-up of the number of people present at the congregation held earliet this month, officials said that 510 people came from Tamil Nadu, 281 from Assam, 156 from Uttar Pradesh, 109 from Maharashtra, 107 from Madhya Pradesh, 86 from Bihar, 73 from West Bengal, 55 from Telangana, 46 from Jharkhand, 45 from Karnataka, 34 from Uttarakhand, 22 from Haryana, 21 from Andaman and Nicobar Islands, 19 from Rajasthan, 15 each from Himachal Pradesh, Kerala and Odisha, nine from Punjab and five from Meghalaya. About 1,800 people attended the annual congregation, the officials said.There were 281 foreigners, officials said, adding that they flouted visa norms. Citing preliminary reports, they said that these people appeared to have entered the country on a tourist visa rather than mandatory missionary visa.Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) lawmaker Atishi has sought strong action against the organisers for hosting the congregation. “Strong action should be taken against the administrators of the Nizamuddin Markaz who organised a 3-day religious gathering, with 1000s of people from March 13-15, when Delhi government orders had expressly forbidden gatherings or more than 200 persons on 13th March itself,” the Kalkaji MLA said in a tweet. Strong action should be taken against the administrators of the Nizamuddin Markaz who organised a 3-day religious gathering, with 1000s of people from 13th-15th March, when Delhi Govt orders had expressely forbidden gatherings or more than 200 persons on 13th March itself pic.twitter.com/n0f1rLE5XxThe Jamaat is an evangelical Muslim sect aimed at spreading the teachings of the Prophet. Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said that 700 people who attended the congregation have been quarantined. There are about 394 more people in hospitals.The attendees came in from several nations such as Indonesia, Bangladesh, Myanmar, Malaysia, Sri Lanka, Kyrgyzstan and spread out to other parts of India such as Kashmir and Andhra Pradesh, creating a web of close contacts that now threatens to create an explosion of Covid-19 cases in the country.Eight of these people, including seven who went to Hyderabad and one who went to Srinagar, have succumbed to the disease. The Hyderabad deaths took place on Monday.All of them had been to the building in Nizamuddin - also referred to as a markaz - which shares a boundary with the police station and is close to the famous Nizamuddin Auliya shrine.The Jamaatis originally come from the Mewat region on Haryana-Rajasthan border and are currently headed by Maulana Saad.The Delhi government was also in the dark about activities at Markaz till the Indian security agencies confirmed the presence of foreigner nationals at the building in the densely-populated south Delhi locality.A hostel-like complex, the building has six floors with accommodations for up to 2,000 people on the upper floors. The basement and the ground floors housing a kitchen and a communal dining area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/of-1-800-evacuated-from-nizamuddin-building-most-were-from-tamil-nadu/story-KiVAK7riXFHR4etgN1YdLM.html
31-03-2020||India||Covid-19 Update:Six more contacts test positive in Kashmir taking UT tally to 55||Kashmir on Tuesday reported six fresh Covid-19 cases taking the total number of positive cases in Jammu and Kashmir to 55. Government authorities said all fresh patients, including a 10-year-old boy, were contacts of earlier cases. The Union Territory has so far witnessed two deaths, both in Kashmir, including that of a religious preacher, who died in Srinagar’s Chest Disease Hospital on Sunday.“6 new positive cases confirmed in Kashmir Division. They are all contacts of previous positive cases. Meanwhile, contact-tracing continues in both Jammu and Kashmir Divisions. Please cooperate. Let’s #Fightittogether,” tweeted J&K government spokesman Rohit Kansal.In a positive development, 78 people who were under quarantine in a local hotel were allowed to go home amid applause from a group of policemen who had gathered at the hotel entrance. They were all advised to undergo home quarantine for the next 14 days as a precautionary measure.Considering the situation, Jammu deputy magistrate Sushma Chauhan on Monday issued an order to quarantine at least three densely populated localities in Jammu. They are Bhatindi, Sunjuwan and Gujjar Nagar, largely dominated by the Muslim community.“No movement of individuals for any reason whatsoever shall be permitted into and out of Bhatindi, Sunjuwan and Gujjar Nagar. However, for any medical emergency, people can call 0191-2571616, 0191-2571912 and necessary facilitation shall be done,” read the official order.“In order to strengthen the Covid-19 containment operations in some areas of Trikuta Nagar police station--from where recent positive cases have been traced-- we have intensified the lockdown in Bhatindi and neighbouring areas,” said the Jammu deputy magistrate.A few hours later, another densely populated locality Bhawani Nagar in Janipur area was also quarantined.Two villages in South Kashmir have been declared red zones to prevent the spread of Covid-19. District magistrate Shopian said there would be no inward and outward movement of any person from the villages declared red zones and the people should stay in their homes to ensure complete lockdown.Two villages Ramnagri and Sedow were put in the red zone category while adjoining villages of these tehsils were declared buffer zones and sealed. Earlier, seven villages were declared red zone areas in the neighbouring Pulwama district after reports that many people had come in contact with a Covid-19 positive patient.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-six-more-contacts-test-positive-in-kashmir-taking-ut-tally-to-55/story-i2d2GUtRSAKXR3Yq7wQfsN.html
31-03-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Second Delhi Mohalla Clinic doctor tests positive for Covid-19||A doctor at a Mohalla Clinic in Delhi’s Babarpur has tested positive for Covid-19, the second one to contract the coronavirus disease at a community health centre in 10 days, reports said on Tuesday.According to news agency ANI, a notice has been put up in the area asking patients who had visited the clinic between March 12 to March 20 to self-quarantine themselves at home for the next 15 days.The first doctor had contracted the coronavirus infection on March 21 from a 38-year-old woman from Dilshad Garden, who had visited the doctor’s private clinic on March 12, with symptoms such as cough and fever. The wife and daughter of this 49-year-old doctor, who worked at a Mohalla Clinic in north-east Delhi’s Maujpur, had also tested positive for the coronavirus disease. More than 1169 people, who had come in contact with the Mohalla Clinic doctor in Maujpur, were asked by the Delhi government’s health department to remain in home quarantine for 14 days. Of these, most were patients who visited the clinic between March 12 and 18. Around 30 to 40 patients were those who visited the doctor’s private clinic in Old Seemapuri.According to the Centre, 97 people have contracted Covid-19 the national capital, including 89 active cases, six recoveries and two deaths till Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-second-delhi-mohalla-clinic-doctor-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-hpBdgMXXbpogmjdqiXyj8K.html
31-03-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Govt identifies 500 companies to map Covid-19 solutions||The government has identified at least 500 entities in the field of diagnostics, drugs, ventilators, protection gear, disinfecting systems,etc, as an effort to map coronavirus disease (Covid-19) related technology capabilities in start-ups, academia, research and development labs and industry, in an effort to bolster its ability to contain the spread of the pandemic in the country.At least 200 proposals have been received in the past one week against the funding calls of the department of science and technology (DST), from which over 20 entities are under active consideration for support in the first phase, taking into account the relevance, cost, speed and scale of solutions to manage the disease outbreak, the government said on Tuesday.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage“The manufacturing capacity of the first indigenous kit developed by a Pune-based start up is being scaled up to produce nearly one lakh kits per week. A manufacturing facility for indigenous development of ventilators, testing kits, imaging equipment and ultrasound and high end radiology equipment has been set up in Vishakhapatnam where manufacturing will start in the first week of April,” said the health ministry in a statement.The DBT (department of biotechnology, a department within the DST), along with Drug Controller General of India, has developed and notified a Rapid Response Regulatory Framework to provide expedited regulatory approvals for all diagnostics drugs and vaccines.“Vaccine development is being supported with three Indian industries. Research on therapeutic and drug development has started,” said the statement.Follow latest coronavirus updates hereNovaLead Pharma, the Pune-based company that specialises in drug repurposing, has identified 42 existing drugs that may be helpful to patients in treating the coronavirus disease (Covid-19.)In a statement, the company said that it has deployed its proprietary computational technology for identifying existing drugs that may be potentially effective against the SARS-Cov2, the virus that causes Covid-19, as well as for minimising the disease impact on human body.The company, through a complex and extensive computational study, involving 2010 approved drugs and 30 potential viral and human targets, has identified a list of 42 existing drugs for further analysis.Also read| From Nizamuddin Covid-19 scare to Govt tips on social isolation: 10 points“Use of existing drugs already approved by the regulators can offer a huge relief in the short to medium term, if found effective against Covid 19. The major advantage with this approach is that the drugs being approved are already proved to be safe for humans, are being actively manufactured and, therefore, can be immediately put to use in a very short time,” said Supreet Deshpande, CEO, NovaLead Pharma, in a statement.Dr Sudhir Kulkarni, head of research, NovaLead Pharma, said, “Novalead is pursuing a multi-pronged strategy involving multiple scientific computational approaches. We have completed three phases of rational computational screenings and our discoveries so far include drugs that show promise as effective treatment either by directly attacking the virus proteins or by empowering the human proteins to minimise its spread. Our research effort shall continue to further shortlist candidates for specific stages of infection by SARS-Cov-2 virus including those reaching the Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS) stage.”Also read: Coronavirus has affected millions, but these countries are still free from itIf successful, it can save lives and also prevent early infections from turning critical.“Repurposing already existing drug molecules is preferred, especially during an outbreak situation, because it is faster. Developing a new drug is a time-consuming effort,” said Dr Raman R Gangakhedkar, chief, epidemiology and communicable diseases division, Indian Council of Medical Research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-identifies-500-companies-to-map-covid-19-solutions/story-iyZl01k9XQa76hDqwQwY3O.html
31-03-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Maharashtra govt slashes March salary by 25 to 50%, MLAs take a 60% cut||The Maharashtra government on Tuesday announced that it will cut salaries of elected representatives and state government employees as it fears a significant drop in revenue receipts for 2019-20 fiscal in the wake of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.Maharashtra has reported 225 Covid-19 positive cases and 10 deaths till 1 pm on Tuesday.Elected representatives, including from chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to gram panchayat members, will take 60% deductions and receive only 40% of their March salary, while Class A and B government employees will take a 50% pay cut. Click here for complete coronavirus coverageDeputy chief minister and finance minister Ajit Pawar announced the decision on Tuesday after his meeting with the government employees’ unions. Pawar said the decision will financially boost the government in its fight against the global pandemic.Class A and B officers, ranging from the rank of secretaries to desk officers, will get 50% of their March salaries, while clerical staff in Class C will get 75% of their monthly remunerations. Follow latest coronavirus update here “There will be no salary cuts for Class D employees such as peons and office assistants,” the finance minister said. “I hope the employees and their unions will extend their wholehearted support to the government in this unprecedented challenge we are facing,” the deputy CM said.All major political parties in the state have announced their decision to donate a month’s salary of their legislators to the various state government relief funds.Also read: Coronavirus has affected millions, but these countries are still free from itOn Monday, Pawar demanded a Rs 25,000 crore package from the central government due to the Covid-19 outbreak that has dented the state economy. He demanded that central dues to the tune of Rs 16,654 crore towards the devolution of the taxes and grant-in-aid be released immediately to tide over the growing economic crisis.Also read: Covid-19 could fundamentally change India’s political economy||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-maharashtra-govt-slashes-march-salary-by-25-to-50-mlas-take-a-60-cut/story-vyk4dIexcAG3kLODApy8FK.html
31-03-2020||India||Shahar qazi in UP’s Mawana hid 10 foreign preachers amid Covid-19 fears, booked||The city cleric of Uttar Pradesh’s Mawana and his two of his associates have been booked for hiding information about 10 religious preachers from abroad, who were living in a mosque in the town since March 17, police said on Tuesday.Rajendra Tyagi, an inspector of Mawana police station, said five of the preachers are from Sudan, four from Djibouti and one from Kenya.“A case under sections 188, 270 and 271 of IPC (Indian Penal Code) and foreigners act has been registered against shahar qazi Maulana Nafees Qazmi and his two associates Dr Aslam Advocate and Naimuddin,” said Tyagi. All the preachers have been asked to stay inside the mosque for a 14-day coronavirus quarantine and health officials will keep a close watch on them during the period, he said.The passports of all the preachers have also been confiscated for an investigation.Also read: 35 booked in UP for hiding travel history, defying quarantineTyagi said that a joint team of health officials led by Dr Satish Bhaskar, the Mawana community health centre incharge, and police personnel rushed to the Bilal Mosque in Heeralal locality of the town on Monday. They found the mosque locked from outside and after unlocking it they found 10 foreigner preachers inside it. They were, however, wearing masks and also maintaining a safe distance from each other. The team directed them to remain in quarantine and not to come in contact with anyone. Qazmi and his associates have raised their objection against the police action. The shahar qazi said he was not aware that the preachers were living in the mosque. Dr Advocate said he had never participated in religious activities inside the mosque and he has no role in allowing the preachers to stay in the mosque.There are 93 people, including 11 foreigners, in the state who have contracted Covid-19 till date, according to the Union health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-shahar-qazi-in-up-s-mawana-hid-10-foreign-preachers-amid-covid-19-fears-booked/story-qi3dqtVsZ7o3S1hKD6sekK.html
31-03-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Bengal allows sale of sweets for 4 hours||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has said sweet shops will be allowed to remain open from 12pm to 4pm across the state amid the Covid-19 lockdown after dairy industry approached the government last week.The government has been under pressure from the dairy industry which has witnessed a drastic fall in the sale of milk since the 21-day lockdown began on March 25. Cowshed owners even claimed that some of them sold their cattle to slaughterhouses. “A lot of farm owners are in trouble because of the lockdown. I was concerned. Bengalis love sweets. So, we decided to allow sweetmeat shops in the neighbourhoods to remain open for four hours in the afternoon,” Banerjee said during a video conference with administrative heads of all districts.The government order, however, clarified that the shops should have minimum staff and buyers can only take away packed items.According to the National Dairy Development Board, West Bengal is among the top 10 milk-producing states while Uttar Pradesh tops the list.Representatives of the dairy industry said 60% of the milk produced in the state every day is used by the sweet making industry but with eateries, hotels and sweet shops closed, this entire milk is getting wasted.On Monday, some dairy owners in the North 24 Parganas district even poured milk down a drain and demanded relief from the government.The Jorasanko Milk Merchants Society in Kolkata on March 25 sought the intervention of the chief minister. It even urged and state-owned Mother Dairy to buy all the milk since it has the infrastructure for storage and sales.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-bengal-allows-sale-of-sweets-for-4-hours/story-wVLrUyqq9aQnkf43gAQplN.html
31-03-2020||India||Nizamuddin emerges as Covid-19 hotspot, Govt shares tips on beating social isolation: Key developments||The number of coronavirus cases in the country shows no sign of abating. The Ministry of Health has updated the latest figures to over 1,200 cases in the country. More than 100 patients have recovered from the infection while over 30 people have lost their lives in India.On Tuesday the country entered the seventh day of the 21-day Covid-19 lockdown.Here are the key developments:1. Delhi’s Nizamuddin area has emerged as the hotspot of coronavirus disease after several cases of Covid-19 emerged in people who were a part of a religious congregation in the area earlier this month. 2. More than 2,000 delegates from countries like Indonesia and Malaysia attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin West from March 1-15.3. Over 200 foreign nationals who participated in the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin flouted visa norms and appeared to have entered the country on a tourist visa rather than a mandatory missionary visa, a senior government official told Hindustan Times. 4. The Delhi government has given an order to lodge an FIR against the organisers of the religious congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin.5. India is likely to blacklist over 200 foreigners who came from 16 countries on tourist visas and attended an Islamic congregation at Delhi’s Nizamuddin. 6. Maharashtra government will take a pay cut to fight Covid-19. There will be 25 to 50% cut in salary of the government staff. The chief minister, cabinet ministers and elected representatives to take 60 % pay cut.7. Delhi Lt Governor Anil Baijal said that the number of food distribution centres in Delhi will be ramped up from 500 to 2500.8. A European think-tank, European Foundation for South Asian Studies (EFSAS), has said that the 21-day lockdown by PM Modi is a crucial step in fighting coronavirus. 9. The government on Tuesday issued a release on ways to battle social isolation during the Covid-19 lockdown. The health ministry, in its release, said fear is the most common emotion faced by many amid the coronavirus crisis. Fear can give rise to anxiety and panic which can make a person think or do things that we might not “consider appropriate under normal circumstances”.10. In the wake of the Covid-19 lockdown, the government has decided to extend the validity of driving licenses that expired on February 1. The expired licenses will now be valid until June 30, 2020..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-s-nizamuddin-emerges-as-covid-19-hotspot-govt-shares-tips-on-beating-social-isolation-key-developments/story-IzsX6biJ0BDy85qWvAfd7H.html
31-03-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Countries complain about quality of China-made equipment to deal with Covid-19 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion curated for you. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Countries complain about quality of China-made equipment to deal with Covid-19A number of European countries have complained about the quality of the equipment being supplied by China to help deal with the coronavirus outbreak. Read more What we know about Nizamuddin mosque congregation: 10 pointsDelhi’s Nizamuddin area has emerged as the hotspot of coronavirus disease after several people who were a part of a religious congregation in the area earlier this month tested positive for coronavirus. Read more Amid coronavirus lockdown, govt extends validity of driving licenses that expired on February 1The government has decided to extend the validity of driving licenses that expired on February 1 in the wake of the coronavirus crisis. The expired licenses will now be valid until June 30, 2020. Read more‘Feeling lonely or sad is quite common,’ says govt; shares ways to beat social isolationThe Ministry of Health on Tuesday came out with a release on ways to beat social isolation amid the 21-day coronavirus lockdown. The ministry, in its release, said fear is the most common emotion faced by many amid the coronavirus crisis. Read more Vicky Kaushal donates Rs 1 cr to PM-Cares fund, Sara Ali Khan and Alia Bhatt also pledge support against Covid-19Vicky Kaushal has donated Rs 1 crore to PM-Cares fund whereas Sara Ali Khan had contributed an undisclosed amount to PM Narendra Modi’s relief fund as well as Maharashtra Chief Minister’s relief fund. Read more Former India hockey captain Viren Rasquinha’s obstacle course for daughter goes viralAs parents face a tough time keeping kids busy and entertained, former India hockey captain Viren Rasquinha came up with obstacle course around the house for his daughter and the video clip has even gone all kinds of viral. Read more Three all-time IPL records that are not likely to be brokenThe Indian Premier League is all about action, it is all about big hits, acrobatic catches and skilful bowling. Plenty of records have been broken, plenty more have been posted - the talent on display has been exhilarating and as a result, the IPL has become the biggest league in the cricketing world. Read more Read, write, record your take while social distancing, self-isolationWhen you stop to think about it, it’s baffling that this is where we are — unable to leave the house, worrying about supplies, frantic about what the world will look like when this crisis is done. In trying times when the individual has little control over their environment, it can help to document your times and your thoughts about them. Read moreYour Houseparty account is not ‘hacked’, says the companyThe Houseparty, a video calling app, which according to Google Play listing has been downloaded more than 10 million times on Android devices, was until yesterday (March 30th) said to have been ‘hacked’. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-countries-complain-about-quality-of-china-made-equipment-to-deal-with-covid-19-and-all-the-latest-news/story-QVzt71efs7RCXgDYtzuySM.html
31-03-2020||India||Coronavirus: Amid lockdown, govt advises against using tobacco, alcohol to cope with boredom as they affect immunity||Using tobacco and drinking alcohol to cope with boredom during the COVID-19 lockdown can affect immunity as well as mental health, the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday, amid rising cases of the novel coronavirus.  It also urged people not to shun or judge those who are suffering from the infection, which has claimed 32 lives and affected 1,251 people in the country.“If you know someone who might have the infection, tell them about precautions, and how to get medical assistance, if required,” the ministry said in its document ‘Minding our minds during the COVID-19 pandemic’, which was released on Tuesday. People who have the problem of substance use must go for professional help, especially when they feel stressed, the ministry said. Underlining the importance of the lockdown, it said the lockdown is meant to prevent the spread of the infection from one person to another, and to protect ourselves and others.  This means, not stepping out of the house except for buying necessities, reducing the number of trips outside, and ideally only a single, healthy family member making trips when absolutely necessary, the ministry said.If there is anyone in the house who is very sick and may need to get medical help, “you must be aware of the health facility nearest to you”, it said. “These can be difficult times for all of us as we hear about spread of COVID-19 from all over the world, through television, social media, newspapers, family and friends and other sources. The most common emotion faced by all is fear. It makes us anxious, panicky and can even possibly make us think, say or do things that we might not consider appropriate under normal circumstances,” the document stated.It urged people not to panic if they get infected with the novel coronavirus, stating most people get better and advised practicing self-isolation and taking medications that are advised. Giving tips on handling social isolation, the ministry said staying at home can be quite nice for some time, but can also be boring and restricting and advised people to stay busy and distract themselves from negative emotions by listening to music, reading, watching an entertaining programme on television, pursuing hobbies and doing simple indoor exercises.“Understand if someone around you needs advice, food or other essentials, be willing to share. Elderly people may feel confused, lost and need help. Offer them help by getting them what they need, their medicines, daily needs etc,” the ministry said.It urged people to focus on facts and reject rumours.The ministry asked people to access and believe only the most reliable sources of information for self-protection. It also advised them against spreading or sharing any unverified news or information further. “Knowledge is power; the more you know about a certain issue, the less fearful you may feel. Do not follow sensational news or social media posts which may impact your mental state.  “Do not keep discussing all the time about who got sick and how. Instead learn about who got well and recovered. Stick to the known advice- hand hygiene and keeping a physical distance from others. It is being careful about yourself, and also about care of others,” it said adding common cold is not coronavirus infection.  The ministry called for following etiquette of sneezing, coughing, avoiding spitting in public places among others. PTI PLB ANB ANB||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-amid-lockdown-govt-advises-against-using-tobacco-alcohol-to-cope-with-boredom-as-they-affect-immunity/story-S4g9I3rIIgXCsFryLywWWO.html
31-03-2020||India||281 foreigners at Nizamuddin Covid-19 hotspot flouted visa rules||Nearly 280 foreign nationals who participated in the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin that has turned into a hotspot of coronavirus disease flouted visa norms, a senior government official told Hindustan Times. These people, the official said citing preliminary reports, appeared to have entered the country on a Tourist visa rather than mandatory Missionary visa.The Delhi government’s home department has flagged this information to the immigration department which is cross-checking the visa status of 281 foreigners.The Jamaat is an evangelical Muslim sect aimed at spreading the teachings of the Prophet. As many as 24 persons have now tested coronavirus positive after the lockdown of the area. There are about 394 more people in hospitals. The building belongs to the Tablighi Jamaat, an evangelical Muslim sect that hosted this month its annual congregation with attendees coming in from several nations such as Indonesia and Malaysia before they spread out to other parts of India such as Kashmir and Andhra Pradesh, creating a web of close contacts that now threatens to create an explosion of cases in the country.According to data available with the Hindustan Times, these foreigners came from 21 countries, a large number of them from Indonesia, Bangladesh, Myanmar, Malaysia, Sri Lanka and Kyrgyzstan.Watch | Nizamuddin sealed after people show virus symptoms, over 200 in isolation A government official added that the number of foreigners who are found to have joined the congregation could increase. “It may eventually be closer to 500,” the official said.In the past, officials said the immigration department had black-listed many foreigners linked to Tablighi Jamaat for undesirable activities and violation of visa norms.Since the checks for visas granted under the Missionary category are more stringent, these Islamic proselytizers appear to have worked around the scrutiny by hiding the real purpose of their travel to India, blindsiding Indian missions abroad, officials said.Also read | What we know about Nizamuddin mosque congregation: 10 pointsThe Tablighi Jamaat already has been under the scanner of security agencies for their links with radical groups in south Asia but this has never been proved. “They operate in grey areas and their preachings can be used to radicalise youth in the name of Islam,” a counter terror operative who is familiar with the developments said.The Jamaatis originally come from the Mewat region on Haryana-Rajasthan border and are currently headed by Maulana Saad.Also read | Covid-19 update: FIR against Nizamuddin gathering organisers, says Delhi health ministerThe Delhi Government was also in the dark about activities at Markaz till the Indian security agencies confirmed the presence of foreigner nationals at the building in the densely-populated south Delhi locality.A hostel-like complex, the building has six floors with accommodations for up to 2,000 people on the upper floors. The basement and the ground floors housing a kitchen and a communal dining area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-220-foreigners-at-nizamuddin-covid-19-hotspot-flouted-visa-rules/story-jWv1iuGj8fLYztH7AhHeII.html
31-03-2020||India||Amid coronavirus lockdown, government extends validity of driving licenses that expired on February 1||The government has decided to extend the validity of driving licenses that expired on February 1 in the wake of the coronavirus crisis. The expired licenses will now be valid until June 30, 2020.The Ministry of Road Transport and Highways has issued an advisory to states and union territories, asking them to consider documents like driving licenses, permits and registration papers which expired on February 1 this year to be valid till June 30 under the Motor Vehicle Rules. The move comes in the wake of the 3-week Covid-19 lockdown to ensure that people don’t experience any inconvenience due to the closure of the transport offices. The decision is also to help essential service providers carry out their operations during and after the lockdown without any hassle. The Centre has strictly asked all state authorities to ensure that no movement takes place during the lockdown in cities, on highways or across the border. This comes after thousands of migrant workers and daily wage earners were seen on a mass exodus, trying to reach their native lands. India has reported over 1,200 Covid-19 cases and more than 30 deaths so far. 100 people have recovered from the infection. On Tuesday, the country entered the seventh day of the 3-week Covid-19 lockdown. The coronavirus pandemic has affected nearly 700,000 people across the globe. More than 30,000 people worldwide have been killed by the deadly contagion which started last year from China’s Wuhan.Besides China, the United States, Italy, Spain, France and Iran are some of the worst-hit nations by the Covid-19 crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-coronavirus-lockdown-government-extends-validity-of-driving-licenses-that-expired-on-february-1/story-jE4uWUa2ysXemp85tf6p4N.html
31-03-2020||India||Coronavirus: ‘Feeling lonely or sad is quite common,’ says government; shares ways to beat social isolation||The Ministry of Health on Tuesday came out with a release on ways to beat social isolation amid the 21-day coronavirus lockdown. The ministry, in its release, said fear is the most common emotion faced by many amid the coronavirus crisis. Fear can give rise to anxiety and panic which can make a person think or do things that we might not “consider appropriate under normal circumstances”.Here’s what the government suggests to ensure sound mental health and beat social isolation during the lockdown: 1. The government has suggested people to keep themselves busy during the lockdown and be watchful of any symptom of emotional or mental distress during this period. 2. Social isolation should be tackled. Rumours, fake news and theories must be rejected. Call up friends and family, stay connected.3. One should take a break from watching too much news and updates around the coronavirus crisis yet keep abreast of the latest developments for safety. 4. People with existing mental illnesses may feel overwhelmed and face newer challenges. 5. Keep busy. Distract yourself. Take up hobbies and be active. Try and follow a routine. Eat well and drink plenty of fluids. 6. “At times of anxiety, practice breathing slowly for a few minutes. Try and distance the thoughts that are making you anxious. Think of something calm and serene, and slow down your mind. When feeling angry and irritated, calming your mind, counting back from 10 to 1, distracting yourself helps”.7. Recognise emotional and mental problems in you and in people around by paying close attention to any changes in sleep pattern, difficulty in sleeping, substance abuse or increased use of alcohol, tobacco and drugs; worsening health problems. 8. “If any of these emotions persist continuously for several days, despite your trying to get out of it, talk about it with someone. If the feelings worsen, a person may feel helpless, hopeless and feel that life is not worth living. If that happens, call at helpline number (080-46110007) for advice from a mental health professional or contact your doctor/mental health professional.” the government release read. 9. DO NOT: Spread rumours or misinformation. Avoid consumption of tobacco, alcohol. Don’t consume drugs. 10. Do not judge people with Covid-19 infection. Avoid panicking and overthinking. According to a Lancet report, there were as many as 197·3 million people with mental disorders in India in the year 2017. Mental illness and emotional distress is a rising cause of worry in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-feeling-lonely-or-sad-is-quite-common-says-government-shares-ways-to-beat-social-isolation/story-u09Wvje9uQ0FiES0Ecpr3N.html
31-03-2020||India||Navy manufactures portable multi-feed oxygen cylinder for Covid-19 patients||As the country prepares to handle a rising number of cases, and meet its needs for ventilators, which about 5% of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients may require, the Indian navy has pitched in with an innovative ventilator design that can cover six patients simultaneously.Naval Dockyard, Visakhapatnam, has manufactured this portable multi-feed oxygen manifold ventilator, the Navy said in a statement. “To cater to the requirement of Oxygen supply for multiple patients during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, personnel from Naval Dockyard Visakhapatnam have designed an innovative ‘Portable Multi-feed Oxygen Manifold(MOM)’ using a 6-way radial header fitted to a single cylinder. This innovation would enable one Oxygen Bottle to supply six patients concurrently thus enabling critical care management to a larger number of COVID patients with the existing limited resources,” the statement said. A typical Oxygen providing facility at hospitals comprises an oxygen cylinder feeding only one patient through a Ventimask arrangement. “A need was therefore felt to design a suitable portable arrangement that could provide oxygen through masks to a number of needy patients using a single-cylinder during emergencies which is the need of the hour,” the statement further said. The preliminary trials of the entire assembly were conducted at the naval dockyard, Visakhapatnam, which was followed by rapid trials at the Naval Hospital, INHS Kalyani, in which the portable MOM was successfully set up within 30 minutes.After successful trials, Naval Dockyard, Visakhapatnam, has started manufacturing 10 portable MOM with two six-way radial headers, which can cater to 120 patients at makeshift locations, especially during the current Covid-19 pandemic.With close to 1200 cases having tested positive for Covid-19, India is ramping up its disease management capacity, and has already placed an order of 40,000 ventilators.A domestic manufacturer, Agva Healthcare in Noida, has been able to develop suitable ventilators and an order of 10,000 ventilators has been placed with the company. Supplies are expected to start by April 2. In addition, an order for 30,000 ventilators has been placed on Bharat Electronics Limited, which is going to collaborate with domestic manufacturers. Indian auto manufacturers are also preparing to manufacture ventilators.Separate orders are also being placed by states to procure more ventilators in case numbers surge.“…the government is taking all necessary measures to ensure there is no shortfall of necessary equipment,” said Lav Aggarwal, joint secretary, Union health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/navy-s-ventilator-design-can-cover-six-covid-19-patients-at-a-time/story-LuJjHWiL2BXNJj52Rb1nFO.html
31-03-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Over 68,000 Uttarakhand ‘Covid Warriors’ to get Rs 4 lakh life insurance||The Uttarakhand government on Monday evening announced life insurance worth Rs 4 lakh each for 68,457 employees from various departments who are on the frontline in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic in the state.Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat had declared during the one-day concluding budget session on March 25 that all the personnel, including health, sanitation, police and media, will be recognised as ‘COVID Warriors’ and be given life insurance by the government for their role in the fight against the deadly virus. But he had not announced the specifics. “To laud the efforts of personnel of various departments in the fight against COVID-19 pandemic, we will provide life insurance worth Rs 4 lakh to 68,457 such personnel,” Rawat said on Monday adding the initiative will cost Rs 17.02 crore for a year to the government.Click here for complete coronavirus coverageMonday’s announcement, however, didn’t include the state health workers as their insurance is being provided under health insurance by the Centre.According to the announcement, of the 68,457 personnel, 22,523 are from state police, 7988 are sanitation workers, 14,595 are Anganwadi workers, 14,376 are Anganwadi assistants, 4924 are mini Anganwadi assistants, 3000 are employees of the Garhwal Mandal Vikas Nigam and Kumaon Mandal Vikas Nigam and 1051 are from other departments. Follow latest coronavirus updates here“The life insurance from the state government is not being provided to our health workers as it is being done by the Centre. We are also soon doing a separate arrangement for media persons on the same,” said Rawat. Later on Monday evening around 8pm, the chief minister also addressed the residents of the state on Facebook and urged them to continue following the lockdown to “defeat Covid-19 infection.”“So far people of Uttarakhand have fully co-operated with the government in following the lockdown and maintaining social distancing. However, they need now to think about how they can follow this lockdown in a better way and keep maintaining social distance,” said Rawat. “Though the people are following the instructions, there are some reports about the people who have returned to their home in the hilly areas from other states and are venturing out and not following home quarantine. They should stop doing that and strictly get into home quarantine for the sake of their children and family’s lives,” he said.On Monday, 49 inmates from Haldwani and Nainital jails in Nainital district were released on parole by jail administration. Also read: Covid-19 could fundamentally change India’s political economyThey were released after the Supreme Court a few days ago ordered all states and Union territories to decongest overcrowded jails to prevent the spread of Covid-19 by releasing inmates, who are convicted for a sentence of fewer than seven years, and undertrials entailing a sentence of fewer than seven years on parole.Out of the 49 inmates released on parole for six months, 46 are from Haldwani jail while 43 from Nainital jail.“We are working on the Supreme Court order and similar action would be taken by other jails also,” PVK Prasad, inspector general of police (jail), said.Also read: Spit attack a worry across world as people battle Covid-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-over-68-000-uttarakhand-covid-warriors-to-get-rs-4-lakh-life-insurance/story-SiJZPuV7pLH9taB3tza8YK.html
31-03-2020||India||Assam to provide free rice, financial assistance to poor during Covid-19 lockdown||The Assam government on Monday announced special assistance to the state’s poor population hit by the lockdown imposed because of coronavirus spread in the country.In a cabinet meeting on Monday evening, the government decided to provide free rice from April 1 to 58 lakh families registered under the National Food Security Act (NFSA)—i.e. ration cardholders.The scheme would provide one-time financial assistance of Rs 1000 to those families in rural and urban areas who don’t have a ration card.In rural areas, 100 families in areas with a population of around 5000, 150 families in areas with a population of between 5000 and 10,000 and 200 families in areas with a population of over 10,000 would get that financial assistance.Also read: What you need to know todayIn Guwahati, 250 families from each ward and 100 families from each ward in other municipalities and urban bodies would get financial assistance.All families in Bodoland Territorial Areas District (BTAD) and Karbi Anglong and Dima Hasao autonomous districts who don’t have ration cards would also get Rs 1000 assistance.Similarly, 278,000 labourers registered with the government would get the same amount as financial assistance.From April 1, tea garden workers would be allowed to pluck leaves, few factories to start production and farmers to till their fields as long as they follow the guidelines issued by the health department.All trucks carrying food items and animal fodder stuck at the state’s boundary with West Bengal will also be allowed to enter Assam from April 1.Assam has not reported any case of Covid-19 till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-to-provide-free-rice-financial-assistance-to-poor-during-covid-19-lockdown/story-ygw9ZYTZ32FL54s42pHCqN.html
31-03-2020||India||Three Covid-19 patients in Bengal without travel history trigger concerns||At least three persons, who have been detected with corona in the last 48 hours, might not have travelled outside the state in the recent past, health officials said. It was not immediately clear if they came in touch with any infected person. Officials say they are trying to trace the source of the infections.A 57-year-old man from Hooghly district in south Bengal with no ‘known’ history of travelling outside the state or meeting anyone from outside the state tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday.In a separate case, a septuagenarian man from Burrabazar in Kolkata has also tested positive. Family members said he didn’t go anywhere. In another incident, a 56-year-old resident of Baranagar in North 24 Parganas district tested positive, raising eyebrows of health officials. Initially, it was thought he got infected from his brother who returned from Madhya Pradesh with fever. But his brother has tested negative. The patient has no history of travelling outside the state.“We could not trace any travel history of some of the patients who tested positive in the last 48 hours. We are still trying to trace them,” said Ajay Chakraborty, director of health services in West Bengal. The man from Hooghly district works at a private firm in Durgapur in West Burdwan district. Before testing positive for Covid-19, he had travelled in train in the districts of Birbhum, Bankura, Kolkata and South 24-Parganas. He had attended an event at his firm in Durgapur on March 13, went to Bankura to attend another event of the company, and stayed the night at a hotel in Durgapur. He returned home on March 14. On March 26, he had fever and gradually developed breathing difficulties. He was admitted to a hospital on March 28 and tested positive for Covid-19 on March 29. Increasing worry for the administration, the domestic help at their home has also reported of fever and her swab samples have been sent for tests.“It seems that probably we are entering stage three (community transmission). However officially we are still in stage two,” said Dr Sumon Poddar, associate professor, Institute of Child HealthThe 77-year-old a cloth merchant having his shop at Burrabazar area in Kolkata, did not travel outside the state or meeting anyone from outside the state, his family members reportedly told the authorities of the private hospital where he is admitted.Reports of more patients being tested positive with COVID-19 have poured in since Monday night but the state government is yet to release any official figures after Monday afternoon. According to the last bulletin issued by the state on Monday, at least 22 cases have been detected and the total death toll was two.“A few more cases have been tested positive since Monday evening. The numbers have gone beyond 22. There is also a report of one person dying. This could take the total death toll to three. We are yet to confirm as the man died before his swab samples could be tested,” said Chakrabarti.There are four main stages of disease outbreak. Stage I is usually when cases are imported and are not of local origin. Stage II is when there is local transmission, which means a section of people testing positive have come in contact with a positive patient having a travel history. Stage III is community transmission, a phase of the outbreak when the source of a patient’s infection cannot be traced and isolated. Stage IV is an epidemic, when there several clusters of the infection.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), tasked with containing the epidemic, has publicly maintained that India is still in Stage II, despite the number of cases of people with no known contact to an infected person or travel history rising over the past week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-covid-19-patients-in-bengal-has-no-travel-history-officials-wary/story-FHhSKxjY5ubb03CjS07qBP.html
31-03-2020||India||Coronavirus update- TB vaccine in childhood may offer Covid-19 protection: Researchers||The Bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG) vaccine given to newborns and children to prevent childhood tuberculosis appears to offer protection against coronavirus disease (Covid-19), according to US researchers who analysed the wide variation in the intensity of the disease in different countries.The new study found Covid-19 cases and deaths are higher in countries that do not have or have discontinued universal BCG vaccination of children, such as the US, Italy, Spain and France, compared to countries with universal and long-standing immunisation policies, such as India and China. Covid-19 cases and deaths in the United States, Italy and Spain have outpaced China, which was the epicentre of the outbreak that was first detected in Wuhan city in early December.Click here for complete coronavirus coverageBCG vaccination significantly reduced deaths from Covid-19, with the strongest reductions in countries that established a BCG vaccination policy earlier, found the study, published in the preprint health sciences server, medRxiv. BCG vaccination benefits held after factoring in cultural norms, mitigation efforts, and health infrastructure.Follow coronavirus latest updates hereThe study found a direct correlation between how early the policy was established and the elderly population that would be protected. “Countries that have a late start of universal BCG policy, such as Iran in 1984, also had high mortality, consistent with the idea that BCG protects the vaccinated elderly population. We also found that BCG vaccination also reduced the number of reported Covid-19 cases in a country,” said the study titled ‘Correlation between universal BCG vaccination policy and reduced morbidity and mortality for Covid-19: an epidemiological study’.It recommends BCG vaccination as a potential new tool in the fight against Covid-19.India started BCG vaccination of children in 1949, and currently 97% of 26 million children born in India receive the BCG vaccine free. India’s universal immunisation programme, under which the BCG vaccine is given, went up to the current figure of 97%, according to the ministry of health and family welfare data, up from 92% in 2015-16, as was recorded by the National Family of Health Survey 4. It is manufactured in India, and costs less than RS 100 per vial in the private sector.Also read: Coronavirus has affected millions, but these countries are still free from it“BCG coverage is highest among all vaccines given to children under five years under the universal immunisation programme. It’s given to newborn babies at birth, or up to one year if vaccination is missed at birth,” said Dr Pradeep Haldar, deputy commissioner (immunisation), ministry of health and family welfare. Vaccination is above 95% across all states, including the empowered action states with universal immunisation coverage of less than 85%.BCG vaccine contains a live, weakened strain of Mycobacterium bovis, a cousin of M. tuberculosis, which is the bacteria that causes tuberculosis.“The BCG vaccine is an immunomodulator that boosts immune response to offer broad protection to respiratory infections. Even more protective is a vaccine from Mycobacterium indicus pranii (MIP), which has been isolated and sequenced in India National Institute of Immunology. It’s approved for use against leprosy and septicaemia, and PGI Chandigarh recently evaluated its translational application as an immunotherapeutic against severe acute respiratory syndrome (a coronavirus like Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19). The results have been sent for publication,” said Dr NK Ganguly, former director general, Indian Council of Medical Research.Also read: Spit attack a worry across world as people battle Covid-19Australia, Netherlands, Germany and the United Kingdom have announced they will begin large-scale human trials to see whether BCG vaccination protects health workers from Covid-19 by triggering an immune response to reduce symptoms, prevent severe illness or prevent infection. Australia announced on Friday that it will begin BCG vaccine trials with around 4,000 physicians and nurses, who are at higher risk of becoming infected with the respiratory disease than the general population, and in older persons, who are at higher risk of serious illness.Netherlands has recruited around 1,000 healthcare workers in eight Dutch hospitals to either receive the BCG vaccine or a placebo.“BCG vaccination produces non-specific immune effects that have been shown to boost response against non-mycobacterial pathogens, and using it to improving innate immunity against Covid-19 would buy time to develop a specific vaccine against the disease,” said a scientist from the Indian Council for Medical Research, requesting anonymity.BCG vaccination significantly increases the secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines, specifically IL-1B, which play a vital role in antiviral immunity.“BCG vaccination has been shown to produce broad protection against viral infections and sepsis, raising the possibility that the protective effect of BCG may be associated co-occurring infections and sepsis-related deaths,” said Dr Ganguly.The broad use of the BCG vaccine across a population could reduce the number of carriers, and combined with other measures, could act to slow down or stop the spread of Covid-19, according to the US study.The study answers why Covid-19 spread in China despite children getting BCG vaccinated since the 1950’s. “During the Cultural Revolution (1966-1976), tuberculosis prevention and treatment agencies were disbanded and weakened. We speculate that this could have created a pool of potential hosts that would be affected by and spread Covid-19,” said the study.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/childhood-tb-vaccine-may-offer-covid-19-protection-researchers/story-nCeO65fOBQbvLIylXUAhlI.html
31-03-2020||India||Don’t overburden women during Covid-19 lockdown, urges Odisha CM||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik has appealed people not to overburden women by asking them to cook multiple times during the day as the state remained under the 21-day lockdown to stop the spread of coronavirus.Conveying Patnaik’s message on Monday, Odisha’s Covid-19 spokesperson Subroto Bagchi said the lockdown is not a time to ask women to cook food three times a day and enjoy the days as holidays.“People should limit the number of their food. It is already summer and they should not be confined to the kitchen all the time. It is not a time to overburden the mothers, wives, sisters and sisters-in-law,” Bagchi said at a media briefing on Covid-19 updates.Also read: Odisha asks district collectors to focus on Covid-19 surveillance, contact tracing“Otherwise, the women, who normally prepare food at home, will be overburdened and once they will be in pressure, it would bring a big problem to everybody,” he said.Bagchi said during the lockdown people should make a habit of cooking the available vegetables and go out to buy them only once in every two or three days.Last week, Patnaik had asked people to take a pledge in the name of their children and parents that they would stay at home during the lockdown period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-overburden-women-during-covid-19-lockdown-urges-odisha-cm/story-G6GSk47MasUSIr5Yr5uW9K.html
31-03-2020||India||Haryana man burns himself while using hand sanitiser in the kitchen||A 44-year-old man from Rewari, Haryana was brought to a private hospital in Delhi on Sunday night after he sustained a 35% burn while using hand sanitiser in the kitchen. He suffered burn injuries to his face, neck, chest, abdomen, and both hands after his kurta caught fire.With the threat of Covid-19 infection people have been increasingly using hand sanitisers, which contain up to 70% alcohol and are highly flammable. Doctors from Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, who are treating the patient, have warned people against using sanitisers near open flames.“The patient was at home, sanitising his phone and keys, etc., while standing in the kitchen. His wife was cooking nearby. Some of the sanitiser must have fallen on the kurta, which caught fire from the cooking gas. With people using sanitisers for everything these days, this should serve as a warning that they not use it in the kitchen or wherever there is an open flame,” said Dr Mahesh Mangal, chairman of department of plastic and cosmetic surgery at the hospital.“These sanitisers have high alcohol content and are highly flammable. People should also ensure that their hands have dried before entering the kitchen,” he said.The patient will be kept under observation for five to seven days before doctors decide on the course of treatment.“We will observe him for about five days and then decide whether he will need skin grafting,” said Dr Mangal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-burns-himself-while-using-hand-sanitiser-in-the-kitchen/story-W1fRxXYqoOcFE87hsFco2M.html
31-03-2020||India||Coronavirus: Transgenders in Gujarat set an example, offer food to needy||A group of more than 150 people from Gujarat’s transgender community have set an example amid the Covid-19 crisis by helping out the needy. The members are providing free packages of food to the needy and those living in slums. The food packets include rice, flour, oil, tea leaves, sugar, among other essential items, news agency ANI reported. “We had started with 200 kits but now it has gone up to around 1500. We prepare it ourselves for distribution. We used to get together for the celebration of Navratri, but it got cancelled this year due to coronavirus. So we thought of doing this instead,” Nisha, a member of the community said. Nisha,a member of the group,says, "We had started with 200 kits but now it has gone up to around 1500. We prepare it ourselves for distribution. We used to get together for celebration of navratri,but it got cancelled this yr due to #COVID19. So we thought of doing this instead" https://t.co/TZwcwSJ9hF pic.twitter.com/LeyqvHzUbKThis is just one example of how people are coming together to help others fight the Covid-19 crisis. In Kerala’a Trivandrum, employees at the general post office have decided to prepare food at their homes and give it to the needy in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak.Home-cooked food will be given to Trivandrum Corporation which would then be provided to the needy, ANI reported.“There are many who are struggling for food in this lockdown. We’ve a Postal Staff Quarters Welfare Association and we decided to prepare food at our homes and give to Thiruvananthapuram Corporation which will supply it to the needy. There are 40 families in staff quarters,” an official said. Gujarat: Food packets being prepared for needy by devotees at gurudwara Gobind Dham in Ahmedabad, amid lockdown due to Coronavirus. pic.twitter.com/gQTeZucWYnDevotees at Gurudwara Gobind Dham in Ahmedabad are also busy making food packets for the needy amid lockdown due to coronavirus.The number of coronavirus cases in the country has jumped over 1,200. More than 30 people in India have lost their lives to Covid-19. 101 patients have successfully recovered from the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-in-gujarat-members-of-transgender-community-set-example-offer-food-to-needy-and-slum-dwellers/story-AO5178NCptd7LLFA0sk2vN.html
31-03-2020||India||BR Ambedkar received Bharat Ratna posthumously, other important events of March 31||Today’s date is not just any other day, it holds a greater significance for the nation. It was today, three decades back when Bhimrao Ramji Ambedkar was awarded Bharat Ratna posthumously.BR Ambedkar was conferred Bharat Ratna on March 31, 1990.Ambedkar was born on April 14, 1891 in present-day Madhya Pradesh’s Mhow.The architect of the Constitution of India, Ambedkar led a crusade for the upliftment and empowerment of Dalits in the country.He went on to earn doctorates in economics from premier institutes like the Columbia University and the London School of Economics. He was a scholar in disciplines like law, economics and political science.Ambedkar became a key advocator and campaigner for India’s independence from the British rule. He published scores of journals and advocated for Dalits rights.He also made significant contributions toward the establishment of the state of India, drafting of the Constitution and giving ideas that served as the foundation of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI).In 1956, Ambedkar converted to Buddhism. He completed the final manuscript of his book on Buddhism ‘The Buddha and His Dhamma’ in December 1956. Three days later, on 6 December, he passed away in his sleep at his home in Delhi.March 31 is known for some other notable events as well.1. Isaac Newton, one of the world’s greatest physicists, died in London at the age of 84 in 1727 on this day.2. Postal service started in India, the first post office opened in the country today in the year 1774.3. For the first time in America, a black citizen voted. This was on March 31, 1870.4. Paris’s famous Eiffel Tower officially opened today in the year 1889.5.  Electric tram came to a halt in Bombay today in 1964.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/br-ambedkar-received-bharat-ratna-posthumously-other-important-events-of-31-march/story-GrIKjH49Fkw7syeDa4wQcJ.html
31-03-2020||India||Testing lag, PPE worries and Delhi hotspot: Covid-19 news from India||India continues to lag in testing suspected Covid-19 patients. Although the country has opened up testing to private laboratories, questions remain on the availability of testing kits and if unrealistic standards have been set for them. Also, there are worries over the quality and shortage of personal protective equipment (PPE). The government, however, tried to assuage concerns on Monday, saying factories producing essential items (such as masks) are working round the clock, and ordnance factories are trying to produce PPEs for medical personnel. Meanwhile, the headquarters of a religious sect in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area has emerged as one of the biggest coronavirus disease hotspots in the country, with 24 people testing positive and nearly 200 showing symptoms.At 32 per million, India lagging far behind on testingNearing a month after the wave of Covid-19 infections began in India, testing in the country is a 60th of that in the UK, a 82th of that in the US, and a 241th of that in South Korea, highlighting an area where India continues to lag. Read more Covid-19: What you need to know todayIndia’s health ministry has said that there could be limited community transmission in India. In a standard operating procedure (SOP) document, the ministry referred to the “current phase of Covid-19 pandemic in India” and explained this, within parenthesis as “local transmission and limited community transmission”. Read more India orders PPE kits as frontline health workers face shortageWhile the quality issues are worrying, what’s equally worrying is the shortage of PPE. Reuters reported last week, citing documents from India Invest, that the country needs 6.2 million units of PPE and has “approached hundreds of companies to secure supplies quickly”. Read more Delhi coronavirus positive cases touches 97, Nizamuddin a hot spotThe headquarters of a religious sect in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area has emerged as one of the biggest coronavirus disease (Covid-19) hot spots in India with 24 people testing positive and nearly 200 others showing symptoms on Monday . Read more States move to quarantine returnees, stop migration amid Covid-19 lockdownThe movement of migrant workers to their homes , mostly in the hinterland, continued on Monday even as police in states such as Kerala and Gujarat said they arrested scores of them for defying the three-week countrywide lockdown. Read more India studies efficacy of anti-malarial drug on Covid-19India has begun a demonstration study in around a 1,000 health workers and close contacts of positive coronavirus (Covid-19) cases on the efficacy of the anti-malaria drug, hydroxychloroquine, as a prophylactic drug against Covid-19. Read more Centre says no plans to extend lockdown periodThe government on Monday denied as “baseless” rumours and media reports claiming it will extend the 21-day countrywide lockdown imposed last week to halt the spread of the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. Read more Covid-19 community transmission debate continuesThe Union health ministry clarified on Monday that community transmission of Covid-19 hadn’t yet begun in India, a day after signalling the onset of “limited community transmission” of the disease. The ministry said limited community transmission isn’t the same as community transmission -- Stage 3 of infectious diseases such as the one caused by the SARS-Cov-2 virus. Read more Forge collaborations for Covid-19 solutions: PM Modi to Indian missionsPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday tasked Indian missions around the world to ensure the welfare of citizens stranded because of Covid-19-related restrictions, and to forge collaborations to find solutions to the pandemic. Read more India’s FY21 outlook bleak, economy to enter slow laneForecasters are slashing India’s economic growth estimates for the financial year starting April 1, with most expecting a severe contraction in June quarter output. Read more Bollywood stares at dry summerWith fears of a global recession looming due to the coronavirus outbreak, India’s Hindi entertainment industry — one of the biggest in the world — is staring at a likely revenue loss of upwards of Rs 1300 crore, based on predicted domestic net collections of 12 big-ticket films that either released in March or were slated to release in April and May. Read more Telangana cuts salaries of govt staff by 10-75%The Telangana government on Monday announced drastic cuts – ranging from a minimum 10% to a maximum 75% - in the monthly salaries of all its employees and public representatives, citing the impact of Covid-19 on the state’s finances. Read more Science and tech group set up to look into long-term solutionsWith the entire world battling the Covid-19 infection that has killed at least 35,000 people, Indian scientists have come together to help front-line healthcare workers by devising cheaper ventilators, new diagnostics kits that can be manufactured in the country, innovative personal protective equipment, and newer ways to disinfect hospitals. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/testing-lag-ppe-worries-and-delhi-hotspot-covid-19-news-from-india/story-a4WjrAynIQgtcyxKPMvzDM.html
31-03-2020||India||68-yr-old man dies of coronavirus in Kerala, second death in state||Kerala reported its second Covid-19 related death on Tuesday morning after a 68-year-old resident of Pothencode died in a Thiruvananthapuram hospital, officials said. The man, who was admitted to the Government Medical College in Thiruvananthapuram a week ago and was on a ventilator for the last five days, had no travel history.“He was a high-risk category patient. We tried our best to save his life,” doctors at the Government Medical College said. He had tested negative for Sars-Cov-2 initially, tested positive after three days and again turned negative a day before his death.Click here for complete coronavirus coverageHarried health officials are now looking for his possible contacts as he had attended two weddings and death in the last one month and said contact tracing will be cumbersome. The daughter of the man, a former assistant sub-inspector of police, is a conductor with the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation and is a cause of worry, they added.“He is a social worker. We have requested all who came in contact with him report immediately. Already 300 of his contacts are under observation,” said state temple affairs minister Kadakampally Surendran who represents his constituency.Also read: Elderly Kerala couple infected with Covid-19 recover“There is no need for any panic. But we have to step up our vigilance. But it is worrying he had many contacts,” KK Shailaja, the state health minister, said.His body will be buried under the strict norms prescribed by the World Health Organization (WHO). Only five people will be allowed during the funeral rites. A 69-year-old man, who came from back from Dubai in the UAE, was the first person to succumb to the coronavirus disease in the state on March 28.The man, who had bypass surgery five years ago, came to the country on March 16 from Dubai. He was tested positive on March 22, six days after he returned.Kerala has 234 Covid-19 patients, including 22 people who have been discharged, according to state health officials. It has the highest number of people infected with coronavirus after Maharashtra, which reported 225 cases on Tuesday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/68-yr-old-man-dies-of-coronavirus-in-kerala-second-death-in-a-state/story-n66S2aFOqA7alZf11Giy7J.html
31-03-2020||India||5 more Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra; total number reaches 225||The number of people who have contracted Covid-19 in Maharashtra went up to 225 after five new cases were reported on Tuesday, officials said.Of them, one in Mumbai and two each in Pune and Buldhana, they said.There were 220 patients of the coronavirus disease till Monday and the state had reported two Covid-19 related deaths, taking the toll to 10.A 78-year-old man from Mumbai died in a private hospital, while a 52-year-old man died at a private hospital in Pune.According to health department officials, the 78-year-old was suffering from high blood pressure and heart ailments and the Pune man had diabetes and high blood pressure.The state government had issued instructions to all district authorities to take precautions to contain the spread after a few patients, who tested positive on Monday, were found to be from densely populated areas in Mumbai and Pune.Officials had expressed fear of a rapid spread of the virus in these localities because of the density of population in these places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-more-covid-19-cases-in-maharashtra-total-number-reaches-225/story-NBmZRg5h7cm8loBdsnqoGL.html
31-03-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: At 32 per million, India lags far behind on Covid-19 testing and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion curated for you at 9 AM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid-19 crisis: At 32 per million, India lags far behind on testingNearing a month after the wave of Covid-19 infections began in India, testing in the country is a 60th of that in the UK, a 82th of that in the US, and a 241th of that in South Korea, highlighting an area where India continues to lag.Read MoreStates move to quarantine returnees, stop migration amid Covid-19 lockdownThe movement of migrant workers to their homes , mostly in the hinterland, continued on Monday even as police in states such as Kerala and Gujarat said they arrested scores of them for defying the three-week countrywide lockdown.Read MoreCan India beat the coronavirus pandemic? OpinionIt is heartening that many people and organisations in India have come together with the government to tackle the coronavirus challenge. With each passing day, the bonds of cooperation are becoming stronger. But a lot more need to be done on this front, writes Shashi Shekhar, Editor-in-Chief, HindustanRead More Desperate BCCI plans to clear August-September window to hold IPLChances of staging the Indian Premier League this year seem remote but the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) is considering the August-September window in case the country recovers from the deadly COVID-19 outbreak in time. The BCCI had postponed the IPL to April 15 in the wake of the outbreak but with more positive cases being reported every passing day, chances of holding the tournament in April seem bleak.Read More‘Can still smell my mother in her dressing room’: Jahnvi pens emotional noteActor Janhvi Kapoor has penned an emotional post about the things she’s learned after a week in self-isolation at home. Janhvi and the rest of the country is currently under lockdown to combat the spread of the coronavirus.Read MoreUP man calls COVID-19 helpline, asks for samosas. Here’s what happened nextIn a bizarre incident in Uttar Pradesh’s Rampur, a man called the COVID-19 helpline with a strange demand - four samosas. What happened next is surprisingly even more peculiar. The man wasn’t only provided with his samosas, he also got punished for his silly request. The incident has been shared on the official Twitter handle of Rampur’s District Magistrate, Aunjaneya Kumar Singh and has since gone viral.Read MoreVan Gogh painting stolen from Dutch museum closed due to coronavirusThe Parsonage Garden at Nuenen in Spring, a painting by Vincent Van Gogh has been stolen from a Dutch museum on the painter’s 167th birth anniversary.Read MoreXiaomi India head Manu Jain talks about his ‘Mi’ wardrobe: Here’s what it hasXiaomi India head, Manu Kumar Jain talked about his ‘Mi’ wardrobe recently when asked by one of his fans. Jain said he has around 30 each of plain Black ‘Mi’ T-shirts and ‘I (love - heart) Mi’ T-shirts that he wears to office along with a pair of Blue denim and sneakers. As per him, this makes his life ‘very simple’. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-32-per-million-india-lags-far-behind-on-covid-19-testing-and-all-the-latest-news/story-dd6Eqx4BDOVovO8cooItDI.html
31-03-2020||India||Sirens help MP town maintain good hygiene during Covid-19 lockdown||Authorities in a city in Madhya Pradesh have come up with a novel idea to remind people to keep washing hands in order to keep the Sars-CoV-2 virus (which spreads Covid-19) at bay.In Sagar, 186 kilometre from state capital Bhopal, the district administration has put in place sirens which go off every three hours and people start washing their hands wherever they are.The blowing of sirens starts at 9 am and continues till 9 pm, say officials who have come up with this idea of sanitising the city during lockdown period. The practice was implemented from Sunday.More on Covid-19:• Covid-19: Your guide to staying safe• Covid-19: What you need to know today• Can Covid-19 spread after symptoms end?• How coronavirus is different from seasonal flu and common coldDrums filled with water have been kept at designated points in the city where people are supposed to assemble on hearing the sound of sirens and hooters to wash hands, while maintaining social distancing as well, if they are on streets away from home. Apart from water drums, soaps and sanitisers have also been made available by locals.As part of the sanitation drive, people also clean the door knobs, windows and other surfaces which might have been touched by others.The shopkeepers in chemist and grocery shops - which are open for few hours during the lockdown - are also following the practice religiously. Administrative officials, including District Collector Preeti Maithil Nayak and Superintendent of Police Amit Sanghi, were present at certain points on Sunday and Monday to monitor response of people to the idea.“This initiative taken by the district administration is a unique one. I never heard of such a practice before. This will help us develop the habit of washing our hands and sanitise our shops and houses regularly. I think other cities and towns in the country should adopt this practice,” said a chemist shop owner.Anshul Bhargava, a resident of Makronia locality said, “It’s the second day of the practice and we were very much excited to hear the sound. Today, the moment we heard the sound all the members in my family including children gathered to wash our hands.”“It’s a joint initiative of the district administration and police. Of course, this is to create awareness in public so that we all develop a habit of washing hands as per WHO’s guidelines as to how to protect ourselves against Covid-19. The response of people is overwhelming. We are now considering implementing the idea at tehsil level too,” said Sanghi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sirens-help-mp-town-maintain-good-hygiene-during-covid-19-lockdown/story-llWhImJpsuXQYe21Dw1imN.html
31-03-2020||India||Coronavirus Update: Elderly Kerala couple infected with Covid-19 recover||In an achievement in its battle against the coronavirus pandemic, an elderly couple, aged 93 and 88 who had tested positive and remained critical for days, have recovered completely, the Kerala government said on Monday.Hailing from Ranni in Pathanamthitta, the aged people were parents of a man who came down from Italy along with his wife and son and tested positive for the disease early this month, the government said in a press release. The aged couple had caught the disease after coming in contact with them and had been admitted to the Kottayam Medical College hospital. They were already suffering from various age-related diseases and their condition was very critical in one phase of the treatment, a health department statement said here. The expert treatment and care, given at the Kottayam Medical College, had brought them back to the life, it said, adding that health minister K K Shailaja congratulated all those toiled hard for their recovery. Along with the seven-member team of doctors who led the treatment, 40 medical staff, including 25 nurses were actively took part in various stages of treatment, it said. At present, their condition is satisfactory and the doctors said they would be discharged soon. Their grand daughter and husband, who were tested positive of the virus, also recovered from the disease the other day. A nurse, who took care of the elderly patients, tested positive for the deadly virus. The minister spoke to the nurse and said the health department were fully with her. Earlier, in the day, five family members of the elderly couple, including their son Abraham Moncy, wife and son, who had returned from Italy, had been discharged from Ranni district hospital after testing negative. At a time when those above 60 are considered high risk category, the elderly couple, getting cured is an achievement for the Kerala government. The three member family of Abraham Moncy, who had returned from Italy in February and two other relatives had tested postive and were in the isolation ward of the general hospital here since March 6. They left for home on Monday after their samples returned negative. The five from Ranni were given a warm send off by the hospital staff, including doctors, nurses and other medical staff who treated them for 24 days. Their doctors, Dr Ashis Mohan and Dr Sharat said the five patients have been sent home after their tests were negative.They will be in strict home quarantine for two weeks. After which they will broght in our ambulance and their samples will be taken again for testing for being 200 per cent sure that they have fully recovered, they said. Profusely thanking the entire medical staff on behalf of his family, Lijo Moncy said he was grateful to the government, the doctors and medical staff who took good care of them. “We had tension, My father was given counselling....I have only words of thanks to all the staff who took good care of us.” The family also thanked Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and health minister K K Shailaja. “It was due to our ignorance, we made a mistake”, the youth and his parents, who had attended various functions and met relatives on their return, said. They had taken two connecting flights from Venice in Italy to India on February 29 and had not reported to authorities on arrival. Another relative said they never thought they would come out alive. The hospital staff clapped and cheered as the five came out of the hospital. They were given a cake, dinner and a kit containing essential commidities. Their home was disinfected earlier. The Italy returned family had been forcefully admitted to the general hospital’s isolation ward on March 6 and tests later confirmed that they had contracted the virus. Two other relatives, staying with them had also tested postive. Two other relatives of the Italian family had been discharged on Sunday. The cases has been reported days after the southern state had successfully treated India’s first three corona patients--medical students from Wuhan who have been discharged from hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-elderly-kerala-couple-infected-with-covid-19-recover/story-Frro5CBDmSIZoiEczVCfUJ.html
31-03-2020||India||What we know about Nizamuddin mosque congregation: 10 points||Delhi’s Nizamuddin area has emerged as the hotspot of coronavirus disease after several cases of Covid-19 emerged in people who were a part of a religious congregation in the area earlier this month. Here’s a quick guide on the development:1. According to reports, more than 2,000 delegates from countries like Indonesia and Malaysia attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin West from March 1-15. 2. At least 37 people who were at the headquarters of the Tablighi Jamaat have been infected by coronavirus. This includes 24 people who have tested positive since Sunday. 3. Those who attended the meeting at the Markaz were sent to Lok Nayak Hospital for coronavirus test on Monday night. At least 100 people have been tested. The results are expected on Tuesday.4. 7 people who were at the congregation died from the infection in Hyderabad on Monday. One more person died in Srinagar. 5. The 2,000 people who were at the congregation stayed at the facility’s six-floor dormitory. Over 250 were foreigners. They shared communal dining areas and consumed food that was cooked in a community kitchen. 6. The south Delhi neighbourhood was virtually sealed with the Delhi Police, CRPF personnel and medical teams reaching the locality on Sunday night. 7. Contact tracing has revealed that people from the gathering travelled to states such as Bihar, Telangana, Odisha and Karnataka. The initial coronavirus death in Jammu and Kashmir has also been traced to this gathering.8. The Markaz, also known as Banglewali Masjid, is a six-storey building complex that can house up to 2,000 people. It shares its wall with the Nizamuddin police station and is adjacent to the famous shrine of Khwaja Nizamuddin Auliya. The mosque adjoins Basti Nizamuddin, which has a population of over 25,000.9. Delhi Police officers said beginning March 22 (the day of Janta Curfew) police teams stood outside the mosque and stopped people from gathering in the area. Police said until March 22, people from abroad and other states continued to visit the mosque. Outsiders were completely stopped from March 22.10. Joint commissioner of police (southern range) Devesh Srivastava said police are assisting World Health Organization and health department officials who are screening people in Nizamuddin, especially inside the mosque complex and sending them to quarantine.Delhi has a total of 87 coronavirus cases. The Ministry of Health on Monday updated the number of Covid-19 cases in the country to 1,251. There are 1,117 active Covid-19 cases in the country with Kerala contributing the highest number of cases with 202 patients. A 21-day lockdown is in force in the country as a measure to combat Covid-19 disease. India entered the seventh day of the 3-week lockdown on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-scare-what-we-know-about-nizamuddin-mosque-congregation-10-points/story-sma3OJrrGqXSvR1j1cmHLM.html
31-03-2020||India||Lockdown-hit Goa relaxes system to issue curfew passes||The Goa government has ‘decentralised’ the system to issue curfew passes, mandatory for people to venture out during the 21-day lockdown over coronavirus disease Covid-19.The government has now allowed a wider range of authorities to issue the pass that was earlier only issued by the District Collectors.The State Executive Committee (SEC), constituted under the Disaster Management Act, has decided to further relax the norms even as the state continues to reel under a near total lockdown for the most part of the last 10 days.As part of the decisions taken, the SEC decided to allow the Director of Food and Drug Authority (FDA) to issue passes to members of the Chemists and Druggists Association who expressed that the personnel engaged in the sale or supply of medicines found it difficult to move around. The FDA director has also been empowered to issue transit passes to employees of restaurants. The government had earlier allowed restaurants to keep their kitchens open to allow for takeaways and home deliveries. Crucially, for the supply of groceries, which has been severely curtailed, the SEC has authorised the Directorate of Civil Supply and its inspectors to issue authority letters to wholesalers/distributors etc and their staff for their movement to their godowns/shops. The relaxations come nearly a week after Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant announced a 100 per cent lockdown and curfew which included a shutdown of all essential services, except essential ones like police, fire and emergency services, water supply and electricity.The lockdown upended the supply chains of groceries as well as that of medicines which are now also in short supply in the state. “We are doing everything to maintain the food chain. Wholesalers, retailers have all been asked to keep their operations and that their vehicles will not be stopped,” Sawant said at a press conference on Monday.He also admitted to a shortage of medicines. “Some pharmacies have begun to experience shortages. The FDA Director spoke to the wholesalers association and asked them to keep the supply of medicines going,” Sawant said. The Goa government, through a notification, has mandated that all retailers, stockists and wholesalers mandatorily keep their premises open as they received complaints that “retail stores and suppliers had purposely kept their premises closed to create an artificial shortage and consequently benefit from the price rise.” “It is enjoined upon all retailers, stockists and wholesalers to keep their business premises open failing which stringent action will be initiated as per prevailing law.” The SEC also decided to facilitate travel passes for NGOs and volunteers who are trying to provide community based relief measures to the needy. The Secretary IT or his representative has been authorised to issue necessary passes to facilitate such volunteering and charitable work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-hit-goa-relaxes-system-to-issue-curfew-passes/story-BLocOtHP7Yiz3s7Eid1JFI.html
31-03-2020||India||Covid-19 update: Interpol sounds alert for fake medical products||As demand for medical supplies soars worldwide in the fight against Covid-19, Interpol has put all member-countries on alert against fake or counterfeit products including disposable surgical masks, hand sanitisers, anti-viral and anti-malarial medication, vaccines and test kits for the Coronavirus.Racketeers may also attempt to sell such products online, according to Interpol. Interpol this month carried out an operation – named Operation Pangea — in at least 90 countries during which 121 people were arrested and potentially dangerous pharmaceuticals worth $14 million were recovered. Some of the fake products recovered were substandard masks, items like ”corona spray” and unauthorized self-testing kits.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicIndia didn’t participate in Operation Pangea or issue specific guidelines to central agencies or the state police on dealing with fake or counterfeit products. A senior government official pointed out that with the Disaster Management Act invoked countrywide, “anybody flouting the rules or trying to cheat somebody will be liable to be punished under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-interpol-sounds-alert-for-fake-medical-products/story-YWnxv34JAuBDU4kHZ9q7MJ.html
31-03-2020||India||Will ensure victims of Delhi riot are taken care of, HC told||The Delhi government on Monday assured the Delhi high court that its officers would get in touch with the representatives of the 275 riot affected families from the Eidgah Mustafabad camp, and provide them basic facilities of food and medicines, even as it contended that the victims had voluntarily left and were not forced to vacate the camp.The court was hearing a plea which had challenged the removal of the riot victims from the Eidgah Mustafabad camp and had sought basic facilities for the victims.Rahul Mehra, standing counsel of the Delhi government (criminal), informed a bench of Justice Sanjeev Sachdeva and Justice Navin Chawla that medical kits containing medicines for basic ailments can be provided to each of the families as per their requirement.He also submitted that mohalla clinics of the north east district are functional and the families will be provided the details of the nodal officers to be contacted in case of requirement of medical assistance or for a curfew pass.“In case any of the families require accommodation, efforts shall be made to immediately place them in appropriate accommodation/relief camps,” he added. Senior advocate Collin Gonsalves, representing the petitioner, told the court that the victims were initially staying at a camp at Idgah but the government had cleared it, forcing them to relocate.Subsequently, because of the lockdown, the families were facing problems for want of food and medical help. He also said that the victims were worried they would be accommodated in night shelters and areas nearby. He submitted that while some of them went back to their houses, others moved in with their relatives.Countering this, Mehra said the families which were staying at the camp at Idgah had voluntarily left and were not removed by the police or the government. He submitted that the camp has now been removed.He assured the court that the authorities will coordinate among themselves and ensure that such families are not accommodated in the existing night shelters. The matter will now be heard on April 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-ensure-victims-of-delhi-riot-are-taken-care-of-hc-told/story-ZfO1yfmcPxe8HtdgWnbvVN.html
31-03-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||On Sunday, the person coordinating the White House’s coronavirus task force, Dr Deborah L Birx, said the number of deaths in the US from Covid-19 could rise as high as 200,000, with the most likely number between 80,000 and 160,000 . On Monday morning, the US had approximately one out of every five cases of Covid-19 around the world. With the latest number of deaths in the US at 2,650, the news from the US is dire — it suggests things are going to get worse, far worse, before they get better. It also suggests that many other states and cities in the US will go through the same crisis New York state and NYC are facing right now. There were 776 deaths in New York City alone as of Monday morning.On March 11, the US had 1,301 cases. The trajectory of the disease in the US is one reason why India’s lockdown is critical. It’s also the reason Indians have to take the lockdown seriously. State governments have to ensure that the migrant workers within their borders stay put; not the easiest thing to do. People should not venture out unless it’s completely necessary to — on Monday, reports from Mumbai suggested that many people on the road had no reason to be out, and the traffic in Delhi was more than it has been on other days of the lockdown . Cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba said on Monday that there are no plans to extend the lockdown beyond April 15. India should keep an open mind about this. As research reported by this newsroom has pointed out, a hard lockdown does flatten the curve of infections.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicIndia’s health ministry has said that there could be limited community transmission in India. In a standard operating procedure (SOP) document, the ministry referred to the “current phase of Covid-19 pandemic in India” and explained this, within parenthesis as “local transmission and limited community transmission”. On Monday, at its customary 4pm briefing, the health ministry sought to downplay this by seeking to establish a difference between the “limited community transmission” mentioned in the document and community transmission as it is generally defined.There have been some cases in India where the source of infection has not been established, which the health ministry has consistently attributed to the failure of contact-tracing rather than community transmission. By definition, the inability to contact-trace is community transmission. The good news for India (so far) is that the numbers are still small.There are two possible explanations for this: India was quick to put restrictions on travel and travellers and eventually instituted a hard lockdown for 21-days starting March 25, and these have helped; or the lack of widespread testing in the country has ensured that we are not seeing the real picture. Which is why the next two weeks of the lockdown are important. Widespread community transmission, if it has happened, should start showing up in the numbers. If it doesn’t – and it is this writer’s fervent hope that it doesn’t – then it will mean that the restrictions and the lockdowns have worked.Sure, that will mean the country should prepare for the so-called second wave of infections that typically happen when a lockdown ends and travel restarts, but this is a preferable scenario to just about anything else. Which is also why India needs to test more. Testing patterns across states and union territories shows a huge diversion. Everyone needs to test more.At 10.30pm on Monday, the number of Covid-19 infections in India was 1,320, having risen by over 181, over 100 for the fourth day in a row.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-iG5QSMWH9u41OjFMr4SKTP.html
31-03-2020||India||Coronavirus: 227 new positive cases nationwide with 11 more deaths; Govt says no community transmission yet||The COVID-19 crisis appeared escalating on Monday with at least 11 new deaths including of six from Telangana who had attended a religious congregation in the national capital’s Nizamuddin area earlier this month, while the government reported 227 fresh cases of infection nationwide -- the highest for a day. While the Union Health Ministry maintained the deadly virus was still in the local transmission stage in India and yet to move to the community transmission phase, the Supreme Court cautioned that fear and panic are becoming a bigger problem than the coronavirus. The government also said there was no immediate plan to extend the 21-day lockdown period, which entered its sixth day on Monday, while the Indian Army dismissed as “fake” social media posts about a possible emergency declaration next month. In its latest update, the Union Home Ministry said the dealth toll due to COVID-19 has risen to 32 and the number of total positive cases to 1,251 as on Monday 9.30 PM, up from 1,024 positive cases and 27 deaths as on Sunday evening. While there are more than 1,100 active cases, nearly 100 have been cured. While this nationwide update included only one death from Telangana, the state government later in the night said in a statement that six people from the state who attended a congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin have died due to coronavirus. Officials said over 2,000 delegates, including from Indonesia and Malaysia, had attended the Tabligh-e-Jamaat congregation in Nizamuddin West from March 1-15. More than 200 people have been admitted to hospitals after showing symptoms of the disease and test results for many of them are expected on Tuesday. The Delhi Police cordoned off the area after several people showed symptoms of coronavirus after taking part in a religious gathering a few days ago. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal later ordered FIR against the person who led the congregation. While the nationwide tally of confirmed cases of infection rose on Monday by 227 -- the largest one-day increase -- to 1,251, at least 25 fresh cases were reported from Delhi alone, taking the national capital’s tally to 97, as per the Delhi Health Department. Fresh coronavirus cases were reported from several states including Rajasthan, Haryana, West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh, including in Noida in the national capital region. The Delhi government converted its 11 schools into night shelters in a bid to help migrant workers stay in the city during the lockdown period, which would be in addition to the existing 238 night shelters in the city. Interacting with organisations involved in social work via video conferencing, Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked them to counter misinformation and superstition on coronavirus as he observed that people have been flouting social distancing norms in the name of belief. Modi also held a video-conference with 130 Indian missions abroad on COVID-19 and said extraordinary times require extraordinary solutions and referred to “unprecedented” and early steps taken by India since mid-January to reduce the risk of importing the coronavirus infection and prevent a large outbreak. However, the Union Health Ministry in its daily briefing said the COVID-19 is still in local transmission stage in India and it took 12 days for cases of infection to rise from 100 to 1,000 at a rate of increase slower than some of the developed countries. Joint Secretary in the Ministry of Health Lav Agarwal asserted there has been no community transmission as yet. Earlier on Sunday, an SOP (standard operating procedure) issued by the Health Ministry had referred to the current phase of COVID-19 pandemic in India as “local transmission and limited community transmission”. Agarwal urged all to maintain social distancing, saying even one person’s carelessness may lead to spread of coronavirus pandemic. He attributed the slow pace of rise in cases in India to people’s participation in strictly following the social distancing guidelines and the collective preemptive actions taken by the Centre in tandem with state governments. The worldwide tally of deaths crossed 35,900, with more than 26,000 people dying in Europe. Globally, more than 7,40,000 people have been detected positive so far, out of which nearly 1,42,300 have recovered, as per various reports. In UK, Prince Charles appeared recovering and moved out of self-isolation, but Israeli Prime Minister entered quarantine after an aide tested positive for the deadly virus. Raman R Gangakhedkar, Head of Epidemiology and Communicable diseases at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said 38,442 tests have been conducted till now in India, out of which 3,501 were done on Sunday. He said 47 private laboratories have been given approval for conducting COVID-19 tests and in the last three days, 1,334 tests have been done in private labs. However, the government had to clarify that there was no immediate plan to extend the 21-day lockdown amid fears that shutdown of businesses across the country to counter the spread of the virus may trigger severe economic and social distress. The Indian Army also clarified that no effort is being initiated to rope in services of retired personnel, the National Cadet Corps and the volunteers enrolled under the National Service Scheme in the wake of the coronavirus crisis. The Supreme Court also stepped in amid a crisis created by thousands of migrant workers trying to return to their natives places after being rendered jobless and homeless due to the lockdown. The apex court observed that the panic and fear are becoming a “bigger problem than coronavirus”, and sought a status report from the Centre by Tuesday on the measures taken to prevent the exodus. Hearing two separate petitions through video conferencing, the court said it would not create more confusion by issuing directions on measures which the government is already taking, before looking at the status report from the Centre. Separately, the government told all its departments to pay high priority to public grievances related to coronavirus. The Railway Board told its zonal units to be ready to convert up to 20,000 train coaches into isolation wards for treatment of COVID-19 patients. Steps have also been initiated for releasing thousands of prisoners in overcrowded jails across the country on interim bail or parole in an unprecedented step to prevent the spread of coronavirus and also to avoid any clashes. Among new cases, 16 new coronavirus positive cases were reported in Uttar Pradesh, taking the total tally in the state to 88. Of this, 14 have fully recovered and discharged, while the national capital’s adjoining Gautam Buddh Nagar district alone has reported 36 cases, officials said. Top administration officials across the country, including in the national capital, were warned of strict action for any laxity during the lockdown period. In West Bengal, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee warned that any one ostracizing healthcare workers treating COVID-19 patients will be arrested. In Uttar Pradesh, a some officials were seen forcefully sanitising a group of migrants with ‘chemicals”, which prompted the apex child rights body NCPCR to demand disciplinary and penal action against officials responsible for this. The Congress and other opposition parties also demanded action on such behaviour. The main opposition party also demanded that the central government bring in a law or rule to ensure there is no retrenchment of workers in the private sector for six months till August in the wake of lockdown due to coronavirus. Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram termed “miserly and inadequate” the government’s economic package for the poor in the wake of coronavirus outbreak and urged it to announce a “bold” financial package. He said a confidence-boosting financial assistance plan should have been announced prior to the imposition of the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-227-new-positive-cases-nationwide-with-11-more-deaths-govt-says-no-community-transmission-yet/story-FZ4xQUmjGRmoHQiq9kCc6J.html
31-03-2020||India||Covid-19 update: India orders PPE kits as frontline health workers face shortage||On March 28, the Indian Pilots’ Guild, a union of pilots at the state-owned airline Air India, wrote to the civil aviation minister and the company’s chairman complaining about the quality and quantity of personal protective equipment (PPE) on “recent rescue flights” aimed at bringing back home Indians stuck overseas on account of the Covid-19 pandemic. The union specifically mentioned shoe covers that failed in “minutes”, gloves in hours, and “ill-fitting” hazmat suits, of which there weren’t enough, in the letter to chairman Rajiv Bansal, and “flimsy PPE that tear” in that to minister Hardeep Singh Puri.While the quality issues are worrying, what’s equally worrying is the shortage of PPE. Reuters reported last week, citing documents from India Invest, that the country needs 6.2 million units of PPE and has “approached hundreds of companies to secure supplies quickly”.In a statement issued on Monday, the Press Information Bureau of the government said that “in order to meet the requirement of PPEs, masks and ventilators, factories producing essential items are working around the clock and ordnance factories are trying to produce PPE for medical personnel”. The statement added that the state-owned Bharat Electronics would also soon start manufacturing ventilators.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe Reuters report also said India needs 38 million masks. In its release, PIB said India has “3.34 lakh PPEs” in “various hospitals”, and pointed out that another “3 lakh donated PPEs” would arrive by April 4, and orders for 2.9 million PPEs have been placed (300,000 with ordnance factories and 2.6 million with 12 other manufacturers). In addition, the release added, orders for another 3 million PPEs have been placed with “a Singapore based online platform” and a “supplier based in Korea”. That works out to 6.2 million PPEs.“There was a shortage of PPEs initially but we worked on a war footing and managed to test the cloth, identify manufacturers and place orders in a matter of weeks. The government is taking all necessary measures to ensure there is no shortfall of necessary equipment,” said Lav Aggarwal, joint secretary in the health ministry. PIB’s statement also gave an update on availability of N95 masks. A million “would be part of the PPE kits being sourced from Singapore”, it said, adding that two domestic manufacturers are in the process of increasing their daily capacity to 100,000 masks from the current 50,000 within a week. The Defence Research and Development Organisation has worked with local producers to “produce about 20,000 N99 masks,” with “this supply also expected” within a week. Hospitals in the country already have 1.195 million N95 masks, the statement said. Health experts have pointed to the shortage of ventilators in the country . “What we have, and what we are trying to procure, is not going to be enough if the curve does not flatten out, and the situation explodes,” said Dr Yatin Mehta, chairman of critical care at Medanta Hospital, Gurugram.Only around 20 people (out of the at least 1,100 being treated for Covid-19) right now are on ventilators, the PIB statement said, adding that 14,000 ventilators have been set apart in public and private hospitals for Covid-19 patients.The disease attacks people’s lungs, in some cases compromising their ability to breathe as they develop pneumonia. Ventilators, which deliver air to the lungs through a tube placed in the windpipe, are crucial to keep these patients alive.India on March 22 banned the export of ventilators and placed an order for 10,000 ventilators with Agva Healthcare, a domestic manufacturer based in Noida, which is expected to deliver the units by April 2. An order for 30,000 ventilators has been placed with Bharat Electronics Limited, which will collaborate with other domestic manufacturers, PIB said. Auto manufacturers, such as Mahindra & Mahindra and Maruti Suzuki, have also said they are preparing to manufacture ventilators.On Monday, M&M’s managing director Pawan K Goenka tweeted that “Mahindra’s in-house effort for affordable respiratory device is near fruition. Video shows a working model. Packaging yet to be done. Testing started. Looking for ideas on what to call it? Will go for approvals soon”. The tweet was accompanied by a video of a product-demo. “Global data shows between 3% and 5% of Covid-19 affected people develop severe illness and may require oxygen support or mechanical ventilation, and the data is the same for India,” said Aggarwal. He added: “We must keep in mind that not all severely ill patients would need ventilators. The number of positive cases that we have currently, we have enough ventilators. Placing orders for more ventilators is to prepare in case numbers increase. Apart from the Centre, even states are procuring at their level. The government has taken several measures to ensure there is no shortage of any critical equipment needed to manage the disease, including ventilators.”It is possible that the successful implementation of social distancing measures could help India flatten the curve — reducing the number of ventilators needed. “Though the number of positive cases is rising, the number of people needing ventilators may not suddenly shoot up. And if required we can always tweak the ventilator settings to accommodate two patients on one ventilator,” said Dr MS Kanwar, senior consultant, department of pulmonary, critical care and sleep medicine at Indraprastha Apollo Hospital, New Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-orders-more-ppe-kits-as-poor-quality-shortage-put-health-care-workers-in-danger/story-oBPTDpQ7Uaxx902JAiSbVK.html
31-03-2020||India||Covid-19 crisis: At 32 per million, India lagging far behind on testing||Nearing a month after the wave of Covid-19 infections began in India, testing in the country is a 60th of that in the UK, a 82th of that in the US, and a 241th of that in South Korea, highlighting an area where India continues to lag. Although India has opened up testing to private laboratories — 47 of them — in addition to 127 government laboratories, questions remain about the availability of testing kits. On March 28, Dr Navin Dang, who runs Dr Dangs Labs, one of the private laboratories allowed to conduct Covid-19 tests, highlighted this gap. Worryingly, questions also remain about whether the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has set unrealistic standards for testing kits. According to its guidelines, ICMR allows US FDA approved kits and European CE-mark kits to be used after due approvals; for other commercial kits, it said that approval would be granted only to those who have a 100% condordance among both true positive and true negative samples (sensitivity and specificity) — a condition that several experts have described as unrealistic and restrictive.Of the 17 commercial kits sent for approval so far, only four have cleared the parameters.Dr KK Aggarwal, head of the Confederations of Medical Associations of Asia and Oceania (CMAAO), said the ICMR has said that only symptomatic patients should be tested for Covid-19. “If the asymptomatic persons are tested, the number of Covid cases, as in Kerala and Maharashtra, can increase. But, one should understand that the entire population can’t be tested,” he said. R Gangekhedkar of ICMR said on Sunday that the capacity utilisation of the body’s network of labs is only 30% — indicating that states can scale up tests. Gangekhedkar also said there were enough kits to conduct additional tests.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicTill March 30, India has conducted 38,442 tests for Covid-19. That works out to one in around 34,000 people, or roughly 32 in a million being tested. Germany, now the benchmark in testing, is testing 500,000 people a week, according to data analysis website ourworldindata.org. Germany, as of Monday, had nearly 63,000 cases, but managed to keep the number of deaths to 560, a fatality rate of under 0.9. As of March 29 and March 30 respectively, the UK and the US, both widely criticised for their testing ratios, had tested around 127,737 and 851,578 people — roughly 1,921 per million and 2,600 per million. Dr Aggarwal said countries like Germany and South Korea, which conducted mass tests, don’t adopt complete lockdown strategy like India. India’s testing protocol for Covid-19 has evolved, but remains restrictive: Until March 20, only symptomatic health care workers treating Covid-19 patients, or symptomatic individuals, with either a history of travel or who had contact with an infected person, could be tested. This was then changed to include asymptomatic health care workers caring for Covid-19 patients, and also asymptomatic individuals with a history of travel or contact with an infected person. The most tests in India have been conducted in Kerala. The state, which accounts for 3% of India’s population, has conducted around 7,000 tests. As of Monday night, Kerala has reported 234 Covid-19 cases, the highest after Maharashtra. To be sure, the testing criteria is likely responsible for this — the earliest cases were in Kerala as were some of the later ones where contact tracing showed that an infected person had been in touch with a large number of people. Still, data collected from state government health bulletins shows that the more populated states such as Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh and Odisha have conducted fewer Covid-19 tests in absolute numbers as well as tests per million population — a strong argument for relaxing the testing criteria even more. While Kerala has the ratio of 200.3 tests per million population, the numbers are as low as 5.3 for West Bengal, 8.3 for Madhya Pradesh, 5.95 for Rajasthan and 12.2 for Uttar Pradesh (for all states, please see graphic). The health officials of these states maintain that the situation is not as alarming as in Kerala and Maharashtra, which together account for about 40% of total Covid-19 positive cases in the country. Unlike Kerala, which started testing in February, most other states started conducting tests after March 20, when they started reporting their first cases. Both Kerala and Maharashtra have also been aggressive with contact tracing, where all people an infected person has been in touch with are traced — and tested. “We have increased the number of laboratories; 113 have been made functional and 47 private laboratories have been given the approval to conduct Covid-19 tests,” Gangekhedkar said.Independent health experts continue to recommend more widespread testing. “Tests, tests and tests is the only solution. We need to go for the rapid screening test to cover maximum people,” said Dr Sumon Poddar, associate professor, Institute of Child Health, Kolkata.Dr Ajay Kumar, former national president of the Medical Council of India, said tests are must to identify the spread of the disease, especially in the context of the large-scale migration of workers from cities to rural parts of India in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Odisha, Jharkhand and West Bengal. “More tests may mean higher Covid-19 cases, but they will help to contain the spread before it is too late.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-32-per-million-india-lagging-far-behind-on-testing/story-yIkD8YfDJ4NRopY2hx2aFI.html
31-03-2020||India||Delhi coronavirus positive cases touches 97, Nizamuddin a hot spot||The headquarters of a religious sect in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area has emerged as one of the biggest coronavirus disease (Covid-19) hot spots in India with 24 people testing positive and nearly 200 others showing symptoms on Monday when officials began evacuating the six-storey building of some 1,400 people who are believed to have been exposed to the virus.The building belongs to the Tablighi Jamaat, an evangelical Muslim sect that hosted this month its annual congregation with attendees coming in from several foreign nations such as Indonesia and Malaysia before they spread out to other parts of the country such as Kashmir and Andhra Pradesh, creating a web of close contacts that now threatens to create an explosion of cases in the country. “There are several foreign travellers who visit the complex for gatherings and prayer. We suspect the infection was first brought in by them,” said a senior health department official, asking not to be named.The first indications of the site being a source of the disease came in the middle of last week when officials in four regions – Andaman, Telangana, Tamil Nadu and Kashmir – began working back the travel histories of patients who tested positive there. Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicEight of these people, including seven who went to Hyderabad and one who went to Srinagar, have succumbed to the disease. The Hyderabad deaths took place on Monday.All of them had been to the building in Nizamuddin – also referred to as a markaz -- which shares a boundary with the police station and is close to the famous Nizamuddin Auliya shrine.Shortly after, the district surveillance officer went to the area to screen people for symptoms and collect their samples. “Yesterday we got back the reports and six people had tested positive. Now our officers are there screening everyone in the area, anyone with symptoms is being taken to various hospitals. The operation will go on all night long,” said Dr Nutan Mundeja, Delhi’s director general of health services.As officials began clearing the building slowly, the number of people showing symptoms for Covid-19 had risen to 188 by Monday evening and authorities expected around 300 more with a cough, fever or respiratory distress. Till now, the most serious instances of the disease spread in India have been in large local clusters -- such as the groups infected in Rajasthan’s Bhilwara, Maharashtra’s Sangli and in Punjab’s Banga. The patients linked to the Tablighi Jamaat have fanned out across the country, in some instances infecting locals, raising the spectre of having triggered community transmission.The outbreak prompted the Arvind Kejriwal government to ask the Delhi Police to register an FIR against the head of the markaz. “A lockdown was imposed in entire India on March 24 and it was the duty of every owner and administrator of every hotel, guesthouse, hostel and similar establishment to maintain social distancing. It looks like social distancing and quarantine protocols were not practiced here,” said a statement by the government. A hostel-like complex, the building has six floors with accommodations for up to 2,000 people on the upper floors, with the basement and the ground housing a kitchen and a communal dining area. Officials fear that such a nature of the facility may have made the spread of the virus easier. The 18 patients confirmed on Monday include people from Indonesia, Nepal, and the Indian regions of Kashmir, Assam, West Bengal and Tamil Nadu.The Tablighi Jamaat, a sect of preachers that travels across the world to encourage other Muslims to follow the faith, traces its origins in UP and has several chapters outside of the country. The biggest outside India is in Pakistan’s Raiwind, where the congregation this month was linked to at least 30 infections.A more serious spread from a sect’s gathering was reported from Malaysia, where at least 500 from the nearly 16,000 who gathered for the four-day event starting on Feb 27 at the Sri Petaling mosque compound, according to a New York Times report. Three days later, they dispersed to other countries, including India, Pakistan and Indonesia – the three other prominent countries where the sect was next scheduled to hold congregations. According to a Delhi Police official, the foreign arrivals for the Nizamuddin congregation began on March 10. On Monday, police cordoned off roads leading to the Nizamuddin area near the police station. “The whole city is under lockdown. Now with some cases of people showing symptoms of Covid-19 reported from Nizamuddin area, we have posted more police personnel at the market places and the lanes to ensure that people follow the lockdown. Our officers on the ground are also helping the government officers in Nizamuddin basti area,” said deputy commissioner of police (south east) RP Meena.Several of the confirmed Covid-19 patients linked to the Nizamuddin building covered vast distances, taking trains and flights, after they likely became infected and were potentially passing it on to others. The six who died in Hyderabad were, for instance, in a group including 10 Indonesians who started showing symptoms around March 18. Disease surveillance officials traced their travel history back to Delhi through a train journey and found that they took part in several religious events and stayed at a local madarsa in the Telangana city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-tally-97-nizamuddin-a-hot-spot/story-EsjzLEzRsFpNJkQLR1a7rL.html
31-03-2020||India||UP books rooms in luxury hotels for medical staff||Lucknow: Authorities on Monday booked rooms in four luxury hotels in Lucknow for doctors, nurses and other medical staff looking after coronavirus (Covid-19) patients in the city, citing their proximity to the hospitals they are working in.News agency Press Trust of India quoted Lucknow divisional commissioner Mukesh Meshram saying that the medical staff will not be allowed to go home and will stay in these hotels.District magistrate Abhishek Prakash said the medical staff of the Ram Manohar Lohia Institute involved in treating the Covid-19 partients would put up in Hyatt Regency and Fairfield by Marriott as they are close to the hospital.Similarly, the medical staff working in the isolation ward of the Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences will stay at The Piccadily and Lemon Tree Hotel for the same reason, he said.An employee of Fairfield by Marriott, who did not wish to be named, said, “The development took place only this [Monday] morning and we are yet to get further instructions from the administration.”Resident Doctors Association of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences in New Delhi last week said some doctors had been forcefully evicted by their landlords over the Covid-19 infection fears, and prompted the government to issue orders saying penal action would be taken against those evicting doctors. The Lucknow administration has also taken over an exhibition centre, an auditorium and the Haj House to set up quarantine centres and to shelter migrant workers entering the state capital, the district magistrate said.“We have acquired several establishments, including private ones, in order to carry out relief work at ease and to assist those who are engaged in relief operations. Some of the establishments would be transformed into makeshift quarantine centres,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-books-rooms-in-luxury-hotels-for-medical-staff/story-QCPBB4RkA304KwJgBdNPeN.html
31-03-2020||India||Supplies from Karnataka will resume soon, says Goa CM||Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant on Monday assured that supplies from Karnataka, which sealed its borders on March 22 will resume soon, after he spoke to his counterpart, B.S. Yediyurappa over video conference.“I have spoken to the Karnataka Chief Minister. Some of the trucks headed to Goa were stopped but he has assured me that they will be allowed to pass,” Sawant said. A statement further released by the government said the supply “will ease in a day or two.” “Empty trucks have gone last night to these locations for supplies,” it read.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicGoa receives supplies from Belgaum in North Karnataka, including vegetables like onions, potatoes, and carrots which are not grown in Goa. The state augments its meat supply from poultry farms in Karnataka and Maharashtra, and sources additional milk supplies from neighbouring states.On their ninth day of lockdown — the state observed Janta Curfew till March 24, following which the 21-day national lock-down began — residents found that while some vegetables were now available in the market, the prices were higher.Nikson Noronha, who runs a bakery in South Goa’s Benaulim, said that he found the prices hiked when he bought vegetables to deliver to other residents of his ward.“Onions, which once cost Rs 20 a kilo are now selling at Rs 80. Cabbage, which sold at Rs 30 is now selling at Rs 80,” said Noronha, who spent Rs 8000 to buy 80 kilos of potatoes, 50 kilos of onions and 15 kilos of cabbage, among other vegetables. In other parts of the state too, residents together with the local panchayat, have set up supply chains by getting in touch with bakeries and meat suppliers who are then delivering bulk orders to localities. The state has appointed 2,500 volunteers to distribute items like rice, lentils, flour, oil, pulses and salt. These items would be bought and sold at a fixed rate, and those availing of it would be required to pay for their supplies. The stock is expected to be procured from vendors or government-run godowns by the local legislator, in coordination with the department of civil supplies and the collector’s offices.Despite the CM’s promise that grocery shops will remain open 24X7, essentials and vegetables were still not available uniformly across the state. While Noronha was able to pick up supplies in bulk from Margao, the largest commercial centre of the state, residents in other locations complained that their local grocery shop was running low on supplies “I’ve been waiting in a queue since 7am. But the shop didn’t open, now I’m waiting at a general store hopeful of getting something at least. Rice, flour are out of stock. Where have the essential supplies gone?” Emmanuel Vaz, a resident of Merces on the outskirts of the capital Panaji, said.This has prompted several residents to raise questions on whether hoarding of goods was causing their shortage and subsequent price hike. The state administration has formed a team of civil supplies inspectors to visit godowns and check for hoarding, black marketing and other unethical practices. On Monday, stocks also ran out in several Goa Horticulture Corporation retail outlets, which sell vegetables at subsidised rates. All 1200 outlets in the state were shut since March 22. The government said it would purchase essential food articles from the National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India Limited and Food Corporation of India, and was also prepared to airlift essential items from other states, if the need arose.“We do not expect the supplies of essentials like rice, pulses, etc for at least the next four days. I spoke to my supplier and they too are waiting for some clarity. But vegetables and fruits I can expect by tomorrow itself,” Prakash Pereira, owner of popular supermarket chain Delfino’s, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supplies-from-k-taka-will-resume-soon-says-goa-cm/story-yrdM2WPgyhtDCXqeAfwj6O.html
31-03-2020||India||Global oil prices fall to lowest level in 18 years||Global oil prices slumped to an 18-year low on Monday amid slowing demand and concern that lockdowns imposed to curb the spread of Covid-19 will be extended. In India, petrol and diesel prices have been frozen since March 16, allowing oil refiners to make up for inventory losses and giving the government room to increase levies on the auto fuels by up to Rs.5 per litre to reinforce its war chest against Covid-19, officials and analysts said.In intra-day trading, benchmark Brent crude price on Monday dropped to $22.58 per barrel, the lowest since November 2002. Later, it recovered marginally and was trading 8.66% down at $22.77 per barrel. The price of West Texas Intermediate (WTI), another benchmark in oil pricing, fell $1.11, or 5.2%, to $20.40 per barrel.Besides reduced demand because of the coronavirus pandemic, concern over which has been accentuated by worries of extended lockdowns, an oil price war between Saudi Arabia and Russia has contributed to the plunge in the price of crude. For the government, it means a windfall gain, boosted by one hike in excise duty earlier this month, to be followed by one more that’s in the works. Government officials and company executives said prices of auto fuels in India had been frozen since March 16 to allow petroleum refiners to make up for inventory losses. And the government is considering increasing excise duty on petrol and diesel again to raise additional revenue to fund the battle against Covid-19.The government raised excise duty on the two fuels by Rs 3 a litre on March 14. A Re 1 per litre increase in excise duty on petrol and diesel would mean an additional Rs 14,500 crore in annual revenue to the government.Experts said it was prudent for the government to tap the benefits of low oil prices, which will eventually surge again. “It will circle back to the level of $60-70 [per barrel], hence gains are short-term, and should be used in correcting fiscal imbalance,” said Deepak Mahurkar, a partner and leader of the oil and gas practice at consulting firm PwC India. Government officials said on condition of anonymity that the finance ministry was keeping a watch on the international oil price movement and could consider raising excise duty on petrol and diesel again. According to State Bank of India’s latest Ecowrap report, “soft crude prices along with increasing cap on excise will provide additional room of Rs 8 to increase excise duty on both diesel and petrol. After adjusting for the Rs 3 increase, this will result in another Rs 5 increase from the current levels.”The decline in crude oil price indeed gives some fiscal space to the government as it braces for the economic fallout of Covid-19. “But there is a double whammy that has hit the downstream sector {oil refiners and marketers}. There are inventory losses and a drop in sales volumes [of petrol and diesel] and collapse in product cracks due to low demand resulting from the lockdowns in response to Covid-19,” said Dilip Khanna, transactions partner (oil and gas) at consulting firm EY, previously known as Ernst and Young .Executives at state-run oil companies said prices of petrol and diesel had been forzen to make up for losses on other products such as aviation turbine fuel (ATF), demand for which has fallen sharply after the spread of Covid-19. Prices of petrol and diesel are market-determined and state-run oil marketing companies pair it with their international rates every day. The government deregulated the price of petrol on June 26, 2010 and diesel on October 19, 2014. Three public sector companies --- Indian Oil Corporation (IOC), Bharat Petroleum Corporation ltd (BPCL) and Hindustan petroleum Corporation ltd (HPCL) --dominate India’s fuel retail market.According to the latest official data, which comes with a lag, India’s average crude oil purchase price (Indian basket) has dropped sharply to Rs 1,805.22 per barrel on Friday compared to Rs 2,272.08 per barrel on March 16, when oil companies had last cut prices of petrol and diesel by 16 paise per litre and 15 paise per litre, respectively.In Delhi, petrol is currently being sold at Rs 69.59 per litre and diesel at Rs 62.29 a litre.“Excise duty increase on petrol and diesel is imminent and a final view on its quantum will be taken by the finance ministry,” a government official said. The finance ministry, the petroleum ministry and state-run oil marketing companies - Indian Oil Corporation (IOC), Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL) and Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd (HPCL) - did not respond to queries related to fuel price revision and taxation matters.the expected excise duty hike will not only provide much-needed funds to meet the immediate requirements arising out of the Covid-19 pandemic but also serve as a cushion against any price surge in the volatile international oil market in the future. The government often reduces excise duty on petrol and diesel to protect domestic consumers from any spike in international oil prices. Central levies on petrol add up to Rs 22.98 per litre and on diesel to Rs 18.83 per litre.The previous edition of SBI’s Ecowrap had said the government recommended “that the increased excise revenue from oil should not be used for bridging the fiscal gap and pleasing the markets; rather sound economics demands it must be used as a fiscal package for income support to the people working in the unorganized sector who are already facing the brunt of loss of jobs.”Mahurkar said it is an opportune time for the government to raise prices of petrol and diesel to dissuade people from using polluting fossil fuels. “People should be encouraged to opt for cleaner energy solutions such as gas, solar for industries and batteries for automobiles,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/global-oil-prices-fall-to-lowest-level-in-18-yrs/story-hlPBITslTKtQUiFHhcHbvM.html
31-03-2020||India||Telangana cuts salaries of govt staff by 10-75%||Hyderabad: The Telangana government on Monday announced drastic cuts – ranging from a minimum 10% to a maximum 75% - in the monthly salaries of all its employees and public representatives, citing the impact of Covid-19 on the state’s finances.A decision to the effect was taken at a high-level meeting convened by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao at his camp office, Pragati Bhavan, to review the state’s financial position, which has turned precarious because of a fall in the state’s revenues and also in the devolution of funds from the Centre.A statement from the chief minister’s office announced a 75% cut in the salaries of the chief minister, his cabinet colleagues, members of the legislative assembly and members of the legislative council, the chairpersons of various state-level corporations and representatives of urban and rural local bodies.Salaries of Indian Administrative Service, Indian Police Service and Indian Forest Service officers will be reduced by 60%. State government employees like teachers, gazetted and non-gazetted officers face a 50% pay cut.“However, in case of Class IV employees like peons, sweepers and drivers, and also outsourced and contract employees, the salary cut would be restricted to 10%,” the statement said.Even retired employees of the state government have not been spared; their pensions will be cut. While all other categories of retired employees face a 50% cut in their pensions, retired Class IV employees would get 10% less. Similar salary cuts would be imposed in the case of employees working in all public sector undertakings and those operating with government grants-in-aid, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-cuts-salaries-of-govt-staff-by-10-75/story-UWILw98rZ38NUBvgRqutGM.html
31-03-2020||India||Bollywood stares at dry summer||With large parts of the world in lockdown and the global economy sinking on account of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, India’s Hindi entertainment industry — one of the biggest in the world — is staring at a likely revenue loss of upwards of ~1,300 crore, based on predicted domestic net collections of 12 big-ticket films that either released in March or were slated to release in April and May.To be sure, these figures are average estimates provided by several industry trade analysts HT spoke to, and offer only an indication of how much money a film could have earned, based on factors such as the number of shows and screens, the actors starring in the film, the previous work of the directors, the release period, and even consumer sentiment.Net collection is the total sum of ticket value sold across the counter in single screen and multiplex theatres within the country after tax deduction. The money earned by a film through its overseas release as well as by selling television and music rights adds to its overall collections.“In the last two years, the industry made around ~850-900 crore in net collections in the April-June quarter. We’re definitely losing that amount,” trade analyst Atul Mohan said.Several of the upcoming films have also been forced to hold back releases in international markets as the Covid-19 pandemic has led to theatres closing down. Markets such as the UAE, the UK, Australia, and Fiji account for approximately 30% to 40% of a film’s overall box office collection.To be sure, once the pandemic runs its course, these movies could release and technically recover costs. However, whether they will be able to do so will depend on several factors, including the state of the economy, the number of Fridays left in the year, and importantly, the willingness of movie-goers to spend on tickets. To understand the coronavirus pandemic’s impact on Bollywood, let’s take a look at the weekend everyone in the film industry looks forward to on a pandemic-free year: the Eid weekend. May 22 (a Friday) was going to be the big clash between Salman Khan’s Radhe and Akshay Kumar’s Laxxmi Bomb. While the former likely cost ~125 crore to produce, the latter was made at an estimated production cost of ~90 crore. In 2019, the Eid weekend film release, Bharat, collected ~150.1 crore (this figure is based on collections from Wednesday to Sunday). In 2018, Race 3, collected ~106.47 crore (Friday to Sunday). So this year, the weekend collection of both films was pegged at a conservative estimate of ~175 crore. Both films had some shooting and dubbing work left. Now, there’s little hope it will be completed or, for that matter, released. “Even if say that the total business for each of the films (Radhe and Laxxmi Bomb) is ~200 crore, cumulatively that would mean ~400 crore, and this is when the business is going right. In the Eid weekend alone, the films could have made ~175-200 crore. That’s what we are looking to lose on that particular weekend,” said trade analyst Taran Adarsh. Actor Tusshar Kapoor, co-producer of Laxxmi Bomb, said, “Given the current situation, no one can say anything till the lockdown is lifted. It’s too early to comment.”Ides of MarchMarch’s big release was supposed to be Sooryavanshi — an action film from Rohit Shetty’s cop franchise starring Akshay Kumar and Katrina Kaif — made with a sizeable budget of ~125 crore. The makers were hoping to cash in on the Gudi Padwa holiday (new year for Marathi and Konkani community), by releasing their film on March 25, a Wednesday. That did not happen.Kabir Khan’s ’83, starring Ranveer Singh, was made in an estimated budget of ~100-115 crore, and was slated for an April 10 release. It has also been delayed. So have Varun Dhawan and Sara Ali Khan starrer Coolie No 1, and Amitabh Bachchan and Ayushmann Khurrana-starrer Gulabo Sitabo. Industry analysts believe that both, Sooryavanshi and ’83 could have made upto ~250 crore each in box office collections.The first signs of trouble were seen on February 28, on the day Taapsee Pannu-starrer Thappad released. By this date, more than 82,000 people around the world were infected, and over 2,800 had died. Several European countries had also started reporting the outbreak. Tiger Shroff’s high-octance action film Baaghi 3 didn’t attract much footfall in theatres across the country after its release on March 6. Angrezi Medium, which was to be actor Irrfan’s comeback film after his cancer battle, released on March 13 — within a few hours of its release, cinema halls were formally shut down across the country. According to Mohan, the industry expected to make at least ~500 crore in net collections in March based only on the three big releases: Baaghi, Sooryavanshi and Angrezi Medium. Baaghi 3, made on a budget of ~70 crore, collected ~92 crore; Angrezi Medium, made on an estimated budget of ~35 crore, managed to collect only ~8.5 crore till March 13.On March 15, a decision to stop all shooting in all formats — television, web or film — till March 31 was taken in a joint meeting held between various industry bodies, including the Indian Motion Pictures Producers’ Association, Indian Film and Television Directors’ Association, and Indian Film and TV Producers Council. Since then, the number of Covid-19 cases have only risen, and the country has gone into a 21-day national lockdown that will end only on April 15. This means that the moratorium to shoot stands extended.Shibasish Sarkar, group chief executive officer — content, digital and gaming at Reliance Entertainment said it will take time for things to return to normal. “I don’t foresee any films releasing before three to six months. This is not a two or three-week issue. There’s the health and medical aspect, but the other is about the impact on people’s mind for them to go to a cinema hall. So, even if the medical crisis ends in 3 months, I don’t expect people to immediately walk into theatres. That’s the [time period] which we are preparing for,” he said. Reliance Entertainment has produced Sooryavanshi, ’83 and The Girl on the Train.Uncertain future“We obviously have lost the summer holidays, which is an important period for movies, not just in India but also globally,” film distributor Akshaye Rathi said. “These big films have a significant revenue from the overseas markets as well, and considering how the situation is, I don’t see them coming out till the time global markets really opens up because makers won’t compromise on that front.”Speculation is also rife about whether at all Karan Johar’s Dharma Production will make either of its two most ambitious announced projects, Takht, a high budget period film, or contemporary comedy, Dostana 2.“When this outbreak started, we predicted losses of approx Rs 600 to 900 crore for the industry, but now, it’s uncertain. If you notice, the statements issued by production houses or filmmakers only say they’re postponing the release, but there’s no date. Because nobody can say for sure. It could be June, July or August,” Adarsh said.Even Hollywood film releases will affect The new James Bond film, No Time to Die, is no longer seeing an April release, and Wonder Woman, a DC super-hero production, has been pushed to August. “Last year, Hollywood films which were released in India made approx Rs 1,400 crore, in 2018, the amount was about Rs 1,000 crore and in 2017, it was some Rs 50 crore. This year, we haven’t had any major Hollywood release in the first quarter, and now the ones coming out have been pushed,” Mohan said.It is “inappropriate to put a number in terms of quantum of loss” Rathi said, as one could not be sure of the “longevity of this (pandemic) or its geographical impact”. “It’s not absolute loss but delayed profits,” he said.That’s an optimistic way of looking at it, but it doesn’t account for consumer mood at the end of this outbreak — in what state will the economy be (Moody’s has predicted a slashed growth forecast of 2.5% for the country), and would that translate to consumers spending money on film tickets in multiplexes and single theatres? When would movie-goers feel safe to go into such public spaces again? Furthermore, considering half the year is already exhausted, leaving producers with limited Fridays, analysts expect multiple clashes at the box office. Adarsh foresees a “complete chaotic scenario” when theatres reopen. Even Rathi admits that many big films releasing in a short span of time would “likely eat into each other’s business”.“Multiple clashes will result in division of audience footfalls, theaters, shows and eventually, collections. So, 2020 may definitely not be even half as good as 2018-2019,” said Sumit Kadel, industry analyst.With such uncertainty, it would make sense for films to directly make their way to the web rather than have a theatrical release. USA’s Universal Pictures on March 17, announced that it would bring its fresh theatrical releases to cable television and other video on demand platforms. But such business decisions are unlikely to happen any time soon here given the national lockdown, trade analyst Atul Mohan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bollywood-stares-at-dry-summer/story-YNBOAnvDCZGh3jVhjcpWYI.html
31-03-2020||India||500 contacts of four Covid-19 positive persons from same family under scanner||Health officials in three cities, Mumbai, Delhi, and Sangli, are keeping an eye on close to 500 people who may have been infected by four members of a family in Sangli, all of whom tested positive for Covid-19. The four also infected 19 other members of their extended family, including a two-year old, and two people who worked for them. The officials have traced 434 low-risk contacts and 55 high-risk contacts of the family from Islampur, Sangli. The test reports of the 55 high-risk contacts are awaited, while the 434 other contacts have been asked to go into home quarantine.“We are trying to track every person who came in contact with this family. Until now, we have successfully tracked 434 low-risk contacts and 55 high-risk contacts,” said Sangli district collector Abhijeet Chaudhary.To deal with the situation, state minister Jayant Patil (guardian minister of the district) has imposed strict restrictions on Islampur amid the lockdown.The district health department has also sought details of co-passengers of the four on flights from Saudi Arabia to Delhi, and from Delhi to Mumbai. The four then hired a cab to drive down to Islampur.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicOn March 11, the four landed in Delhi from Saudi Arabia and did some sight-seeing. Two days later, they landed in Mumbai and later visited Crawford Market. It wasn’t immediately clear whether they visited the Nizamuddin area in Delhi, which has emerged as another cluster of the infection. In Islampur, between March 14 and 19, the family organised a religious function attended by relatives from the Sangli and Kolhapur districts. The district health department said the four were already showing symptoms at the time, but instead of being in quarantine, organised social events. The district health department said the four were in Saudi Arabia for almost a month. The 21 others infected lived in close contact with the four. On March 19, one of the family members finally approached a private doctor. The Sangli resident later tested positive for the coronavirus. The other three also subsequently tested positive.The district health department informed that this is the first case in the country in which the majority of the patients, who tested positive in large numbers, are from the same family.On Monday, Sambhaji Bhide, founder of Shivpratishtan Hindustan, approached the district collector demanding that the family be booked for attempt to murder and violation of Epidemic Diseases Act 1897.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/500-contacts-of-infected-sangli-family-under-scanner/story-ku6wmmHIOOrtDWil2ifSdI.html
31-03-2020||India||Govt must liberally help states to tide over crisis: Bhupesh Baghel||The Chhattisgarh government has home-quarantined around 39,000 people and announced a slew of measures to help the poor hit hard by the lockdown imposed to check the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. Bhupesh Baghel, the Chhattisgarh chief minister, spoke to Aurangzeb Naqshbandi about the measures like free distribution of rice and cash assistance his government has taken to help them tide over the crisis. Edited excerpts:How are you coping with this crisis?We announced the lockdown on March 24 and sealed our borders with Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand and Odisha. Every month, we give free 35 kg of rice to poor families. There are 6.5 million families in Chhattisgarh with BPL [below poverty line] and APL [above poverty line] ration cards covering around 24.4 million people. We are giving two months [April and May] free ration to all the poor families. There are just seven positive cases in our state and barring one all had come from abroad.What steps are you taking to keep the situation under control?We have put in isolation or under home-quarantine around 39,000 people who came from outside--whether from abroad or from other states... We have 2,780 beds in quarantine centres. As of now, there are 254 people in quarantine centres. As many as 19 people are hospitalised. Out of 376 samples sent for testing, seven tested positive and 369 negative. We have also set-up helpline numbers to enable people to contact officials whenever required. We have not only enforced a strict lockdown across the state but also ensured that whoever came from outside is home-quarantined.What is your government doing for migrant workers being forced to walk back to their native places amid the national lockdown?We had at the outset asked the owners of industries to ensure food and shelter for their workforce since the factories are shut. And where they are not forthcoming, the district administration is providing free ration and accommodation to the migrant workers. We have also kept at least 2 quintal of rice in every panchayat of the state for those who cannot afford it. But we are facing issues when it comes to workers from other states. Like the other day at Sarguja, our officials intercepted a container which was on its way to Shahdol in Madhya Pradesh from Ranchi in Jharkhand. We asked the collector to stop them and ensure food and shelter for them. Then another truck with workers coming from Odisha was stopped at Kanker. We are providing cash assistance to the workers from Chhattisgarh stuck in other states. I have also spoken to chief ministers of different states in this regard.Amid allegations of police atrocities from across the country during the enforcement of the lockdown, how are you addressing this issue?They [police] are also human beings. They have to maintain law and order and ensure a complete lockdown to prevent the spread of the pandemic. At times, the people also go out of control. Like in Jagdalpur on March 24 at 9 pm, people came on the roads after clapping, ringing bells and clanging utensils. On the second day, they again came on the roads thinking the coronavirus is gone. So, we had to take strict measures. At some places, police had to resort to a mild cane-charge to enforce the lockdown. We have also registered cases against some people for violating the restrictions. When people come on the streets in large numbers, what can the police do? I am not taking sides but we have also issued strict instructions to them to allow people to buy medicines and essentials so that they do not face any hardships. Also among 2 million farmers, we are going to distribute the Rs 5,100 crore we have allocated under the Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojna. Are you getting help from the Centre?It is like ‘oont ke munh mei jeera’ [a popular idiom to describe inadequacy of assistance]. We have to understand the pandemic will have a huge impact on our economy. It will also take time to restart the factories and plants that have been shut and return to normal. The central government should liberally help the states to tide over the crisis. We also do not know how long this [lockdown] will continue and a lot depends on whether the pandemic will be contained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-must-liberally-help-states-to-tide-over-crisis-bhupesh-baghel/story-A8IdV8yK292s0f53HSRcZL.html
31-03-2020||India||Hiding info will be treated as breach of discipline: Army||The army has warned its personnel that non-disclosure of Covid-19-related information, including symptoms, contact history with patients or travel to coronavirus affected areas identified by the government, will be considered as “willful concealment” and be dealt with as a breach of discipline under the Army Act 1950.Breach of discipline is covered under several sections of the Army Act --- Section 41 (disobedience), Sector 42 (insubordination/obstruction), Section 45 (unbecoming conduct) and Section 63 (violation of good order and discipline). Disciplinary action could be taken against such personnel and the punishment would depend on the nature of offence --- whether it is due to negligence or a deliberate act, two senior officials familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicAn advisory issued on March 25 said it was obligatory for all ranks to disclose symptoms, contact with infected patient/relative/friend (during leave or temporary duty) and travel to Covid-19 hotspots to superiors during roll call or while being screened by medical authorities. The letter said non-disclosure of such information could result in other soldiers getting infected.The advisory, issued by the adjutant’s general branch, said the pandemic had spread to all parts of the country, and soldiers and their families were at risk of getting infected.Two soldiers, including an army doctor, tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday at a time the force is taking aggressive measures to tackle the spread of the disease in its ranks. While one of them is a colonel-ranked officer posted at the Kolkata-based Eastern Command hospital, the other is a junior commissioned officer in Dehradun.In an address to soldiers on the Covid-19 outbreak on March 27, army chief, General Manoj Mukund Naravane, said it was important for them to stay fit and remain away from coronavirus if they have to help the countrymen in these serious times.Naravane asked them to strictly adhere to a string of preventive measures circulated by the army to stop the spread of the coronavirus. The army, which is at the forefront of the country’s fight against the pandemic, has taken a raft of preventive measures, including cancellation of all non-essential training, conferences and travel, a freeze on postings and foreign assignments, avoiding any assembly that involves more than 50 personnel, postponing all courses for officers and encouraging personnel to work from home wherever possible.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hiding-info-will-be-treated-as-breach-of-discipline-army/story-sHDCidvn6zGxBfMCxZbyvK.html
31-03-2020||India||Centre says no plans to extend lockdown period||New Delhi: The government on Monday denied as “baseless” rumours and media reports claiming it will extend the 21-day countrywide lockdown imposed last week to halt the spread of the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic.“There are rumours and media reports, claiming that the government will extend the lockdown when it expires. The Cabinet Secretary has denied these reports, and stated that they are baseless,” the government’s Press Information Bureau (PIB) said on Twitter.Cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba, who is the senior-most civil servant, told a news agency that he is surprised to see such reports. “There is no such plan for extending the lockdown,” said Gauba.A Union home ministry official, who did not wish to be named, echoed Gauba and added they are focussed on containing the spread of virus, procuring the necessary medical equipment, streamlining the movement of essential items and identifying the patients.The government’s clarifications came as hundreds of thousands of migrant workers left jobless because of the lockdown, which is due to end on April 15, have fled to the countryside. The workers have defied the lockdown and left cities such as Delhi for their homes on foot in absence of public transport.India has reported a smaller number of coronavirus cases and deaths compared with the US, Italy, which are among the hardest hit, and China, where the pandemic originated from. Experts have warned the cases could soon surge in India and overwhelm its public healthcare system. Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the lockdown last week saying it was the only way of stopping the pandemic.Modi on Sunday apologised to the public for imposing the lockdown, calling it harsh but necessary to win the battle against the pandemic.The PIB separately on Monday said the government has placed orders for 21 lakh PPEs (personal protective equipments), coveralls after 11 manufacturers have cleared quality tests. Currently, it added, these manufacturers are supplying 6-7,000 coveralls per day and this is expected to go up to 15,000 daily.Further, an order for one million PPE kits from Singapore has been placed. A South Korean supplier having tie ups in Vietnam and Turkey has also been identified for 20 lakh PPE kits. Similarly, two domestic producers are supplying 50,000 N95 masks daily and increasing their capacity to 1 lakh daily, the PIB added.The PIB said supply orders have also been placed abroad for the supply of ventilators. Suppliers in China were also being approached for sourcing 10,000 ventilators, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-says-no-plans-to-extend-lockdown-period/story-jMkwTP6Id3Y1Dn7pKlE5cJ.html
31-03-2020||India||Covid-19 doesn’t survive on print, tissue paper after 3 hours, says Hong Kong study||SARS-CoV-2 doesn’t survive on print or tissue paper for more than 3 hours, a new study by the School of Public Health at the University of Hong Kong has found.The study, which is yet to be published also found that the virus doesn’t remain infectious on cloth or treated wood after a day. Strangely, a significant level of infectious virus could be detected from the outer layer of a surgical mask even 7 days after the virus was introduced to the surface during the study.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemic SARS-CoV-2 is very stable on smooth surfaces and continues to be infectious for days together. Infectious virus was not found on glass or bank notes treated with the virus after day 4 and after day 7 on stainless steel and plastic.This can however be countered with use of disinfectants. No infectious virus could be detected 5 minutes after disinfecting a surface with soap and water. “Overall, SARS-CoV-2 can be highly stable in a favourable environment, but it is also susceptible to standard disinfection methods,” the study published in its preprint version in Medrxiv said.Scientists conducted this study by incubating SARS-CoV-2 in a virus transport medium for 14 days and then tested its infectivity on various surfaces. The virus is highly stable in lower temperatures but sensitive to heat, the study revealed. At 4 degree C for example it was found to be most stable but when incubation temperature was increased to 70 degree C, the virus was inactivated in only 5 minutes.“Its best to disinfect all surfaces during an outbreak like this. Hypochlorite is best for disinfection but because it may not be available to common people at the moment just use any disinfectant or soap and water. I have been using soap and water at my house. The hospitals and health care workers have access to hypochlorite. I am sure surfaces are being disinfected regularly at hospitals,” said Dr Shobha Broor, former head of microbiology at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS).In a correspondence published on ‘Aerosol and Surface Stability of SARS-CoV-2 as Compared with SARS-CoV-1’ in The New England Journal of Medicine, scientists said that SARS-CoV-2 was more stable on plastic and stainless steel than on copper and cardboard and viable virus could detected up to 72 hours after application on them.The University of Hong Kong study also revealed SARS-CoV-2 is extremely stable in a wide-range of pH values at room temperature. “This means that washing anything in water will not help unless its washed in hot water or with a disinfectant. The key takeaway from this study is that bleach and ethanol are extremely effective in inactivating the virus. We knew this always but the study reinforces that our current understanding is correct,” said Amit Singh, associate professor, Centre for Infectious Disease Research, Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru.The World Health Organisation has already addressed the question whether it is safe to receive a package. WHO said: “Yes. The likelihood of an infected person contaminating commercial goods is low and the risk of catching the virus that causes COVID-19 from a package that has been moved, travelled, and exposed to different conditions and temperature is also low.”“There is a study from 2011 on the H1N1 virus which led to the 2009 outbreak which says that the virus does not survive on porous surfaces like paper, cloth or tissue for very long. But it can stay up to 48 hours on surfaces like steel, plastic, glass, aluminium, copper etc. This is simply because the protein envelope of the virus disintegrates easily in dry, porous surfaces. The virus may last only for about 4 hours on such surfaces. This is based on evidence from the H1N1 flu epidemic,” said Dr Amit Singh, associate professor, Centre for Infectious Disease Research at the Indian Institute of Science (IISc) had told HT on March 24 after reports that people are not availing newspapers out of the fear of contracting the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-trace-of-virus-on-paper-after-3-hours-hong-kong-study/story-K5IRK0gbBYrEUxtJvC1K1M.html
31-03-2020||India||India studies efficacy of antimalarial drug on Covid-19||India has begun a demonstration study in around a 1,000 health workers and close contacts of positive coronavirus (Covid-19) cases on the efficacy of the anti-malaria drug, hydroxychloroquine, as a prophylactic drug against Covid-19.“It is a proof-of-concept study that is being done to see how successful is a particular medicine in preventing high-risk people from getting infected. What we are doing different from the studies done in other countries is that we are checking whether it can work as a prophylactic medicine, whereas everywhere else it was given to positive patients as a treatment option with somewhat positive results,” says Dr Raman R Gangakhedkar, chief, epidemiology division, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The dosage given to people in India is 400mg, twice a day, for one day, and subsequently 400mg once a week. The course is recommended for seven weeks.“In positive patients, the medicine has shown to reduce the viral load, and our aim is to see whether it will prevent infection or not,” said Dr Gangakhedkar.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicLast week, the government approved the “restricted” use of the drug for prophylaxis of Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. The drug is approved in India for two categories that are asymptomatic healthcare workers involved in the care of suspected or confirmed cases of Covid-19; and asymptomatic household contacts of laboratory confirmed cases that live in close proximity with the patients and run the risk of getting infected.According to sources, around 1,000 people have been put on the medicine as part of the study. ‘Hydroxychloroquine and azithromycin as a treatment of COVID-19: results of an open-label non-randomized clinical trial,’ a study published on March 17 in the International Journal of Antimicrobial Agents, showed there was viral load reduction in Covid-19 patients.“Despite its small sample size, our survey shows that hydroxychloroquine treatment is significantly associated with viral load reduction/disappearance in Covid-19 patients and its effect is reinforced by azithromycin,” the paper says.Most of the research on therapeutics against Covid-19 is being done around repurposing of old drugs for use as antiviral treatment because lack of knowledge on safety profile, side effects, drug interactions etc.“Repurposing drug molecules is quicker rather than looking at developing a new drug altogether that can take years,” said Dr Balram Bhargava, director general, ICMR, in a briefing.The ICMR is supervising the study and is closely monitoring people who are on medication. “We are generating our own data; since it is a small number, it is easy to monitor,” says Gangakhedkar.Findings from these studies and other new evidence will guide any change in the recommendation.However, since people had begun buying the drug over-the-counter, the government on Friday put it under the category of schedule H1 drug, meaning one would need a prescription to buy it.“It is not prescribed for everyone as this medicine has its side effects. It can’t be given to people above 60 years of age or children under 15 years of age. People should understand it is being currently prescribed for a select group on an experimental basis. It is not recommended for everyone as a preventive drug,” says Dr Gangakhedkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-studies-efficacy-of-anti-malaria-drug-on-virus/story-aVyZoRc9bsVLzV4nNOy6wL.html
31-03-2020||India||Covid-19: Odisha orders 20 lakh masks after High Court orders protection for doctors||The Orissa High Court on Monday directed the state government to provide personal protective equipment (PPE) like masks and Hazmat suits to doctors treating coronavirus patients given their vulnerability to catch the infection.Taking suo moto cognizance of the situation, acting Chief Justice of the High Court Justice Sanju Panda and Justice Biswanath Rath ordered the state Health Secretary and Directorate of Medical Education and Training (DMET) to appoint adequate number of doctors in both Government and private hospitals and provide them with required personal protective equipment while treating Covid-19 patients.The court also asked for appointment of adequate number of doctors to tackle the crisis.The court also instructed the state government to ensure that leaves are granted to doctors only in case of emergency and directed the police department to not intercept coronavirus-infected patients and their relatives while they are commuting.Within hours of the court order, the Odisha State Medical Corporation ordered 20 lakh 3-layered masks. The HC order came days after the Odisha Medical Service Association, a body of state government doctors said that that there was an acute shortage of protective kits for doctors and health care service providers at the district level.In a letter to the Odisha government’s health department OMSA said that there are insufficient number of masks, santitisers and PPE kits. The doctors’ association in VIMSAR medical college in Burla on Monday requested Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik to take necessary steps to provide masks and PPEs to doctors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-odisha-orders-20-lakh-masks-after-high-court-orders-protection-for-doctors/story-ZLqmtvNd5FtMuH7etOc3RK.html
31-03-2020||India||E-PDS could have eased migrant crisis, say experts||The plight of thousands of workers fleeing cities, facing hunger and distress in the aftermath of the coronavirus lockdown, could have been eased by a federal programme launched last year to make subsidized rations portable for migrants. But the programme hasn’t gained the scale and reach to be a mitigating factor, analysts said. A digitized, portable public distribution system (PDS) was to be a boon for beneficiaries of the National Food Security Act who lose out on their monthly quota of subsidised food when they migrate. The programme, known as “one nation, one ration card”, still remains a work in progress. The scheme is still not fully geared for seamless inter-state transactions. Inter-state portability, whereby a migrant draws subsidised food in a state other than his own, is being tried on select “clusters” of 12 “contiguous” states. This means the system is capable of serving only migrants who move to a bordering state in those chosen clusters. “There is also the issue that many migrants are single men who might have their ration cards with their families back in the village. So, with this kind of portability, they would not get rations,” said Dipa Sinha, a professor with Ambedkar University. The government needed a far more high-tech system where every member of a migrant family had individual electronic ration cards, since the ration quota under the National Food Security Act is designed on a per capita basis. Under the law, the poor receive 5kg of foodgrain per person per month at a subsidized rate of Rs 2-3 per kg, which has been now increased to 7kg due to the pandemic.“The government is on course to make portability fully operational countrywide by June, 2020,” an official of the consumer affairs ministry said, asking not to be named. Given the pandemic, it might face some delay, he said.Experts say the programme’s design doesn’t account for the scale of internal migration. The Economic Survey 2016-17 used some new metrics to give updated data on migration. It suggested an annual inter-state migration flow of close to 9 million from 2011 to 2016 in a “circular” fashion based on data from railways.The first portability trials were done by September 2018 in clusters in six states. By January 2020, 12 states -- Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Gujarat, Maharasthra, Haryana, Rajasthan, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Goa, Jharkhand and Tripura – were in. The system essentially allowed for “state-level portability”, meaning ration-card holders could draw rations from any electronically linked fair price shops within their “district or state”. A novel cohort-based migration metric, a statistical tool developed by former chief economic adviser Arvind Subramanian, revealed an annual “inter-state migrant population of about 60 million and an inter-district migration as high as 80 million” between 2001 and 2011. Subramanian had called for full portability of all welfare doles.“The government’s initiative to start portability of ration cards is a right step, but it requires scale,” said Asit Upadhyay of the Right to Food Campaign. According to Chinmay Tumbe, the author of “India Moving - A History of Migration” and faculty at the Indian Institute of Management (Ahmedabad), India’s migration is circular in the sense that people keep moving from city to city until they return home at one point before moving out again. This means a portable food distribution system has to be capable of continually tracking migrant workers, who make up 29% of the nation’s workforce. Construction is the single largest source of employment for migrant workers in India. According to National Sample Survey Office data, 33.3 million people moved out of farming to the construction sector between 2004-05 and 2011-12.Inter-state portability is on in eight states in contiguous clusters of adjoining Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. Other clusters comprise Gujarat and Maharashtra, Haryana and Rajasthan and Karnataka and Kerala, all contiguous states. Madhya Pradesh, Goa, Jharkhand and Tripura joined these eight states from January 1, 2020 to make a single national cluster, the official said. Full national portability could have rescued a large number of migrants fleeing the Covid-19 lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/e-pds-could-have-eased-migrant-crisis-say-experts/story-8Q18MGeLkrA8bFvUI1ZSLI.html
31-03-2020||India||Covid-19 update: Science and tech group set up to look into long-term solutions||With the entire world battling the Covid-19 infection that has killed at least 35,000 people, Indian scientists have come together to help front-line healthcare workers by devising cheaper ventilators, new diagnostics kits that can be manufactured in the country, innovative personal protective equipment, and newer ways to disinfect hospitals.Now, scientists are looking for long-term solutions like vaccines and drugs to protect against the disease.Technology is also aiding the government in training its nurses and doctors on various measures to tackle the disease through webinars during the lockdown. Telemedicine is also being offered with out-patient clinics in hospitals getting disrupted.The country’s principal scientific advisor (PSA), K VijayRaghavan, took to Twitter on Sunday night to inform people about the ongoing science and technology activities. A science and Tech core group has been set up under him that will set priorities and guide research work for Covid-19.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemic“We have a powerful enemy designed, by chance, over millions of years. It is powerful but unintelligent. Its ways are getting better known each day. For success, we must be relentless, use our science at the right time and place and act intelligently and not randomly. So, our scientists’ task is to address all aspects of the short-, medium-, and long-haul; in a manner where we are never fatigued, but the virus is. We each need to play our part to help the government’s and the world’s efforts succeed,” said Prof VijayRaghavan on Twitter. We have a powerful enemy designed, by chance, over millions of years. It is powerful but unintelligent. Its ways are getting better known each day. For success, we must be relentless, use our science at the right time and place and act intelligently and not randomly. 3The department of science and technology (DST) is mapping the needs of healthcare workers and supporting the projects that have been identified. There are three areas the DST is focussing on –ventilators that can be manufactured easily, better protective equipment for healthcare workers, and solutions for disinfecting places.“We have already started receiving various designs for ventilators – we are looking for models which are cheap, easy to make so that the production can be scaled up quickly, and are easy to use even at home. Then, we are looking at various types of protective gear, especially body suits for the healthcare workers, and then we are looking at solutions for disinfecting places,” said Prof Ashutosh Sharma, secretary, DST.The PSA gave a shout-out to the team from the Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur, which developed a low-cost ventilator that is currently being validated. It can be manufactured using indigenous components at a cost of Rs 70,000 instead of the Rs 4 lakh that the ventilators currently being used cost. The team was headed by Amitabh Bandyopadhyay from the department of department of biological sciences & bioengineering. A startup, Scitech Park, from Pune, supported by a DST incubation centre, has developed a negative ion generator that can reduce the viral load in an infected area. A grant of R 1 crore has been given to the company to scale up the project.The department of biotechnology is also setting up a research consortium to look for newer diagnostic kits, repurposed and novel molecules that can protect against the disease, and vaccines.Two diagnostic kits developed by Indian companies have been approved for commercial use by the National Institute of Virology, Pune.Healthcare workers are also relying on technology – webinars have been organised by the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi to train doctors and nurses across the country and a 24*7 consultation centre has been started which can provide clinical guidance to doctors across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/science-and-tech-group-set-up-to-look-into-long-term-solutions/story-mnMHKTF6xo8RaIMBmqhVqM.html
31-03-2020||India||Covid-19: 35 booked in UP for hiding travel history, defying quarantine||As many as 35 people, from a group of 37 that returned from Saudi Arabia, have been booked for hiding their travel history and defying quarantine. Of the 35, a 73-year-old woman and her son have tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and are undergoing treatment at the at district hospital in Pilibhit.The group, from Amaria town of Uttar Pradesh’s Pilibhit district, had gone to perform ‘umrah’ (religious pilgrimage) in Mecca in Saudi Arabia, people familiar with the matter said. The members of the group returned to their villages via Mumbai on March 19. “The group avoided air route and chose to travel by train from Mumbai to Lucknow,” said an official. All 37 members of the group had been stamped ‘home quarantine’.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicMembers of the group, however, allegedly removed the ‘home quarantine’ stamp, officials said. This came to light when the woman’s health deteriorated and she tested positive for Covid-19 on March 23. Her 33-year-old son, who had reportedly stayed with her in the isolation ward even though he did not show any preliminary symptoms, also tested positive on March 25.Other pilgrims from the group have now been kept under quarantine for at least 28 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/35-booked-in-pilibhit-for-hiding-travel-history-defying-quarantine/story-nIt0yFR2dL3cXUiuGs52tN.html
31-03-2020||India||Relief for farmers as Centre extends short-term loan payment date to May 31||The Centre has decided that farmers who availed of short-term crop loans at a concessional interest of 4% per annum and whose payment was due on March 1 or later will get time till May 31 to repay their loans.Only farmers with a record of timely repayments get short-term crop loans at a concessional rate. Therefore, farmers who missed payments due after March 1 won’t have to pay any penalty if they repay by May 31. Farmers get crop loans at a cheaper 7% as compared to consumer loans, which range from anything between 12% and 14%. For those making timely repayments, the effective rate of interest is even lower at 4%. The latest measure will benefit these categories of farmers.“Due to restrictions imposed on movement of people, many farmers are not able to travel to bank branches for payment of their short term crop loan dues. Moreover, due to restrictions on movement of people and difficulty in timely sale and receipt of payment of their produce, farmers may be facing difficulties in repayment of their short term crop loans falling due during this period,” an official statement said.Under priority lending norms of the Reserve Bank, banks provide concessional crop loans to farmers through banks with 2% interest subvention to banks and 3% additional benefits for those who make timely repayment to farmers, thus disbursing agricultural credit at an effective rate of 4% annually. Loans which have a ceiling of Rs 3 lakh will come under this extended repayment period. The government subsidises short-term crop loans to make farming cheaper. Moreover, banks must necessarily lend to farmers because agriculture is a “priority lending sector”. For instance, all scheduled commercial banks must direct 40% of their adjusted net bank credit towards priority sector lending.According to a 2018 National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development survey, “more than one in two agricultural households surveyed in 2018” had availed of some loan. The size of debt owed by them was nearly equal to their annual incomes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/relief-for-farmers-as-centre-extends-short-term-loan-payment-date-to-may-31/story-t7jRf6pnpvyedlTpjk4qLN.html
31-03-2020||India||Govt taking steps to stop migration: CJI||The Centre told the Supreme Court on Monday that the exodus of migrant workers from the cities to their hometowns will have to be stopped to ensure that it does not aggravate the threat posed by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Solicitor general Tushar Mehta spelt out the Centre’s stand during a hearing on a petition filed by two lawyers, asking the court to issue directions to the central and state governments to address the threat arising from the mass migration following the three-week national lockdown imposed on March 25.A message should not go out that the government is facilitating the migration, Mehta said. “Migration has to be stopped,”he said. Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe lockdown sparked an exodus of tens of thousands of migrant workers, mainly daily wagers who lost their livelihoods, from the cities to their homes in the hinterland of India. In the absence of public transport, many started walking hundreds of kilometres across state borders, posing the threat that Covid-19 may spread to rural India. The petition filed by advocates Rashmi Bansal and Anuj Gupta cited the possibility that many of the migrant workers may have been infected by the virus and become carriers of the disease. Desperate to return home, they are not maintaining social distancing, posing the threat that the disease may spread, they argued. The workers should not be allowed to travel without being sanitised/disinfected, the lawyers said.The Supreme Court, after hearing the Centre and the petitioners through video conferencing, indicated that it may not be inclined to interfere in the issue since it fell within the executive domain. The bench, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde, remarked that it did not want to complicate the matter when the government was already dealing with it.“I think government is taking certain measures. We do not want to complicate things by issuing orders on things the government is already doing”, the CJI said.The court did not pass any order but allowed the central government to file a status report on the issue. The matter will be heard again on Tuesday.The petitioners also said the people fleeing the cities should be counselled so that they didn’t panic and run away.“This fear and panic is a bigger problem than this virus”, CJI Bobde remarked.The court also sought a status report from the Centre on another petition filed by advocate Alakh Alok Srivastava to address the plight of the migrant workers who are walking hundreds of kilometres to reach their hometowns. Srivastava prayed that such people should be identified and shifted to government shelter homes and provided food, water and medicines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-taking-steps-to-stop-migration-cji/story-uJRA3Y6TrCjD4VeruFPyIL.html
31-03-2020||India||Covid-19 update: Migrants given ‘chemical bath’ in Bareilly; probe on||Bareilly administration ordered an inquiry after a group of migrant workers, who arrived in the Uttar Pradesh town after a 21-day nationwide lockdown took effect on March 25 to curb the fast-spreading coronavirus disease (Covid-19), were made to squat on a road and sprayed with chlorine-mixed water on Monday.A video of the incident, which took place near a bus station, surfaced on Twitter, sparking outrage among a section of opposition leaders and social media users. The video showed people, including children, herded in one corner of the road being sprayed with the disinfectant. Some Twitter users alleged that the workers were given a “chemical bath”.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicAshok Gautam, the nodal officer in-charge of the Covid-19 mitigation group, confirmed that the migrants were sprayed with chlorine-mixed water, but maintained the step was necessary to contain a possible spread of the Sars-Cov-2 virus, which is causing the deadly infection. “We tried to keep them safe and asked them to shut their eyes,” Gautam said. “It’s natural they will get wet.”District magistrate Nitish Kumar said some officials may have crossed the line in the sanitisation drive involving the workers who arrived in special buses run by the government.“We have looked into the video. Teams of Bareilly Nagar Nigam (civic body) and fire brigade were asked to sanitise buses. But they went overboard. We have ordered action against the concerned people. Those affected are being treated under the guidance of CMO (chief medical officer),” he tweeted.Earlier in the day, Kumar said the administration had received orders to carry out medical check-ups on all people entering the city.Action against officials involved in the incident will be taken on the basis of the inquiry report, according to people with knowledge of the matter who didn’t want to be named.Girish Makker, a doctor in Bareilly, said: “Depending on the level of chlorine (mixed with water), it can cause burning and itching if applied on skin.” Mohd Afzal, who was among the workers, said, “About 50 of us were sitting and waiting for food at the bus adda when some men in protective suits came and began spraying water on us. They said that they were from the sanitisation team and were sanitising us. The children began crying...”Afzal, who worked in a courier company in Noida and is a resident of Shahjahanpur, said the children complained of itching in their eyes, while some developed rashes. “...most of us left Bareilly and decided to continue our journey on foot,” he said.According to estimates, over 25,000 migrant workers from other cities have arrived in Bareilly so far, according to a district administration official.Reacting to the Bareilly incident, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra tweeted: “Request the UP government to refrain from such inhuman act when we all are fighting this pandemic. Workers have already suffered a lot. Please don’t bathe them in chemicals. It will not help them but will create more problems to their health.”Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati criticised what she termed a “cruel and inhuman” act, asking the government to immediately look into the matter.Tens of thousands of migrant workers, mainly daily-wage earners who lost their means of livelihood, have headed home to the hinterland of India to join their families since the lockdown, which shut all but essential services, took effect on March 25. Many thousands have embarked on long treks home in the absence of public transport. While stranded migrants cited the shortage of money and food as reasons for leaving big cities, health experts warned that an exodus could run contrary to the purpose of the lockdown — breaking the chain of infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/migrants-given-chemical-bath-in-bareilly-probe-on/story-Qqr1HZmYOKP0cjHUXuYCDK.html
31-03-2020||India||States move to quarantine returnees, stop migration amid Covid-19 lockdown||The movement of migrant workers to their homes , mostly in the hinterland, continued on Monday even as police in states such as Kerala and Gujarat said they arrested scores of them for defying the three-week countrywide lockdown.The Centre has asked states to seal their borders, provide migrant workers shelter and food, and set up quarantine centres to prevent their further movement until the lockdown ends. The lockdown was imposed last week to check the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. It left millions of migrant workers jobless, and many defied the restrictions imposed on movement as they tried to return home on foot in the absence of any public transport. Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicIn Kerala’s Kottayam, a worker from West Bengal was arrested for instigating violence and another 200 for being part of a mob a day after a large number of workers assembled in Payipadu in violation of the lockdown and demanded that they be sent back home. “Cases have been registered against some identified people for unlawful assembly violating the lockdown orders issued by the government as part of measures taken by the government to prevent the spread of the virus,” said district police chief, G Jaidev.The Gujarat police on Monday arrested 93 migrant workers in Surat for defying the lockdown and attacking police. Around 500 migrant labourers took to the streets on Sunday, demanding transport facilities be provided to them to return to their villages mostly in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh.“When police tried to convince them to remain indoors, they threw stones... We arrested 93 workers who organised the protest,” said Surat’s deputy police commissioner, Vidhi Chaudhari.As the states struggled to cope with a sea of migrant workers, images shared on social media showed workers hiding themselves in trucks, lorries and pick-up vans and travelling in inhuman conditions to reach their destinations. HT cannot confirm the veracity of these images.In Bihar’s Nawada district, 25 vehicles were caught carrying people, said police superintendent Hariprasath S. Some of the workers were caught and sent to quarantine centres while others managed to escape. There were reports of panchayat heads preventing people from entering villages and putting them in government- run quarantine centres.A video doing the rounds, showed officials in Uttar Pradesh’s Bareilly spraying a mixture of sodium hypochlorite (liquid bleach) and water on migrant workers. Officials said this was done according to directions of the state government. Bareilly district magistrate Nitish Kumar said on Monday that he will look into allegations that migrant workers were sprayed with the chemical and said the sanitisation was done by the fire department personnel. Sodium hyphochlorite is used to keep swimming pools clean, but in low concentrations. Experts said that concentrations used for disinfecting surfaces could be harmful to humans. As the video circulated, other videos, including one showing a similar disinfecting process undertaken by the Kerala police emerged. It wasn’t clear which chemical was used in Kerala. The continuing movement of migrants has prompted authorities in states such as West Bengal, Chhattisgarh and Bihar to issue directions for keeping all those returning home under mandatory 14-day quarantine. Top officials across states have stepped in to handle the situation with West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee issuing directions against forcing migrant workers to do any paperwork for relief. Her Uttar Pradesh counterpart, Yogi Adityanath, on Monday visited makeshift shelter homes for migrant workers in Noida and Ghaziabad and directed officials to ensure that they get food. In Odisha chief minister Naveen Pathnaik has asked officials to provide health care facilities to all migrant workers. The workers would get 12 kg rice and Rs 500 cash during the lockdown period apart from cooked meals if needed, Telangana chief minister K Chandrashekar Rao announced. Odisha, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh have designated government schools closed since mid-March in view of the pandemic as quarantine centres for migrant workers returning home. In Andhra Pradesh, officials said migrant workers were being accommodated in marriage halls and hotels, which have been converted into isolation centres. Kerala has been housing migrant labourers in government-run facilities such as guest houses and stadia. Goa and Maharashtra have taken similar measures.According to estimates from various state governments, there are over a million migrant workers either on roads or in makeshift quarantine facilities. Around 1 lakh people from Odisha have been stranded in different parts of the country, state chief secretary Asit Tripathy said. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said about 80,000 migrant workers were at various shelter homes in his state. Officials said about one lakh workers in Bihar and 73,000 in Jharkhand are in government-monitored quarantine facilities, and many more on roads in different states. The Telangana government has identified 3.35 lakh migrant workers held at state borders due to the lockdown. Andhra Pradesh has estimated it has 50,000 such workers.In Bihar, poll strategist and politician Prashant Kishor demanded chief minister Nitish Kumar’s resignation saying the government has failed to mitigate the hardship of people arriving in the state.“This arrangement of Nitish Kumar for social distancing and quarantine of the poor people reaching Bihar from many parts of the country after facing heavy difficulties is heart-rending. Nitish must quit,” Kishor said in a tweet, tagging a clip of a group of people locked inside a facility with one of them crying while sharing his troubles.The Janata Dal (United) did not response to Kishor’s charge. In West Bengal, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) started distributing relief to migrant workers, claiming the ruling Trinamool Congress has failed to provide them succour. The government rejected the BJP’s claims and said migrant labourers have been asked to stay in home quarantine and food is being delivered to them. (With state bureau and agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-move-to-quarantine-returnees-stop-migration/story-kyGZgYABjuHLTMBLZK6ALM.html
31-03-2020||India||Covid-19 community transmission debate continues||The Union health ministry clarified on Monday that community transmission of Covid-19 hadn’t yet begun in India, a day after signalling the onset of “limited community transmission” of the disease. The ministry said limited community transmission isn’s the same as community transmission -- Stage 3 of infectious diseases such as the one caused by the SARS-Cov-2 virus. “Limited community transmission means where a more than one person has acquired, directly or indirectly, infection from the same source. Community transmission of alarming proportions has not been seen in India yet. There is nothing to hide...if we get evidence of large-scale community transmission, where the source of transmission is not known, we will declare it. As of now there’s no community transmission in India,” said Lav Aggarwal, joint secretary in the health ministry.Later, India’s health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan tweeted: “Today, related to #CoronaVirus, the @MoHFW_India (ministry of health and family welfare) made it clear that its spread has not reached the community transmission level yet and its transmission is still in the local phase. “In Stage 3, the source of a patient’s infection cannot be traced and isolated.India has reported 1,308 cases and 32 deaths due to Covid-19. On Monday, 25 new cases were identified in Delhi, of which 18 cases were in one cluster, Nizamuddin. Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThere are four main stages of the disease outbreak. Stage 1 is usually when cases are imported and are not of local origin. Stage 2 is when there is local transmission, which means a section of people testing positive have come in contact with a positive patient having a travel history. Stage 3 is community transmission. Stage 4 is an epidemic.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), tasked with containing the pandemic, has maintained that India is still in Stage 2, despite the number of cases of people with no known contact with an infected person or travel history rising over the past week.Community transmission happens when the source of infection is untraced and the patient has no travel history or known contact with a confirmed Covid-19 case. It indicates that undiagnosed cases are infecting others, which is when infection clusters spiral out of control and turn into epidemics.A senior public health expert, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said: “We’ve had pockets of community transmission in several locations in half-a-dozen states, but now the number of people with untraceable infection is increasing, which is a sign that community transmission has begun.”According to T Jacob John, head of the department of clinical virology and microbiology at Christian Medical College, Vellore, community transmission in India began in mid-February.“Instead of splitting hairs, the focus should be on preparing to be three steps ahead of the virus. It’s not a cops and robbers game, we should not be fooled into reacting to the virus but should be fooling the virus by anticipating the curve and proactively deciding what we need to do stop the spread,” said John, emeritus medical scientist, ICMR.The US Centers for Disease Control (USCDC) declared its first case of a person in California with no relevant travel history or exposure to another known patient asa “possible instance of community spread of Covid-19 in the United States” on February 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/community-transmission-debate-continues/story-MaimglcKLJGUXqWh84l3YK.html
31-03-2020||India||Covid-19 crisis: At 32 per million, India lags far behind on testing||Kerala, which accounts for 3% of the country’s population, has carried out nearly 7,000 tests for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) while Uttar Pradesh, which has the highest number of people among any Indian state, has tested only 2,824 samples – numbers that indicate how some states are farther behind in getting a sense of the outbreak than others. Data shows that populated states such as Bihar, West Bengal, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh and Odisha have, as compared to Kerala, conducted fewer Covid-19 tests in absolute numbers as well as tests per million population -- a strong argument for relaxing the testing criteria that is largely responsible for the low numbers across the country.Health officials in Kerala said that much more tests was a reason for the state, with population of 34.8 million, reporting highest number of Covid cases in the country. Kerala has conducted 6,690 tests, highest for any state in the country, and has also decided to conduct rapid tests, which can identify the possible carriers of the coronavirus. Kerala has also put 151, 370, as on Sunday, under home and institutional quarantine.According to Kerala health department officials, after the first Covid-19 cases were detected in January, the government insisted on getting the tests conducted as regional virology institute in Alapuzha. From mid-February, tests started there and three more labs were operational by end of March, when most of the states had just one Covid-19 testing lab.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemic“It’s contract-tracing and surveillance mechanisms are good. But we wish Kerala could have done more tests by now as some areas of the state have turned pandemic zones. It has to raise the number of tests immediately,” said Dr Rajgopal Kamath, science writer and researcher.In comparison, India’s most populated state, Uttar Pradesh, with the population of 200 million, only 2,284 samples have been tested, of which 2,171 have been negative. There are eight testing labs in the state including King George’s Medical University (KGMU), LLRM Medical College in Meerut, Aligarh Muslim University in Aligarh and Banaras Hindu University in Varanasi. The calculations for cases per million has been done with data from the 2011 CensusSurya Kant, head of department of respiratory medicine, KGMU, said the number of tests done were less in UP as the numbers of travelers from foreign countries in the state were less as compared to Maharastra and Kerala. “Many traveler who came via Mumbai and New Delhi airports, were first screened there. In the coming days, we will see increase in testing,” he said.Dr PK Gupta former president IMA, Lucknow, said the government should focus more on identify those with symptoms. “Selecting the correct person for test will ensure infection does not spread fast. I think number of tests will go up in the coming days as more people have entered UP,” he said.West Bengal, with population of 91 million, and 20 Covid-19 cases and one death has conducted 389 tests. Chief minister, Mamata Banerjee, blamed the Centre saying the kits were not available, governor, Jagdeep Dhankhar, on Sunday claimed the Centre has provided 10,000 coronavirus kits to the state.State health officials, however, said there was shortage of RNA extraction kits, needed to identify the new strain of corona virus. There are six laboratories including a private one to conduct tests in Bengal and five more are waiting for approval from the ICMR.Dr Sumon Poddar, associate professor, Institute of Child Health, Kolkata, however, said most of the tests were limited to urban areas even though flow of migrant labourers to rural Bengal has increased in the past few days. “Tests help to identify Covid-19 hotspots quickly and that is the reason the WHO has been asking governments to conduct as many tests as possible,” he said. Bihar with population of 90.9 million and 15 Covid-19 cases has conducted 792 tests. Two labs in the state capital, Patna, are authorised to conduct the tests. Bihar Covid-19 nodal officer, Dr Ragini Mishra, defended the low number of tests saying they were following health ministry’s guidelines. “The guidelines do not suggest taking samples of those who are asymptomatic,” she said.Dr Ajay Kumar said less than 800 samples tests were “far too inadequate” for a populated state like Bihar. “The state has not been able to thoroughly test the 1 lakh-plus migrant labourers who returned during the lockdown period. Our people work in Maharashtra, Kerala and UP, which are among some of the worst Covid-19 affected states in India. Moreover, Bihar also shares an open border with Nepal,” he said. The number of samples for testing has increased since March 24, when the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) became the second centre to commence real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), a confirmatory test for novel coronavirus (Covid-19).Madhya Pradesh with 72.6 million people, have tested 525 samples till March 28 at the two labs --- AIIMS, Bhopal and NIRTH, Jabalpur. “If small state like Kerala can test 500 persons every day, why can’t MP test at least 1,000 persons every day. Kerala has as many as 16 labs whereas Madhya Pradesh had only two labs till a couple of days back,” said Amulya Nidhi, director of Jan Swashthya Arogya, a social organisation working in the field of health. Additional director, department of health, Sapna Lovanshi, said, “We are having five laboratories now. Our department is taking all the measures to test all the samples collected and control spread of the virus as per guidelines of the central and the state governments.”Jharkhand, which has so far not reported a single positive case of Covid-19, has tested only 196 persons, lowest in the country along with much smaller and sparsely populated Himachal Pradesh. Giving the reason, Dr Manoj Kumar, head of Ranchi based Rajender Institute of Medical Sciences microbiology department, said they have not noticed any spurt in Covid-19 cases in the past one week.”If we needed, we can scale up the testing,” he said.Most state health departments are, however, increasing the capacity to conduct tests. Punjab, which is conducting, 160 tests every day in two labs, plans to increase it to 400 every day by next week. Principal Secretary, Medical Education and Research, M Tiwari, said the machines will come by March end to increasing the testing capacity.Karnataka chief minister B S Yediyurappa on Sunday said there was no shortage of kits to conduct tests and the state has the highest number of Covid-19 testing centers at 11, apart from sample collection centers spread across the state. Karnataka has conducted 3170 tests so far. Telangana chief minister K C Rao said testing has been increased around 50% since March 24 and it will further go up in the next few days. Andhra Pradesh will also increase tests from present 251 to close to 1,000 by next week. “Given the lack of adequate testing facilities and expensive kits, it is not possible to test every suspect. If the facilities are increased, the governments can do random testing to ensure that there is no spread of the disease,” Hyderabad based health expert, M Somasekhar, said.However, the state health department officials assured that the number of tests would be increased in the coming days if there is spurt in Covid-19 cases and new hotspots emerge. Kasargod in Kerala, Indore in Madhya Pradesh, Bhilwara in Rajasthan and Shaheed Bhagat Singh (SBS) Nagar district of Punjab are some of the identified Covid-19 hotspots in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/some-of-india-s-biggest-states-have-abysmal-testing-numbers/story-8CoLZEmBG6NxKc0Z3BI9KI.html
31-03-2020||India||Delhi mulls 14-day shift, 14-day quarantine for health workers dealing with Covid cases||To minimise the chances of the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the Delhi government is considering a 14-day shift for all medical teams working with Covid-19 patients, followed by a 14-day quarantine at the accommodation provided by the government.So far, 97 people have tested positive for the disease and two have died in Delhi.During the 14-day working period, the medical teams have also been asked to work longer hours than usual: one team will do a 10-hour and another a 14-hour shift. Usually, there are three shifts for medical staff in a day: two eight-hour shifts and a 12-hour shift.The designated accommodation for Covid-19 doctors working in Lok Nayak Hospital and GB Pant hospitals will be the hotel, The Lalit, on Barakhamba Road, where the district magistrate is making arrangements for 100 rooms, according to two Delhi government circulars that HT has seen.“The longer shifts have been decided keeping in mind the infrastructure and shortage of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), but this might be changed in the future. The temperatures are rising and it is difficult to work 14 hours in the suits. Plus, it also does not allow urination or intake of water, which is difficult to do over a 14-hour period,” said a senior official from the Delhi government, requesting anonymity.Longer shifts are not possible, experts agree.“We need a huge workforce because a person should not work for more than four to six hours with the PPE. It is a multilayered suit which makes it very hot. Plus, in Covid-19 wards, the air conditioning will deliberately be switched off to prevent the circulation of the virus. A Covid-19 ICU will also be a stressful place to work in,” said Dr Devi Shetty, founder and chairman of Narayana Health group.Currently, Covid-19 patients are being treated at designated blocks across eight government and some private hospitals. To decrease the chances of infection being transmitted to others in the hospitals, the Delhi government is working on creating three dedicated Covid-19 hospitals in a step-by-step approach as the numbers go up.In the first step, a 200-bed facility at Lok Nayak Hospital and a 400-bed facility at Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital in Tahirpur are being started.At Lok Nayak, the emergency building is being converted into a Covid-19 block, with the non-Covid-19 surgical emergency being moved to Sushruta Trauma Centre in Civil Lines and medical emergency to the new medicine block.“The government has now integrated the management of Lok Nayak Hospital, GB Pant Hospital and Maulana Azad Medical College to effectively manage the resources. The first 200-bed Covid-19 facility is coming up in the emergency block and we are in the process of moving the non-Covid-19 surgical and medical emergencies to Sushruta Trauma Centre and New Medicine Block respectively. During the first phase, the Covid-19 patients in need of ventilation will be admitted to GB Pant hospital,” said Dr JC Passey, medical director of the Lok Nayak hospital campus.Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital has already set aside 400 beds. “We have stopped all urology and gastrointestinal surgeries to free up beds. Only cardiac procedures are being done. There is a screening mechanism for patients coming to the out-patients department (OPD), which will be suspended when the numbers start rising,” said another senior official from Delhi government health department.The upcoming hospital in Burari will start running with 1,000 new beds, of which 10 to 15% will have ventilators, if there is a surge in cases. This hospital will be run by teams from Lok Nayak Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-mulls-14-day-shift-14-day-quarantine-for-health-workers-dealing-with-covid-cases/story-OL49EZ7Lt5VWqLiES5e8RL.html
31-03-2020||India||Covid-19: Migrant worker placed in home quarantine 10 days ago commits suicide||A migrant labourer who was placed in home isolation amid the coronavirus pandemic after he returned to his village in Dhamtari district from Tamil Nadu, allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself from a tree on Monday.According to the Dhamtari police, Ganpat Markam (35) was found hanging from a tree on Monday morning near a pond in his village Tangapani under the Sihawa police station’s jurisdiction.Markam, who drilled borewells for a living, returned to his village from Tamil Nadu on March 20. After screening him, local health officials had advised him to stay in quarantine at home as a precautionary measure as he had travel history from another state, Dhamtari police said.Markam was being regularly examined by doctors till March 29 and had no symptoms of coronavirus like cough, cold or fever and was completely normal.“His postmortem report is awaited,” a senior police official said adding that further investigation into the matter was underway.According to the deceased’s family members, Markam’s wife died a year back and since then he was distressed about losing her. His son was also living separately and that apparently added to his worries, the police official said.“These personal issues could be the reason behind the suicide. Although, the exact cause is still to be ascertained,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-migrant-worker-placed-in-home-quarantine-10-days-ago-commits-suicide/story-9VqU9cNoqLK3eSBwqkg5pI.html
31-03-2020||India||6 Telangana men who took part in prayers at Delhi’s Nizamuddin die of Covid-19||Six persons from Telangana who attended a religious prayer meeting in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area earlier this month died of coronavirus on Monday to take the toll in the state to eight in the last 48 hours.An official press release from the chief minister’s office late Monday night said six persons who attended a religious prayer meeting from March 13 to 15 at Markaz in Nizamuddin area in Delhi succumbed on Monday.“Of them, two persons died in Gandhi Hospital, one each in Apollo, Global Hospital, Nizamabad and in Gadwal,” the CMO release said.Earlier, an official bulletin from the state medical health department said another person died late on Sunday night. On Saturday, another 74-year old man who was suffering from pneumonia and diabetes, was declared brought dead to a private hospital and he tested positive after his death.The CMO statement said special teams headed by district collectors had identified the persons who had come in contact with these six deceased persons and shifted them to hospitals. They were being tested and treated.“Since those participated in Markaz prayers were inflicted with coronavirus, all those participated in the prayers should inform the officials concerned. The government would conduct tests and offer treatment to them free of cost,” the statement said.The government appealed to all those who had gone for the Markaz prayers in Delhi should inform the authorities. Anyone who has information about them also should alert the government, it said.The Delhi government has quarantined 200 people in the Nizamuddin area and has launched a massive contact tracing after the mosque gathering.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-telangana-men-who-took-part-in-nizamuddin-prayer-meet-die-of-coronavirus/story-lJ2SpOg1k5gUIO4zFc1SbL.html
31-03-2020||India||BMC makes U-turn on cremation order for coronavirus dead after minister intervenes||Barely hours after it issued a circular on Monday directing that all Covid-19 casualties in Mumbai will have to be cremated, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) withdrew it.Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik took to Twitter to announce that the BMC has withdrawn the circular after he spoke to Commissioner Praveen Pardeshi. This is to bring to your kind attention that I have spoken to @mybmc Commissioner Mr. Praveen Pardeshi regarding the circular issued by him for cremation of those who have lost their lives due to the #CoronaVirus.The said circular has now been withdrawn.The BMC had earlier said all Covid-19 casualties in Mumbai will have to be cremated to minimise possibilities of spreading the virus.“All bodies of #COVID19 patients should be cremated irrespective of religion. Burial will not be allowed. The funeral should not involve more than 5 people,” Commissioner Pardeshi had said in the circular.It also said that rituals of touching the body should be avoided.Later, BMC commissioner Praveen Pardeshi’s was revised citing that if there is availability of a big burial site then burial can be permitted. Follow coronavirus live updates here.Under the Epidemic Diseases Act, local authorities are empowered to decide on the steps, including disposal of bodies to curb the spread of disease.The BMC also said that 47 more people tested positive for coronavirus in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) on Monday while the death toll rose to eight.Among the over 200 people infected by the virus in Maharashtra, 25 are from a single family in Sangli district.The number of coronavirus positive cases in India has soared to over 1000 while the death toll has risen to 29 so far as India battles to stop community transmission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bmc-says-all-bodies-of-coronavirus-patients-to-be-cremated/story-DYaqUspccZaQhxE7zEXQwK.html
31-03-2020||India||Centre must help states overcome Covid-19 crisis: CM Bhupesh Baghel||The Chhattisgarh government has home-quarantined around 39,000 people and announced a slew of measures to help the poor hit hard by the lockdown imposed to check the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. Bhupesh Baghel, the Chhattisgarh chief minister, spoke to Aurangzeb Naqshbandi about the measures like free distribution of rice and cash assistance his government has taken to help them tide over the crisis. Edited excerpts:How are you coping with this crisis? We announced the lockdown on March 24 and sealed our borders with Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand and Odisha. Every month, we give free 35 kg of rice to poor families. There are 6.5 million families in Chhattisgarh with BPL [below poverty line] and APL [above poverty line] ration cards covering around 24.4 million people. We are giving two months [April and May] free ration to all the poor families. There are just seven positive cases in our state and barring one all had come from abroad.What steps are you taking to keep the situation under control? We have put in isolation or under home-quarantine around 39,000 people who came from outside--whether from abroad or from other states... We have 2,780 beds in quarantine centres. As of now, there are 254 people in quarantine centres. As many as 19 people are hospitalised. Out of 376 samples sent for testing, seven tested positive and 369 negative. We have also set-up helpline numbers to enable people to contact officials whenever required. We have not only enforced a strict lockdown across the state but also ensured that whoever came from outside is home-quarantined.What is your government doing for migrant workers being forced to walk back to their native places amid the national lockdown? We had at the outset asked the owners of industries to ensure food and shelter for their workforce since the factories are shut. And where they are not forthcoming, the district administration is providing free ration and accommodation to the migrant workers. We have also kept at least 2 quintal of rice in every panchayat of the state for those who cannot afford it. But we are facing issues when it comes to workers from other states. Like the other day at Sarguja, our officials intercepted a container which was on its way to Shahdol in Madhya Pradesh from Ranchi in Jharkhand. We asked the collector to stop them and ensure food and shelter for them. Then another truck with workers coming from Odisha was stopped at Kanker. We are providing cash assistance to the workers from Chhattisgarh stuck in other states. I have also spoken to chief ministers of different states in this regard.Amid allegations of police atrocities from across the country during the enforcement of the lockdown, how are you addressing this issue? They [police] are also human beings. They have to maintain law and order and ensure a complete lockdown to prevent the spread of the pandemic. At times, the people also go out of control. Like in Jagdalpur on March 24 at 9 pm, people came on the roads after clapping, ringing bells and clanging utensils. On the second day, they again came on the roads thinking the coronavirus is gone. So, we had to take strict measures. At some places, police had to resort to a mild cane-charge to enforce the lockdown. We have also registered cases against some people for violating the restrictions. When people come on the streets in large numbers, what can the police do? I am not taking sides but we have also issued strict instructions to them to allow people to buy medicines and essentials so that they do not face any hardships. Also among 2 million farmers, we are going to distribute the Rs 5,100 crore we have allocated under the Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojna. Are you getting help from the Centre? It is like ‘oont ke munh mei jeera’ [a popular idiom to describe inadequacy of assistance]. We have to understand the pandemic will have a huge impact on our economy. It will also take time to restart the factories and plants that have been shut and return to normal. The central government should liberally help the states to tide over the crisis. We also do not know how long this [lockdown] will continue and a lot depends on whether the pandemic will be contained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-has-home-quarantined-39-000-cm-bhupesh-baghel/story-4cEWFfr5JZM4U0Ojl3Po4N.html
31-03-2020||India||Limited community transmission has begun in India: Health ministry document||Limited community transmission of the Covid-19 disease has begun in India, a Union health ministry document has said, in the first indication that the country could be entering that phase of the outbreak when the source of a patient’s infection cannot be traced and isolated.India has reported 1,190 cases and 29 deaths due to the Sars-Cov-2 virus, which causes the deadly infection, till Monday morning.A document detailing the standard operating procedure (SOP) for transporting a suspected/confirmed patient, issued by the ministry of health and family welfare late on Sunday night, said: “This SOP is applicable to current phase of Covid-19 pandemic in India (local transmission and limited community transmission), wherein as per plan of action, all suspect cases are admitted to isolation facilities.”Also Watch | Govt identifying Coronavirus ‘hotspots’; states to seal borders to stop migrants There are four main stages of disease outbreak. Stage I is usually when cases are imported and are not of local origin. Stage II is when there is local transmission, which means a section of people testing positive have come in contact with a positive patient having a travel history. Stage III is community transmission. Stage IV is an epidemic, when there several clusters of the infection.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), tasked with containing the epidemic, has publicly maintained that India is still in Stage II, despite the number of cases of people with no known contact to an infected person or travel history rising over the past week.Community transmission happens when the source of infection is untraced and the patient has no travel history or known contact with a confirmed Covid-19 case. It indicates that undiagnosed cases are infecting others, which is when infection clusters spiral out of control and turn into epidemics.At a press conference later on Monday afternoon, the health ministry, however, reiterated that Covid-19 in India technically is still in local transmission stage and that there has been no community transmission so far.“Limited community transmission means where a more than one person has acquired, directly or indirectly, infection from the same source. Community transmission of alarming proportions has not been seen in India yet. There is nothing to hide...if we get evidence of large-scale community transmission, where the source of transmission is not known, we will declare it. As of now there’s no community transmission in India,” said Lav Aggarwal, joint secretary at the health ministry.A senior public health expert, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said: “We’ve had pockets of community transmission in several locations in half a dozen states, but now the number of people with untraceable infection is increasing, which is a sign that community transmission has begun. It is irreversible now.”According to T Jacob John, head of the department of clinical virology and microbiology at Christian Medical College Vellore, community transmission in India began mid-February.“Instead of splitting hair, the focus should be on preparing to be three steps ahead of the virus. It’s not a cops and robbers game, we should not be fooled into reacting to the virus but should be fooling the virus by anticipating the curve and proactively deciding what we need to do stop the spread,” said John, Emeritus Medical Scientist, ICMR.The US Centers for Disease Control (USCDC) declared its first case of a person in California with no relevant travel history or exposure to another known patient as “possible instance of community spread of Covid-19 in the United States” on February 26.“At this time, the patient’s exposure is unknown. It’s possible this could be an instance of community spread of COVID-19, which would be the first time this has happened in the United States. Community spread means spread of an illness for which the source of infection is unknown, ” said the USCDC in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/limited-community-transmission-has-begun-in-india-health-ministry-document/story-apAvK1AdxCQLM1gGp4FLCM.html
