01-09-2021||India||New Covid-19 norms in place for international passengers arriving in Mumbai||International passengers arriving from or transiting through United Kingdom, Europe, Middle Eastern countries, South Africa, Brazil, Bangladesh, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, and Zimbabwe, will now have to take a mandatory self-paid RT-PCR test on arrival at the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport in Mumbai. The move will come into effect from the midnight of September 3.The cost of the RT-PCR test will be ₹600 per person. Requisite arrangements have been made at the Mumbai airport for implementation of these fresh guidelines, and the capacity of testing at the airport has been increased to 600 tests per hour.International passengers travelling to Mumbai from United States or any other country -- except the above --- and who are exiting the Mumbai airport or are taking a connecting flight from Mumbai airport will have to produce a negative RT-PCR report, with the test done 72 hours before the journey, at the Mumbai airport. A RT-PCR test is not mandatory for such passengers on arrival at the Mumbai airport.The statement was released by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Wednesday, as per guidelines issued by the Union Government for international passengers. The decision has been taken in view of more transmissible variants of SARS-COV-2. While institutional quarantine is not required anymore as per the new guidelines, all international passengers must give a self-declaration form with an undertaking of home quarantine for 14 days. These forms need to be submitted to officers deployed at the Mumbai airport.Exemptions granted as per earlier guidelines, for fully vaccinated passengers, or passengers above the age of 65 years, has now been done away with.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-covid-19-norms-in-place-for-international-passengers-arriving-in-mumbai-101630520823675.html
01-09-2021||India||It was time to finish US’s ‘forever war’, says Biden||US President Joe Biden has defended his decision to end the war in Afghanistan and the hurried evacuation operations, saying in remarks from the White House that he was not going to “extend the forever war” and “was not extending the forever exit”.The US President called the operation that airlifted 120,000 Americans, allies and Afghan partners an “extraordinary success”. He also defended the exit date of August 31, saying it was not an “arbitrary deadline” but it was “designed to save American lives”.Biden said he refused to send another generation to fight in a “forever war.” The departure from Afghanistan, completed Monday after 20 years of war against the Taliban, was “a wise decision and the best decision for America,” Biden said in an address to the nation. After coming under fire over the chaotic nature of the rush to the exits in Afghanistan, Biden said he did what should have been done years ago.The last American military aircraft involved in the evacuation operation left the Hamid Karzai International Airport in Kabul at 11.59pm local time on Monday, with Major General Chris Donahue, commander of the US Army 82nd Airborne Division, the last US personnel to leave Afghan soil.“I was not going to extend this forever war, and I was not extending a forever exit,” Biden said, speaking from the Dining Room in an address to the nation.To the Islamic State-Khorasan, which has claimed responsibility for the Kabul airport bombing that killed 170 Afghans and 13 US troops, Biden said: “We are not done with you yet.” The US killed two IS-K “planners” and “facilitators” in a drone strike in Nangarhar province and one suspected suicide bomber headed for the airport in another strike.The American President defended his decisions to end the war, wrap up the evacuation operation before his self-imposed deadline of August 31 and pushed back against those who have argued that the US could have stayed longer in Afghanistan and the airlift could not have started earlier or have been more orderly.He reiterated that the decision to end the military operations at Kabul airport was based on “unanimous recommendation” of his civilian and military advisers, the secretary of state, the secretary of defence, the chairman of the joint chiefs of staff and all the service chiefs.Biden called the evacuation an “extraordinary success”, saying “no country in history has done more to airlift out the residents of another country, as we have done”.To those who have argued the evacuation should have started earlier, in June of July, and in a more orderly manner, he said, that there still would have been a “rush to the airport, a breakdown in confidence and control of the government, and it still would have been a very difficult and dangerous mission”.The US President said that when he decided in April to end the Afghanistan war, the assumption was that the Afghan military that had been trained and equipped by the US would put up a fight. “That assumption that the Afghan government would be able to hold on for a period of time beyond military drawdown turned out not to be accurate,” he said.On the question of the US staying indefinitely, as some of his critics have argued for, he said he had only two options: accept the deal made by his predecessor Donald Trump and extend the timeline from May 1 to get more people out or “send in thousands of more troops and escalate the war”.He said staying in Afghanistan longer served no national interest, because of the goal of going there had been achieved a decade ago with the killing of Osama bin Laden and decimation of the al Qaeda. The US stayed there for another decade and it was time to end the war, he added.Biden maintained that the US will remain focussed on combatting terrorism, but it does not have to fight a ground war to do it. Using over-the-horizon capabilities, terrorists can be struck anywhere without “American boots on the ground – or very few, if needed”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-was-time-to-finish-us-s-forever-war-says-biden-101630520522560.html
01-09-2021||India||India’s sugar exports to Afghanistan come to a halt||India’s sugar exports to Afghanistan came to a halt as Indian merchants said that due to the current situation in the country orders were cancelled, a government official familiar with the development told news agency PTI.Afghanistan is among the top three destinations for sugar exports from India. Every year 600,000 to 700,000 tonnes of sugar are exported to Afghanistan. During the 2020-21 fiscal year India exported 650,000 tonnes of sugar so far. The season for sugar runs from October to September.“Our sugar export to Afghanistan has been affected now because of the prevailing current situation out there. Some orders have been cancelled,” Subodh Kumar, joint secretary in the food ministry, told news agency PTI. He however said that sugar exports will resume in the next season after normalcy is restored under the new regime.There is no change in the India-Afghanistan trade policy unlike Pakistan which decided to not buy sugar from India. India is the world’s second largest producer of sugar after Brazil.India exported six million tonnes of sugar in the 2020-21 season. India produced an estimated 31 million tonnes of sugar in the current 2020-21 season.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-sugar-exports-to-afghanistan-come-to-a-halt-101630519932229.html
01-09-2021||India||Post-poll violence: Mamata govt moves SC against high court order for CBI probe||The Mamata Banerjee-led West Bengal government on Wednesday moved the Supreme Court challenging a Calcutta high court order for a court-monitored CBI investigation into all cases of rape and murder during the violence that was unleashed after the Assembly elections result was announced in the state in May. The HC direction had come following recommendations of a panel of the National Human Rights Commissions (NHRC).In its special leave petition, the state government said it did not expect a fair and just investigation by the central agency which was busy framing cases against functionaries of ruling Trinamool Congress.Earlier, lawyer Anindya Sundar Das, one of the PIL petitioners on whose plea the high court had passed its order on August 19, had filed a caveat in the apex court urging that no order be passed without hearing him if the state or other litigant moved appeals.Also read | Bengal post-poll violence: CBI meets affected families, files 7 more casesA five-judge bench of the high court, headed by acting chief justice Rajesh Bindal, had ordered a CBI investigation in all alleged cases of heinous crimes in West Bengal after the election results were declared on May 2. The bitterly fought election brought the Trinamool Congress back to power and the BJP has since been claiming massive violence against its workers in the state.Regarding other criminal cases related to post-poll violence, the high court had directed that they be investigated by a Special Investigation Team under the monitoring of the court.The high court bench, which also comprised justices IP Mukerji, Harish Tandon, Soumen Sen and Subrata Talukdar, had observed that there were "definite and proved" allegations that complaints of the victims of violence in the aftermath of the West Bengal assembly polls were not even registered.Also read | 'Deserves to be rejected': Calcutta HC on Bengal govt's argument blaming ECI for post-poll violenceOrdering the setting up of an SIT to probe all other cases, it had said it would include Suman Bala Sahoo, Soumen Mitra and Ranveer Kumar, all IPS officers of the West Bengal cadre."All the cases where, as per the report of the committee, the allegations are about murder of a person and crime against women regarding rape/attempt to rape, shall be referred to CBI for investigation,” it had said.The high court has also directed the NHRC committee, constituted by its chairman on a direction by the five-judge bench, and any other commission or authority and the state to immediately hand over the records of the cases to the CBI to carry forward the probe.The bench had said it will monitor the investigations by both the CBI and the SIT and asked the two agencies to submit status reports to the court within six weeks.It had said that the working of the SIT will be overseen by a retired Judge of the Supreme Court for which a separate order will be passed after obtaining his/her consent.In its ruling, the bench had said heinous crimes such as murder and rape "deserve to be investigated by an independent agency which in the circumstances can only be Central Bureau of Investigation."The bench had said the State failed to register FIRs even in some cases of alleged murder. "This shows a pre-determined mind to take the investigation into a particular direction.""Under such circumstances investigation by an independent agency will inspire confidence in all concerned," it had noted.It had said allegations that the police had not registered a number of cases initially and that some were registered only after the court had intervened or the committee was constituted were found to be true.It had observed that the facts in relation to the allegations made in the PILs are "even more glaring" as the incidents are not isolated to one place in the state.The NHRC committee had on July 13 submitted its final report to the court.An interim report of the NHRC committee had mentioned that Atif Rasheed, a member of the committee, was obstructed from discharging his duty and he and his team members were attacked by some undesirable elements on June 29 in Jadavpur area on the southern fringe of the city, the court noted.The PILs had alleged that people were subjected to assault, made to flee homes and properties were destroyed during the violence in the wake of the assembly elections and sought impartial probe into the incidents.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/postpoll-violence-mamata-govt-moves-sc-against-high-court-order-for-cbi-probe-101630517919618.html
01-09-2021||India||Kerala’s Covid-19 surge to continue till Sept second week, say experts||Kerala on Wednesday reported another spike with 32,803 new Covid-19 cases even as health experts said the high rate of positivity triggered by Onam festivities will continue till the second week of September. The worried government convened a meeting of experts, mainly epidemiologists, virologists and public health activists on Wednesday after the alarming spike in cases. Most of the experts present at the meeting said the present surge is likely to subside only after mid-September and asked the government to vaccinate the maximum number of people to check further damage. The projection report prepared by the pandemic core committee also said the situation will stabilize only after September 10. The government has called another meeting with local body chiefs on Friday to streamline containment measures. The high viral caseload has invited enough trouble for the state as many neighbouring states have put severe restrictions on people travelling from Kerala. The Union health ministry has also asked Tamil Nadu and Karnataka to increase vaccination in districts bordering Kerala. On Tuesday also the state had reported over 30,000 cases. The test positivity rate or TPR remained high at 18.76 per cent after 1,74,854 samples were tested. Kerala also reported 173 deaths on Wednesday taking the total death toll to 20,961. The active caseload also crossed 2.20 lakh. Two districts reported over 4000 cases-- Thrissur 4424 and Ernakulam 4324. Statistics show there is a whopping 24 per cent increase in cases after Onam. The R factor that tells how many new cases have been transmitted from an infected person has gone up from 0.9 per cent to 1.5% after Onam, health ministry statistics show.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/keralas-covid-19-surge-to-continue-till-sept-second-week-say-experts-101630517702657.html
01-09-2021||India||Cow should be declared national animal with fundamental rights: Allahabad HC||The Allahabad high court said on Wednesday cow protection should be made a fundamental right of Hindus and declared the national animal while declaring bail to a Muslim man arrested under Prevention of Cow Slaughter Act. The court said cows were an integral part of Indian culture and the Central government should frame laws accordingly."We know that when a country's culture and its faith get hurt, the country becomes weak," the single-judge bench of Justice Shekhar Yadav said."The cow has been shown as an important part in India's ancient texts like the Vedas and the Mahabharata that define Indian culture and for which India is known," the 12-page order further read.Justice Yadav said the central government should table a bill in Parliament to give fundamental rights to cows and strict laws should be enacted to punish those harming the animal.The court said the accused, Javed (59), had stolen the cow, killed and beheaded it and kept its meat, adding that he had committed a similar offence earlier too."This is not the first offence of the applicant. Earlier too he had committed cow slaughter which had disturbed the harmony of society,” Justice Yadav said.According to a report in LiveLaw, the court further observed “fundamental right is not only the prerogative of beef eaters, rather, those who worship the cow and are financially dependent on cows, also have the right to lead a meaningful life”.It also said the right to life is above the right to kill and the right to eat beef can never be considered a fundamental right."The country will be safe, only when there would be the welfare of cows, and then only, there the country would prosper," Justice Yadav said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/declare-cow-as-national-animal-with-fundamental-rights-says-allahabad-hc-101630516147150.html
01-09-2021||India||CISF personnel nabs man with 90,000 USD at Guwahati airport||A 25-year-old man was arrested at the Lokpriya Gopinath Bordoloi International Airport in Guwahati on Wednesday for trying to smuggle 90,000 US dollars valued at nearly ₹65.70 lakh in Indian currency. The man who was bound for Imphal was nabbed by two vigilant Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel posted at the airport. The identity of the person has not been revealed. According to information provided on CISF’s Twitter handle, the currency was concealed in the false bottom of a bag which the passenger was carrying. The person was handed over to customs officials. Appreciating their good work, Director General CISF has announced a reward of ₹10,000 each to sub-inspector Dalip Kumar assistant sub-inspector SK Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cisf-personnel-nabs-man-with-90-000-usd-at-guwahati-airport-101630514942077.html
01-09-2021||India||Assam cabinet decides to remove Rajiv Gandhi’s name from Orang national park||The Assam cabinet on Wednesday decided to remove the name of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi from the Orang National Park. “During a recent interaction between Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and prominent members of the Adivasi and tea-tribe community, they had demanded removal of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi’s name from the Orang National Park,” said parliamentary affairs minister Pijush Hazarika. “Since the name Orang is associated with the sentiments of the Adivasi and tea-tribe community, the cabinet has decided to rename the Rajiv Gandhi Orang National Park as Orang National Park,” he added. Located on the North Bank of Brahmaputra, Orang National Park spread over 78.80 sq km is the oldest forest reserve in the state. It was named a wildlife sanctuary in 1985 and declared a national park in 1999. In August 2005, the Congress government headed by Tarun Gogoi had decided to rename Orang National Park after the late Prime Minister despite resistance from local groups. The national park is named after the Oraon people, who are inhabitants of Jharkhand, Odisha, West Bengal and Chhattisgarh. Thousands of them were part of the many tribes from those states who were brought by the British to work in the tea-gardens of Assam. Many people from the Oraon tribe had settled near the area where the park is now located and the area took its name from them. According to the 2011 census, there are 73,437 Oraon people in Assam. “There was no demand for renaming of the national park from our side, but there may have been some who sought that. When the state has a BJP-led government, this was expected. In few years, a Congress government might change the name again,” said Dhiraj Gowala, president of Assam Tea Tribe Students Association (ATTSA), the premier student body of the community. “Such name changes are part of a similar drive by BJP governments across the country. Instead of this, it would be better if the state government focuses on our main demands like granting scheduled tribe (ST) status to tea-tribes, increase in daily wages of tea-garden workers etc.,” he added. Opposition Congress said that the renaming was another attempt by the BJP to wipe away contributions of Rajiv Gandhi to the country and to the state. “They can change names, but can’t wipe away the contributions of Rajiv Gandhi as the architect of a modern and progressive India. It was the former PM who brought peace to the state after the six-year-long agitation against illegal immigrants by signing the Assam Accord in 1985. But instead of recognizing these, the BJP is busy rewriting history,” said Bobbeeta Sharma, Congress’s media in-charge in Assam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-cabinet-decides-to-remove-rajiv-gandhi-s-name-from-orang-national-park-101630513742334.html
01-09-2021||India||Kerala records 32,803 new Covid-19 cases, tally reaches 4.09 million-mark||Kerala on Wednesday recorded 32,803 cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), taking the total infection count to 4.09 million. The death toll touched 20,961 after 173 people succumbed to the viral disease, according to a report by PTI.Kerala’s test positivity rate stood at 18.76%. The health authorities tested 174,854 samples in the past 24 hours while the cumulative samples tested stood at 31.72 million. Kerala has 229,912 active cases even as it recorded 21,610 recoveries in the past 24 hours.Among the districts, Thrissur recorded 4,425 fresh cases to become the most-affected district. Capital city Thiruvananthapuram recorded 2,579 cases. Malappuram and Kozhikode recorded more than 3,000 fresh cases while Kollam, Palakkad, Kottayam along with capital Thiruvananthapuram reported more than 2,000 fresh Covid-19 cases in the previous 24 hours. Alappuzha, Kannur, Pathanamthitta, Wayanad and Idukki recorded more than 1,000 fresh cases in the similar period.The government said that it is surveilling 557,085 people out of which 524,380 people are in home or institutional quarantine. It also said that 32,705 people were hospitalised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-records-32-803-new-covid-19-cases-tally-reaches-4-09-millionmark-101630512301566.html
01-09-2021||India||Kerala high court rejects plea seeking CBI probe into tree felling in Wayanad||The Kerala High Court on Wednesday dismissed a plea seeking a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe into illegal tree felling in Wayanad (north Kerala) observing that there is no need to intervene in the ongoing investigation. The court, however, directed the special investigation team (SIT) to probe all angles of the case and not to spare any one. A native of Thrissur, George Vattikulam, an activist, moved the High Court last month saying that the SIT investigation was dragging and expressed concern that many influential people involved in the case may go scot free and sought a central agency probe. The court said it is satisfied with the present investigation and directed the SIT to spare no one. The division bench headed by Chief Justice S Manikumar, however, said if the investigation was not proper or made public, then the petitioner had every right to move court again for another inquiry. “The SIT should probe the tree felling on assigned land, forest and protected areas,” it observed. The court later accepted the state government’s contention that the case was progressing well and the main accused were arrested. The court also said it did not want to disturb the ongoing probe. Earlier delay in arresting the main accused, three brothers of the Augustin family, had invited sharp criticism from the court. The Kerala government had opposed the CBI probe. In October 2020, the state revenue department had issued an order allowing felling of protected trees like rosewood and teak grown by farmers on the assigned land. Under the guise of this order, wood worth crores of rupees was smuggled from private and forest land. Poor farmers were given paltry amounts after being shown the government order by timber mafia. The tree felling and smuggling of valuable wood came to light in March after an upright forest officer unearthed illegal felling in which 101 rosewood trees, some of them as old as 500 years old had been cut and smuggled. After this many other districts also reported similar cases and green activists claimed that trees worth ₹500 crore were plundered using a weird government order and they suspected a nexus between politicians, officials and the timber mafia. Later the government had constituted a SIT and the Union Environment Ministry also sought a report from the state on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-high-court-rejects-plea-seeking-cbi-probe-into-tree-felling-in-wayanad-101630512542281.html
01-09-2021||India||HT This Day: September 2, 1972 — Bobby Fischer wins world chess title||ReykjavikBobby Fischer tonight won the World chess championship from Boris Spassky in a 21st-game victory to become the first American modern world champion. Fischer thus fulfilled a childhood dream that has driven him for 20 years. Fischer’s aide Fred Cramer said the Russian champion telephoned arbiter Lothar Schmid to tell him he resigned the 21st game of their $250,000 match, giving Fischer the title.Schmid sought a ruling from Dr Max Euwe, the president of the International Chess Federation and the last non-Russian to hold the world title. Euwe said that a telephoned resignation was valid and permissible.Fischer did not even know that he was world champion. And the crowds were still buying tickets outside the playing hall and fighting for seats in the cafeteria when the telephone call came. Fred Cramer and Fischer’s second, the Rev. William Lombardy, broke the news to the new champion shortly after he awoke, ready to resume the 21st game. Fischer asked Schmid to get a statement in writing from Spassky that he had resigned, Cramer said. Spassky’s resignation in the 21st game gave Fischer the winning 12-1l2-point lead. Spassky’s score was 8-1/2 points. This is the first time the winner had earned a four-point lead in a title match.Variations The game was adjourned after five hours’ play last night when Spassky (white) selected a 41st move and gave it to Schmid in a sealed envelope. Fischer deployed the Taimanov variation of the Sicilian defence. The variation was named after Russian grandmaster Mark Taimanov whom Fischer had beaten 6-0 in this competition.AP adds: When Bobby Fischer won his first U.S. chess championship at 14, the world called him a prodigy. Now that at 29 he has defeated Boris Spassky for the world title, people are calling him a superstar.For Fischer, however, the victory over the Russian is simply what he felt he deserved. “I am tired of being the unofficial champion,” he said several months before the match in Iceland got under way. “It is nice to be modest, but it would be stupid if I did not tell the truth. I should have been world champion 10 years ago.”Ten years ago, Fischer finished a surprisingly poor fourth behind three Russians in the tournament playoffs. He promptly accused the Russians of cheating, insisting that the used the round-robin format to their advantage by playing easy matches to draws against each other and saving the tough stuff for him.In 1965, the International Chess Federation scrapped the round-robin in favour of the player to player eliminations of the kind that led Fisher to the Reykjavik match.The American challenger began with a victory at the inter-zonal finals in Palma de Mallorca and went on to amass an unprecedented 20 straight wins. The Soviet Union’s Tigran Petrosyan had checked Fischer’s winning streak in the second game of their semifinal match in Argentina last November, but the U.S. grandmaster ultimately defeated the Russian 6-1l2 to 2-1l2, to earn the right to meet Spassky. The boy, who in 1958 became the youngest U.S. chess champion, was crew-cut and skinny, clad in T-shirt, dungarees and sneakers. The man who just brought the United States its first world chess title is tall, broad-shouldered and handsome, clad in a knight-patterned sweater and suede jacket. Between the boy and the man have been a series of spectacular victories and equally spectacular losses-usually when Fischer stalked off, complaining about the rules or the judges or the playing conditions. That was what he did in Iceland, forfeiting the second game by refusing to show up in an argument over playing conditions.No one ever disputed Fischer’s chess prowess. Grandmaster Robert Byrne, defeated twice by Fischer, said: “Bobby pursues the idea of the game in the platonic sense. All of us players have that ideal. But Bobby knows how to embody it.”Fischer, true to his capricious form arrived in the hall 16 minutes late. The crowd went wild with for and shouted “Bobby Bobby” when the announcement was made. Fischer looked at the crowd ‘hen down at his feet, walked over to sign his score sheet and almost ran out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-this-day-september-2-1972-bobby-fischer-wins-world-chess-title-101630510922393.html
01-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: New rules for passengers at Karnataka, Maharashtra airports and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Karnataka, Maharashtra tighten rules at airports over new Covid-19 variants: Check details hereIn view of the emergence of new variants of Covid-19 infection, the Karnataka and the Maharashtra state governments on Wednesday announced new rules for international passengers arriving at their respective states. Read more'I would always have him in my team': Moeen Ali names India player as one of his 'favourite cricketers' in the worldNewly-appointed England vice-captain Moeen Ali is excited about his new leadership role and looking forward to serving as deputy to Joe Root when the fourth Test against starts at the Oval on Thursday. Read moreOn KBC 13, Sehwag says Ganguly used him whenever needed: 'Run banalo, opening karalo, bowling karalo'Former cricketers Virender Sehwag and Sourav Ganguly will be seen on the Shandaar Shukravaar episode of Kaun Banega Crorepati, season 13. The two will take the hot seat on Friday and share anecdotes with host Amitabh Bachchan from their time on the field. Read moreGoogle Maps, Google Search, Google Assistant will show you Covid-19 vaccine slot availability, pricing at each centerGoogle, ever since the pandemic began last year, has been partnering with various governmental and non-governmental agencies in India to showcase authentic information about the Covid-19, its spread, active cases and other resources in India. Read moreMercedes AMG GT 63 S E Performance, most powerful Mercedes AMG ever, makes debutMercedes-AMG has officially unveiled its most powerful car ever - the GT 63 S E Performance ahead of its grand premiere at the Munich show a few days later. This is the first sport plug-in hybrid model from the German auto giant as well as the most powerful car that one can buy from the Mercedes stable. Read moreIshaan Khatter channels his inner Ninja to nail kneeling squat jumpsExercises that don't rely on anything but a person's own body weight and are performed with differing levels of intensity and rhythm are called Calisthenics and Ishaan Khatter was seen building serious strength with it as he performed kneeling squat jumps to increase metabolism. Read morePaddle boarder faces sea snake in the middle of the ocean. Watch fascinatingly terrifying videoA video involving a sea snake is creating a buzz online. The clip shows an encounter between the snake and a paddle boarder. Though fascinating to watch, chances are the clip will leave you feeling a bit scared too. Read moreWatch: Flyover turns 'waterfall', homes flooded as Delhi gets record 1-day rainNational Capital Delhi woke up to heavy rainfall on Wednesday with its roads and streets flooded as the downpour continued for several hours and broke a 19-year-old record of one day rainfall. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-new-rules-for-passengers-at-karnataka-maharashtra-airports-and-all-the-latest-news-101630509570818.html
01-09-2021||India||JDU has a poll warning for Modi govt in its LPG price hike rollback advice||The Janata Dal (United) on Wednesday said the Narendra Modi-headed government at the Centre should roll back the hike in cooking gas cylinder prices and also take steps to keep rising fuel rates under check.A component of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA), the JD(U) cited how the surging prices have affected households amid the Covid-19 pandemic and may play a role in the coming state elections.JD(U) spokesperson KC Tyagi said the repeated hike in the LPG price has affected people's budget adversely. "The government should roll back the hike," he said.Prices of Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) cooking gas cylinders across all categories, including subsidised gas, were hiked on Wednesday by ₹25 per cylinder -- the third straight increase in rates in less than two months.Also read| JD(U)’s national ambition behind demand for caste census and Pegasus probe, say party leadersSubsidised as well as non-subsidised LPG now costs ₹884.50 per 14.2-kg cylinder in Delhi, according to a price notification of oil companies.Further, speaking against leaving petrol and diesel prices to market mechanisms, Tyagi said the government must step in to curb their cost for people's benefit.According to a report in NDTV, Tyagi further said the opposition might use this as a weapon against the alliance in the coming elections."There has been an unprecedented increase in prices (of petroleum products). See where the petrol and diesel prices are today… The kitchen budget has been hit badly. This is very worrying."As a friendly party, we want to suggest to the government that the recent increase in prices should be rolled back… There are Assembly elections scheduled in many states in the coming months. Our political opponents can use this as a weapon against us in these elections," he was quoted as saying in the report.Also read | Bihar: JD(U) bid to project Nitish as ‘PM material’ a move to counter BJPA number of states, including Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Uttarakhand, are set to see Assembly elections early next year,Of late, the Nitish Kumar-led party which is in power in Bihar with the BJP, has taken positions on certain issues that have raised eyebrows.On Sunday, the national council of the JD(U) passed a unanimous proposal stating Kumar is an able politician who can lead the nation as its Prime Minister.JD(U) president Lalan Singh, who put forward the resolution which deemed Kumar as ‘prime ministerial material’, said the Bihar chief minister was neither the Prime Ministerial candidate in the NDA and nor was he a contender for the post, but he had all the qualifications to become one.Earlier, Kumar had backed the opposition's demand for an investigation into the alleged snooping involving Pegasus spyware.He had also led the chorus for a caste census, a politically fraught issue over which the BJP has so far maintained silence and the Centre has spoken against a need for the same.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jdu-has-a-poll-warning-for-modi-govt-in-its-lpg-price-hike-rollback-advice-101630509999710.html
01-09-2021||India||Mandaviya reviews Covid situation in Tamil Nadu, K’taka amid spike in Kerala||Union health and family welfare minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Wednesday held a telephonic conversation with the chief ministers of Tamil Nadu and Karnataka and reviewed the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation in these states, according to a statement by the health ministry. Amid the rising number of infections in neighbouring Kerala, Mandaviya discussed matters related to managing the spread of Covid-19 in those areas of Karnataka and Tamil Nadu which shares borders with Kerala, the statement said.“Highlighting the need to take adequate steps to contain the inter-state spread of Covid-19, Mandaviya requested the respective health ministers of Karnataka and Tamil Nadu to increase the pace of vaccination in districts of their states that border Kerala,” the health ministry statement added.Kerala, which is currently the worst hit state from the pandemic across India, has registered over four million cases of the coronavirus disease till now including 229,912 active cases, nearly 21,000 deaths and 3,838,614 discharges. On Wednesday, the state saw another high in its daily tally as 32,803 new cases were recorded while 173 patients died and 21,610 recovered, according to the health department’s bulletin.In view of the worsening situation in Kerala, the Karnataka government on Tuesday made a seven-day institutional quarantine mandatory for people coming in from Kerala even if they have been vaccinated and carry a negative RT-PCR test report.Addressing reporters, health minister Dr K Sudhakar said on Tuesday that the Karnataka government is chalking out a strategy in consultation with experts on how to strengthen the Covid-19 prevention drive in districts which border Kerala such as Udupi, Chamarajanagar and Dakshina Kannada. Dr Sudhakar added the government may opt for even more strict measures in these border districts.On the other hand, Tamil Nadu, which extended its lockdown-like restrictions till September 15, had made it mandatory in August for people coming in the state from Kerala to present a negative RT-PCR test report and a vaccination certificate (both doses), in order to ward off the spread of Covid-19. According to the guidelines, the RT-PCR test result should not be older than 72 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mandaviya-reviews-covid-situation-in-tamil-nadu-k-taka-amid-spike-in-kerala-101630508674459.html
01-09-2021||India||Bangladesh information minister Hasan Mahmud to visit India next week||Bangladesh information minister Hasan Mahmud will visit India during September 5-8 for meetings with senior Indian officials and to boost cooperation between the two sides, people familiar with developments said on Wednesday. Mahmud, who is also a senior leader of the ruling Awami League party, is expected to meet his Indian counterpart Anurag Thakur, external affairs minister S Jaishankar and foreign secretary Harsh Shringla, the people said on condition of anonymity. He will be the first senior Bangladeshi leader to visit India since Prime Minister Narendra Modi travelled to Dhaka in March to participate in the neighbouring country’s National Day celebrations. That was Modi’s first visit abroad since the Covid-19 pandemic began last year. Mahmud’s visit will be an opportunity for the two sides to address strains in bilateral ties caused by India’s decision to halt the export of Covid-19 vaccines after the country was hit by a devastating second wave of infections in March-April. The Bangladeshi side was upset as the decision affected the supply of 30 million doses of Covishield vaccine contracted for from the Serum Institute of India. In recent months, Bangladesh has finalised deals with China for millions of doses and domestic pharmaceutical firms are set to start manufacturing vaccines too. Besides his official engagements, Mahmud will inaugurate a “Bangabandhu Media Centre” dedicated to Bangladesh’s father of the national, Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, at the Press Club of India in New Delhi. The Bangladeshi side has donated computers, other equipment and books for the centre. The setting up of the centre is part of Bangladesh’s celebrations marking the birth centenary of Rahman, which began last year and were extended due to the pandemic. The Bangladeshi side has plans to create more such centres across India at universities and other institutions. Acclaimed Indian director Shyam Benegal is currently working on a biopic of Rahman that is being jointly produced by the film development corporations of the two countries. Benegal has completed most of the film, titled Bangabandhu, and is preparing for a shooting schedule in Bangladesh. During Modi’s visit in March, the two countries announced several initiatives to boost trade and connectivity, especially railway links that existed before the 1965 India-Pakistan war. Modi has repeatedly said Bangladesh has a special place in India’s “Neighbourhood First” policy, and New Delhi is looking at the connectivity initiatives to help drive the development of the landlocked north-eastern states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bangladesh-information-minister-hasan-mahmud-to-visit-india-next-week-101630508880890.html
01-09-2021||India||Centre ‘concedes’ to Puducherry’s demand for statehood: N Rangasamy||Puducherry chief minister N Rangasamy on Wednesday said the Centre decided to concede to the demand for statehood to Puducherry, news agency PTI reported. “The central government has decided to concede the plea for full-fledged statehood for Puducherry. Statehood is absolutely necessary for Puducherry,” Rangasamy said without elaborating further on the issue.Rangasamy was replying to the views of members of both ruling and opposition blocks during a debate on the budget for the 2021-22 fiscal year in the legislative assembly. He also said that he requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to sanction central grants to the Puducherry budget under 90:10 ratio with the Centre contributing to 90% of the total requirement and the rest 10% being borne by the Puducherry government. The ratio is currently 60:40.All India N.R. Congress (AINRC) ahead of the Puducherry polls this year promised statehood for Puducherry in its poll manifesto. The AINRC along with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) won the elections earlier this year. The AINRC bagged 10 seats out of the 16 it contested in the April 6 polls while the BJP garnered six out of the nine seats it contested.(with inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-concedes-to-puducherry-s-demand-for-statehood-n-rangasamy-101630507964481.html
01-09-2021||India||Rajnath Singh to review preparations for DefExpo-2022||Defence minister Rajnath Singh will on Thursday visit Gandhinagar and review the preparations for India’s flagship military exhibition, DefExpo, which is being held next year with focus on projecting India as a defence manufacturing hub, officials familiar with the development said on Wednesday. The biennial show will be held in Gandhinagar from March 11-13, 2022. Singh will be briefed on the preparations for the event which is being planned at a time of ongoing uncertainty amid the Covid-19 pandemic. It also comes at a time when the government has sharpened its focus on promoting self- reliance in the defence manufacturing sector and positioning India as an exporter of military hardware. In the last one year, the government has imposed a ban on the import of 209 defence items that will be implemented progressively from 2021 to 2025 to boost self-reliance. DefExpo was traditionally held in Delhi until 2014 after which it has seen a string of new venues --- Goa (2016), Chennai (2018) and Lucknow (2020). The venue was shifted to Goa when the late Manohar Parrikar was the defence minister, it moved to Chennai when Nirmala Sitharaman held the portfolio, and it was staged in Lucknow last year with Singh as the defence minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-to-review-preparations-for-defexpo2022-101630505340060.html
01-09-2021||India||PM Modi lauds ISKCON for teaching true meaning of faith||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday lauded ISKCON for spreading the Indian culture across the globe and said that ISKCON has taught the world the real meaning of faith - zeal, enthusiasm, gaiety and keeping faith in humanity.PM Modi while releasing a special commemorative coin of ₹125 on the occasion of the 125th birth anniversary of Srila Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupada said, "Today there are hundreds of ISKCON temples in different countries around the world and is spreading the Indian culture. ISKCON has told the world that for India, faith means zeal, enthusiasm, to be in high spirits and faith in humanity."Recalling the role of ISKCON during natural disasters faced by the country, the Prime Minister said, "I remember when there was an earthquake in Kutch in 2001, how ISKCON had stepped forward to serve the people. Whenever the country experienced any calamity, whether it is the tragedy of Uttarakhand or the devastation of cyclones in Odisha and Bengal, ISKCON has worked as a support for the society.""India can give the world a lot. The biggest example is our knowledge of yoga. The world can benefit from the sustainable lifestyle of India and the science like Ayurveda," he added.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday released a special commemorative coin of ₹125 on the occasion of the 125th birth anniversary of Srila Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupada through a video conference.Union Culture Minister G Kishan Reddy was also present on the occasion.Swami Prabhupada founded the International Society for Krishna Consciousness (ISKCON) commonly known as the "Hare Krishna movement".ISKCON has translated Shrimad Bhagavad Geeta and other Vedic literature into 89 languages, playing a stellar role in the dissemination of Vedic literature across the world.He also established over a hundred temples and wrote several books, teaching the path of Bhakti Yoga to the world, informed the release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-lauds-iskcon-for-teaching-true-meaning-of-faith-101630504980604.html
01-09-2021||India||New equations in making? Sasikala meets OPS to condole his wife's death||Expelled All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) leader VK Sasikala met party coordinator and former deputy CM O Panneerselvam on Wednesday to condole his wife Vijayalakshmi’s death.A key aide of late Tamil Nadu chief minister J Jayalilathaa, Sasikala met Panneerselvam briefly at Gem hospital in Chennai and held his hands and consoled him. The two Jayalalithaa loyalists who fell out after her death reportedly spoke for about 20 minutes and Sasikala is said to have enquired about Vijayalakchmi’s condition before she passed away.Also read | Everyone backstabbed me: Sasikala in clipWith the ace politician who was eased out of the AIADMK years ago making several not-so-discreet attempts at making a comeback to the party fold, the meeting is seen as significant as the AIADMK top brass, headed by E Palaniswami and Paneerselvam, has been staunchly opposed to such moves.Ever since she walked out of jail earlier this year ahead of the Assembly election in Tamil Nadu, Sasikala has been making many bids at staking claim to the party. One such such move has been sharing audio clips with supporters wherein she spoke about setting the party back in order.In one of the clips she said everyone had back-stabbed her and that she would have picked O Panneerselvam as chief minister before she went to prison in 2017. This was a day after the dual leadership in the AIADMK expelled 16 party members for speaking to the ousted former interim general secretary.Also read | Sasikala's divide and rule policy won't work with AIADMK: Senior leader D JayakumarSasikala had also recently met former party presidium chairman Madhusudhanan at the hospital before his death. Palaniswami had left hurriedly soon after she reached the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-equations-in-making-sasikala-meets-ops-to-condole-his-wife-s-death-101630503769497.html
01-09-2021||India||ED files complaint against TMC lawmakers, former mayor in Narada case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Wednesday filed its first complaint in the 2016 Narada sting operation case against West Bengal ministers Firhad Hakim and Subrata Mukherjee, Trinamool Congress (TMC) legislator Madan Mitra, former Kolkata mayor Sovan Chatterjee and suspended IPS officer S M H Meerza. In the complaint lodged at a special Kolkata court of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), all five were charged under Sections 44 and 45 of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. Hakim, Mukherjee, Mitra and Chatterjee were arrested by the CBI on May 17 in the same case and released on bail after days of judicial custody during which they were hospitalized on health grounds. Chatterjee joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in 2019 but left after the March-April assembly polls. Mirza was arrested by the CBI in September 2019 and released on bail. The ED is conducting a parallel investigation in the case which pertains to a controversy that erupted ahead of the 2016 assembly polls after the Narada News portal uploaded a series of videos purportedly showing a number of high-profile TMC leaders receiving money in exchange for favours to a fictitious company. While the ED’s action came as a blow to the TMC, the BJP, too, was not spared as the agency named leader of the opposition in the assembly, Suvendu Adhikari, as a suspect in a separate complaint filed before the court. The second complaint also names Mukul Roy, who joined the BJP in 2017 but returned to the TMC on June 11. TMC Lok Sabha members Saugata Roy, Kakali Ghosh Dastidar and Prasun Banerjee have been named amongst others. After reviewing the complaint filed by Rathin Bose, assistant director, ED, the special CBI court on Wednesday granted permission to serve summons to Hakim, Mukherjee and Mitra through the office of Biman Banerjee, the speaker of the West Bengal assembly. The court also authorized the central agency to directly summon Chatterjee and Mirza for questioning. Reacting to the court order, TMC general secretary Kunal Gosh said, “How can we conclude that the ED is not working under political orders? It should immediately summon Adhikari who is a prime accused in the Saradha chit fund case as well. Why is he not being touched?” BJP state vice-president Jay Prakash Majumdar said, “The ED is following the law. The TMC’s allegations are baseless.” The arrest of the TMC ministers and leaders in May triggered a legal battle and political slugfest. Following the arrests, chief minister Mamata Banerjee rushed to the CBI’s office at Nizam Palace in south Kolkata. She left after nearly six hours during which a few thousand TMC supporters assembled outside the premises. Some of them allegedly pelted stones at policemen. Though a special CBI court granted interim bail to all four on May 17, the CBI refused to release them and moved the Calcutta high court challenging the bail order. The matter was virtually heard by acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justice Arijit Banerjee for nearly an hour late in the night after which the bail was stayed.A huge contingent of the Kolkata Police and Rapid Action Force had to be deployed outside the CBI office and Presidency correctional home where the accused were taken. The CBI approached the high court on May 24, seeking transfer of the case out of the state. The CBI claimed that on May 17 the TMC held violent protests, hampered the probe and intimidated the CBI court’s judge. Mamata Banerjee countered this petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-files-complaint-against-tmc-lawmakers-former-mayor-in-narada-case-101630503780218.html
01-09-2021||India||Rajdhani Express between Patna-New Delhi makes maiden run with Tejas rake. Know the smart features||The coaches of Rajdhani Express from Patna’s Rajendra Nagar Terminal to New Delhi has been upgraded to Tejas type smart sleeper coaches, the ministry of railways announced on Wednesday. The Rajendra Nagar–New Delhi Rajdhani Special Express is the second Rajdhani train to have newly upgraded Tejas sleeper coach rakes. The new rake made its maiden run on Wednesday.“A new era of train travel experience with enhanced comfort is being rolled out by Indian Railways with the introduction of newly upgraded Tejas sleeper coach rakes in Rajdhani trains,” the ministry of railways said in a release.The bright golden-hued coaches of the Rajdhani train boasts smart features with intelligent sensor-based systems for enhanced passenger safety and comfort. The smart sleeper coach rakes are equipped with Passenger Information and Coach Computing Unit (PICCU) to record the data of Wheel Slide Protection (WSP), CCTV footage, toilet odour sensors, panic switch and other items integrated with fire detection and alarm system.पूर्व मध्य रेल की ट्रेन संख्या 02309 राजेंद्र नगर टर्मिनल-नई दिल्ली राजधानी एक्सप्रेस स्पेेेशल ट्रेन आज से तेजस रेक से चलेगी।अत्याधुनिक सुविधाओं से लैस तेजस रेक लगने से संरक्षा में वृद्धि होगी साथ ही यात्रियों को सुखद यात्रा अनुभव प्राप्त होगा। pic.twitter.com/rVyuHJ7nCmHere’s the list of additional smart features of Rajdhani’s upgraded Tejas rake:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/patnanew-delhi-rajdhani-express-makes-maiden-run-with-tejas-rake-know-the-smart-features-101630502097458.html
01-09-2021||India||JD(U)’s national ambition behind demand for caste census and Pegasus probe, say party leaders||The ruling Janata Dal (United) or JD(U) in Bihar, which has put its alliance partner, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), in a spot by seeking a probe into the Pegasus case and teaming up with rival Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) to demand a caste census, aims to make its presence felt in the 2022 Uttar Pradesh (UP) and Manipur elections, say party leaders.The JD(U) is a state party in Bihar and Arunachal Pradesh, and making a mark in UP and Manipur would enable it to seek national status, thereby having some impact on national politics. JD(U) insiders believe that the demand for caste census has catapulted Nitish Kumar to the status of a national leader as several Opposition parties are now demanding the same along with the general census in 2022. The Centre is yet to agree to it.The party is banking on RCP Singh, a union minister from JD(U), to work on a deal with the BJP and get a reasonable number of seats to contest for in the 2022 UP assembly elections. Or, party leaders said, JD(U) would contest the polls alone, which could impact the BJP’s upper caste vote-bank.“Singh has been given the task to negotiate with BJP leaders because of his closeness with their leadership. As former national president of JD(U),he is trying to revive the party in UP,” said a senior JD(U) functionary, requesting anonymity. Also Read | JD-U national council reiterates demand for caste census, says law not enough for population controlOther party leaders in the know of things said JD(U) leaders have had preliminary talks with BJP national president JP Nadda, union home minister Amit Shah and even UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath in this regard. “We are an old ally of the BJP and the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) and would definitely like to contest in alliance with the BJP in UP,” said JD(U) national principal general secretary KC Tyagi. He, however, denied that Singh had been pushed into negotiating with the BJP by the party. “He is in touch with UP party leaders and BJP leaders because CM Nitish Kumar wants an early settlement on the seat-sharing arrangement rather than leaving it for the last moment,” he added. Tyagi said that the JD(U), which is vying for a national status, has decided to hold its next national council meeting in Uttar Pradesh, followed by Manipur, the two states where it wants to field candidates. However, odds are against the JD(U) in UP if one goes by past election results. In 2007, the JD(U) contested in 16 seats, but won only one, and forfeited its deposit in 12. It could only manage 0.42% of the vote share then. In 2012, it contested on 219 seats, forfeited its deposit in all of them, and managed just 0.36% of votes. It did not contest the 2017 elections in UP. Other Bihar-based parties, the RJD and the Lok Janshakti Party, also tried their luck in previous UP elections and met a similar fate. “The scenario has changed. UP has 12% Kurmi (an agriculture community) voters and backward communities are rallying behind Nitish Kumar, ever since the demand for caste census grew. We want a respectable number of seats to contest on,” said Tyagi. However, in UP, the BJP is unlikely to leave much space for smaller parties, even as the Opposition is trying to cobble together a united front. This could also lead to rumblings within the NDA. A senior BJP leader, who requested anonymity, said if the party gives JD(U) close to the number of seats the contested in 2007, they should be happy with it.According to political experts, however, the JD(U) is more interested in marking its national presence rather than winning seats. “The label of a national party depends on the number of seats and vote share that a party gets. The quest to become a national party is also a part of JD(U)’s messaging to NDA allies that the party means business even with less numbers. At the same time, it wants to signal to the Opposition that Nitish Kumar is not only a firm-footed chief minister but also a dominant national player,” said former principal of Patna College Nawal Kishore Choudhary.In September, Nitish Kumar is likely to participate in the birth anniversary functions of Chaudhary Devi Lal, which leaders from several Opposition parties are likely to attend. Kumar, in August, met former Haryana chief minister and INLD president Om Prakash Chautala in Gurugram and called it a courtesy meet. Chautala had earlier spoken about his idea of exploring a third-front option on the birth anniversary of his father Chaudhary Devi Lal on September 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jdus-national-ambition-behind-demand-for-caste-census-and-pegasus-probe-say-party-leaders-101630501861539.html
01-09-2021||India||680 dead in monsoon rains; thousands displaced in flood-hit Assam & Bihar||At least 13 people were killed in rain-related incidents in the past 24 hours as downpour continued to pound various parts of the country, data released by the Union home ministry said.More than 680 people have died since June 1 when the monsoon officially arrived in the country, it added. While large-scale flooding displaced thousands of people in Assam, Bihar and some parts of West Bengal, landslides triggered by heavy rain continued to wreak havoc in parts of Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh.The ministry’s report on the flood situation said that 22 districts of Assam, 36 of Bihar, 12 of Uttar Pradesh and two each of West Bengal and Jharkhand were affected due to rise in water level in several rivers, including Ganga, Kosi, Bhagmati, Gandak, Ghagra and Mahananda. About 1.5 million people in these states have been affected due to the floods in the past 48 hours alone, the report added. Also Read | Heavy rainfall in Delhi makes new September record Data released by the disaster management departments of Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand said the two states recorded more landslides this year when compared to previous years, even though rainfall has been less. Although rainfall in Uttarakhand was deficient by around 5% this year, the state saw a 32% increase in landslides, as per data from the state public works department. Over 135 people have been killed in over 1,200 incidents such as landslides and boulder falls, or were washed away in swollen rivers this year.Himachal, which saw 9% less rainfall, reported a 60% increase in landslides this year, according to the state disaster management authority. About 150 deaths were reported from the state so far this rainy season. Assam is witnessing floods despite less than normal rainfall. “For the month of August, the state received 296.3 mm rainfall against the normal of 347.1mm,” Sumit Das, senior scientist at Guwahati-based regional meteorological office, said. In the past seven days till August 31, the average rainfall for the state was recorded at 70.7 mm -- 4% less than the normal of 73.2 mm. Till August-end, Bihar received 801.9 mm of rain as compared to the normal of 1,027 mm, even as 32 of the total 40 districts remained flooded, displacing over a million people. While half of Odisha is witnessing drought-like conditions, the two neighbouring states of West Bengal and Jharkhand recorded flooding in some districts. Both Bengal and Jharkhand have received up to 8% excess rain, which is considered normal. Burdwan district in Bengal received around 40% more rain above the climatic normal in the entire season. Last week, Cooch Behar received 136% excess rain while North Dinajpur received 98% excess rain. In Jharkhand, Ranchi and its neighbouring districts received 20% excess rainfall this monsoon.Maharashtra, which has seen very high rainfall in the past two months, witnessed excess rainfall in 16 districts, including Mumbai and Nashik. The rainfall is up to 371% higher than normal for this period, according to IMD’s local weather office. Extremely heavy rainfall in the last two months which led to high-intensity floods and landslides resulted in the deaths of nearly 300 people and displaced over 450,000 people across the state, officials familiar with the matter said. A relief and rehabilitation department official said “As per data from early August, floods and landslides affected more than 1,100 villages in the districts of Palghar, Raigad, Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg, Sangli, Kolhapur and Satara.” While the western and some parts of northeastern Madhya Pradesh received heavy rainfall in the past two days, there has been no flood-like situation in the state, officials said. Fifteen districts -- four in Bundelkhand, five in Mahakaushal, two in the central region and four in Malwa -- are in the orange zone, officials said. The state has recorded 720.8mm rainfall so far while it received 254mm rainfall in August alone, officials said, adding that there has been an overall rainfall deficiency of 7% this year.In the next few days, above normal rainfall activity is likely over many parts of central India and normal to below normal rainfall over many areas of northwest, northeast and southern most parts of peninsular India. With the IMD predicting above-normal rainfall in September, the current rain deficiency of 9% over the country is likely to decrease and hence, the overall monsoon rain (June 1 to September 30) is likely to be in the “lower end of normal category”. Despite having more dry days than previous years, extreme rainfall in the month of August increased this year in some states, the weather body said. (With inputs from other state bureaus)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/680-dead-in-monsoon-rains-thousands-displaced-in-flood-hit-assam-bihar-101630501740011.html
01-09-2021||India||‘Make up your mind’: Omar Abdullah asks Centre to clarify stance on Taliban in Afghanistan||Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister and leader of the JK National Conference (JKNC) party Omar Abdullah on Wednesday asked the Centre to clarify its stance on the Taliban.“Either Taliban is a terror organisation or not, please clarify to us how you see them. If they are a terror group, why are you talking to them? If not then will you (Centre) move to United Nations and have it delisted as a terror organisation? Make up your mind,” news agency ANI quoted Abdullah as saying.The remarks came a day after the first officially acknowledged meeting between India and the Taliban. Indian ambassador to Qatar Deepak Mittal met with the head of Taliban’s political office in Doha, Sher Mohammed Abbas Stanekzai, at the Indian embassy there. The ministry of external affairs said that the meeting took place “on the request of the Taliban side.”Also read | Safe return of Indians, terror in focus at first India, Taliban meetAbdullah asked the Centre why they were talking with the Taliban if the government considers them to be a terrorist group. Further he also asked if the Centre would move the UN and push for delisting the Taliban as a terrorist organisation.During the meeting with the Taliban side, the Indian ambassador discussed the safety and early return of Indians stranded in the country, the external affairs ministry said. Also, the travel of Afghan nations, especially the minorities, was also brought up during the talks. The ambassador had also emphasised that the Afghan soil should not be used for terrorist or anti-Indian activities, to which the Taliban representatives had assured that the issues would be addressed positively, the ministry said.While the Indian side has said that the key priority would be the safety of citizens stranded in Kabul following the Taliban’s takeover, it is yet to recognise the group formally. “The primary concern is the security and safety of people. Currently, there is no clarity about any entity forming a government in Kabul. I think we are jumping the gun regarding recognition,” the MEA had said last week. However, the Taliban have announced that the group wanted to continue Afghanistan’s political, economic and cultural ties with India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/make-up-your-mind-omar-abdullah-asks-centre-to-clarify-stance-on-taliban-in-afghanistan-101630499532731.html
01-09-2021||India||‘Structural problems’ in Centre's way of handling economy: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday said the Centre won’t be able to pull the nation out of the ‘economic crisis’ as there are structural problems with how it is handling the ‘economy’. The Congress leader was referring to the rise in prices of fuel while addressing a press conference.Govt to monetise under-utilised public sector assets“The problem is not cyclical, it is structural. The economic crisis that we faced in 1991 has resurfaced. The solutions that we brought worked till 2012 and I believe that without a new approach we will not be able to come out of this crisis. We need a new approach. Our plan for the economy, which worked from 1991 to 2012, stopped working after that,” he said.“We have to change our vision. Our strategy stopped working after 2012 and we wanted a new approach. PM Modi promised that he would bring a new approach for ‘New India’. Those were empty promises,” Rahul further added.Rahul Gandhi also criticised the National Monetisation Pipeline and took a dig at the ‘Make in India’ initiative. He said the Congress knows what the approach should be. He claimed that PM Modi and finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman don’t know how to address these ‘structural’ issues.‘People are angry’The Lok Sabha MP from Wayanad also said that people are angry and the Congress understands the pulse of the nation from the rising prices of fuel and LPG. He said that the Congress workers have been restraining themselves from taking to the street to protest against the rising fuel prices, owing to the Covid-19 pandemic.“The anger against the government is building but voices are being suppressed. Covid-19 pandemic has not ended, hence we also do not want lakhs of people to take to the streets because this can lead to other issues. We are exercising restraint,” Rahul Gandhi said.He said that there will be a strong reaction as the anger against the rising fuel price will continue to mount.‘Demonetisation of the common people’During Rahul Gandhi’s press conference, which lasted a little bit over 30 minutes, he mocked the National Monetisation Pipeline and said that farmers, labourers and the unemployed were being demonetised. “Farmers, labourers, unemployed youth, middle class and medium and small enterprises are being demonetised. Only 4-5 friends of PM Modi are being monetised,” he said.Rahul Gandhi said the government was selling off ‘India’s assets’ to the private sector. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) reacted to the statement to say that the Congress leader does not have any idea regarding GDP. BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra said that the GDP numbers for Q1 show that the economy has ‘bounced back under the leadership of PM Modi’, news agency ANI reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/structural-problems-in-centre-s-way-of-handling-economy-rahul-gandhi-101630497454336.html
01-09-2021||India||Jai Prakash Narayan omitted from syllabus of Bihar varsity named after him||The Bihar government has taken exception to the omission of eminent personalities such as socialist leaders Ram Manohar Lohia and Jai Prakash Narayan from the new post-graduation syllabus of political science at the JP University (JPU) in Chhapra. The university is named after Narayan.JPU vice-chancellor Faruque Ali has promised to make amends from the new academic session starting in a couple of months as students’ organisations threatened an agitation over the omission. Bihar’s top leaders, including Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Lalu Prasad and chief minister Nitish Kumar, have been among the followers of Narayan.Also Read | ‘Ashoka Pillar’, ‘Buddha Relic Stupa’ submerged under floodwater in BiharIn a tweet, Prasad hit out at the government for the omission. “I had set up JPU 30 years ago at my karmbhoomi. It was named after Jai Prakashji. Now the RSS (Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh) backed Bihar government and RSS mindset has removed the thoughts of great socialist leaders like JP-Lohia from the same university. This cannot be tolerated. The government must take its cognisance forthwith.”Ali insisted the governor’s house approved the new syllabus during his predecessor’s tenure. He added it was initially kept pending due to a delay in the implementation of the choice-based credit system(CBCS). “CBCS should have been implemented long back, but it could not be possible at JPU. All universities in Bihar did it by 2018. I came here in September 2020 and wanted CBCS to be implemented straightaway for the benefit of students. I was told that the syllabus is ready and as there was no time left due to two years of backlog exams. It was implemented.”Ali said when the institution is named after Narayan, there was no reason for the omission. “In fact, there can be a separate paper on JP. Once the backlog exams are over for 2018 and 2019, we will bring about the required change from the next session starting within a few months.” Others omitted from the syllabus include Dayanand Saraswati, Raja Ram Mohan Rai, Bal Gangadhar Tilak. The additions are Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyay, Subhash Chandra Bose, and Jyotiba Phule.Education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary expressed his displeasure over the omission and additional chief secretary (education) Sanjay Kumar spoke to Ali when the matter came to light.Higher Education Council vice-chairman Kameshwar Jha said the university could not have taken the decision to alter the syllabus without getting it vetted. He added he has asked Ali to look into the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jai-prakash-narayan-omitted-from-syllabus-of-bihar-varsity-named-after-him-101630497602639.html
01-09-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccine appointments on CoWIN can be booked via Google. Know how||With a view to ramp up vaccination against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India, appointments on CoWIN can now be booked via Google. Taking to Twitter, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said the health ministry took another significant initiative to enhance access to vaccines.Explaining how to book an appointment on CoWIN via Google, Mandaviya tweeted, “Search ‘Covid vaccine near me’ on Google, Check availability of slots and more, Use ‘Book Appointment’ feature to book a slot.”Also Read| States, UTs asked to update data about vaccination of teachers on Google TrackerGoogle, in partnership with the health ministry, started showing vaccine centres on its search engine in March this year, according to a blog post. “Starting this week, for over 13,000 locations across the country, people will be able to get more helpful information about vaccine availability and appointments -- powered by real-time data from the CoWIN APIs,” the post added.The @MoHFW_INDIA has taken yet another significant initiative to enhance access to #COVID19 vaccine: 🔎 Search 'covid vaccine near me' on Google✅ Check availability of slots & more💉 Use 'Book Appointment' feature to book a slot📖 More details: https://t.co/zsI9A5fkCpThe information would comprise availability of appointment slots at each vaccination centre; vaccines and doses offered (first and second); pricing (whether paid or free) and a link to CoWIN’s website for booking. The blog post also said that the aforementioned details will automatically reflect when people search for vaccine centres near them or in any particular area across the American technology giant’s platforms: Google Search, Maps and Google Assistant.Apart from English, people will also be able to search details on vaccine availability in eight other languages including Hindi, Bengali, Telugu, Tamil, Malayalam, Kannada, Gujarati, and Marathi. Google added that it will partner closely with CoWIN to extend this functionality to all vaccination centres across the country.Also Read| Second phase trial of intranasal Covid-19 vaccine begins at 5 centres across India“As people continue to seek information related to the pandemic to manage their lives around it, we remain committed to finding and sharing authoritative and timely information across our platforms,” Google further said.India has so far administered 654,113,508 vaccine doses to eligible beneficiaries since the beginning of the inoculation drive in January this year. On Tuesday, the country set a record of administering over 13.3 million doses in a span of 24 hours. The health ministry’s dashboard shows that a total of 503,331,527 beneficiaries have received the first dose till now and the remaining 150,781,981 are fully vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19vaccine-appointments-on-cowin-can-be-booked-via-google-know-how-101630497087004.html
01-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: ED submits chargesheet in Narada sting case and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Narada sting case: ED names Bengal ministers, TMC MLA in chargesheetThe Enforcement Directorate on Wednesday named Bengal ministers Firhad Hakim, Subrata Mukherjee, Trinamool Congress MLA Madan Mitra and former Kolkata mayor Sovan Chatterjee in its chargesheet submitted before a special court in the Narada sting operation case. Read morePipeline burst near Dombivli, water supply disrupted in Thane, Navi MumbaiA water pipeline burst at Shil road near Dombivli in Maharashtra’s Thane district on Wednesday, resulting in water supply disruption in several parts of Thane, Navi Mumbai, Mira Bhayandar and Dombivli, an official said. Read moreSMS Hospital’s top surgeon says blockage in Gehlot’s artery not due to CovidA senior doctor at Jaipur’s famous Sawai Man Singh (SMS) Hospital has questioned the claim that Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot’s artery blockage that forced him to undergo an angioplasty procedure at the hospital last Friday was the result of post-Covid complications. Read moreTaliban leaders waited in players' dugout for parade showing off US hardwareTaliban fighters stood aboard captured Humvees as they prepared for a parade Wednesday of plundered US military hardware, including possibly a Black Hawk helicopter, in their southern Afghan spiritual heartland. Read more2021 Royal Enfield Classic 350 first ride review: The cult is rebornOriginally launched over a decade ago in India, the Royal Enfield Classic 350 has been drawing astronomical sales for the Chennai-based bike maker. Its popularity can only be judged by the fact that every second bike sold by the company is a Classic 350. Read moreShang-Chi interviews: Simu Liu on his 'we are not an experiment' tweet to Marvel, Destin Cretton on Indian influenceMost people aren’t trained to be assassins, director Destin Daniel Cretton admitted, but ‘most of us do understand a certain amount of pain’. Cretton and his stars Michelle Yeoh and Simu Liu— one a veteran and the other on the cusp of stardom — spoke to Hindustan Times about Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings, the first Marvel Cinematic Universe project with an Asian lead, ahead of the film’s release on Friday. Read morePrasidh Krishna added, BCCI names India squad for 4th Test against EnglandFast bowler Prasidh Krishna was added to India's squad for the fourth Test against England at The Oval which begins on Thursday. Krishna, who was kept as a reserve, was added to the main squad after the Indian team management requested for his inclusion. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-ed-submits-chargesheet-in-narada-sting-case-101630495751101.html
01-09-2021||India||Narada sting case: ED names Bengal ministers, TMC MLA in chargesheet||The Enforcement Directorate on Wednesday named Bengal ministers Firhad Hakim, Subrata Mukherjee, Trinamool Congress MLA Madan Mitra and former Kolkata mayor Sovan Chatterjee in its chargesheet submitted before a special court in the Narada sting operation case.The court ordered issuance of summons to the leaders and the appearance of the accused on November 16.Besides the politicians, the court also took cognisance against suspended IPS officer SMH Mirza.Also read | HC allows Mamata Banerjee to file affidavit in Narada caseThe court directed that the summonses to Mukherjee, Hakim and Mitra be served through the office of the West Bengal assembly speaker as the trio are legislators. Summonses to the other two would be served directly at their addresses, the court said.Earlier this year, the CBI had arrested Hakim, Mukherjee, Mitra and Chatterjee in the bribery case that had created a furore months before the 2016 Assembly election. All the four had been granted bail days later. Bengal chief minister and Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee had called the arrests political vendetta against the astounding win in the just-concluded Assembly election. She had spent hours hours at the CBI office to protest against the agency's move.The sting operation was conducted by Narada news founder Mathew Samuel for over two years in West Bengal. Samuel had formed a fictitious company and approached several TMC ministers, MPs and leaders for favours. Many of them were shown accepting money in TV footages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/narada-sting-case-ed-names-bengal-ministers-tmc-mla-in-chargesheet-101630493879005.html
01-09-2021||India||By switching on the sun, Railways can prevent 7mn tonnes of carbon emissions||The Indian Railways can offset around 7 million tonnes of carbon every year if it harnesses the energy from the sun. Not only that but it can also run one in four trains on the national network powered by solar energy and save in fuel costs to the tune of ₹17,000 crore.The latest findings lend credence to Union minister Piyush Goyal’s ambitious target of turning the Indian Railways into the world’s first net-zero carbon emitter by 2030. The minister had issued directives to railways to identify huge areas of unproductive land for setting up solar power plants to generate electricity for the national transporter.About 51,000 hectares of unused railway land has been identified for the purpose and the Indian Railways and the Union ministry of railways have formed a joint venture — Railway Energy Management Company — to support the development of solar photovoltaics and wind energy projects to supply the railway’s energy needs. Plans are already underway to deliver 20GW of solar-powered electricity to match the demand for energy to move trains.During his speech on the India's 75th Independence Day this year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had also announced the country's plan to become a net-zero carbon emitter by 2050 and highlighted that work was underway for 100% electrification of Indian Railways.On the track of net-zero emissionsIf the Indian Railways can achieve this target, it would lead to an annual emissions reduction of at least 15 million tonnes of carbon dioxide, which could help meet 5% of India’s targeted nationally determined contributions (NDC) to mitigate the effects of climate change. Together, these will help India reach its renewable energy target of 450GW by 2030.The analysis, part of a joint study by Delhi-based Climate Trends and the UK-based green-tech start-up Riding Sunbeams, highlights that around a quarter of the 20GW solar capacity —up to 5,272 MW — could be fed directly into the overhead power lines of the railways instead of being procured over the electricity networks, reducing transmission and distribution losses and saving money.“India is leading the world on two vital climate frontiers, including electrification of the railway network and solar power deployment. Connecting two of these keystone low-carbon technologies in Indian Railways can drive both India’s economic recovery from the Covid-19 pandemic and its efforts to transition off fossil fuels to tackle the climate crisis,” Leo Murray, the founder of Riding Sunbeams said.The researchers found that substituting energy supplied from the coal-dominated grid for private-wire supply from solar could also rapidly cut emissions by as much as a 6.8million tonnes of carbon dioxide every year.Power of 100% electrificationThe national transporter chose World Environment Day — celebrated every June 5 — this year to announce its plan to complete the electrification of the entire railway network by 2023 to reduce pollution, and leapfrog into its path of net-zero carbon emitter by 2030."Head-On-Generation systems, bio-toilets, and LED lights recreate the train itself into a travel mode that's kinder to the environment while maintaining comparable passenger comfort," the officials of the world’s second-largest railway network said in a statement on June 5.As per the Paris Agreement on climate change, India has pledged to reduce the intensity of emissions by 33-35% by 2030 from 2005-levels. One of the ways India can achieve its goal of shifting to non-fossil-fuel-based energy for 40% of its cumulative electricity generation capacity by 2030 is by transitioning the Indian Railways into a green transport medium.Indian Railways is the single largest consumer of electricity in India and is heavily dependent on coal-based power generation. The railways consume 20 TWh of electricity per year, which is roughly 2% of the country's total power generation. In 2019-20, the locomotives in the national network consumed 23,79,865 kilolitres of diesel and around 1,000 tonnes of coal to run.Cost of transition to clean energyConverting all current diesel traction to electric modes would initially cause a 32% increase in emissions due to India’s reliance on coal to produce electricity. The emissions intensity of the Indian electricity grid is 825 tonnes carbon dioxide equivalents (CO2e)/ GWh, over three times higher than the emissions intensity from the UK, for example. To mitigate this, the Indian Railways would need either to procure its supply of clean electricity from solar and wind generators connected directly into the rail network, or develop new grid-connected renewable projects to match the traction energy supplied via the electricity grid.“There has been analysis that converting all diesel locomotives to electric will indeed increase the emissions in the short term, however, this report shows the tremendous opportunity of doing it right the first time, by creating a direct connection of the locomotive system to solar PV installations, meeting more than a quarter of the total demand,” Aarti Khosla, the director at Climate Trends, who co-authored the study, said.As per the Niti Aayog data, the Indian Railway contributed to around 6.84 million tonnes of carbon dioxide emission in 2014.The researchers, however, warned that achieving the target of 100% electrification in all routes by 2023 could be accompanied by an increase in carbon dioxide emissions in the short term because of India’s current reliance on coal to produce electricity.Decarbonisation of the power sectorBecoming 100% electric means shifting emissions to the power sector, which is 76% powered by coal as of December 2020. The net-zero target means the railways will be pushing the power sector to provide renewable energy instead of coal-based electricity. Since the national transporter is already the second-largest electricity consumer, its switch to fully electric will mean it can leverage its procurement power to accelerate power sector decarbonisation in the coming decade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-railways-net-zero-emissions-clean-energy-climate-action-2030-101630492233320.html
01-09-2021||India||Maoists kill 45-year-old man in Odisha’s Rayagada district||Maoists shot dead a 45-year-old man in Odisha’s Left-wing insurgency-hit Rayagada district after branding him a police informer late on Tuesday. Police said a group of 10 suspected Maoists called Santosh Dandasena out of from his home and killed him. “His bullet-riddled body was found on Wednesday morning 50 metres outside his home,” said Nilambar Jani, a local police officer.Police said the Maoists left behind two posters warning people against working as informers. “(Dandasena) was warned several times against giving any information to the police, but he disobeyed the order and encouraged some youths of the village to become police informers. If these youths do not apologise, they will face similar consequences,” the poster warned.Also Read | Odisha TV journalist keeps recording for talk show despite mother’s demise, earns applauseDandasena’s killing is the first such instance in Odisha since January when Maoists in Kandhamal killed two civilians for being alleged police informers. It came three weeks after Central Reserve Police Force busted a Maoist hideout at Niyamgiri in neighbouring Kalahandi district and seized a cache of explosives, arms, and ammunition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maoists-kill-45-year-old-man-in-odisha-s-rayagada-district-101630493339153.html
01-09-2021||India||Kannada & culture department issues notice to Bengaluru Metro over language row||Days after the Opposition raised the issue, the Kannada and culture department on Wednesday issued a notice to Bengaluru Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) for sidelining the regional language during the inauguration of the new stretch of Metro on Sunday.The row began after a Congress legislator pointed out the absence of Kannada script on the banners, cut outs and other props during the event which was largely in English.V Sunil Kumar, the minister for energy, Kannada and culture, on Wednesday said overlooking Kannada during the event was a “serious issue” and will not be “tolerated”.“Day before yesterday, the government took notice of how Kannada was ignored during the event to inaugurate the Metro rail towards Kengeri. Despite Kannada being declared as the official language, some officials have been derelict and this will not be tolerated,” he said.Also Read | Almatti dam height rise: Maharashtra seeks details from Karnataka amid fears of damagesFormer Congress chief and AICC in-charge of Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, and Goa Dinesh Gundu Rao first raised the issue by accusing the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government of neglecting Kannada to “please the Centre”.“It is a shame for Karnataka to ignore Kannada in our Metro inauguration programme on the Kengeri Purple route. It is impossible to tolerate sidelining of Kannada in a government programme. Our Metro project is a central and state partnership project. So why should Kannada not be a priority?” Rao said in a post on Twitter on Sunday.The event was inaugurated by chief minister Basavaraj Bommai and Union minister for housing & urban affairs, petroleum and natural gas, Hardeep S Puri.At the event, Bommai also spoke in English mostly, which the BJP defended by saying that Puri did not understand Kannada. They reasoned that Bommai communicated with the minister in a language he understood, keeping the interest of the state in mind.Language strikes an emotional chord in Karnataka which, like several other non-Hindi speaking states, nurses a feeling of neglect for its native tongue under the current government.The Congress and other regional outfits have accused the union government of pursuing ‘one-nation, one-language’ policy as a way to make Hindi a common tongue as part of its larger Hindutva agenda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kannada-culture-department-issues-notice-to-bengaluru-metro-over-language-row-101630492979189.html
01-09-2021||India||Citing Covid-19, Rujira Banerjee refuses to appear before ED in coal scam case||Rujira Banerjee, the wife of Trinamool Congress national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee, on Wednesday expressed her inability to appear before the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in New Delhi in connection with the coal pilferage scam. Citing the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, Rujira requested the ED officials to visit her residence in Kolkata instead.Last month, the ED issued summons to Abhishek and Rujira to appear before it for questioning in a money laundering case linked to an alleged coal scam in West Bengal. While Abhishek, the nephew of TMC supremo and Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, had been asked to appear before the agency on September 6, his wife was asked to appear on Wednesday (September 1).In a letter addressed to ED’s assistant director Sumat Prakash Jain, Rujira said, “This refers to summons dated August 18, 2021 asking me to appear in person in New Delhi on September 1. I am a mother of two infants, and travelling to New Delhi physically alone in the midst of the pandemic will put me and my children at grave risk.”Assuring cooperation from her side in the questioning, she said in the letter that the alleged cause of action of the subject matter of the ED’s inquiry too arose out of West Bengal. "You may communicate your decision. I assure you of every cooperation from my side,” Rujira said.The ED’s money laundering probe is based on the Central Bureau of Investigation’s (CBI’s) First Information Report (FIR), which was registered in November last year regarding alleged mass coal pilferage in Eastern Coalfields Limited mines in Kunustoria and Kajora regions of West Bengal. Anup Majhi also known as Lala, is said to be the prime suspect in the caseIn February, a from the CBI had questioned Rujira at her residence in connection with the case.Meanwhile, the ED told a Delhi court in April that Abhishek Banerjee,33, was allegedly a beneficiary of funds obtained in the illegal mining, according to a report by Hindustan Times last Saturday. Citing the probe, the central agency alleged that an amount of ₹1,352 crores was generated by Anup Majhi by the means of illegal coal mining in two years. It was alleged that the funds collected by Manjhi and others in collusion with police officials, reached the politicians in Bengal and were then laundered in the country and overseas, the report added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/citing-covid-19-rujira-banerjee-refuses-to-appear-before-ed-in-coal-scam-case-101630491611882.html
01-09-2021||India||'Ashoka Pillar', 'Buddha Relic Stupa' submerged under floodwater in Bihar's Vaishali||One of the major attractions of Bihar tourism has submerged under floodwater amid heavy rains in the state and adjoining Nepal. The famous Buddhist excavation site in Bihar’s Vaishali district housing the historic 'Ashoka Pillar' and 'Buddha Relic Stupa' has been affected by floods, reported news agency ANI sharing the photographs of the site.In the photographs shared by ANI, the famous Ashokan Pillar with a statue of a lion on the top can be seen partially submerged under floodwater. The 18.3-metre high Ashoka Pillar is made of a highly polished single piece of red sandstone.Bihar: Complexes housing historic 'Ashoka Pillar' and 'Buddha Relic Stupa' are submerged under floodwater in Vaishali district pic.twitter.com/EmqjvPTza4Buddha Relic Stupa, which enshrines the holy ashes of Lord Buddha, can also be seen surrounded by floodwater. According to Bihar Tourism, the Buddha Relic Stupa is a protected site by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI).About 26 districts in Bihar including Vaishali, Bhagalpur, Darbhanga, Samastipur, Muzaffarpur, and Patnahave been affected by floods due to incessant rainfall last week. On Monday, the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) predicted heavy rainfall in Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Goa till September 2.On Tuesday, Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar said that the government is continuously monitoring the flood situation in affected areas, adding that a plan to control the water level of rivers is being drawn out. The chief minister also conducted an aerial survey of the flood-affected areas of Darbhanga district."The state government is continuously monitoring the situation of affected areas. Every time Bihar gets flooded during the monsoon season. The government is planning something to control the water level of rivers in Bihar. We are hoping that the plan will not make the situation worse in the future as it is now," ANI quoted Nitish Kumar as saying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ashoka-pillar-buddha-relic-stupa-submerged-under-floodwater-in-bihar-s-vaishali-101630491558114.html
01-09-2021||India||Chhattisgarh begins survey for data for quotas announced in 2019||Chhattisgarh has started a survey of Other Backward Classes ( OBC) and Economically Weaker Sections ( EWS) to collect quantifiable data for the quotas announced under these categories in 2019, officials said on Wednesday.Chief minister Bhupesh Baghel on Monday launched the portal (www.cgqdc.in) and the app through which the Chhattisgarh Quantifiable Data Commission (CQDC) is carrying out the survey. Baghel said the survey was aimed to ensure justice to every deprived section of society and to create equal opportunities.Also Read | After return from Delhi, tight-lipped Baghel meets community leaders in state“In September 2019, the reservation for OBCs was increased from 14% to 27% through an ordinance along with 10% reservation for the EWS. Later, some challenged the decision in the high court, which stayed the decision and directed the state government to submit quantifiable data for the reservation,” said Baghel.The CQDC was created following a high court direction. Baghel appealed to the people belonging to the OBC and EWC categories to participate in the data collection survey.In a statement, the government said 5,549 supervisors have been appointed for the survey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-begins-survey-for-data-for-quotas-announced-in-2019-101630491778955.html
01-09-2021||India||Firozabad 'dengue' deaths: CM Yogi suspends chief medical officer||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday ordered removal of the chief medical officer of Firozabad district where many children reportedly died due to suspected dengue and viral fever.More than 40 young lives have reportedly been lost from the viral fever in the district over the past few days.Local BJP MLA Manish Asija claimed on Tuesday the death toll in the district had risen to 44."Last night (Monday) three deaths took place, while two deaths took place on Tuesday, taking the death toll to 44," Asija was quoted as saying in a PTI report, adding camps had been set up in 25 affected places.Also read | Yogi orders good treatment of Firozabad fever patientsA team of 15 doctors has arrived here from Lucknow, and held a meeting with officials of the district administration and the health department. It also conducted tests in the affected areas of the district.Adityanath, who visited the 100-bed district hospital on Monday in the district where children showing symptoms of the disease are being treated, had said arrangements were being made for better medical treatment of all those who fell ill in Firozabad, adding the deaths would be probed by a team from King George’s Medical University in Lucknow and a government surveillance team.Some of the districts in western Uttar Pradesh, including Mathura, Firozabad and Mainpuri, witnessed a spike in cases of “viral fever” which sent alarm bells ringing among the district officials in Noida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/firozabad-dengue-deaths-cm-yogi-suspends-chief-medical-officer-101630490842990.html
01-09-2021||India||TN ex-CM O Panneerselvam's wife Vijayalakshmi passes away||Vijayalakshmi Panneerselvam, wife of former Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu and All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) coordinator O Panneerselvam died of a heart attack at a private hospital in Chennai on Wednesday.According to the statement issued by Gem hospital in Chennai, Vijayalakshmi (66) who was undergoing treatment at the hospital for the past 10 days passed away at 6.45 am on Wednesday morning after suffering a heart attack."Vijayalakshmi was supposed to be discharged today. Suddenly, in the early morning, she suffered a heart attack and passed away," said the hospital.The funeral is scheduled to take place on Thursday at Panneerselvam's native town Periyakulam.Meanwhile, DMK chief and Tamil Nadu CM Stalin, and former All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) leader VK Sasikala visited the hospital on Wednesday to pay their condolences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-ex-cm-o-panneerselvam-s-wife-vijayalakshmi-passes-away-101630488838461.html
01-09-2021||India||Schools in Telangana reopen amid Covid-19 protocols||Adhering to Covid-19 protocols, schools in Telangana have reopened for all classes from Wednesday.In view of the improved Covid-19 situation in the state, the state government has allowed all students to attend physical classes from September 1.St. Anthony's High School of Hyderabad has also reopened for classes 8 to 12. Students were seen enthusiastic as well as worried about their health over the resumption of physical classes.Schools are also ensuring properly sanitisation and regular temperature check-ups of staff and students."We are properly sanitising the school premises and a regular temperature check-up is being done of all the students. In order to maintain social distancing, we have allotted only two classrooms on one floor, of which 20 students will be permitted in each classroom," the Administrative Officer of St. Anthony's High School, Hyderabad said.Further, he said that only high schools are allowed to conduct offline classes from today.Speaking to ANI, a student named Shloka said, "Conducting online classes are better and school reopening at this time is not an appropriate decision. Will analyse if Covid protocols are being maintained today in the school and will decide to continue offline classes further."Another student of class 8, Gaurav said, "I am very happy and excited about attending offline classes. I am feeling safe as the school has taken all the precautionary measures."A parent of a student said, "Offline classes are better for students because they are not able to understand everything in online classes. Also, the school is taking proper care of coronavirus precautionary measures in the school. They are properly sanitising the premises and providing masks to students."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/schools-in-telangana-reopen-amid-covid-19-protocols-101630485661891.html
01-09-2021||India||Day after quitting AIUDF, MLA resigns from Assam assembly and joins ruling BJP||A day after he quit as primary member of All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF), Phanidhar Talukdar, who represented Bhabanipur seat, resigned from the Assam assembly and joined the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday. Talukdar was the only Hindu among AIUDF legislators, a party which enjoys support from the Bengali-speaking Muslim community of the state. With his resignation, AIUDF’s strength in the assembly also came down to 15 MLAs. Following his resignation from assembly and a meeting with chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, Talukdar joined the BJP at the party state office in presence of state unit president Bhabesh Kalita and other senior leaders. “Bhabanipur is associated with Khargeswar Talukdar and AIUDF’s win from this seat for three successive polls upset Hindus of the constituency. There was also no development in the area for past many years,” Talukdar told mediapersons after submitting his resignation to Speaker Biswajit Daimary. “I am attracted towards the good work being done by chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and the ideology of BJP. Hence, I decided to join the party for the benefit of my constituency,” he added. “Bhabanipur is a historic place as it is associated with Khargeswar Talukdar. It was painful that this seat was represented by AIUDF since 2011. I am happy that Phanidhar Talukdar quit the AIUDF and joined us,” CM Himanta Biswa Sarma said on Wednesday. Khargeswar Talukdar, who died on December 10, 1979, was the first person killed in the six-year-long agitation against illegal immigrants. The agitation, that saw 855 deaths, ended with the signing of the Assam Accord in 1985. “I am hopeful that Talukdar will get re-elected from the Bhabanipur seat on a BJP ticket during the bypolls. I appeal to all BJP cadres and our alliance partners Asom Gana Parishad and United People Party Liberal to ensure his victory,” he added. Talukdar is the third newly elected MLA to resign from their parties after the assembly polls. Earlier, Congress MLAs Rupjyoti Kurmi of Mariani and Sushanta Borgohain of Thowra resigned from the party and also quit as members of the assembly. PHOTO:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/day-after-quitting-aiudf-mla-resigns-from-assam-assembly-and-joins-ruling-bjp-101630485058236.html
01-09-2021||India||India’s ‘crown jewels’ are not up for sale: Govt responds to Opposition||The government on Wednesday dismissed the Opposition’s claims that the country’s “crown jewels” were up for sale under the ₹6 trillion National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP) unveiled on August 23. It insisted the asset monetisation is distinct from slump sales. “The framework for monetisation of core assets under NMP clearly mentions that none of the assets in NMP is up for sale,” the government said in a statement.The government plans to raise ₹88,000 crore this year by leasing infrastructure assets of the central government ministries and state-run companies under NMP. The funds will then be used to build new infrastructure assets, helping boost economic growth. Roads (27%), railways (25%), power (15%), oil and gas pipelines (8%) and telecom (6%) are the top five sectors by value under the monetisation programme.The government maintained the assets have been put on a “limited period lease” and will be retaken later. It said the monetisation idea was not new as it was taken up earlier as well at the central and state levels. “In fact, it was the former (Congress-led) UPA (United Progressive Alliance) government at the Centre that had taken the initial steps towards… privatisation of Delhi and Mumbai airports.” It added non-discriminatory access of the assets to the public will follow the monetisation and there will be no monopoly.The government said the bulk of the infrastructure asset base will continue to be under the public sector after monetisation. “So public sector will continue to operate, run these assets and build more assets that can be further monetised.” The government called the monetisation “structured contractual partnership”. It insisted the private partners will only “operate and maintain the assets and return them to the government on completion of the transaction period.”Also Watch | ‘Do they belong to PM Modi?’: Mamata slams monetisation plan after Rahul GandhiCongress spokesperson Gourav Vallabh rejected the government’s explanation as irrelevant. “Public assets which were created with the taxpayers’ money will be given on lease. The people, who are going to lease them, are going to get that expense (for leasing) from public sector banks. The same assets will later be put in front of the same public who will have to pay for them (to utilise their services),” Vallabh said. He added technically this is a “grand clearance sale”.Vallabh said the monetisation contracts of airports such as in Ahmedabad, Lucknow, Mangaluru, Mumbai, Jaipur, Guwahati, and Thiruvananthapuram were given to those who have never had any experience in such management. “Were they handling airports, were they into the business of airports? What was their experience in airports? Nothing at all. The same is going to happen with the rest of the assets of the country.”Vallabh said many gas pipelines, ports, warehousing assets, passenger trains, transmission lines, which the government seeks to monetise, are strategic assets. “There cannot be a more strategic asset than transmission lines because the country’s entire network, be it defence or whether it is normal day to day electricity consumption, everything depends on them.” He added the government is transferring strategic assets, not to one but two of their friends and everyone knows who they are. “I would not call this monopoly, but this is a duopoly,” he said. Vallabh added the government is leasing the assets for the “useful life” which is another way of sale. “The value of an asset after its useful life is that of scrap.”Vallabh said it was confusing to see the government is deliberately creating a monopoly in the economy. “Even the developed economies, be it the US or the UK, are making laws to do away with monopolies… and cartels. In India, assets created in the last 70 years are being used by the government to create monopolies.”He cited the government’s claim to raise ₹six trillion from the monetisation of assets and asked are they not yielding any revenue at the moment. “What is the current revenue of these assets... ?” He added for the last three years, the government has promised 100 lakh crore investment in infrastructure. “Where are they? You have said that you will generate six lakh crores from monetisation... where will the rest of 94 lakh crores come from?”Vallabh referred to the government’s claim that the “formulation of NMP included extensive consultations” with the stakeholders from the industry and experts. He added NMP was not even discussed in parliament. Vallabh called the government clarifications “haphazard” and said apparently finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman is not a good listener. “She should specify when this was discussed in Parliament and which trade unions did you (the government) have discussions with.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-crown-jewels-are-not-up-for-sale-govt-responds-to-opposition-101630484158435.html
01-09-2021||India||Assam relaxes curfew, allows inter-district movement of passenger vehicles||In further relaxation of Covid-19 restrictions, Assam government on Wednesday eased curfew timings, allowed inter-district movement of passenger vehicles and approved resumption of in-person classes for final year students in colleges and schools.Health minister Keshab Mahanta said the relaxations will come into force from 11 am on Wednesday following the improved Covid-19 scenario in the state.“The curfew timings, which were from 7 pm to 5 am, will now be from 9 pm to 5 am daily. Offices, shops and business establishments will have to close down at 8 pm, an hour ahead of the curfew,” he said.All government employees administered at least one dose of vaccine have been asked to attend offices and the remaining have been asked to get the jab within the next three days.“Pregnant women employees and parents of children below 3 years of age will be allowed to work from home,” Mahanta said.Inter-district movement of passenger vehicles, restricted since May this year, has been allowed with 100% capacity provided passengers have taken at least one dose of any Covid-19 vaccine, the new guidelines said. The SOPs stated that wearing of face masks will be mandatory for private and passenger vehicles. Pillion riding on two-wheelers has also been allowed.Mahanta said in-person classes for final year post-graduate, graduate and higher secondary students who have taken at least one dose of a Covid-19 vaccine were allowed from September 6 and even unvaccinated students under 18 years of age will be allowed to attend final year classes. Not more than 30 students are allowed in each section of a class, the SOP added.Special vaccination drives are being carried out in schools, colleges and universities ahead of September 6. Hostels will open doors only to students who have taken both vaccine doses.The new SOPs also allow public and private functions in open with the presence of up to 50 persons if the attendees have taken at least one vaccine dose and local police’s permission to hold the event.However, a gathering of 200 persons, who have been administered at least one vaccine dose, may be allowed only with special permission from district authorities.For marriages, religious functions and funeral rites, not more than 50 persons, who have taken at least one vaccine dose, will be allowed to gather, the guidelines said.Not more than 40 persons will be allowed entry into ‘iconic’ religious places per hour and in other religious places, only 20 persons will be allowed per hour. All devotees need to have taken at least one vaccine dose to be allowed entry, the SOP said.In the past two weeks, Assam has been recording around 500-600 new Covid 19 cases and 10-15 deaths daily on an average. The test positivity rate has remained below 1% for the past few days. At present, there are around 5,500 active cases in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-relaxes-curfew-allows-inter-district-movement-of-passenger-vehicles-101630483858225.html
01-09-2021||India||Karnataka coast on high alert after inputs of terrorist activity in Kerala||A high alert has been issued in the coastal areas of Karnataka following an intelligence input received about terrorist activities in coastal Kerala, said Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday.Interacting with media at the Hubli Airport before his departure for his assembly constituency Shiggaon, the Chief Minister said the state administration is keeping a strict watch for any suspicious activity in the coastal and adjoining forest areas."I can not discuss some issues openly, but I want to tell you that Karnataka police along with NIA is keeping a strict vigil on any anti-national activity in coastal and adjoining forest areas. NIA had also picked up a person who was involved in such activities. We have also issued a high alert has in coastal areas," said the Chief Minister.When asked if public gatherings will be permitted in the state on the occasion of Ganesh Utsav, Bommai said the state government has appointed an expert panel to study last year's celebration and Covid status presently."We have a meeting with the experts' panel on September 5 and will make the final decision on that day," he said.Speaking about night curfew imposed in Kodagu, Hassan, Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts, which share borders with Kerala, the Chief Minister said," state government is not in the mood of banning financial activities. But precautions have to be taken to maintain the COVID norms. So wherever the situation gets improved there relaxations will be given."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-coast-on-high-alert-after-inputs-of-terrorist-activity-in-kerala-101630482842415.html
01-09-2021||India||Gehlot hits out at BJP-ruled states over inaction in attacks on daily wagers||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday hit out at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) governments in Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh over attacks on the poor and daily wagers because of their religion.Also Read | Paralympian Lekhara is brand ambassador of Rajasthan’s campaign for girl child“Videos are continuously appearing on social media from Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh showing poor daily wage labourers, hawkers, and street vendors being assaulted on the basis of religion. The situation is even more worrying that the governments there are not taking any action,” he tweeted. He added communalism was being encouraged through inaction and added this violates Constitutional provisions that promise freedom of religion and prevention of discrimination. “It is very sad to see such incidents happen in a secular democratic country like India and no concrete action is taken...” Gehlot added such incidents will not be tolerated in Rajasthan. “Strict action will be taken against those trying to disturb communal harmony. “BJP leader Ram Lal Sharma said Gehlot should focus on increasing crimes in Rajasthan instead of pointing fingers at others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gehlot-hits-out-at-bjp-ruled-states-over-inaction-in-attacks-on-daily-wagers-101630482958001.html
01-09-2021||India||Assam issues new Covid-19 guidelines: Night curfew from 9pm-5am, essential services to continue||The Assam government on Wednesday announced night curfew in all districts from 9pm to 5am in order to keep a check on the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). In the latest guidelines, the state government said that the restrictions will come into force from today (September 1) and remain in place till further orders."In case test positivity of Covid in any area reaches more than 10 cases in last 7 days, jurisdictional DM will notify such areas as total containment zones and ensure necessary containment measures for Covid," the state government order said.However, in such zones, emergency services will continue round the clock and essential services including shops dealing with groceries, fruits and vegetables, dairy and milk booths, animal fodder etc will remain open upto 8pm, the order further said.Offices, commercial establishments and businesses have been asked not to remain open beyond 8pm. Restaurants and eateries have been asked to operate at 50 per cent capacity and close at 8pm. Takeaway orders will also not be allowed after the prescribed time, according to the government order.The government has also given some relaxations, like autorickshaws, cycle rickshaws and taxis have been allowed to operate with 100 per cent seating capacity and observance of Covid appropriate behaviour by passengers having at least a single dose of vaccine.Intra-district transport is allowed, but heavy fine will be imposed on drivers who allow standing passengers, the order further said. Such passengers will also be fined, it added.Assam health minister Keshab Mahanta said that the state government has given several relaxations in the new guidelines due to the improvement in the Covid-19 situation. "Urge the people to get both the doses of #vaccines & to strictly adhere to the Covid-19 protocols," he said on Twitter.#AssamCovidUpdateAs the #Covid19 situation in the state has improved, several relaxations have been given in the new #SOP w.e.f. today. Urge the people to get both the doses of #vaccines & to strictly adhere to the Covid-19 protocols.@himantabiswa@nhm_assam pic.twitter.com/aaxWgukChJAssam reported five fresh fatalities due to Covid-19 on Tuesday, while 570 more people tested positive pushing the caseload to 5,89,426, the National Health Mission said. The current death rate is 0.96 per cent, it added.At present, Assam has 5,554 active cases, while a total of 2,16,74,871 samples have been tested for Covid-19 thus far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-issues-new-covid-19-guidelines-night-curfew-from-9pm5am-101630482619162.html
01-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: ED raids in Kolkata in connection with fake Covid vaccine racket and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Fake vaccine jabs, black marketing of remdesivir: ED conducts raids in KolkataOfficers of the Enforcement Directorate conducted raids in at least 10 locations in and around Kolkata on Wednesday in connection with the fake Covid vaccine jab racket busted by the Kolkata Police earlier this year. Read more'I was asked if Headingley Test was Ishant Sharma's last for India. I was very surprised': Ashish NehraFormer India pacer Ashish Nehra was surprised by the criticism of Ishant Sharma after just one below-par match against England at Headingley in Leeds. Ishant was the only India bowler to go wicketless in the third Test match, which England won by an innings and 76 runs to level the series. Read moreJaya Bachchan once told Abhishek Bachchan to 'look out' for Raqesh Bapat: 'He's your competition'Veteran actor Jaya Bachchan had once called actor Raqesh Bapat her son Abhishek Bachchan's 'competition'. She had also told Abhishek to 'look out' for him. Read more2021 Royal Enfield Classic 350 launched; prices and all updates right hereRoyal Enfield has launched its much-awaited new generation Classic 350 motorcycle in India. The updated version of the company's most selling retro cruiser comes with a host of changes and starts at ₹1.84 lakh and goes up to ₹2.51 lakh (ex showroom). Read moreShweta Tiwari dazzles in sequinned crop top and bodycon skirt for new videoTelevision hottie and Khatron Ke Khiladi contestant Shweta Tiwari feels beauty begins once we decide to be ourselves. And we agree. The actor took to Instagram on September 1 to post a video of herself transitioning from casual clothes to ethnic wear and finally a glam dress. Read moreDelhi Rains: Twitter flooded with videos and images of heavy downpourOn Wednesday, September 1, residents of Delhi and adjoining regions in the national capital region (NCR) woke up to a rainy morning. Several places received rainfall today and as is customary, people wasted no time to take to Twitter to share various posts related to the rains. Read moreWatch what Indian Army officer said to terrorists' parents in J&KA senior officer of the Indian Army delivered an emotional message to people whose children have taken up the gun in Jammu & Kashmir. Lt Gen DP Pandey, GOC of Srinagar-based Chinar Corps, addressed a public meeting in Shopian. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-ed-raids-in-kolkata-in-connection-with-fake-covid-vaccine-racket-and-all-the-latest-news-101630480526471.html
01-09-2021||India||India ends month-long UNSC presidency: A look at key achievements||India's month-long presidency of the powerful United Nations Security Council (UNSC) ended on Tuesday (August 31) with substantive outcomes on key global issues. India is currently a non-permanent member (for a two-year term) of the 15-nation UNSC. It assumed the rotating Presidency of the UN body for the month of August.“As we wind down our Presidency of UN #SecurityCouncil, we thank all colleagues in #UNSC for their tremendous support to make our Presidency a success with many substantive outcomes," India’s Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador T S Tirumurti tweeted on Tuesday.US Ambassador to the UN Linda Thomas-Greenfield congratulated India for a successful presidency of the UN Security Council for the month of August. "Your leadership and resilience saw us through many challenging issues -- especially the situation in Afghanistan,” she said.Here's a look at the outcomes:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-ends-month-long-unsc-presidency-a-look-at-key-achievements-101630480786987.html
01-09-2021||India||Congress' Harish Rawat apologises for 'Panj Pyare' comment after backlash||Senior Congress leader and unit in-charge of Punjab, Harish Rawat, on Wednesday issued a statement of apology after sparking a major furore for equating Punjab Congress chief Navjot Sidhu and four working presidents under him as 'Panj Payare', inducted into the Khalsa by Guru Gobind Singh.In a statement posted on social media, Rawat said he had no intention to hurt the Sikh sentiments and it was wrong on his part to compare the working presidents with Panj Pyare."Sometimes to express your respect, you use such words that are objectionable. I too have made the mistake of using the word 'Panj Pyare' yesterday for my honourable president and four working presidents," Rawat stated, adding, "I have made this mistake, I apologise for hurting the sentiments of people."The former chief minister of Uttarakhand also said, as an atonement, he will "sweep in a gurudwara in his state for some time."The Congress leader further said that he holds the 'Panj Pyare' in high esteem and had always worked for the betterment of the places related to Sikhism in Uttarakhand during his tenure.Panj Pyare, the five beloved ones, is the collective name given to five Sikh men − Bhai Daya Ram became Bhai Daya Singh, Bhai Dharam Ram became Bhai Dharam Singh, Bhai Himmat Rai became Bhai Himmat Singh, Bhai Mohkam Chand became Bhai Mohkam Singh, Bhai Sahib Chand became Bhai Sahib Singh, by Guru Gobind Singh. They formed the nucleus of the Khalsa.On Tuesday, Rawat met Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, along with working presidents Pawan Goel, Kuljit Singh Nagra and Punjab Congress general secretary Pargat Singh. After the meeting, Rawat in the media briefing equated Sidhu and the four working presidents as "Panj Pyaras". "It was my responsibility to discuss with the PCC chief, his team and 'Panj Pyare' (Navjot Singh Sidhu 4 working presidents). Sidhu has told me that the discussions over polls, organisational structure will be geared up... Rest assured, PCC is working," he told the media.The comment drew major outrage from leaders in Punjab who sought an apology from Rawat. Lashing out at Rawat, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Daljeet Singh Cheema said such remarks are not a joke and hurt the sentiments of the Sikh community. "It is very sad and disappointing that the Punjab Congress in-charge Harish Rawat has said that the meeting was chaired with 'Panj Pyare'. The 'Panj Pyaras' are respected and honoured in the Sikh Community. I would request Harish Rawat that is not at all a matter of joke, such remarks hurt the sentiments of the Sikh Community," Cheema said."He should withdraw the statement immediately, and the entire Congress should apologize to the entire Sikh community. A case should be registered against them for hurting the sentiments," he added.The SAD leader further accused the Congress of being anti-Sikh and hurting Sikh sentiments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-harish-rawat-apologises-for-panj-pyare-comment-after-backlash-101630480673068.html
01-09-2021||India||'Fake news': Cops refute reports of 60 youth missing from Kashmir valley amid Afghanistan conflict||Kashmir police on Wednesday refuted rumours rife on social media that suggest more than 60 youth have gone from different parts of the Kashmir valley amid the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan. Refuting these reports that are running on certain social media platforms, the Kashmir Zone police said that these reports qualify as "fake news"."Some social media platforms are running that 60 youth have gone missing from different parts of the Kashmir valley amid the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan," the Kashmir police tweeted on Wednesday, quoting the inspector-general of police (IGP) of Kashmir. "This is totally fake news".Some #SocialMedia platforms are running that 60 youth have gone #missing from different parts of the #Kashmir Valley amid the taliban takeover of Afghanistan. This is totally #fake news: IGP Kashmir@JmuKmrPoliceIn the wake of the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan, several reports emerged in the media suggesting terrorist groups have infiltrated the Kashmir valley, raising the level of violence on the ground. Citing unnamed security sources, these reports claimed that men from the Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) valley were engaged in the lightning-fast Taliban offensive that won the militants control of the war-torn country on the heels of the US exit.These reports also stated that as many as 60 young men from Jammu and Kashmir went missing in the last few months, amid the Taliban takeover in Afghanistan. The reports, however, refused to elaborate much on the disappearances.The Indian Army, however, had said last week that there is nothing to worry about regarding the security situation in Jammu and Kashmir in the context of the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan.Notably, India had, on the penultimate day of its presidency in the United Nations Security Council (UNSC), issued a strong resolution on Afghanistan "demands that Afghan territory not be used to threaten or attack any country or to shelter or train terrorists, or to plan or to finance terrorist acts, and reiterates the importance of combating terrorism in Afghanistan, including those individuals and entities designated pursuant to resolution 1267 (1999), and notes the Taliban’s relevant commitments.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fake-news-cops-refute-reports-of-60-youth-missing-from-kashmir-valley-amid-afghanistan-conflict-101630478046743.html
01-09-2021||India||Implement cheaper, sustainable cooling strategies: Lancet series||As temperatures rise throughout the world and heat waves become more intense, is reliance on air conditioners sustainable? What are the cheaper and sustainable cooling strategies that can be adapted by cities? How does heat affect the human body? A two-paper Lancet series on ‘heat and health’ published recently highlights solutions to such questions to combat heat stress. The use of air conditioners is the most common cooling solution implemented worldwide. “From a health perspective, use of air conditioning provides numerous benefits,” state the authors. “Reduction in indoor temperatures dramatically alleviates heat strain. A working air conditioning unit in a home is the strongest protective factor against heat-related fatalities. In hospital wards, its presence reduces the risk of mortality during a heat extreme by 40%. In general, the strongest driver for air conditioning adoption is improved thermal comfort.” Yet, there are urban and rural disparities in access to air conditioners and affordability is also a concern. Also Read | 50% of patients still have issues after a year: StudyAccording to the authors, identifying and implementing sustainable cooling strategies broadly accessible to all sections of society is a pressing need. “Not just air conditioners, in rural India, people cannot afford to buy air coolers too,” said Premsagar Tasgaonkar, a researcher with Watershed Organisation Trust (WOTR) that studied indoor and outdoor temperature in Maharashtra’s Yavatmal district and made policy recommendations like subsidies on air coolers during summers, building canopies and community halls every few kilometres, and getting people to use tiled roofs for better indoor temperatures. The authors of the Lancet papers have offered similar solutions. Fountains providing spray with moving water to accelerate evaporative cooling, bodies of water, large grasslands with trees, canopies located over outdoor areas, reducing road and vehicle density to mitigate greenhouse gas and heat emissions from vehicles, increasing insulation of roofs and walls to reduce net conductive heat flow from the outdoor to indoor environment are some of the solutions offered. Global temperatures have seen a record-breaking rise year after year. The World Meteorological Organization (WMO) said in January that the past six years have been the warmest on record since 1880, with 2016, 2019 and 2020 being the top three. The WMO observed that 2020 was 1.2°C above pre-industrial era (1880) temperatures. According to a NASA analysis, the earth’s average temperature has risen more than 1.2°C since the late 19th century. 2020 was also the eighth warmest year in India, according to the India Meteorological Department’s statement on climate. The Lancet papers also highlight that exposure to high ambient temperatures causes suffering and death due to severe dehydration and cardiovascular strain. Senior citizens above 65 years of age, those with comorbid conditions, and children are known to be more vulnerable to heat strain. People who work outdoors are also at higher risk of suffering from heat related morbidity and mortality. A Lancet countdown had estimated 31,000 heat related deaths of people above 65 in India in 2018. “The heat-related health issues are not very well understood in India,” said Dr Dileep Malvankar Indian Institute of Public Health, Gandhinagar, who was involved in drafting the Ahmedabad Heat Action Plan in 2013. “A lot of deaths caused by heat directly and indirectly never get registered as heat-related deaths,” he said. He recommends states and civic bodies appoint nodal officers for environmental health and create environmental health departments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/implement-cheaper-sustainable-cooling-strategies-lancet-series-101630479537752.html
01-09-2021||India||Oxygen plants commissioned but problems remain in making them operational||As many as 35% of the 1,222 Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) oxygen plants the Centre has sanctioned since October have been commissioned but many of them are not running with pipes needed to supply oxygen to hospital beds yet to be ready in many cases, officials in multiple states said. In some states, hospitals are awaiting equipment to connect the oxygen pipes especially to the Covid designated wards while others are looking for trained manpower to run the plants.Officials in multiple states said the issues are expected to be resolved by the September end or the first week of October. The installation of the plants acquired renewed urgency after the second Covid-19 wave this summer triggered a shortage of life-saving medical oxygen. According to the Union health ministry, about 50% of the remaining plants would be operational by September 15. All 1,222 plants are scheduled to be operational by December.In West Bengal, where 10 of the 49 plants are operational, at least four were not running. The state government has fixed September 15 as a deadline for installing all 49 oxygen plants.Also Read | C.1.2 variant: Centre says no cases in India so far, but how deadly is it?NC Mandal, the chief medical officer of Bengal’s Howrah district, said the 1,000 litre/minute PSA plant installed there has faced a few technical hiccups, and also there are not enough patients. The PSA plant at Jalpaiguri hospital in north Bengal, installed almost a month ago, was not working for over a week due to some technical snags, said an official.In Murshidabad Medical College and Hospital, a PSA plant, with a capacity of 5,0000 litre/minute, was not running as there are not enough patients. Another officer said that one PSA plant installed at Islampur Subdivisional Hospital is functional but has not been used as the pipeline was being installed.In Bihar, only 14 of 62 plants were running. At the Nalanda District Hospital, a 1,000-litre per minute PSA plant was commissioned in August. But the work on connecting oxygen to 300 beds was incomplete. The beds include 14 of a special neonatal care unit and 10 in emergency triage and treatment unit. “We expect to complete the oxygen pipeline work in a couple of days,” said Sunil Kumar, civil surgeon, Nalanda.Bihar is expected to generate 117 metric tonnes of medical oxygen daily and ramp up its storage capacity to 310-kilo litre in anticipation of a possible third Covid-19 wave. Each of the 10 state-run medical colleges will have at least one PSA oxygen generation plant. In all, 121 oxygen plants are being set up, health minister Mangal Pandey has said.In Uttar Pradesh, the newly installed 1,200 litre per minute oxygen plant at government-run 232-bed Tej Bahadur Sapru Hospital in Prayagraj was being tested. Officially the plant is running.“The oxygen pipelines have also been laid. This plant will supply oxygen in the next few days,” said the hospital’s chief medical superintendent, Kiran Malik.The hospital is looking for trained manpower to run oxygen plants around the clock. Malik said they may opt to train their own staff.Uttar Pradesh has so far commissioned 30% of the 127 PSA plants sanctioned to it.In Madhya Pradesh, just 18 of 88 plants are running. Several plants are shut as there are no critical Covid patients. RP Patel, the superintendent of Bhopal’s Katju Hospital, said a plant installed there a month back is not operational as there are no critical patients.Also Read | India logs 41,965 cases in 24 hours; more than half are from KeralaDamoh’s chief medical health officer, Sangeeta Trivedi, said an oxygen plant has ensured that a community health centre in the region has a dedicated oxygen supply for the first time. “We do not have to refer every patient to private hospitals for treatment now,” she said.Officials said all the 88 PSA plants in Madhya Pradesh will be operational by September end.Only 10 of the 51 sanctioned plants are operational in Rajasthan. The oxygen plant installed at one of the state’s biggest hospitals, Jaipur’s Sawai Man Singh ) Hospital, is running for only a couple of hours daily.Arvind Gupta, an official at the hospital, said they are running the plant daily for 1-2 hours as there are no Covid patients. “If needed, we would provide oxygen to other hospitals also.” The operationalisation of the plant was delayed as a valve was defective, and had to be replaced, said a person aware of the matter.As many as 70 PSA plants have been set up in Tamil Nadu under PM Cares Fund and another 72 through donations and corporate social responsibility funding. “Twenty-eight plants have been commissioned so far and installation is ongoing at another 33 sites,” said J Deepak, managing director, Tamil Nadu Medical Service Corporation, which is handling Covid-19 infrastructure and medicines.In Chennai, which was among the worst hit during both Covid waves, oxygen plants have been commissioned in Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH), Institute Of Child Health and Hospital for Children, Government Stanley Hospital, and ESI Hospital.E Theranirajan, the dean of RGGGH, said a plant has been installed specifically for Covid patients at the hospital. He added it will take another week to make it operational. “Two more oxygen plants, for non-Covid patients, have been made operational through CSR initiatives with a daily production capacity of 0.8 MT each.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oxygen-plants-commissioned-but-problems-remain-in-making-them-operational-101630478278182.html
01-09-2021||India||C.1.2 Covid-19 variant: Centre says no cases in India so far, but how deadly is it?||The central government said on Wednesday, September 1, that no cases of the new C.1.2 coronavirus disease (Covid-19) variant have been detected in India so far, according to the ANI news agency, citing officials familiar with the matter. This strain of the coronavirus, first reported from South Africa, has now spread to at least six countries, according to the World Health Organisation (WHO). The public health body of the United Nations (UN) said this week that it was monitoring the new C.1.2 virus strain, which could possibly be more transmissible and evade protection provided by vaccines, according to a study.No case of new COVID-19 variant C.1.2 reported in India so far: Govt sourcesC.1.2 Covid-19 variant was first detected in South Africa in May, but an alert about the "C.1.2 lineage" was issued by the National Institute for Communicable Diseases in the country on Monday. It said, however, that the Delta variant is still the most dominant strain of the coronavirus in South Africa.On medRxiv, a preprint server for health sciences, a paper that is yet to be peer-reviewed pointed out that the C.1.2 Covid-19 variant has been detected across the "majority" of provinces in South Africa and "seven other countries spanning Africa, Europe, Asia, and Oceania”; however, the exact extent of the variant's spread has not yet been confirmed by health authorities.WHO has a system of classifying coronavirus variants based on their transmissibility, virulence, or efficacy in the face of social measures. While 'variants of concern', such as the Delta variant, show an increase in transmissibility, more severe disease (for example, increased hospitalisations or deaths), the 'variants of interest' usually show community transmission in multiple clusters, but are not necessarily more virulent or transmissible.However, what's important to note here is that the World Health Organisation is yet to classify the reported C.1.2 coronavirus variant as either a 'variant of interest' or a 'variant of concern'. An alert was still issued by the South African institute since the C.1.2 variant is reported to contain a few "key mutations" which could trigger it to become variants of interest or concern. “Any time we see those particular mutations come up, we’d like to keep an eye on the variant to see what it’s going to do," The Guardian quoted Dr Megan Steain, a virologist and lecturer in immunology and infectious diseases in Sydney, as saying. "These mutations may affect things like whether it evades the immune response, or transmits faster."According to the study cited earlier, the C.1.2 lineage has a mutation rate of about 41.8 mutations per year, which is about twice as fast as the current global mutation rate of the other variants. "It could be more transmissible and has the potential to spread fast," said Upasana Ray, a virologist from Kolkata's CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Biology. "Since there are so many mutations in the spike protein, it could result in immune escape and thus a challenge for the vaccination drive worldwide if allowed to spread."So far, researchers say that the mutations N440K and Y449H, associated with immune escape from certain antibodies, have also been found in C.1.2 sequences. Based on these findings, an educated guess says that it is similar to what was previously seen in variants like Beta and Delta. Therefore, there could be a chance that the serum would not neutralise as well as it would against an ancestral strain, but a lot of these projections are still speculative, researchers said, adding that more experiences are needed to properly judge the efficacy of current Covid-19 vaccines against the new strain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/c12-covid-19-variant-centre-says-no-cases-in-india-so-far-but-how-deadly-is-it-101630473952638.html
01-09-2021||India||Meetings of Krishna, Godavari boards to be held today||Officials from the irrigation departments of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana will hold meetings with representatives of the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) and Godavari River Management Board (GRMB) on Wednesday. The modalities and issues related to the Centre’s move to take over projects on the Krishna and Godavari rivers in the two states will be among the issues discussed at the meetings. The Krishna waters sharing is a major bone of contention between the two states. The diversion of waters from the Godavari to the Krishna will also be discussed. The two states have so far held 13 meetings on waters sharing. Telangana is on Wednesday expected to again seek a higher share of waters allocation from the Krishna. It was allocated 299 thousand million cubic feet (TMC) of waters from the river when it was carved out of Andhra Pradesh in 2014. The Krishna flows through Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, and Telangana. The united Andhra Pradesh was allocated 811 TMC. “There was no Telangana state earlier; so, the 299 TMC allocation was done without proper consultation... Hence, we want a higher share,” a Telangana irrigation department official said, requesting anonymity.Telangana has been seeking higher waters share, and the matter is pending before the Krishna River Water Disputes Tribunal- 2. “Until the matter is solved, we are asking for a 50-50 share which Andhra Pradesh is opposing,” the official said.An Andhra Pradesh’s irrigation department official said all issues including Telangana’s demand will be discussed.The KRMB was to be allocated to Andhra Pradesh and GRMB to Telangana as per the bifurcation plan. Andhra Pradesh has sought to shift the KRMB’s office from Hyderabad to Visakhapatnam, about 550 km from the river basin. Telangana wants the KRMB office to be closer to the basin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meetings-of-krishna-godavari-boards-to-be-held-today-101630475217266.html
01-09-2021||India||Paralympian Lekhara is brand ambassador of Rajasthan’s campaign for girl child||The Rajasthan government has nominated shooter Avani Lekhara, who won a gold medal at the Tokyo Paralympics as the brand ambassador of Beti Bachao Beti Padhao campaign in the state.Women and child development minister Mamta Bhupesh said on Tuesday that her department is proud to name Lekhara for the campaign. Shreya Guha, principal secretary, women and child development department, said Lekhara’s involvement will create an enabling environment in the society to educate daughters. Also Read | 3 Rajasthan cops suspended over audio clip to kill suspect, not arrest himLekhara, 19, hails from Jaipur and is wheelchair-bound after she met with an accident in 2012. With an injured spinal cord, she was paralysed below her waist. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot announced cash rewards for the three state players who won medals at the Tokyo event. Lekhara will be given ₹3 crore for winning gold in shooting, Devendra Jhajharia will get ₹2 crore for winning silver in javelin throw and Sunder Singh Gurjar will get ₹1 crore for winning bronze in the same event. The three players have already been appointed to the post of assistant conservator of forest in the state forest department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/paralympian-lekhara-is-brand-ambassador-of-rajasthan-s-campaign-for-girl-child-101630473838010.html
01-09-2021||India||India logs 41,965 cases in 24 hours; more than half are from Kerala||India's Covid-19 tally saw a major hike in daily cases of infections as 41,965 samples tested positive in the last 24 hours, the numbers updated on the Union health ministry's website showed on Wednesday. It was a jump of 11,024 from Tuesday's numbers when the country logged 30,941 cases. Of the fresh 41,965 cases, Kerala accounted for more than half of the cases reported in the last 24 hours. The southern state logged 30,203 cases and 115 deaths yesterday.The total tally has now reached 32,810,845, and the death toll stands at 439,020 after the addition of 460 new fatalities.Active Covid-19 cases also saw a rise and reached 3,78,181, as per the health ministry figures. The active cases account for 1.15% of total cases. The cumulative number of recoveries is at 31,993,644.The weekly positivity rate has been recorded at 2.58 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 68 days. The national Covid-19 recovery rate has been recorded at 97.51 per cent, as per the ministry.On the vaccination front, the country crossed the ten million mark on Tuesday after the authorities administered 133 million doses in a single day. The cumulative number of doses administered till now is at 654,113,508.India's Covid-19 infection tally had crossed the two million mark on August 7 last year, three million on August 23, four million on September 5, five million on September 16, six million on September 28, seven million on October 11, eight million on October 29, nine million on November 20 and 10 million on December 19.The country crossed the grim milestone of 20 million cases on May 4 and 30 million on June 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-logs-41-965-cases-in-24-hours-more-than-half-are-from-kerala-101630473595022.html
01-09-2021||India||WhatsApp banned over 30 lakh Indian accounts in June-July. Here's why||Over 30 lakh Indian accounts have been banned by WhatsApp between June 16-July 31, the company said in its compliance report, released on Tuesday. The actual number of accounts that got suspended stands at 30, 27,000. The messaging platform received 594 grievances during that time, it said. The accounts have been suspended on various complaints including unauthorised use of automated messages etc. WhatsApp, in its latest report, said it received 594 user reports spanning across account support (137), ban appeal (316), other support (45), product support (64) and safety (32) during June 16-July 31. During this period, 74 accounts were "actioned", as per the report. Taking action means either banning the account and restoring an account. The company said reports may have been reviewed but not included as 'Actioned' for many reasons, including the user needing assistance to access their account or to use some features, user-requested restoration of a banned account and the request is denied, or if the reported account does not violate the laws of India or WhatsApp's Terms of Service, news agency PTI reported. Social media intermediaries in India are supposed to publish their compliance report, in accordance with the IT Rules 2021. "In accordance with the IT Rules 2021, we've published our second monthly report for the 46 day period of - 16 June to 31 July," WhatsApp spokesperson said.The new IT rules which came into effect on May 26 require large digital platforms (with over 5 million users) to publish compliance reports every month, mentioning the details of complaints received and action taken.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/whatsapp-banned-over-30-lakh-indian-accounts-in-jule-july-here-s-why-101630472522874.html
01-09-2021||India||Supertech Emerald Court demolition: Day after Supreme Court ruling, UP CM orders strict action against officials||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday directed officials to take strict action against officials of Noida Authority, who are accused in alleged irregularities in construction of twins towers in Supertech Emerald Court, news agency ANI reported.The action comes a day after the Supreme Court ordered demolition of 40-storey twin towers being constructed in Noida's Sector 93A. The court also slammed the Noida Authority, pointing out multiple incidents of collusion of its officials with Supertech and violations of norms by the realty major in construction of the twin towers.Also Read | Supertech Emerald Court demolition order in Noida: Key facts and timelineThe court had ordered prosecution of officials of Supertech and the Noida Authority under the Uttar Pradesh Urban Development Act for flouting the laws."The case has revealed a nefarious complicity of the planning authority in the violation by the developer of the provisions of law," the bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and MR Shah said in the order.It directed Supertech to carry out the demolition at its own expense and complete it within three months under the supervision of the Noida Authority and an expert body such as the Central Building Research Institute.The top court also directed that the entire amount of home buyers in Emerald Court's Apex and Ceyane towers be refunded with 12 per cent interest from the time of the booking. ₹2 crore must be paid to the Residents Welfare Association (RWA) for the harassment caused due to the construction of the twin towers, which would have blocked sunlight and fresh air to the existing residents of the housing project, the Supreme Court said.RK Arora, chairman of the Supertech Group, told Hindustan Times that the developer will file a review petition, asking for a reconsideration of the judgment to demolish the two towers.According to Supertech, of the 633 people who booked the flats initially, 133 have moved out to other projects, 248 have taken refunds and 252 home buyers still have bookings with the company in the project.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/day-after-supreme-court-order-against-supertech-yogi-adityanath-directs-action-against-officials-101630473326704.html
01-09-2021||India||China-Pakistan-Taliban 'axis' is India's cause for worry, warns Chidambaram||Veteran Congress leader and former Union minister P Chidambaram on Wednesday said that it is still too early to celebrate over a recent United Nations Security Council (UNSC) resolution on Afghanistan, warning that a possible "axis" among China, Pakistan, and the Taliban-controlled Afghanistan is a cause for worry. "It is too premature to congratulate ourselves," Chidambaram wrote in a tweet from his official handle on this day. "The possible axis of China, Pakistan, and Taliban-controlled Afghanistan is a cause for worry."Also Read | At UNSC meet, India seeks early Israel-Palestine talks to achieve 2-state solutionThe Congress leader's statements come in the wake of the UN Security Council adopting a strong resolution this week, demanding that the Taliban-controlled territory in Afghanistan not be used for sheltering terrorists or threatening any other nation. The UNSC resolution also expects the Taliban to hold true to its commitments regarding the safe departure of foreign nations from Afghanistan.Highlighting the UNSC resolution, Congress leader Chidambaram said that the Afghanistan issue has not yet been 'resolved' to India's satisfaction; instead, he said, officials only managed to put its "wishes on paper and got some others to sign that paper"."The government is congratulating itself for the UNSC resolution on Afghanistan adopted yesterday," Chidambaram wrote in his tweet. "‘Resolution’ has two meanings. The first is that the issue has been ‘resolved’ or settled to India’s satisfaction. That is not what happened at the UNSC.""The second meaning is that we have put our wishes on paper and got some others to sign that paper!" he continued. "That is what happened at UNSC yesterday. It is too premature to congratulate ourselves. The possible axis of China, Pakistan, and Taliban-controlled Afghanistan is a cause for worry."The second meaning is that we have put our wishes on paper and got some others to sign that paper! That is what happened at UNSC yesterdayIt is too premature to congratulate ourselves. The possible axis of China, Pakistan and Taliban-controlled Afghanistan is a cause for worryAlso Read | High-level group focuses on India’s priorities in AfghanistanThe UNSC resolution that was adopted on Monday was sponsored by France, the United Kingdom (UK), and the US. As many as 13 members of the council voted in favour while none voted against it. Russia and China, which are permanent veto-wielding members at the UNSC, abstained from voting. The resolution, which came on the penultimate day of India's presidency of the security council for the month of August, was the first of its type adopted by the powerful 15-nation UN council on the Afghanistan situation following the swift takeover of Kabul by the Taliban.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chinapakistantaliban-axis-is-india-s-cause-for-worry-warns-chidambaram-101630468156192.html
01-09-2021||India||India has administered at least 650 million Covid vaccine doses till now||India had administered at least 650 million Covid vaccine doses by Tuesday, August 31. The country achieved another milestone by administering over 12 million doses on the day, prompting a congratulatory note from Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya. Mandaviya took to Twitter to share that 500 million people have been given their first doses till now.Meanwhile, by 7pm on Tuesday, 651,214,767 vaccine doses were given across the states and UTs. As many as 10,442,184 doses were administered by that time. Of this, 7,688,889 got their first dose while 2,753,295 got their second dose.Also Read | Delhi schools reopen today for classes 9 to 12; guidelines hereIn the 18-45 age group, 5,643,704 were given the first dose while 1,278,568 doses were given as the second dose on the day. Cumulatively, 253,289,059 people have been given the first dose while 27,224,648 have got their second shot as well.Among the healthcare workers, 10,358,383 have been given the first dose while 8,389,866 have got their second dose as well. Among the frontline workers, 18,323,410 have got their first dose and 13,225,370 have got their second dose too.On Wednesday, schools in Delhi reopened for students of 9 to 12 standards, almost one and a half years after educational institutions were shut down due to a spike in the infections.The schools were ordered shut in the national capital in March 2020 after a spike in Covid cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-at-least-650-million-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101630469337010.html
01-09-2021||India||Supertech Emerald Court demolition order in Noida: Key facts and timeline||In a setback to Supertech Ltd, the Supreme Court on Tuesday directed demolition of twin 40-storey towers of the realty major's Emerald Court project in Noida.The top court said the case record is replete with instances which highlight the collusion between officers of the Noida Authority with Supertech Ltd and its management and involvement of the planning authority with the developer in violation of laws.Here are the key facts about the project:The soon to be demolished project involves two towers: Apex and CeyaneThe project is located in Noida's Sector 93A, along the Noida-Greater Noida ExpresswayThe project has 857 apartments, out of which 627 have been soldTimeline of the case:June 2005: Plan sought to build a towers each with nine floors and softs in totalDecember 2006: Plan modified to 15 towers with 11 floors each and 689 total flats. Supertech argued that these plans were governed by Noida building bylaws of 1996November 2009: Plan revised to include two more towers - Apex and Ceyane - with 24 floors. Construction beginsMarch 2012: Total floors increased to 40 in the two towers. These were under 2010 Noida building regulations, Supertech arguedDecember 2012: Emerald Court Owners Residents Welfare Association approaches Allahabad high court claiming the towers violated UP Apartment Owners Act, 2010 that required sanction of homebuyers for changes in plan. They said the towers came up over an area marked as a garden in brochure. The Supreme Court was told the towers were built at less than the mandated 16 metre distance between themApril 2014: High court ordered demolition of the towers and refund to buyers with 14 per cent interest. It observed that officials of Noida Authority colluded with the builder to construct the towers; towers sealedMay 2014: Noida Authority and Supertech move Supreme Court claiming no norm was flouted. Homebuyers too move court seeking refund, regularisation of towers or order to shift them to another projectAugust 2021: Supreme Court slams Noida Authority for its "shocking" misuse of powers to sanction the two towers, upholds high court's demotion orderSupreme Court's directionsDemolition should be done in three months, paid for by SupertechFlat owners of the two towers to get refund at 12 per cent interest in two months ₹2 crore to be paid to RWA within a monthThe people behind the long legal battleSenior citizens, including a retired DIG of the CISF, a former DRDO official and a deputy director general in Telecom Department, started the legal battle and led it to its conclusion.UBS Teotia (79), S K Sharma (74), Ravi Bajaj (65) and M K Jain (59) formed a legal committee and moved court in 2009.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supertech-emerald-court-demolition-order-in-noida-key-facts-and-timeline-101630468783180.html
01-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: Heavy rains cause waterlogging in Delhi; IMD issues orange alert and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi rains: Waterlogging slows traffic in parts of city; IMD issues orange alertHeavy rains lashed Delhi on Wednesday, leading to severe waterlogging in the city which in turn created traffic snarl in several parts of the city since the morning. Read More'Not just about Afghanistan': Biden explains reasoning behind US troops pulloutUnited States president Joe Biden on Wednesday, September 1, said that the decision to pull out US troops from Afghanistan was "not just about Afghanistan". Read MoreAt 158,880, August Covid infections in Maharashtra 33% less than JulyMaharashtra on Tuesday recorded 4,196 fresh Covid-19 cases taking the number of infections recorded in August to 158,880, approximately 33% less than July. Read MoreBCCI calls bids for two new IPL teamsThe next edition of the Indian Premier League (2022) will feature 10 teams. Eight months after the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) gave its approval to add two more teams to the league, bids have been invited through a tender process on Tuesday to kick-start the league’s expansion plans. Read MoreKBC 13: Himani Bundela correctly answered this ₹1 crore question with a Radhika Apte connect. Can you?Himani Bundela, a teacher from Agra, became the first crorepati on Kaun Banega Crorepati season 13, which kicked off only last week. Read MoreMilind Soman nails a headstand to stretch his mind, body and spirit in new workout videoCelebrated supermodel, actor and fitness enthusiast Milind Soman's week began on a happening note as he celebrated his wife, Ankita Konwar's 30th birthday with his family. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-heavy-rains-cause-waterlogging-in-delhi-imd-issues-orange-alert-and-all-the-latest-news-101630466438200.html
01-09-2021||India||Drive against hawkers intensified in Thane following attack on woman officer||A day after assistant municipal commissioner Kalpita Pimple was attacked by hawkers, the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) intensified the drive against them in the city.“We are continuing the anti-encroachment drive with the same vigour. We shall deploy additional security forces for such intensified drives,” said TMC commissioner Vipin Sharma. Additional police force was present during the crackdown against the hawkers at Naupada-Kopri and Diva wards on Tuesday.Meanwhile, the attacker, Amarjeet Singh Yadav, 32, has been remanded to police custody for four days on Tuesday afternoon, said Kishore Khairnar, senior police inspector, Kasarvadavli.Expressing concern over the attack, Mayor Naresh Mhaske, said, “The civic body will bear the cost of treatment of the injured official and her security guard.”Thane guardian minister and minister of urban development and public works in the state cabinet, Eknath Shinde directed the police to take strict action against the arrested offender.Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) chief Raj Thackeray said his party will deal with the attackers once they come out of jail. “Their arrogance should be put down,” he said.Similarly, Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) leader of the Opposition in the state council, Pravin Darekar, sought stringent action against such elements. “The accused should be booked under the stringent MCOCA (Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act) as a deterrent,” he said.Darekar also demanded introduction of the hawking zone concept for better regulation and control over the hawker mafia.Women officials from Thane district met district and police authorities demanding additional protection in demolition drive-like situations.“We approached the police and district authorities to understand the course of action. The accused will be punished and we were given assurance that police protection will be provided for us. Moreover, women officials will continue to partake in such drives with dedication to show they aren’t afraid of such bullies,” said Nilima Suryavanshi, Tehsildar, Shahapur.(Inputs by Naresh Kamath)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drive-against-hawkers-intensified-in-thane-following-attack-on-woman-officer-101630466456350.html
01-09-2021||India||Naidu recommends ‘Mission 5000’ to beat disruptions in legislature proceedings||Rajya Sabha chairman and Vice-President Venkaiah Naidu on Tuesday called for a behavioural change in the 5,000-odd lawmakers who resort to disruption. “It is ‘Mission 5,000’ for effective parliamentary democracy. If the elected MPs, MLAs and MLCs can mend their ways and conduct themselves appropriately inside the legislatures, our law making bodies would certainly look much different from what they are now. The people of our country are earnestly looking for such a qualitative turn around in the functioning of our law making bodies,” he said.“In this landmark 75th year of our Independence, I appeal to all the 5,000 legislators of our country to resolve not to disrupt the proceedings of legislatures during this year. Thereafter, I can assure them that it would become a habit...,” he said. The Monsoon session of Parliament adjourned a couple of days ahead of the schedule in August after repeated disruptions by Opposition members in both the Houses over the Pegasus snooping row and the farmers’ issue. Also Read | Delhi rains prevail, IMD issues heavy rainfall alert across NCRThe RS chairman was speaking at the first ‘Pranab Mukherjee Memorial Lecture’ to mark the first death anniversary of the former president. The theme of the lecture was ‘Constitutionalism: The Guarantor of Democracy and Inclusive Growth’ and was organised by Pranab Mukherjee Legacy Foundation.Referring to Mukherjee as “a path finder in troubled situations” and a “consensus builder”, Naidu said, “More than the statistics about the long years of being in power, it was the contributions of Pranab Da that made him unique in several ways. He deployed his sharp mind, phenomenal memory, deep understanding of our country’s diversity, history and civilisational values, and knowledge of statecraft to best use to various aspects of nation building.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/naidu-recommends-mission-5000-to-beat-disruptions-in-legislature-proceedings-101630465796240.html
01-09-2021||India||7 ministers to launch Yoga-Break app aimed to help rejuvenate during work||Union minister of Ayush Sarbananda Sonowal, along with six other Union ministers, will launch the Yoga-Break mobile application at Vigyan Bhawan on Wednesday as part of the ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’ celebrations.Health minister Mansukh Mandaviya, law and justice minister Kiren Rijiju, information and broadcasting minister Anurag Thakur, Union minister of state for science and technology Jitendra Singh, tourism and culture minister Meenakshi Lekhi and minister of state for Ayush Munjpara Kalubhai are the other ministers who will attend the launch event.The 5-minute Yoga Break Protocol is a set of yoga exercises to de-stress, refresh and refocus on work to increase the productivity of individuals at the workplace, an Ayush ministry communique said.“The concept of Yoga Break (Y-Break) is relevant to working professionals across the world. It has been carefully developed by eminent experts under a tested protocol,” the statement said.The protocol comprises Tadasana- Urdhva-hastottanasana- Tadasana, Skandha chakra- Uttanamandukasana– Kati Chakrasana, Ardha Chakrasana, PrasaritaPadottanasana- Deep Breathing, Nadishodhana Pranayama, Bhramari Pranayama- Dhyana.This module was launched in January 2020 as a pilot project in six major metro cities in coordination with different stakeholders, the Ayush ministry said.“A total of 15 days trial was conducted by Morarji Desai National Institute of Yoga in collaboration with six leading Yoga institutes of the country, wherein total 717 participants from different private and government bodies participated and it was a huge success,” the ministry said.It said about 600 participants including eminent yoga practitioners, scholars, policymakers, bureaucrats, yoga enthusiasts and experts of allied sciences will participate in the launch of the app on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/7-ministers-to-launch-yoga-break-app-aimed-to-help-rejuvenate-during-work-101630463696130.html
01-09-2021||India||From Aadhaar-PF link to LPG prices, here are new rules in effect from today||From Aadhaar-PAN card linking to a potential rise in cooking gas prices, several changes are expected to the general public life from today (that is, September 1, Wednesday). As a new month begins, here is a list of important changes that will come into effect from today.Mandatory PAN-Aadhaar linkingThe State Bank of India (SBI) had earlier directed that linking the PAN card and the Aadhaar card was mandatory and had to be done within September 30. According to bank officials familiar with the development, there might be transaction-related issues in case an individual does not follow through with the directions. According to the erstwhile guidelines, the bank account had to be linked with PAN in the case of depositing over ₹50,000 to the account.Aadhaar-PF linkingFrom September 1 onwards, employers can also credit their contribution of the provident fund (PF) only if the employee’s Aadhaar number is linked to their Universal Account Number (UAN). The Employees' Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) amended Section 142 of the Code of Social Security, 2020, which has made the Aadhaar-PF linking mandatory for availing of various services, receiving payments, and seeking benefits, among others.LPG price hikeCooking gas prices are rising once again in early September, reports had indicated last month. Now, petroleum companies have hiked LPG cylinder prices once again by ₹25; taking the price of a non-subsidised 14.2-kg cylinder in Delhi to ₹884.50. The price of cooking gas had gone up by ₹25 per cylinder on August 18. Earlier still, in July, the price of cooking gas was increased by ₹25.50.Since the cooking gas prices witnessed a surge for two months in a row, it was expected that the trend will continue in September as well. Since January this year, LPG prices have increased by ₹165 per cylinder.The new rates are effective from today. The price of a 19-kg commercial cylinder has also increased by ₹75, which will now cost ₹1,693 in Delhi.New cheque clearance normThe Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has laid down a new Positive Pay System for clearing cheques in 2020 in order to verify an issuer’s details for stopping any fraudulent acts. The system had, however, come into effect on January 1 of this year.Axis Bank will adopt the new system from September 1 onwards; the private sector lender has already begun the process of informing its account holders of the rule via SMS. Customers who are issuing high-value cheques must now inform their respective banks before doing, under this new system for cheque clearance. This is meant to prevent bank frauds pertaining to issuing and clearance of cheques.GSTR-1 filing guidelinesNew rules are also being issued for goods and services tax (GST) networks from this month. The Goods and Service Tax Network (GSTN) has said that from now on, in order to file GSTR-1 in accordance with the rules, everything has to be submitted in line with Rule-59(6) of the Central GST Rule. According to these new protocols, no person can file GSTR-1 unless he fills up the GSTR-3B form.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-aadhaar-pf-link-to-lpg-prices-here-are-new-rules-in-effect-from-today-101630460652645.html
01-09-2021||India||At 158,880, August Covid infections in Maharashtra 33% less than July||Maharashtra on Tuesday recorded 4,196 fresh Covid-19 cases taking the number of infections recorded in August to 158,880, approximately 33% less than July. 239,863 Covid cases were registered in July, while in June, the number was 316,293. The total number of coronavirus cases recorded in Maharashtra have now reached 6.464 million and the death toll due to the disease has reached 137,313. Lesser number of infections also saw a 16% drop in the death rate in August when 4,208 Covid-related fatalities were reported. 5,020 deaths took place in July and 7,542 in June.Dr Subhash Salunkhe, advisor to Maharashtra government for Covid-19 management, said despite the overall drop in number of infections, there were some pockets of concern in the state. “Some districts such as Pune, Kolhapur and Satara are not witnessing a dip,” said Dr Salunkhe. Mumbai recorded 323 new Covid cases on Tuesday and one death, taking the Maximum city’s infections tally in August to 15,977. With the dip in the number of cases mid-August, 13,453 (87.9%) of the 15,290 Covid beds across hospitals in the city were vacant as of Tuesday morning. The 15,290 beds comprise normal beds, oxygen beds, ICU beds, paediatric ICU beds, neonatal ICU beds, and ventilator beds for Covid patients.6,838 (90%) of the 7,595 oxygen beds; 1,639 (73%) of the 2,243 ICU beds and 883 (68%) of the 1,289 ventilator beds were vacant, as per official data. 37 of the 39 paediatric ICU beds and 22 out of the 28 neonatal ICU beds were vacant too. Of the 127 beds for cancer patients with Covid, requiring dialysis, 66 or 51% were vacant, the data showed.Mangala Gomare, executive health officer of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s public health department, said, “We have noticed bed vacancy has been steadily increasing over the past two-three weeks. The dip in cases witnessed during August is mainly responsible for this.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-158-880-august-covid-infections-in-maharasthra-33-less-than-july-101630461655893.html
01-09-2021||India||Go after big fish if concerned about NPAs: Supreme Court to PSBs||The Supreme Court, on Tuesday, said public sector banks should focus their energy on recovering loans from “big fish” and “big corporate debtors” instead of running after those who have petty loans of a few thousand rupees.“You should focus on catching big fish. If you are really concerned about rising NPAs (non-performing assets) of the public sector banks, concentrate on big corporate debtors...not on such small loanees,” a bench, headed by Justice Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, told Canara Bank.Loans are deemed non-performing once they are left unpaid for at least 90 days beyond the due date and borrowers are likely to default on these debts.The bench, which also included justices MR Shah and Hima Kohli, was hearing an appeal by Canara Bank against a judgment of the Madras high court in March this year.The high court had repelled an attempt by the public sector bank to hold a social service society from Tiruchirapalli, Tamil Nadu, liable for repaying an amount of ₹48.8 lakh, which was given to 1,540 individuals as loans in 1994-95. The high court had held that Canara Bank cannot recover its outstanding loan from the society’s fixed deposit since there was no formal contract or express agreement of recovery from the society in case of failure by the borrowers to repay the loans.Representing the bank, senior advocate Dhruv Mehta argued before the top court that the Tiruchirapalli Multipurpose Social Service Society gave letters of guarantee that they will assure repayment of loans from the borrowers and that it was only on this assurance, the amounts were released.But the bench noted that the loan was given by the bank under the DIR scheme to financially assist low-income groups. “These amounts were given to those involved in small farming, poultry, dairy, or to tradesmen and artisans. These are marginalised sections...some of them cannot even pay ₹10 for their photos on these forms. And the society, admittedly, helped you to identify these people. Why are you now going after the society?” the bench asked Mehta.The bench added: “Giving loans to certain sections of society is also a social function. It is not only an economic function. You should also bear a moral responsibility.”At this, Mehta replied that the banks were already suffering from the problem of NPAs and that recoveries had to be made to tide over it.The court, however, retorted: “These are not the people to go after. You should go after the big fish. Canara Bank should not come in appeal against a society such as this.”Mehta said that the bank has come in an appeal since a petition under Article 136 (special leave petition with wide discretionary power) is a ‘Brahmastra’.“The Constitution has entrusted us with this Brahmastra only to make sure we use this only in suitable cases. And this is not the one,” said the bench, rejecting Canara Bank’s appeal.It also upheld the high court order, stating that the bank should desist from contesting a matter like this and should instead channelise its energy and resources on better cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/go-after-big-fish-if-concerned-about-npas-supreme-court-to-psbs-101630460128299.html
01-09-2021||India||Ramacharyulu named Rajya Sabha secretary general||Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu on Tuesday appointed Dr Parasaram Pattabhi Kesava Ramacharyulu as the new secretary general of the Upper House of Parliament.Ramacharyulu has been working as secretary in the Rajya Sabha Secretariat since 2018 and succeeds Desh Dipak Verma, who demitted office after serving for four years.As per the Rajya Sabha Secretariat, Ramacharyulu is the first ever Upper House employee to have risen to the secretary general’s post. Nine employees have become the secretary general of Lok Sabha so far.Born in 1958, Ramacharyulu has about 40 years of experience of handling various aspects of the functioning of Parliament.“He joined the secretariat in 1983 after serving in the Lok Sabha Secretariat for a year earlier. He served as Special Secretary, Andhra Pradesh Legislature in 2017,” a statement issued by the Rajya Sabha Secretariat said.A Bachelor of Laws and Master of Arts (Political Science) degree holder, Ramacharyulu was awarded Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D) by the Jawaharlal Nehru University for his work on ‘Committee Systems of Indian Parliament and the US Congress: A Comparative Study’ in 2005.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ramacharyulu-named-rajya-sabha-secretary-general-101630435625805.html
01-09-2021||India||Sixth accused in Mysuru rape case held: Police||HT The sixth accused allegedly involved in the gang rape of a medical student in Mysuru has been arrested from Tirupur in Tamil Nadu, police said on Tuesday.According to the police, Vijayakumar (26) was arrested from his relative’s residence in Alathur near Avinashi following a tip-off late on Monday.The Karnataka Police have already arrested Murugesan, Joseph, Aravind, a 17-year-old boy, and Boopathi for allegedly raping the 22-year-old woman near Mysuru and assaulting her friend on August 24. Police officials said that a search operation has been launched to nab one more accused in the case.According to the FIR, the accused have been booked under sections 376D (gang-rape) and 397 (robbery or dacoity with attempt to cause death or grievous hurt) of Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sixth-accused-in-mysuru-rape-case-held-police-101630441854374.html
01-09-2021||India||PM Modi, Manmohan Singh pay tributes to ex-president on 1st death anniversary||Hailing Pranab Mukherjee as a visionary and statesman, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said that during the former president’s outstanding public life, his administrative skills and acumen always shone through various responsibilities that he shouldered.In a message that was read out at the first Pranab Mukherjee Memorial Lecture on Tuesday to mark the first death anniversary of the former president, Modi said that blessed with unparalleled intellectual capabilities, Mukherjee, who was conferred the Bharat Ratna, made remarkable contributions to the nation’s progress.“A distinguished parliamentarian, his speeches and interventions were of the finest quality, reflecting his grasp over a range of diverse issues,” the Prime Minister said in his message.Former prime minister Manmohan Singh, who also spoke at the event, said he depended a great deal on Mukherjee’ sagacious advice and guidance on various issues. Singh said Mukherjee had a long and illustrious political career spanning over five decades during which he held several important portfolios in several ministries of the central government.“To all positions he occupied he brought his immense wisdom, deep knowledge, extensive experience of life and leadership skills spearheading critical decisions of the government on a wide range of issues,” Singh said.“Pranab da was a key participant for over 50 years in the 74-year journey of independent India… From remote ‘Mirati’ village in Bengal… an Upper Division Clerk in the Posts and Telegraph Office, he rose to become the President of India,” Vice-President Venkaiah Naidu said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-manmohan-singh-pay-tributes-to-ex-president-on-1st-death-anniversary-101630440786378.html
01-09-2021||India||Delhi high court seeks detailed affidavit from govt on surveillance systems||The Delhi high court on Tuesday asked the Centre to file a detailed affidavit on a plea by an NGO challenging the use generalised surveillance systems by the authorities while also seeking details of procedure in relation to the monitoring and interception of phones.A bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh granted time to the Centre to file its reply while hearing a plea by two societies-- Centre for Public Interest Litigation (CPIL) and Software Freedom Law Centre (SFLC)—contending that citizens’ right to privacy was being “endangered” by surveillance programmes like the Centralised Monitoring System, Network Traffic Analysis and National Intelligence Grid.“Time to file detailed affidavit granted to Union of India. Point out in detail the law and procedure followed by the Union of India for monitoring and interception of phones,” the bench said posting the matter for September 30.Appearing for the NGOs, advocate Prashant Bhushan urged the court to constitute a committee under a retired judge of the HC or the Supreme Court to “find out what the government was doing” and that the government reply in the present case was “bald”. “They filed an affidavit saying everything is in accordance with law. Government’s reply is a bald reply.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-asks-centre-to-file-detailed-affidavit-on-surveillance-systems-101630440292928.html
01-09-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccination: Record 12 million vaccine doses administered in a day||New Delhi: With over 12.8 million shots of the vaccine administered across India on Tuesday, according to data available at 11pm on the Co-WIN dashboard, India’s Covid-19 vaccination drive set yet another single-day record for doses delivered, wrapping up August as, by far, the best month (yet) of India’s mass inoculation programme.The total number of people across India who have now received at least one shot of the vaccine has surpassed 500 million, data shows.Tuesday’s record single-day jabs means that in the month of August, the country administered a total of 183.5 million doses, translating to a daily average of 5.9 million doses throughout the month. This average administration is a jump of 1.6 million doses a day over the previous monthly best recorded in July (average of 4.3 million jabs a day). At its lowest since the drive was thrown open to all adults, this pace had dropped to under 2 million doses a day through May, data shows. With more vaccine doses (at least 250 million) available in September, the number could increase even more. Tuesday marked the third time in the past 15 days that the country has set a new record for single-day dose administration. A total of 12,869,300 doses had been administered till 11pm on Tuesday, according to data from the Union health ministry’s Co-WIN dashboard, bettering the previous high of 10,064,376 doses set on Friday. Before that, on August 16, 8.82 million jabs were administered across the country.Buoyed by these daily records, the country’s pace of vaccination, which was patchy for months, appears to have finally settled into high gear. In the past week, an average of 8.3 million doses has been administered across the country every day – the highest pace ever recorded in the country, according to HT’s dashboard.The recent jump in pace comes less than a week after India touched the milestone of covering half the country’s adult population with at least one shot of the vaccine. Till Tuesday night, a total of 651.2 million doses of Covid-19 vaccine have been administered across the country to 500 million people with 350 million people partially vaccinated and 150 million people having received both doses of the vaccine. When seen alongside the country’s projected adult population of 940 million (according to the Census of India’s National Commission on Population), this means that 53.3% of people above the age of 18 years have received vaccine shots – 37.3% have been partially vaccinated and 16% having received both doses.A LONG WAY STILL TO GOWhile the pace of the drive has seen progress, data shows that there is still a long way to go if India wants to achieve its stated target of vaccinating its entire adult population of 940 million by the end of 2021.Data shows that the country still needs to increase the pace of vaccinations to completely cover all adults by the end of December, a commitment the government has made in a submission to the Supreme Court. In total, India needed to administer around 1.88 billion doses by the end of the year to meet this target. Since 651 million of these have already been administered, that leaves around 1.23 billion doses still left in the remaining 122 days in the year, or 10.1 million doses every single day for the rest of the year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccination-record-12-million-vaccine-doses-administered-in-a-day-101630439693571.html
01-09-2021||India||Another tourist found dead in Goa, third in a month||Panaji: A 66-year-old Irish woman was found dead in her rented flat in North Goa on August 30, the third death of a foreign national in the state in one month, police said. Mary Gertrude McNamara, was found dead in her flat in Candolim, a coastal village in North Goa where she lived alone. Her body was discovered by her friends who broke open the door of the flat after she did not respond to calls and messages, police said.The room in which the body was found was also locked from inside, they added.Police believe that the woman may have been dead for several days before her body was discovered but are awaiting the post mortem report to confirm the same.“We will carry out further investigation as per the autopsy report and statement of her friends,”North Goa superintendent of police Shobit Saksena told reporters.As is the practice, the police is required to contact the respective consulate before proceeding with the post mortem examination, should the consulate choose to depute a representative to be present during the examination. The incident comes nearly two weeks after two Russian women, one an actress, were found dead, in separate incidents, in their apartment in North Goa. On August 19, actress Alexandra Djavi was found hanging in her rented apartment in Siolim village while Ekaterina Titova was found dead in her flat in the same village.While the police initially said there was no evidence of foul play, Titova’s death was later attributed to murder after the post mortem report revealed she was smothered to death. Her friend, Denis Kruichkoy, was arrested in connection with the case. The final cause of Djavi’s death is yet to be ascertained pending examination of the viscera.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-tourist-found-dead-in-goa-third-in-a-month-101630439274613.html
01-09-2021||India||Venkaiah Naidu appoints Ramacharyulu as Rajya Sabha Secretary General||New Delhi: Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu on Tuesday appointed Dr. Parasaram Pattabhi Kesava Ramacharyulu as the new secretary general of the Upper House of Parliament.Ramacharyulu has been working as secretary in the Rajya Sabha Secretariat since 2018 and succeeds Desh Dipak Verma, who demitted office after serving for four years.As per the Rajya Sabha Secretariat, Ramacharyulu is the first ever Upper House employee to have risen to the secretary general’s post. Nine employees have become the secretary general of Lok Sabha so far.Born in 1958, Ramacharyulu has about 40 years of experience of handling various aspects of the functioning of Parliament. “He joined the secretariat in 1983 after serving in the Lok Sabha Secretariat for a year earlier. He served as Special Secretary, Andhra Pradesh Legislature in 2017,” a statement issued by the RS Secretariat said.A Bachelor of Laws and Master of Arts (Political Science) degree holder, Ramacharyulu was awarded Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D) by the Jawaharlal Nehru University for his work on ‘Committee Systems of Indian Parliament and the US Congress: A Comparative Study’ in 2005.Ramacharyulu has attended various domestic and foreign training programmes including Change Management & Human Resources in London, Legislative Drafting at International Legislative Drafting Institute, Washington DC and Parliamentary Exchange Programmes in European Parliament, Brussels.He has visited the US, UK, Canada, Belgium, South Africa, Bangladesh and Qatar on official assignments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/venkaiah-naidu-appoints-ramacharyulu-as-rajya-sabha-secretary-general-101630438973472.html
01-09-2021||India||Rajnath Singh praises Adityanath, launches 180 projects in U.P.||Lucknow: Praising the “tough stand” taken by Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on law and order in the state, defence minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday said, “The heartbeat of criminals stops when they hear the name Yogi.”Singh was speaking after he, along with the UP chief minister, laid the foundation stones for 180 projects that will come up at an estimated cost of ₹1,710 crore in a programme at Jyotiba Phule Park in Lucknow.They also inaugurated the Victoria Street-Charak Flyover on the occasion.Singh, who is also the Lok Sabha MP from Lucknow said, “Had Yogi Aditynath not been the chief minister, then I would not have been able to work so much for Lucknow.”“If we want to ensure good governance in the state, it is not possible without better law and order. Development is also not possible without it. He should be appreciated for the strict action taken by him,” the Union minister said.Adityanath said that Uttar Pradesh had changed and the state was in second place in the ease of doing business rankings. “That’s why it has attracted investment of ₹65,000 crore during the corona period. From 2003 to 2017, the state government ensured a steep fall in economy, law and order, but today everything is looking up,” he added.Describing the Victoria Street flyover as “a historic work”, Singh said it earlier took one hour to cover the 4-km distance, but now commuters would be able to cross the stretch in three minutes.Five flyovers have been completed and work on the next four would start soon, said Rajnath Singh.Singh also drew the attention of the CM to the slow pace of 100-km ring road project in Lucknow, urging him for its timely completion. “I request CM to show his ‘tevar’ (attitude) as only he can do that,” he said. The defence minister also appreciated Adityanath for providing over 250 acres on lease of Re 1 for a facility to manufacture Brahmos missiles in Lucknow under the defence corridor project. He added, “Every household in Lucknow will get piped natural gas (PNG) connection. Green Gas Limited has agreed to lay PNG lines across the city. Now the cost of gas will be less.”Rajnath also hailed the CM for his sensitivity during the coronavirus pandemic, citing the facilities provided to children whose parents died due to the infection.The defence minister asked his supporters to have a picture of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee on every hoarding which they put up for his welcome.“God has created the wonderful duo of Modi at the Centre and Yogi in UP. That’s why 90% of people have been benefited by government schemes in the state,” the defence minister added.Uttar Pradesh will go to polls early next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-praises-adityanath-launches-180-projects-in-up-101630438555886.html
01-09-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccination: Govt suggests district-level panels for teachers||New Delhi: The Union government on Tuesday asked states and Union territories (UTs) to create a district-level action plan to speed up the vaccination of schoolteachers and ensure that all teaching and non-teaching staff employed across schools receive at least the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine in the month of September, people aware of the development said. The move comes as most states are partially reopening their schools for physical classes as the second wave of the pandemic continues to ebb and the country’s vaccine drive gathers momentum. During a virtual meeting with education secretaries of states and UTs on Tuesday, Anita Karwal, secretary, school education and literacy, asked them to update the ministry about the vaccination status of teachers twice a week through an online tracker. “During the meeting, education secretary Anita Karwal discussed the plans of teachers vaccination with the states and UTs. She advised all state/UT education secretaries to work with their health secretaries and design a roadmap at district level for vaccination of all teaching and non-teaching staff engaged across their schools. She has asked the officials to ensure that all teachers should at least receive the first dose of vaccine during the month of September and those who have already received the first dose should be followed up rigorously for the second dose,” a senior ministry official said on condition of anonymity. The meeting was held in the backdrop of the Centre’s decision to provide at least 20 million additional Covid-19 vaccine doses to states and UTs to vaccinate teaching and non-teaching staff employed in schools (both government and private) on priority. The announcement came ahead of Teachers’ Day on September 5. India has fully vaccinated 150 million people and partly vaccinated another 350 million till the end of August. Several states and UTs such as Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh and Assam, among others have either reopened schools or are reopening them from September 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccination-govt-suggests-district-level-panels-for-teachers-101630437835920.html
01-09-2021||India||Govt suggests district-level panels to vaccinate teachers||The Union government on Tuesday asked states and Union Territories (UTs) to create a district-level action plan to speed up the vaccination of schoolteachers and ensure that all teaching and non-teaching staff employed across schools receive at least the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine in the month of September, people aware of the development said.The move comes as most states are partially reopening their schools for physical classes as the second wave of the pandemic continues to ebb and the country’s vaccine drive gathers momentum.During a virtual meeting with education secretaries of states and UTs on Tuesday, Anita Karwal, secretary, school education and literacy, asked them to update the ministry about the vaccination status of teachers twice a week through an online tracker.“During the meeting, education secretary Anita Karwal discussed the plans of teachers vaccination with the states and UTs. She advised all state/UT education secretaries to work with their health secretaries and design a roadmap at district level for vaccination of all teaching and non-teaching staff engaged across their schools. She has asked the officials to ensure that all teachers should at least receive the first dose of vaccine during the month of September and those who have already received the first dose should be followed up rigorously for the second dose,” a senior ministry official said on condition of anonymity.The meeting was held in the backdrop of the Union government’s decision to provide at least 20 million additional Covid-19 vaccine doses to states and UTs to vaccinate teaching and non-teaching staff employed in schools (both government and private) on priority.The announcement came ahead of Teachers’ Day on September 5.India has fully vaccinated 150 million people and partially vaccinated another 350 million till the end of August.Several states and UTs such as Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh and Assam, among others have either reopened schools or are reopening them from September 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-suggests-district-level-panels-to-vaccinate-teachers-101630437531553.html
01-09-2021||India||From Slovenia, a special invite for Jaishankar to EU foreign ministers’ meeting||NEW DELHI: External affairs minister S Jaishankar has been invited to join an informal meeting of foreign ministers of European Union (EU) states in Slovenia on September 3 that is expected to focus on the situation in Afghanistan and the Indo-Pacific. Slovenia, which currently holds the rotating presidency of the Council of the European Union for July to December, extended a special invitation to the Indian foreign minister to participate in the informal meeting and interact with his EU counterparts.“The focus of the discussions is likely to be on developments in Afghanistan and the Indo-Pacific,” a person familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity.The informal meeting of the EU Foreign Affairs Council will be held at an estate near the city of Kranj on September 3, under the “Gymnich” format.The meeting is considered a highlight of each presidency of the Council of the 27-member EU and provides an opportunity for an open and strategic exchange of views among participants on different aspects of the EU’s role and position in the world.The EU is also expected to unveil its Indo-Pacific strategy in September. Jaishankar is expected to speak on India’s Indo-Pacific policy at the Bled Strategic Forum, an annual international conference, during his visit to Slovenia.From Slovenia, Jaishankar will also travel to Croatia and Denmark.Meanwhile, Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke on phone with the President of the European Council, Charles Michel, on Tuesday and discussed recent developments in Afghanistan and their implications for the region and the world.Modi and Michel “unequivocally condemned the horrific terror attack at the Kabul international airport that resulted in many casualties” and “emphasised the importance of a stable and secure Afghanistan”, according to a readout from the external affairs ministry.They also discussed the potential role India and the EU could play in the context of the developments in Afghanistan. “The two leaders agreed to remain in touch on bilateral and global issues, in particular, the situation in Afghanistan,” the readout said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-slovenia-a-special-invite-for-jaishankar-to-eu-foreign-ministers-meeting-101630437473285.html
01-09-2021||India||Record 12 million vaccines administered in a day||With over 12.8 million shots of the vaccine administered across India on Tuesday, according to data available at 11pm on the Co-WIN dashboard, India’s Covid-19 vaccination drive set yet another single-day record for doses delivered, wrapping up August as, by far, the best month (yet) of India’s mass inoculation programme.The total number of people across India who have now received at least one shot of the vaccine has surpassed 500 million, data shows.Tuesday’s record single-day jabs means that in August, the country administered a total of 183.5 million doses, translating to a daily average of 5.9 million doses throughout the month. This average administration is a jump of 1.6 million doses a day over the previous monthly best recorded in July (average of 4.3 million jabs a day). At its lowest since the drive was thrown open to all adults, this pace had dropped to under 2 million doses a day through May, data shows. With more vaccine doses (at least 250 million) available in September, the number could increase even more.Tuesday marked the third time in the past 15 days that the country has set a new record for single-day dose administration. A total of 12,869,300 doses had been administered till 11pm on Tuesday, according to data from the Union health ministry’s Co-WIN dashboard, bettering the previous high of 10,064,376 doses set on Friday. On August 16, 8.82 million jabs were administered across the country.Buoyed by these daily records, the country’s pace of vaccination, which was patchy for months, appears to have finally settled into high gear. In the past week, an average of 8.3 million daily doses has been administered across India – the highest pace ever recorded in the country, as per HT’s dashboard.The recent jump in pace comes less than a week after India touched the milestone of covering half the country’s adult population with at least one shot. Till Tuesday night, a total of 651.2 million doses of Covid-19 vaccine have been administered across the country to 500 million people with 350 million people partially vaccinated and 150 million people having received both doses of the vaccine. When seen alongside the country’s projected adult population of 940 million (according to the Census of India’s National Commission on Population), this means 53.3% of people above 18 years of age have received vaccine – 37.3% have been partially vaccinated and 16% have received both doses.While the pace of the drive has seen progress, data shows there is still a long way to go if India wants to achieve its stated target of vaccinating its entire adult population by 2021-end.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/record-12-million-vaccines-administered-in-a-day-101630436833075.html
01-09-2021||India||Experts raise questions on Kerala ‘record’ jabs||A nurse in Kerala administered vaccine to 893 people in seven and a half hours and state health minister Veena Geroge felicitated her on Monday in Pathanamthitta district for this record of sorts, but her feat hasn’t gone down well with the medical community. Meanwhile, the state reported 30,203 Covid positive cases with a high test positivity rate of 18.86% on Tuesday after 160,152 samples were tested. The active caseload rose to 218,292 and the state also reported 115 deaths, said the state health ministry. Many experts have criticised the state’s crave for ‘records’ when it remained the pandemic capital of the country contributing around 70% of the total cases. They said as per the statistics more than 100 vaccines would have been given in an hour. But going by the medical practice, they said, 5 to 10 minutes are needed for each inoculation, as the person will be asked about the possibility of medical reaction and case history, if any, before administering it. They said it is difficult to give more than 25 vaccines in an hour even if somebody helped the nurse. What irked professionals are that the minister’s office released the news with photos of the event underlining the ‘record’. Many health activists also took to social media to criticise it. “It shows the state will stoop to so low to create records,” an activist said, not wishing to be named. Others asked the government to stop its soft corner for records which landed it in a sorry state. After the incident kicked off a row, the nurse at Chenganur government hospital, K Pushpalata, said it was not done for any record and that it was a collective work. “I did not do this for record but I met all procedures and rules. It was a collective venture,” she said. Later the minister also criticised those who made it a controversy. “Everything can’t be seen in negative way. Some people only see the negative side and try to portray all good work in bad light,” she said, asking them not to de-motivate overworked health workers. Meanwhile, the state government has decided to conduct only RT-PCR tests in six districts that completed around 80% of vaccination. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said three districts -- Wayanad, Pathanamthitta and Ernakulam -- have crossed 80% vaccine coverage, and Thiruvnanthapuram, Idukki and Kasaragod are about to reach 80%. Only RT-PCR tests will be done in these districts. Many experts have earlier criticised the state’s overdependence on antigen tests which still formed around 40% of total tests. “We are on a mission to inoculate all eligible population by September-end. We have covered those above 60 years well,” the CM said, after chairing a core committee meeting on pandemic. The state clamped night curfew from Monday and decided to conduct a sero prevalence study to determine the immunity of people against the Sars-Cov 2 virus and find out whether some mutation has taken place in the state. But many experts criticised the night curfew move. “We have no idea who suggested it. As such the state has no night life,” said Dr N M Arun, an internal medicine expert. The health minister said nod for the sero study was granted by the Indian Council of Medical Research and samples will be collected from all parts of the state. “This study will help streamline our preventive measures and we can find out how much per cent of people got immunity so far. We can make targeted vaccination and testing based on its findings. We are trying hard to complete at least one dose to all eligible people by September-end,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/experts-raise-questions-on-kerala-record-jabs-101630436035336.html
01-09-2021||India||AIADMK protests against Jayalalithaa Univ merger||Tamil Nadu police on Tuesday detained former deputy chief minister O Paneerselvam and other AIADMK lawmakers and later released them for protesting against the ruling DMK’s move to merge Dr J Jayalalithaa University in Villupuram district with Annamalai University in Chidambaram. When minister for higher education K Ponmudy introduced the Tamil Nadu Universities Laws (Amendment and Repeal) Bill 2021 for the merger, AIADMK’s former higher education minister K Anbazhagan was on his feet to oppose it. He was followed by Panneerselvam, who eventually led a walkout from the ongoing assembly and they sat in protest on a busy arterial road along the Kalaivanar Arangam, where the assembly takes place. The ‘road roko’ went on for about 15 minutes before the police picked them up and detained them inside a marriage hall. After being released, Panneerselvam accused the Dravida Munnetra Kazahagam (DMK), which formed the government in May, of political vendetta. “From the time when she was chief minister from 2011, Amma (Jayalalithaa) rolled out several schemes and made high budgetary allocations for us to excel in the higher education sector and for the overall progress of the state,” said Panneerselvam. “She established several colleges during her governance. No chief minister of any state has achieved the way she has, so it is only apt to name an educational institution after her.” In February earlier this year, the then All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) regime passed a Bill in the assembly to establish Dr J Jayalalithaa University in Villupuram to start functioning from this academic year. It was to honour their leader, who passed away in office in December 2016.Panneerselvam added that it was late Jayalalithaa who saved Annamalai University from closing down due to a shortage of funds and allocated funds annually for the running of the institute. “The DMK has introduced this Bill out of political vendetta just to remove Amma’s name,” said Panneerselvam, adding that the student community, people of Tamil Nadu and the AIADMK condemn the move.When the AIADMK had passed the Bill in February, it also gave effect to the bifurcation of the Vellore-headquartered Thiruvalluvar University and to create a new academic institution with headquarters in Villupuram. The colleges in the surrounding districts of Villupuram, Cuddalore and Kallakurichi would be disaffiliated from Thiruvalluvar University, and transferred to the newly established university, which they named after Jayalalithaa. The DMK’s new bill seeks to repeal the Dr J Jayalalithaa University Act 2021. It also seeks to convert the Annamalai University from a unitary institution to an affiliating university so that the colleges in Villupuram, Cuddalore, Kallakurichi and Mayiladuthurai could then be affiliated to the Annamalai University. The DMK denied passing this bill out of political vendetta. The party has justified its decision stating that Jayalalithaa University has remained non-functional as it was passed for namesake during the fag end of the previous regime without taking any practical steps, such as funding for its functioning. To this, Panneerselvam said that it’s a newly established university and the new government should support it. DMK said that since Annamalai is an existing renowned institution with 1000 acres of land and other infrastructure, it would be more beneficial to students. “Annamalai University has now come under the government and by changing it from a unitary to an affiliating university, we can get UGC grants and it will be beneficial for students from the surrounding districts as it is already a renowned institution,” said DMK spokesperson Constantine Ravindran. DMK also cited the example of two other educational institutes that are named after Jayalalithaa in the state, but they aren’t changing those names or scrapping those institutions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiadmkprotests-against-jayalalithaa-univ-merger-101630435974037.html
01-09-2021||India||After HC order, T’gana stays reopening of government schools||The Telangana Education department on Tuesday issued a clarification on reopening of schools in the state, saying that except for the social welfare, residential and tribal welfare schools with hostel facilities, all other schools are permitted to reopen from September 1.A memo was issued to that effect by the secretary to government (education), Sandeep Kumar Sultania, based on a High Court ruling on Tuesday which asked the government to lay down standard operating procedures (SOP) to be followed by all school managements about the reopening of the educational institutional institutions in the state. The state government had on August 23 announced that physical classes in all schools (including residential and welfare schools with hostels) would resume from September 1. However, city-based IAS coach and advocate Bala Krishna Mandapati filed a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) on the issue, due to the ongoing Covid pandemic. The state’s plan to completely resume offline classes hit a break on Tuesday morning as a bench of acting Chief Justice MS Ramachandra Rao and justice Vinod Kumar ruled that it is not mandatory to attend offline classes starting tomorrow for any child. Based on the court’s directions, the memo from the Telangana Education department stated that it is now up to school managements to have either online or offline classes for children or a combination of both. It added that any undertaking by parents from managements absolving the latter if any child gets infected with Covid-19 would also not have any “legal effect”.The Telangana government, led by chief minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao (KCR), decided to reopen and run physical classes from September 1 and had issued guidelines for the same. The state is still reporting about 300 Covid-19 cases every day even now.In the state, schools and other educational institutions have been shut since the academic year began, and classes are still being held online. After the government decided to reopen all schools, management were asked to create a customised seating arrangement along with a proper plan of physical distancing, aside from students being made to wear masks compulsorily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-hc-order-t-gana-stays-reopening-of-government-schools-101630435972503.html
01-09-2021||India||Bengaluru Metro looks to cut inter-train interval to 3min on Phase-I lines||BengaluruThe Bengaluru Metro will soon start retrofitting works on its existing phase-I lines to keep it on par with the technology used in subsequent phases to enable trains to run in 3-minute intervals rather than the limitation of the 5 minutes between them.This will not only increase frequency but also reduce wait times and encourage more people in India’s IT capital to use the Metro as a viable public transport over private vehicles, said officials of the Bengaluru Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL).“The new technology in phase-II is that I can run a train even with a gap of three minutes. As and when the passengers increase, we can increase frequency,” BMRCL managing director Anjum Parvez told Hindustan Times. “BMRCL will start retrofitting gates in phase-I to make it compatible with the National Common Mobility Card (NCMC).”Parvez said signalling systems in phase-II will be different from those in phase-I, which will reduce time between two train services. “Even gates have to be compatible to NCMC and they would be changed as well to make the technology uniform across phases to allow seamless travel within the city.”Bengaluru has 56 kms of operational Metro tracks in a city that is over 800 square kms wide. Around 120-km tracks are in various stages of construction in the city, which has been a challenge for ordinary commuters to deal with amid traffic snarls.Bengaluru, which has a vehicular population of 9.4 million, was judged in 2019 to have the world’s worst traffic globally, according to TomTom, a Netherlands-based global provider of navigation, traffic and map products. The poor quality of roads, lack of viable public transport options and last-mile connectivity, delays in completion of the Metro, and now the fear of contracting the coronavirus in public spaces have forced more people to opt for private transport options, adding to the number of vehicles on the already congested roads of the city.BMRCL has also started using prestressed slabs in its construction to save time, Hindustan Times reported on August 26.Since the inauguration of the Metro line in Delhi in 2002, the entire country has a total of around 730 kms operational in 18 different cities and another 1,049 kms under various stages of construction, according to government data.Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Sunday announced to extend the Metro’s existing services to rural Bengaluru and other parts, which would in effect double the entire network to around 317 kms. He has instructed officials to draw up plans to increase the Metro’s network that extends to Ramanagara, Magadi and Rajanakunte, that are over 30-40 kms from the outskirts of the city.But almost every single stretch of the Metro has been delayed invariably. The latest, Nayandanahalli to Kengri on Mysuru road, that was inaugurated on August 29, was delayed by two months. According to BMRCL officials, there is a minimum 5% escalation in the cost of the Metro for every year the project is delayed.The chief minister has brought down the deadline for some of the existing lines under construction by a year from 2025 to 2024. By 2022, an additional 36 kms of Metro lines are scheduled to be completed, Bommai announced on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengaluru-metro-looks-to-cut-inter-train-interval-to-3min-on-phase-i-lines-101630435856820.html
01-09-2021||India||Over 300 booked for Covid violations during Owaisi rally||Over 300 people who attended a political rally of the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) leader Asaduddin Owaisi in support of two candidates contesting the municipal corporation elections on Monday, were booked for violating Covid-19 protocols, police said on Tuesday.The Market police in Belagavi city registered a case under the Karnataka Epidemic Diseases Act and the Disaster Management Act, apart from IPC sections based on a complaint by Sripad Kulkarni, who is a nodal officer for Covid-19.Three urban local bodies (ULB’s)--Hubbali-Dharwad, Belagavi and Kalaburagi--are heading to the polls on September 3. The counting will be held on September 6.All three major political parties--BJP, Congress and Janata Dal (Secular) and other local outfits are carrying out similar rallies across these districts. Heightened political campaigning in earlier bypolls in three constituencies—Basava Kalyan, Maski and Belagavi (Lok Sabha)--on April 17 had resulted in a sharp spike in Covid cases in these districts and contributed to the severity of the second wave of infections that lasted between March and July this year, Hindustan Times had reported. Then chief minister BS Yediyurappa had warned of strict action “after the election”, making it a convenient case for political parties to violate rules while continuing to hold citizens responsible for the rapid spread. In a bid to stop the spread, the state government has made it mandatory for all persons coming from neighbouring Kerala to undergo seven-day institutional quarantine. “Guidelines for Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Charamarajanagar are yet to be discussed. I will discuss this with CM regarding this. People entering border districts need be under surveillance to check the spread of infection,” Dr K Sudhakar, Karnataka’s minister for health, family welfare and medical education said on Tuesday. He also added that the government will initiate action against a college in Kolar which has become a Covid hotspot after nearly 32 students have tested positive. “32 students are infected with Covid in a college in KGF. All of them are Kerala returnees. I will visit the college and take action against the college management. Covid has been brought under control to 700-800 cases per day from as high as 50,000 cases per day. (The) Government has worked hard to mitigate the pandemic,” Sudhakar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-300-booked-for-covid-violations-during-owaisi-rally-101630435855319.html
01-09-2021||India||Shock, grief as victims’ families come to terms with the tragedy||Most of them received the news of the tragic accident early Tuesday morning and since then the families of the seven deceased are in a state of shock. According to family members, they were not familiar with other occupants of the car. The deceased were identified as Karuna Sagar (28), DMK MLA Y Prakash’s son, his fiancé Bindhu(28) Ishita(21), Dhanusha(21) Akshay Goyal(23) Utsav( 22) and Rohit( 23). On Monday, Sagar had posted on his social media accounts about his arrival in Bengaluru in his Audi 3 series SUV that met with the tragic accident. Relatives and friends of Sagar said he had a craze for high-end cars and bikes. Sagar is a businessman and used to visit Bengaluru often. According to police, Sagar came to Bengaluru on Monday to purchase medicines at around 5.30 pm and even carried out some business in the city. The family had called him for dinner at 9.30pm but he informed them that he won’t be coming and went ahead with his friends. According to eyewitnesses, some occupants in the car were in their pyjamas. Based on this input, police suspect that the group had gone out for an unplanned joy ride at night when the accident took place at around 1.45 am. The MLA was in Chennai when he learnt about the accident and left for Hosur, in Krishnagiri district. His elder brother Chandrappa came to St John’s Hospital here to receive the body after the post-mortem. “A big tragedy has befallen us. I am not in a position to say anything,” he told reporters. Another victim of the accident, Bindhu was set to get married to Sagar, according to her father Chandrashekar. According to him, he didn’t know any occupants of the car, other than Sagar. “We knew that they were friends and they wanted to get married, but no official proposal was made so far. She had said she would only marry him, and we had agreed to it,” he said. He said that his daughter had called him around 8 pm on Monday. “She finished her masters in the UK and was working in Bengaluru. She spoke with me last night around 8 pm. It was a normal call, she asked me if I had dinner. She was working from home that night. She didn’t mention about going on a drive,” he said. Another occupant in the car, Rohit, had lost his parents 10 years ago and his uncle was taking care of him. Bharat Amrut, a cousin brother of the deceased, who had come to the police station said that they received information about the incident around 3 am. “Police called me this morning and asked me to come to the police station. They didn’t initially tell me he died. They told me that there was an accident and Rohit is under treatment. As we were on our way to Bengaluru (from Hubli), we were told that he had passed away. Our family members had spoken to him but there was no conversation that he was going on a drive,” he said. According to him, Rohit used to work in an online education platform and he had been living in Bengaluru for past one year. When asked if he knew other occupants in the car, the cousin said the family didn’t have any information about them. “We don’t know how he made contact with such highly influential people, like an MLA’s son,” he said. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shock-grief-as-victims-families-come-to-terms-with-the-tragedy-101630435853791.html
01-09-2021||India||Fortified rice not enough to tackle malnutrition: Experts||India wants to fortify all rice with iron and vitamins distributed under various subsidised food-security schemes, but experts are divided on whether the move will solve the country’s notoriously longstanding malnutrition problem among women and children.The government currently runs a pilot programme to distribute nutrient-enriched rice, covering a period of three years beginning 2019-2020 with a budget of ₹174.6 crore.On August 15, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, during his Independence Day speech, announced a major expansion of the programme. “Will give rice fortified with nutrients to the poor. Be it the rice available at the ration shop, the rice provided to the children in the mid-day meal, or the rice available through every scheme, all of it shall be fortified by 2024,” Modi had said.India ranks 94th among 107 nations on the Global Hunger Index, which classifies the country as having a “serious” level of hunger. According to the 2016 National Family Health Survey-4, which provides the latest data on health and nutrition, 38.4% of children in the country were stunted (low height for age) and 21% were wasted (low weight for height).The survey showed that the prevalence of anaemia among Indian women had seen only a small decline from 55% in 2005-06 to 53% in 2015-16.The government’s rice fortification push is important given that targets under the National Nutrition Mission are yet to be achieved. Since its launch, the mission aims to reduce stunting and wasting by 6% by 2022 (2% per year) among children, and anaemia by 9% (3% per year) among children, teenage girls and pregnant women.“An emphasis on fortification alone may do little to improve anaemia because from a nutrition point of view, absorption of iron depends on the availability of other nutrients that can come only from a diversified diet,” said Veena Shatrugna, former deputy director at the National Institute of Nutrition, Hyderabad.Officials, however, say the government’s pilot programmes have shown promising results. In Maharashtra’s Gadchiroli, rice fortified with iron had shown a reduction in anaemia prevalence by 10% and improved average cognitive scores by 11.3 points, official provisional data reviewed by HT showed.A meta-analysis by World Health Organization showed rice fortified with vitamins and minerals, including iron, reduces the risk of iron deficiency by 35% (16 studies having 14,267 participants).According to Arun Kumar, a nutritionist and a medical doctor who works on health ethics and conflict of interest, the government ought to take into account the latest recommended dietary intake of various micronutrients, which have lowered the daily intake quantity of nutrients, such as iron. “This means a simple diverse diet is still the best option.”Locally prepared, hot cooked meals are still the preferred option to boost the nutrition status of malnourished children.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fortified-rice-not-enough-to-tackle-malnutrition-experts-101630435553850.html
