02-09-2021||India||HT This Day: September 3, 1970 — Princes lose by bare 9 votes||Lok Sabha adopts Constitution Bill (339 to 154)Uneven performance during passageNew Delhi- In an epoch-making decision, the Lok Sabha today accorded its approval to the Constitution (24th Amendment) Bill for the abolition of privy purses and privileges of former rulers. Amidst acclamation from the treasury benches and a sizable section- of the Opposition, the Speaker, Mr G. S. Dhillon, announced that the Bill had been passed by 339 to 154 votes.As Prime Minister Indira Gandhi wound up the two-day debate and the division bell rang, the atmosphere was surcharged with such excitement as never witnessed before in the history of the Indian Parliament.The touch-and-go nature of close voting was picturesquely evident on the electronic device-the essential two-thirds majority for the passage of the Constitution (Amendment) Bill was ensured by mere nine votes.The Congress (0), the Swatantra Party and the Jan Sangh lost the crucial battle despite some BKD and Independent votes. The few Congress princes who exercised their right of conscience failed to materially affect the position.The Speaker declared that the Bill had obtained the support of the majority of the total membership of the House and a majority of not less than two-thirds of the members present and voting, as required by Article 368 of the Constitution.The voting pattern was not uniform at all stages of the Bill's passage. It was 336 to 155 on the first reading and two clauses received 339 to 152 and 336 to 153 votes, respectively. Mrs Gandhi's amendment fixing Oct. 15 as the date on which the legislation would come into force was carried by 338 to 152 votes.Different figuresOn every occasion, the machine showed a different set of figures, Later rectified by the Lok Sabha Secretariat staff. The plea advanced by Mr N. G. Ranga (Swa), Mr A. B. Vajpayee (Jan Sangh) and some Congress (0) members that the voting should be recorded in the lobbies was not accepted by the Speaker.Before proceeding with clause-wise consideration of the Bill, the House rejected by a voice vote amendments seeking to elicit public opinion and refer the measure to a select committee and to the Supreme Court under Article 143 of the Constitution.Besides Mrs Gandhi, the Finance Minister, Mr Y. B. Chavan today put forward the Government point of view, tracing the history of the negotiations with the princes. Both maintained that privy purses were not in the nature of private property and the "covenants" were no contractual agreements but merely political settlements which had to change with the changing times.They assured the princes of their desire to sort out the question of "transitional allowance" even after the Bill had been passed.Fervent appealWhile Mr Chavan described Mr Morarji Desai's speech as most "un-Morarjilike", Mrs Gandhi recalled the Mahabharata when the veteran Bhishma Pitamah was made to give a moral facade to the indefensible cause of the Kauravas.Mr Chavan made a fervent appeal to his former partymen sitting opposite, asking them not to forget that the abolition of privy purses and privileges was the decision of the undivided AICC and was reaffirmed at the Ahmedabad session of the Congress (O).Opposition leader, Dr Ram Subhag Singh, seemed to be prepared to respond, provided Mr Chavan could undo all the "unfair" tactics adopted by the Congress (N) since the split.Mrs Gandhi found a remark immediately rebounding when she said that "politics makes strange bedfellows," while commenting on the words of appreciation for Mr P. Ramamurti (CPM) by the Maharaja of Bikaner, Mr Karni Singh (Ind).In derisive laughter, Mr Piloo Mody (Swa) and some others asked her: "It applies to whom?"Mr Ramamoorti supported the Bill but bitterly attacked the Government, alleging that the "transitional allowance" scheme had been deliberately kept a secret so that the princes might be pressurised to serve the political game of the ruling party.He asked the Prime Minister why she did not invoke the provisions of Article 366 (22) of the Constitution which empowered the President not to recognise any succession. An executive order could have thus abolished the princely order.The Prime Minister agreed with the suggestion but argued the Constitution (Amendment) Bill had been brought forward with a view to obtaining the sanction of the highest legislative body in the country.Total oppositionMr Prakash Vir Shastri (BKD) expressed his total opposition to the Bill, while Mr S.N. Dwivedi (PSP) and Mr S. M. Joshi (SSP) showed great enthusiasm in support of it. But Mr Dwivedi agreed with Mr Ramamoorti that there was something fishy about the Government not disclosing its full plans.Two princes spoke in two voices, both recalling their great heritage. The Tourism and Civil Aviation Minister, Dr Karan Singh, (Jammu and Kashmir) asked his brethren to "seize the move of destiny" instead of "being pushed by the change."Mr Karni Singh of Bikaner, told the House that his father, the late Maharaja Sadhu Singh, was the first to sign the document of accession and his role had been applauded by no less a person than Dr Rajendra Prasad, the first President of India. Ironically, Dr Karni Singh's father, Maharaja Hari Singh, was almost the last to do this, causing the country immeasurable difficulties.He challenged the Government to take an opinion poll in the respective area of the princes before coming to any decision.Recounting a number of major problems, Mr Karni Singh said the abolition of privy purses and privileges was only diversionary tactics of the Government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-this-day-september-3-1970-princes-lose-by-bare-9-votes-101630606755798.html
02-09-2021||India||Covid strains: Govt makes RT-PCR mandatory on arrival from these 7 more nations||India on Thursday made RT-PCR test mandatory for passengers arriving from seven more nations, including South Africa, Bangladesh and China, owing to a rise in new Covid-19 strains.Arrivals from South Africa, Bangladesh, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand and Zimbabwe will have to get another RT-PCR test done upon landing at Indian airports. This is along with the one they need to do before boarding the flight.According to previous guidelines, passengers arriving from the United Kingdom, Europe and West Asia were required to get their RT-PCR tests done again upon landing at Indian airports.In a letter to all states and Union Territories, the government said that due to new mutations in the SARS-CoV-2 virus, rising number of ‘variants of concern’ and rising number of ‘variants of interest’ across the planet, these nations were added to the list of countries where travelers will have to get another RT-PCR test done after landing at Indian airports along with the one they undergo before boarding the flight.“The states/UTs must also strengthen their Whole Genome Sequencing (WGS) activities being coordinated through the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Consortium on Genomics (INSACOG) network of laboratories, by sending a fixed percentage of samples of positive cases among international travellers for genome sequencing to the respective INSACOG Genome Sequencing Laboratories tagged with them,” read the letter written by Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan.NITI Aayog member (health) VK Paul said INSACOG has the capacity to understand the impact of mutants, be it in terms of disease severity or disease transmissibility. “The screening of international travellers from a genetic sequencing point of view is one of the most critical protocols and pillars,” he added. He further urged the authorities to take measures so that these variants are not imported into the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-strains-govt-makes-rt-pcr-mandatory-on-arrival-from-these-7-more-nations-101630604629388.html
02-09-2021||India||Yediyurappa stepped down on his own, BJP will return to power in 2023: Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Thursday heaped praises on Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai and his predecessor BS Yediyurappa and said the latter had stepped down voluntarily to make way for new leadership to take over in the state.“Just recently, Yediyurappa took a decision on his own that a new person and leadership should be given the responsibility of Karnataka. And BJP (Bharatiya Janata Party) decided that Basavaraj Bommai should be given the responsibility of being the new chief minister and he is the CM today,” Shah said in Davangere, about 260 km from Bengaluru.The bitter battle between Yediyurappa and the national leadership ended with the 78-year-old stepping down on July 26. Yediyurappa made the announcement while desperately trying to hold back tears that suggested that his decision was enforced and not voluntary.More importantly, Shah said that under the leadership of Bommai, the BJP will be re-elected to power with a full mandate, indicating the possibility that the saffron outfit will head into the 2023 assembly polls with the latter leading the party.The remarks come at a time when there appears to be some discomfort between the national leadership of the party and the 78-year-old former chief minister who, according to multiple people aware of the developments, is alleged to be still in charge of the new government.Yediyurappa, who shared a volatile relationship with the national leadership and his own party members in the state during his two years in power, has taken it upon himself to bring back the party to power in 2023 on its own.The trouble, analysts and others said, is the manner in which the BJP and Yediyurappa are trying to attain this so-called common goal with their distinct approaches, Hindustan Times reported on Thursday.The national leadership of the BJP is trying to attain this goal on the platform of Hindutva while Yediyurappa continues to pursue his caste-based politics which has shaped his over four-decade old career and life.This is Shah’s first visit to Karnataka after Yediyurappa was replaced and a day before three major districts -- Belagavi, Kalaburagi and Hubbali -- head for polls for urban local body elections on Friday.Shah’s visit also comes at a time when there is visible discomfort within the BJP in Karnataka. There is a section of core-BJP legislators who nurse a feeling of neglect for being overlooked with the choice of Bommai, who has been with the BJP only for the last 13 years. There is an even bigger section of legislators who have aired their dissent in public after being overlooked for a ministerial berth in favour of those seen to be loyal to Yediyurappa.Lobbying continues within the BJP to fill up the four remaining spots in Bommai’s cabinet.“Bommai has made some small but significant beginnings. He stopped the tradition of receiving police guard of honour, stopped many VVIP practices and has taken certain steps for transparency. It is a very short time since Bommai took over but people who are sitting in Delhi and closely watching the developments in Karnataka, say that the BJP has strengthened its position by installing him as the Chief Minister,” Shah said, firmly standing behind the party’s choice.The BJP also faces a challenge in the yet-to-be announced Zilla and Taluka panchayat elections which is likely to be a good indicator of the mood of the population before 2023.Shah said that Karnataka had done well in terms of vaccination and has almost inoculated 90% of the state’s eligible population.Shah also lamented the existence of vaccine hesitancy among some communities and appealed to his party workers to spread awareness and extend all possible support to ensure wider vaccination coverage against Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yediyurappa-stepped-down-on-his-own-bjp-will-return-to-power-under-bommai-amit-shah-101630606033947.html
02-09-2021||India||Digvijaya Singh slams Modi government for monetisation policy||Senior Congress leader and former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Digvijaya Singh on Thursday took a swipe at the Narendra Modi-led government for monetising important public sector installations to hide its failure on the economic front.Singh, also a Rajya Sabha member, was talking to the media in Patna as part of the nationwide campaign against the Centre’s national monetisation programme. Singh is also the chairman of a nine-member panel formed recently by the Congress president to expose the government’s failure on the economic and other fronts.He said that the Modi government had been pursuing anti-people policies by selling the assets that the country took 70 years to create “An unworthy son rejoices in auctioning the property that he gets in legacy,” said Singh in an apparent dig at Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Accusing the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) of indulging in anti-people activities, the Congress leader alleged that RSS leaders were instigating farmers against the government when it was executing the Bhambraja Nagal dam project. “The Modi government resorted to demonetisation with the objective to crackdown on black money. But the status is that around ₹27 lakh crore of currency is in circulation against the ₹17 lakh crore before demonstration,” he added.Singh further alleged that the Central government was hardly bothered about the miseries of common people due to unprecedented price rise. “Today the government is realising more than ₹32 as excise duty on per litre petrol and diesel against ₹9.48 and ₹3.50 during the Congress-led regime,” he said.“The country’s debt has risen to ₹100 lakh crore as of now against ₹54.9 lakh crore in 2014. The working hours for labourers have been increased to 12 hours against the previous arrangement of eight hours, as prescribed by the international norms of working,” said the Congress leader.Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) president Madan Mohan Jha, former state chief Chandan Bagchi, CLP leader Ajit Sharma, MLC Premchandra Mishra and BPCC media department head Rajesh Rathore were also present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/digvijaya-singh-slams-modi-government-for-monetisation-policy-101630604774190.html
02-09-2021||India||Supertech violations: UP govt forms SIT, suspends planning manager||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday ordered the setting up of a special investigating team (SIT) to probe the collusion between the Noida authority and real estate company Supertech for the illegal construction of two 40-storied twin towers in the satellite city.A manager in the planning department of the Noida Authority was also suspended during the day for alleged violations.Supertech twin towers case | A four-member Special Investigative Team (SIT) team has been constituted to probe into the matter. The team has been instructed to submit report within one week.The developments came two days after the Supreme Court upheld a verdict of the Allahabad high court ordering the demolition of the twin towers -- Tower Apex and Tower Ceyane.On Wednesday, Yogi said strict action would be initiated against errant officials in the case.A statement from Yogi’s office read, "Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has directed to form an SIT at the government level immediately for investigation in Noida's twin towers case. Instructions were given to fix the accountability of officers of the authority who were associated with this case from 2004 to 2017."Also read | Supertech Emerald Court demolition order in Noida: Key facts and timelineOn Tuesday, a judgement from a two-judge SC bench, headed by Justice DY Chandrachud and comprising Justice MR Shah, said the construction was illegal and a result of the collusion between Noida authority and the real estate company.The Supreme Court directed the real estate developer Supertech to refund the money of flat owners concerned with a 12 per cent rate of interest within two months.The high court had on April 11, 2014, passed the judgement and ordered demolition of twin towers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supertech-violations-up-govt-forms-sit-suspends-planning-manager-101630602336755.html
02-09-2021||India||Meenakshi Lekhi to visit Colombia, US to boost bilateral ties, participate in UN meets||Minister of state for external affairs Meenakashi Lekhi will make her first official visit since assuming office in July to Colombia and the US during September 4-9 to boost bilateral ties and to participate in meetings at the UN. While in Colombia during September 4-6, Lekhi will meet the country’s top leadership and hold discussions with the vice president and foreign minister, Marta Lucia Ramirez, on regional and international issues. She will also interact with Indian and Colombian companies and the Indian community in the country. India and Colombia celebrated 60 years of diplomatic relations in 2019. Colombia is an important partner for India in Latin America and bilateral ties have been expanding, particularly in the economic and commercial spheres. Bilateral trade during 2020-21 was worth $2.27 billion, up from $1.85 billion in 2019-20 despite disruptions caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. Lekhi’s visit to Colombia will provide an opportunity to review progress in bilateral relations and expand an important partnership, the external affairs ministry said on Thursday. The last ministerial visit from the Indian side to Colombia took place in October 2018, when the then minister of state for external affairs, VK Singh, paid an official visit. In New York during September 7-9, Lekhi will represent India at the UN Security Council ministerial open debate on transitions under the agenda item “United Nations peacekeeping operations”. She is expected to meet senior UN leaders and interact with the Indian community in New York as part of the “Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav” celebration commemorating the 75th anniversary of India’s independence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meenakshi-lekhi-to-visit-colombia-us-to-boost-bilateral-ties-participate-in-un-meets-101630601233694.html
02-09-2021||India||Marginal improvement in Assam flood situation; death toll climbs to 7||The flood situation across Assam improved marginally on Thursday with a slight dip in the total number of those affected. But the state recorded two more flood-related deaths taking the total casualties this season to seven. According to the Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA), the total number of affected districts, which was 22 on Wednesday, dropped to 21 on Thursday. The total number of affected people was 492,818—on Wednesday it was 647,606. Two children died due to floods --- one at Chamaria in Kamrup (Rural) district and another at Mayong in Marigaon district in the past 24 hours, the ASDMA report mentioned. At present, 4169 people displaced due to flooding are taking shelter at relief camps in seven of the affected districts. According to a flood report issued by the Central Water Commission, Brahmaputra is flowing “above normal due to several flood situations” in Dibrugarh, Jorhat, Sonitpur, Goalpara, Kamrup (Rural) and Dhubri districts. Several other rivers, Beki, Jia Bharali, Subansiri, Gaurang, Sankosh, Pagladiya and Puthimari were also flowing above normal to flood situation at several points. Authorities at Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve reported that nearly 70% of the park’s area spread over 430 sq km continues to remain flooded. A total of 108 of the park’s 223 anti-poaching camps are inundated. Till date 13 wild animals (11 deer) have died due to flood-related incidents this season.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/marginal-improvement-in-assam-flood-situation-death-toll-climbs-to-7-101630600274556.html
02-09-2021||India||Biological E’s Corbevax may be launched in October: Niti Aayog’s VK Paul||Hyderabad-based pharmaceutical company Biological E may launch its vaccine, ‘Corbevax’, against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in October with phase three trial underway.Niti Aayog Member (Health) Dr VK Paul said on Thursday results were awaited and the company had committed to supply a significant quantity of the vaccine by the end of the year.“Stockpile is being produced. We should wait for the results. We hope it’ll be in the next month or two. They’ve made a broad commitment that they’ll supply a significant amount by year-end,” Dr Paul was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Corbevax, the second jab against the virus being made in the country, is an RBD protein sub-unit vaccine. On Wednesday, the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) gave permission to Biological E to conduct phase 2/3 clinical trials of Corbevax on children between five-18 years with certain conditions.The permission to the pharmaceutical company was given on the basis of recommendations of the Subject Expert Committee (SEC) on Covid-19.Trials will be conducted in 10 locations across India.Last month, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya met Biological E’s managing director Mahima Dalta regarding the progress of the vaccine’s development and assured of full support from the Centre.In June, the Union health ministry had said Biological E would supply 30 crore doses of Corbevax to India by December. The Centre has paid an advance of ₹1,500 crore to the company for the same.“These vaccine doses will be manufactured and stockpiled by M/s Biological-E from August-December 2021. For this purpose, the Union Ministry of Health would be making an advance payment of ₹1,500 crore to M/s Biological-E,” the ministry said in a statement in June.So far, only Zydus Cadila’s needle-free Covid-19 vaccine “ZyCoV-D” has received emergency use authorisation from the drug regulator to vaccinate children between 12-18 years. ANI earlier reported the doses might be administered to this age group from the first week of October.The data of phase 2/3 clinical trials of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin in the age group of 2-18 years is underway and results are expected to be out this month.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/biological-e-s-corbevax-may-be-launched-in-october-niti-aayog-s-vkpaul-101630598824264.html
02-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: Tripura speaker resigns from post and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Tripura speaker Rebati Mohan Das resigns citing 'personal' reasonsDas submitted his resignation to deputy speaker Biswabandhu Sen. Soon after, he was appointed as vice president of the BJP by party president Manik Saha. Read more here.India extends visas, stay period for stranded foreign nationals till Sep 30Many foreigners who were in India on various types of visas before March 2020 got stranded in the country due to restrictions imposed on flights in the wake of Covid-19. Read more here. Canadian city to celebrate Gauri Lankesh Day on September 5The city will commemorate the slain activist’s life on her death anniversary. Lankesh, a journalist-turned-activist, was shot dead outside her home in Rajarajeshwari Nagar on September 5, 2017. Read more here. 'You may look like an idiot but you would still be batting': Gavaskar reacts to India's top-order collapse at the OvalAfter a disappointing show by Indian batsmen on Day 1 of the Oval Test, former captain Sunil Gavaskar was slightly critical of the technique of India's top order batters. Read more here. Fast & Furious 9 movie review: Vin Diesel's running out of fuel; F9 is like a roadside accident you can't look away fromFast & Furious 9 movie review: Vin Diesel's long-running action franchise is in desperate need of refuelling. Read more here. Watch: Owaisi's poetic dig at Modi govt for meeting with Taliban leaders﻿||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-tripura-speaker-resigns-from-post-and-all-the-latest-news-101630596534522.html
02-09-2021||India||SC reconstitutes panel to assess damage caused by oil well explosion||NEW DELHI: Fifteen months after a massive blowout at Oil India Limited’s Baghjan oil well in Assam resulted in damage to environment and displacement of over 9,000 persons, the Supreme Court on Thursday reconstituted an expert committee to assess the damage caused to the environment and suggest a remedial restoration plan within a month.The National Green Tribunal (NGT) set up 10-member committee headed by Assam chief secretary on February 19 which had members from state and central government departments along with Oil India Limited (OIL) managing director to provide a biodiversity restoration roadmap and an assessment of the damage in six months. The tribunal set up the committee on a petition by activist Bonani Kakker.The Baghjan-5 oil well blow-out on May 27 2020 was followed by an explosion that led to extensive damage and destruction of the nearby wetlands and the biodiversity of Dibru-Saikhowa National Park.Kakker approached the top court for reconstituting the panel to include a panel of independent experts to undertake the damage assessment exercise and recommend immediate steps to be taken.The new committee replacing the 10-member committee will be headed by justice (retd) BP Katakey and comprise independent experts Wetlands International (South Asia) director Ritesh Kumar, Wildlife Institute of India’s Professor Qamar Qureshi, former deputy director at Indian Institute of Petroleum (Dehradun) GS Dang and soil expert Bedanga Bordoloi.The names were finalised after the court received suggestions from Kakker and the environment ministry.The court also directed the committee to report within a month the compensation payable by OIL for causing loss to environment and future work on restoration plan. The Union environment ministry was appointed the nodal ministry for facilitating the working of the committee and OIL was directed to deposit ₹50 lakh for meeting the committee’s expenses. The authorities concerned – state government, OIL, Central Pollution Control Board and state pollution control board – have been directed to extend full cooperation to the Committee. The court directed the matter to be listed immediately within a week after submission of the report.The presence of the OIL representative in the committee was held to be in direct “conflict of interest” by the top court.“The presence of representative of OIL as member of Committee will lead to serious conflict of interest and will not contribute to fairness of committee, a bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, Vikram Nath and Hima Kohli said.As regards the Committee being headed by chief secretary, the bench noted, “Considering the onerous responsibility of chief secretary, we are of the view that the chief secretary should not be given this task.” The court felt that the Committee had an adjudicatory role that required domain experts with subject knowledge.OIL represented by additional solicitor general (ASG) Aman Lekhi objected to justice Katakey being on the Committee. In June 2020, the NGT involved justice Katakey to examine the extent of damage resulting from the blowout and identify possible causes behind the incident. The committee headed by justice Katakey gave an interim report on July 24, 2020 that found OIL to be at fault as the requisite permission to establish and carrying out drilling and testing of hydrocarbons in Baghjan-5 oil well expired in 2019. These permissions were held necessary and in conformity with the conditions stipulated in the Environmental Clearance granted on May 11, 2020.The report by justice Katakey said, “On the day of (the) blowout of Well Baghjan-5 on May 27 and explosion on June 9, OIL didn’t have the mandatory consents including the consent to establish or the consent to operate under the Water Act, Air Act and/or the Hazardous Waste (Management, Handling and Trans-boundary Movement) Rules, 2016.” The justice Katakey panel found that the explosion led to a drastic decline in water oxygen level leading to a high mortality rate of marine life in the Maguri-Motapung wetland and flora and fauna of the nearby Dibru Saikhowa National Park and biosphere reserve which is home to the endangered Gangetic dolphins and a variety of mammals and bird species. The panel told NGT that OIL did not carry out a biodiversity impact assessment before operating the oil well.ASG Lekhi told the court that OIL seriously objected to the conclusions of the said report as not all members of the justice Katakey Committee did a site inspection. The bench responded that OIL will be heard by the five-member committee, but cannot be on the panel.Three lives were lost in the incident which required OIL to arrange relief camps for 9,000 persons at a cost of ₹11.17 crore. In addition, the company paid a one-time compensation of ₹30,000 to the 3,000 affected families besides compensation of ₹20 lakh each to 11 families whose houses were burnt. By a letter of December 2020, OIL has accepted its liability to pay a further amount of ₹68.05 crore to 600 affected families who sustained serious or total damage to their houses. In addition to the now-replaced 10-member Committee, the NGT order of February 2021 formed two other committees. These committees were given the task to fix responsibility for non-compliance with statutory provisions and safety protocols. The Supreme Court stayed the NGT order constituting the 10-member committee on July 1 and was surprised to find that despite holding OIL prima facie responsible for the damage caused to the environment, NGT proceeded to add OIL representative to the committee set up for fixing accountability on this issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-reconstitutes-panel-to-assess-damage-caused-by-oil-well-explosion-101630596013612.html
02-09-2021||India||Kerala sees over 32,000 Covid cases for second straight day, 188 new deaths||Kerala’s daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Thursday remained above the 32,000-mark for the second consecutive day with 32,097 new infections recorded in the last 24 hours, pushing the caseload to 41,22,133. A health update from the state government said the state had been seeing over 30,000 cases for the past few days.As many as 21,634 patients recovered and 188 succumbed to the viral disease in the last 24 hours. With this, the cumulative count of recoveries and deaths climbed to 38,60,248 and 21,149, respectively. On Tuesday, the state saw 32,803 cases, 173 deaths and 21,610 recoveries.The test positivity rate currently stood at 18.41 per cent with 1,74,307 samples tested in the last 24 hours. So far, 3,19,01,842 samples have been tested for the virus in the state, the government release added.Of Thursday’s infection count, Thrissur saw the highest number of cases at 4,334, followed by Ernakulam (3,768), Kozhikode (3,531), Palakkad (2,998), Kollam (2,908), Malappuram (2,664) and Thiruvananthapuram (2,440).The new cases in Kerala include 98 health workers, 102 people from outside the state and the remaining 30,456 people have been infected through contact with the source of the contact not being clear in 1,441 cases.Over 5,68,000 people continue to remain under surveillance across districts. Of these 5,34,805 are in home or institutional quarantine and 33,282 in hospitals.Kerala is currently the worst-hit state from the pandemic in India and is contributing the maximum to the country’s caseload. Amid the high test positivity rate in the state, sources in the Centre said the Pinarayi Vijayan-led government would have to implement strict containment measures and a strategic lockdown to bring down the number of infections.“The Covid-19 test positivity rate is high in Kerala, going over 20 per cent in some districts which is evidence of intense virus circulation. As the state is following home quarantine as the key strategy, wider containment and strategic lockdown needs to be implemented to contain the transmission of the disease, especially in view of festivals,” one of the sources was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.They also said with more than 85 per cent of the infected patients being in home isolation, it was crucial to have strict containment measures, adding, in multiple areas, patients are not adhering to the home isolation guidelines properly, which is leading to the increased spread of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-sees-over-32-000-covid-cases-for-second-straight-day-188-new-deaths-101630595307180.html
02-09-2021||India||India extends visas, stay period for stranded foreign nationals till Sep 30||Indian visa or stay stipulation period for foreign nationals stranded in India due to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic will be considered valid till September 30, the ministry of home affairs announced on Thursday. Many foreigners who were in India on various types of visas before March 2020 got stranded in the country due to restrictions imposed on flights in the wake of Covid-19.Since then, the Central government has given multiple extensions to regular visas or stay stipulation periods on a gratis basis without levying any overstay penalty. The ministry of home affairs said in a statement that the facility, which was available till August 31, 2021, has now been extended to September 30, 2021, as regular flights to several countries are not operational.“Such foreign nationals will not be required to submit any application to the FRRO/FRO concerned for extension of their visas till September 30, 2021,” the ministry said.The foreign nationals availing the facility may apply for exit permission on the e-FRRO portal before exiting the country. The permission would be granted by the FRRO/FRO concerned on a gratis basis without levy of any overstay penalty, the ministry added."If an extension of visa is required beyond September 30, 2021, the foreign national concerned may apply for extension of visa on the online e-FRRO platform on payment basis, which would be considered by the FRRO/FRO concerned, subject to the eligibility as per the extant guidelines," the latest guideline saysAfghan nationals already in India on any category of visa will be granted visa extension under separate guidelines issued for them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-extends-visas-stay-period-for-stranded-foreign-nationals-till-sep-30-101630591955961.html
02-09-2021||India||Amit Shah inaugurates ₹50 cr worth projects in Karnataka, praises Yediyurappa||Union home minister Amit Shah on Thursday inaugurated three development projects worth over ₹50 crore in Karnataka's Davanagere.The projects include a library, Gandhi Bhavan, and a public school and hostel building."Inaugurated the various development projects in Davanagere, Karnataka. Also had a great fortune to felicitate and interact with our valiant freedom fighters during this event. We will always remain indebted to their unparalleled role in India's freedom struggle," the home minister said on Twitter.Inaugurated the various development projects in Davanagere, Karnataka.Also had a great fortune to felicitate and interact with our valiant freedom fighters during this event. We will always remain indebted to their unparalleled role in India’s freedom struggle. pic.twitter.com/z568Y4goSqShah also lauded chief minister Basavaraj Bommai for his "small but significant moves" in a short time. He added that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has strengthened its position in the state by installing Bommai."Bommai has made some small but significant beginning. He has stopped the tradition of receiving police guard of honour, put a brake on many VVIP practices and he has taken certain steps for transparency," said Shah.This is Shah's maiden visit since Bommai took over as Karnataka chief minister on July 28. The home minister exuded confidence that the BJP would come back to power by winning the assembly election due in 2023.The home minister also heaped praises on BS Yediyurappa, whose resignation as chief minister on July 26 brought Bommai to power."I am confident that Yediyurappa did not leave any stone unturned for the development of villages and farmers. If a new era of development has started in Karnataka, it happened in the BJP government during the tenure of Yediyurappa," Shah said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-inaugurates-rs-50-cr-worth-projects-in-karnataka-praises-yediyurappa-101630591067342.html
02-09-2021||India||'Introspect': Naseeruddin Shah's message for those celebrating Taliban’s return||Actor Naseeruddin Shah warned Muslims in India to not rejoice the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan. He said that the Muslim community should "introspect" before engaging in such actions and should bat for "reform and modernity".“It is scary when a section of Indian Muslims are seen celebrating the return of the Taliban to power in Afghanistan. Indian Muslims should decide whether they want reform and modernity or they want to follow medieval belief systems and values,” the veteran actor said in a video message released on Wednesday.“I am Indian Muslim. Indian Islam was always different from the rest of the world. May God not bring a time when it changes so much that we don't even recognise it,” he further added.He also referenced to Mirza Ghalib's poem and said that he had an "informal" relationship with the Almighty.The return of the Taliban to power in Afghanistan sparked fears among several nations, women’s rights and free press activists. These sections fear that the Taliban will impose medieval laws, like they did when they were in power between 1996-2001, and will not guarantee basic fundamental human rights.Women’s rights activists and world leaders believe that the Taliban may impose restrictions or outright ban women’s education and stop them from working as professionals in a bid to curb their financial independence.World leaders also fear that the Taliban will be intolerant to minorities and will not follow up on the pledge of being ‘moderate’, which they made when they took over Afghanistan within a matter of weeks in August.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/introspect-naseeruddin-shah-s-message-for-those-celebrating-taliban-s-return-101630590541572.html
02-09-2021||India||India’s primary concern is use of Afghan soil for terrorism, says MEA||India’s main concern in Afghanistan is the use of Afghan soil for terrorism or anti-India activities and it is too early to talk of issues such as any possible recognition of the Taliban regime, the external affairs ministry said on Thursday. New Delhi’s position was outlined by external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi two days after the first officially acknowledged meeting between the Indian side and the Taliban in Doha. India is also focused on the evacuation of its nationals who are still in Afghanistan, he said. Tuesday’s meeting between India’s envoy to Qatar, Deepak Mittal, and Sher Mohammed Abbas Stanekzai, head of the Taliban’s political office in Doha, has given rise to questions on whether New Delhi has softened its position on the Taliban and could be considering the recognition of any new set-up created by the group in Kabul. At a regular news briefing, Bagchi ducked all questions on whether India still perceives the Taliban as a terror group and on recognising any government formed by the group, and said: “Our main concern, one of the primary, immediate concerns is that Afghan soil should not be used for anti-Indian activities or terrorism against India. That is one of our main issues.” India’s focus is not on whether the Taliban is a terror organisation, and “the focus, let me reiterate, is that Afghan soil should not be used for terrorist activities of any kind or [for] anti-India activities and we will try to focus on that element”, Bagchi said. The Indian side has seen reports about formation of a government by the Taliban, but has no details regarding the nature of this dispensation, Bagchi said. He said there was “no update” on any invitation being extended to India to participate in the inauguration of such a government. Setting aside questions about recognising a Taliban government, he said, “Let’s just treat the Doha meeting for what it is – it is just a meeting and I think these are still very early days.” India used the meeting in Doha as an opportunity to convey its concerns, including evacuation of its nationals and terrorism, and “received a positive response” from the Taliban side, he added. In response to a question on why the Taliban hadn’t publicly acknowledged the Doha meeting, which was held at the group’s request, and why there were no photographs of the interaction, Bagchi said: “I think it just didn’t happen, it’s just a meeting, it wasn’t really that kind of an event where photos are taken. I don’t think there’s any thought behind it [that] we don’t have a photo of it. I think neither side took a photo.” Bagchi side-stepped a query on whether India has a roadmap for further engagements with the Taliban by saying: “We wouldn’t have done anything without giving it some thought. Let’s see how things move.” As reported by Hindustan Times, the Indian side had opened channels of communication with specific Taliban factions and leaders, including Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, last year. However, Tuesday’s meeting in Doha was the first time New Delhi has officially acknowledged an interaction with the Taliban. India has not spelt out its position on the Taliban since the group assumed power in Kabul on August 15, following the collapse of the Ashraf Ghani government. Over the past few days, Stanekzai and senior Taliban leader Anas Haqqani have been engaged in an outreach towards India. Bagchi also said India is prioritising the evacuation of Indian nationals and some Afghans, though this issue is linked to the resumption of operations at Kabul airport. “We will have to revisit this issue when the airport is operational, we will have to wait for that. There is no clarity now,” he said. He declined to give a number for the Indian nationals still in Afghanistan, but said the “vast majority” of citizens who wanted to leave had already returned home. “There are very few Indians left, we are in touch with them,” he said. Asked about the status of Afghan nationals coming to India, he said the emergency e-visas being issued since August 16 were valid for six months. Other Afghans who were already in India had had their visas automatically extended during the pandemic, and internal discussions were ongoing on other “specific issues”, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-primary-concern-use-of-afghan-soil-for-terrorism-says-mea-101630590433956.html
02-09-2021||India||Stalin announces memorial for Vanniyar victims of police shooting during 1987 agitation||A memorial will be constructed in Villupuram district to honour the 21 people who were killed in police firing during an agitation by the Vanniyar community for reservation in 1987, chief minister MK Stalin announced in the Tamil Nadu assembly on Thursday. “I made this commitment to honour the sacrifice of those who struggled for social justice during the by-elections for Vikravandi (an assembly constituency in Villupuram in 2019),” Stalin said, adding that his family too belongs to a socially backward community and that Tamil Nadu has always been at the forefront of social justice.Stalin said the memorial will be constructed at a cost of ₹4 crore.Also Read | TN govt announces ₹2 crore for Thangavelu; Guv, CM hail Team India’s winningThe Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) government passed an order in July to implement the 10.5% reservation for the Vanniyar community. The reservation Bill had been introduced by the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) government in February this year to appease its ally Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK), a Vanniyar caste-based party, whose founder 81-year-old S Ramadoss was at the forefront of the agitation in the 1980s.In the late 1970s, Ramadoss forged a coalition of Vanniyar community groups, which later came together under the umbrella of the Vanniyar Sangam (Federation of Vanniyars). It continues to be the parent body of the PMK. In the 1980s, the Sangam carried out protests demanding MBC status for Vanniyars. In 1987, when AIADMK’s MG Ramachandran (MGR) was chief minister, 21 people were killed in police firing during one such agitation. The agitation and ensuing violence had paralysed the entire state for at least a week. MGR, at the time, was hospitalised in the United States. When he returned to Tamil Nadu, he held discussions with the group, but passed away later the same year before the talks could come to fruition.The agitations were quelled when the DMK came back to power in 1989 and then chief minister M Karunanidhi created 20% reservation for MBCs. Vanniyars were among the 108 caste groups that were included in the reservation. But the community said that their representation and access to opportunities were still abysmal. Ahead of the assembly elections in April this year, the PMK revived this decades-old demand and threatened to walk out of the alliance with AIADMK if their reservation demands weren’t met. In December 2020, PMK cadre who were on a state-wide protest for the reservation, pelted stones at a train and brought traffic to a standstill as the Chennai Police sealed borders to restrict them from entering the city. Subsequently, then chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami announced that state-wide caste-based data must be collected, and before the model code of conduct came into effect, passed the 10.5% reservation Bill in jobs and education for Vanniyars.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stalin-announces-memorial-for-vanniyar-victims-of-police-shooting-during-1987-agitation-101630589592639.html
02-09-2021||India||Visva Bharati faculty writes to PM Modi, seeks probe against vice chancellor||A group of faculty members of Visva Bharati University in West Bengal have written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking a probe against the vice chancellor by a serving or retired judge. The university rusticated three students for three years on August 23 for taking part in a campus protest in January this year. Since then, the university’s vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty has been confined to his on-campus residence by a section of students. The impasse continued till Thursday. “We demand an investigation into the complaints against Chakraborty by an independent committee headed by a serving or retired judge of a high court,” stated the letter sent by the Visva Bharati University Faculty Association which represents a majority of the faculty departments. VB is the state’s only Central University and was set up by Rabindranath Tagore at Santiniketan in Birbhum district in 1921. The Prime Minister is its chancellor. While Chakraborty refused to comment saying that the university’s spokesperson would respond to media queries, the latter didn’t respond to calls or messages. The university authorities had on Wednesday moved the Calcutta high court seeking intervention in clearing the impasse created by the students’ agitation against expulsion of students on disciplinary grounds. The petition is likely to be heard on Friday. The Central University has temporarily suspended the admission process and publication of results, confirming that the VC is “under siege” due to the ongoing agitation by a section of students. “We earnestly request the Honourable Chancellor (read the Prime Minister) to take appropriate action to save this august institution from further degeneration … We sincerely hope that Your Honour will take appropriate action quickly to defuse the crisis,” the letter stated adding that it was leading VB into an existential crisis. PM Modi had virtually addressed the centenary celebrations of the university in December 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/visva-bharati-faculties-write-to-pm-modi-seek-probe-against-vice-chancellor-101630589412981.html
02-09-2021||India||Chhattisgarh teacher thrashed students for fasting on Janmashtami, suspended: Govt||RAIPUR: A government school teacher in Chhattisgarh's Kondagaon district was suspended after he allegedly thrashed students who observed a fast on the Janmashtami festival, officials said on Thursday.The teacher, Charan Markam, is posted at a government school in Kondagaon’s Girola area, 200 km south of state capital Raipur. Police said panchayat and villagers complained that Markam beat up students of classes 7 and 8 in the school on Tuesday.Markam’s suspension order was issued on Wednesday by the district administration.Officials said Markam asked his students to raise their hands if they had observed a fast and performed rituals during the Janmashtami festival. Students who said they observed a fast were thrashed.The teacher was suspended after a preliminary inquiry report was received by the district administration.The suspension order said “hurting religious sentiments and spreading hatred in the society” was counted as a serious misconduct. “Your (Markam) act is against the Chhattisgarh Civil Services (Conduct) Rules 1965.”Kondagaon superintendent of police Siddharth Tiwari said the police were yet to register a case against the teacher. “We have got a report from district administration. Case has not been registered till now but appropriate action will be taken after analysing the report,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-teacher-thrashed-students-for-fasting-on-janmashtami-suspended-govt-101630588632590.html
02-09-2021||India||Instagram users face downtime on app and website||Several Instagram users on Thursday complained that they faced outages due to which their Feeds and Direct Messaging features were not working for a few hours. The outage was limited to a number of users, according to a report by HT Tech.The report also highlighted that over 3,000 users were reporting downtime on the Instagram app around 01.30pm, citing website downtime tracker Downdetector.in. They said that they faced a similar outage on the website as well. HT Tech, however, said that there were no outages reported at their end and Instagram’s all features are working fine at the time when their report was filed.The issue may have affected a few accounts or some regions.Downdetector recorded a short spike on Thursday around 11am with users reporting Instagram down. The graph fell shortly indicating that the issues were resolved within a short period of time. The next large spike occurred around 11.23am when over 2,300 users reported downtime. It increased to 3,357 users reporting downtime around 12.39pm. Some users also took to Twitter to report that they were unable to use Instagram.Instagram or Facebook did not release any statement regarding the outage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/instagram-users-face-downtime-on-app-and-website-101630587209441.html
02-09-2021||India||Canadian city to celebrate Gauri Lankesh Day on September 5||The Canadian city of Burnaby had declared September 5 as Gauri Lankesh Day. The city will commemorate the slain activist’s life on her death anniversary. Lankesh, a journalist-turned-activist, was shot dead outside her home in Rajarajeshwari Nagar, Bengaluru, on September 5, 2017. The decision to commemorate Gauri Lankesh Day was taken during Burnaby City Council on August 30. The proclamation signed by the city mayor, Mike Hurley, announcing the decision was published on the official website of the city administration subsequently. The proclamation hails Lankesh as a courageous Indian journalist who stood up for truth and justice. “Gauri Lankesh through her work encouraged her readers to adopt scientistic temperament and reject religious fanaticism, caste-based discrimination and bigotry,” read the proclamation on the city website. Also Read | Only 6 lodged in K’taka detention centre till nowIn April 2020, the city of Burnaby proclaimed April 14 as Dr BR Ambedkar Day of Equality. Also, the city declared a day dedicated to civil rights activist Jaswant Singh Khalra and Sikh Heritage. A word from Lankesh’s sister, Kavitha Lankesh is awaited.Meanwhile, the Supreme Court is expected to hear the plea filed by Kavitha Lankesh, challenging the dropping of charges under the Karnataka Control of Organised Crime Act 2000 (KCOCA) against one of the accused in the murder case. A bench led by Justice AM Khanwilkar had issued notice to Karnataka on the petition filed by Kavitha, in which she appealed against the state high court’s decision in April to quash charges under KCOCA against Mohan Nayak. KCOCA is a law enacted by Karnataka in India since 2000 to combat organised crime and terrorism. The Act was modelled on the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act, 1999 (MCOCA). According to police, if the charges of KCOCA are dropped against Nayak, it could set a precedence for charges to be dropped against other accused in the case as well. A senior home department official, in the know of the developments, said that the SIT had approached the government to file an appeal against the Karnataka high court decision, however, the government didn’t act on it. The home minister didn’t respond to HT’s call for a comment regarding this allegation. As per the charge sheet, Nayak is accused of providing accommodation to the killers on the outskirts of Bengaluru. He was arrested on July 19, 2018 after the main suspects in the case, including the shooter and the mastermind, were taken into custody. According to Lankesh’s petition, Nayak was also involved in arranging logistics for the killers both before and after the crime. It stated that the high court erred in setting aside the order of the Bengaluru police commissioner passed in August 2018 invoking KCOCA against Nayak and the subsequent supplementary charge sheet filed by the SIT under the provisions of KCOCA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/canadian-city-to-celebrate-gauri-lankesh-day-on-september-5-101630587492330.html
02-09-2021||India||Congress demands probe into Uttarakhand bridge collapse||Opposition Congress has demanded an independent inquiry into the collapse of a bridge on the Jakhan river along the Dehradun-Rishikesh highway that left five people dead on Friday. Former chief minister Harish Rawat, who visited the collapse site on Sunday, blamed “rampant mining near the bridge” for the collapse while seeking the inquiry.The bridge was built in 1964. On Friday, over 20-metre stretch of the bridge collapsed amid a heavy flow of water in the river due to incessant rain.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), which is trying to make inroads into the poll-bound state, on Wednesday staged a protest near public works department minister Satpal Maharaj’s office demanding his resignation over the collapse. It blamed the negligence of Maharaj’s ministry and illegal mining for it. On Tuesday, AAP’s chief ministerial candidate Ajay Kothiyal asked the government to allow him to “build an alternative bridge in 48 hours”.AAP’s Uttarakhand chief, SS Kaler, said despite the 2013 Kedarnath tragedy, the government has not learnt any lessons. “The process of rehabilitating all people from disaster-affected areas should have been completed by now. What are they waiting for; more disasters claiming more lives? We will continuously highlight this issue and put pressure on the government to immediately shift such families to safer areas.”Also Read | Uttarakhand’s Rajaji Tiger Reserve opens for safaris with Covid-19 curbs in placeCongress leader Suryakant Dhasmana said it was decided that people living in disaster-prone following the 2013 tragedy will be rehabilitated in safer areas. “There has been a lot of talk on rehabilitation of such people but most of the people in over 300 villages are yet to be rehabilitated. If such people are not rehabilitated, we will keep losing people to cloud bursts and landslides. We have demanded an independent inquiry into the collapse of the bridge.”Uttarakhand Kranti Dal (UKD) has warned if the state government does not rehabilitate these people, it will launch an agitation. Kashi Singh Airy, the UKD’s state president, said, “Despite such villages having been identified, the state government has not shifted the people living there.”He said people in disaster-prone areas are dying. “Our first priority should be to save the lives of our people.”Ruling Bhartiya Janata Party leader Devendra Bhasin said Congress, AAP and UKD have been silent for the last five years and have suddenly woken up. “The state government has been making all possible efforts to save lives of people in disaster-affected areas and has so far rehabilitated hundreds of families and the process is on.” He said chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami visited Pithoragarh, spoke to disaster-affected people, and gave each ₹4 lakh cash relief. “He also directed officials to conduct a survey of the affected area by geologists to seek suggestions on measures that can be taken for ensuring the safety of people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-demands-probe-into-uttarakhand-bridge-collapse-101630586712452.html
02-09-2021||India||Not aware of nature of next govt in Afghanistan, evacuation priority: MEA||India was not aware of any details or nature of the government that could be formed in Afghanistan by the Taliban, the government said on Thursday.Addressing a briefing of the Ministry of External Affairs, spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said the evacuation operation that has remained halted since the past few days would resume one the Kabul airport became operational.“Currently Kabul airport is not operational. We will resume our operation to evacuate people from Kabul as soon the airport service will resume,” he said, adding India's current priority was the safety of Indian people in Kabul.The airport, the scene of a frenzied evacuation which ended with the withdrawal of US troops on Tuesday, is out of operation with much of its infrastructure degraded or destroyed.Also read | 'Your dominance over Afghan soil doesn't mean stability': Resistance leader Amrullah Saleh to TalibanEarlier in the day, it was reported Qatar is working with the Taliban to reopen Kabul's airport as soon as possible, and urging the hardline Islamists to allow Afghans to leave.India established its first formal contact with the Taliban on Tuesday. Indian ambassador to Qatar Deepak Mittal met the head of Taliban's political office, Sher Mohammad Abbas Stanekzai, in Doha at the Indian mission.Talks were reportedly held on the safety of Indians, especially minorities, in the war-torn country. Mittal also urged the Taliban that Afghan soil should not be used for terrorist activities against India.Also read | Deadly stampede after Pakistan shuts key border crossing with Afghanistan: ReportWhen asked about further meetings with the Islamic militant group that took over the war-ravaged country last month, Bagchi said he had no update on the same. "Do not want to speculate. It's not a matter of yes and no. Our aim is that Afghanistan's land should not be used for terror activity of any kind," he said.To a volley of questions on whether India would recognise a Taliban regime in the backdrop of the meeting, Bagchi said, " It was just a meeting. I think these are very early days."(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-will-resume-evacuation-once-kabul-airport-becomes-operational-mea-101630584733678.html
02-09-2021||India||Uttarakhand’s Rajaji Tiger Reserve opens for safaris with Covid-19 curbs in place||Wildlife enthusiasts, tourists and adventure lovers can now enjoy a jungle safari in the Chila Range of the Rajaji Tiger Reserve (RTR) in Uttarakhand’s Garhwal region. Chila range located in the Pauri Garhwal district and bordering Haridwar is one of the most sought-after ranges of the park. The main wildlife safari route in Chila will be opened after the monsoon season on November 15, but the other track named Andher Track has been opened for visitors as of now. The 24 km long Andher Track, is now open with Covid-19 preventive measures and guidelines in place. Anil Panyuli, ranger of Chila Range said an authorised gypsy service is now available for tourists who want to embark on a safari on this track. He said the charge for the vehicle for a one-time ride has been fixed at ₹1750 with a maximum of seven people in the vehicle. He added that per person charge of ₹150 along with a vehicle registration fee of Rs100 has also been fixed for visitors. The safari will be operated in two shifts from 6.30 to 9.30 am and 2.30 to 4.00 PM, he said. “It is a good move to open the track for tourists as apart from Asian elephants, there are a wide range of wild animals and flora to see in the area Visitors should also adhere to Covid-19 guidelines and ensure cleanliness within the park,” said local Zila Panchayat member Aarti Gaud. The Rajaji Tiger Reserve is spread across the districts of Pauri Garhwal, Haridwar and Dehradun over a 842 sq km area. It is home to elephants, tigers, a variety of birds, deer, and so on. Prior to the Rajaji Tiger Reserve, the Corbett Tiger Reserve was thrown open to visitors for day visits in the monsoon season, for the first time in its history, in the last week of June. Tourists and nature lovers can enjoy the safari in its five zones while night stay facilities remain barred. It will only be permitted from October 15 as usual. The Corbett National Park remains closed every year from June 15 in the wake of the monsoon season. Forest roads get washed away or flooded in the rainy season and pose danger to human life therefore it remains closed till October 15. This year it was closed from May 1 due to the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. The Park administration had to return money for around 60,000 bookings of tourists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhands-rajaji-tiger-reserve-opens-for-safaris-with-covid-19-curbs-in-place-101630584972330.html
02-09-2021||India||Mass gatherings should be discouraged ahead of upcoming festive season: Centre||The Centre said on Thursday that mass gatherings should be discouraged amid the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, particularly in the upcoming festive season.“Mass gatherings should clearly be discouraged and full vaccination should be a prerequisite if it is absolutely essential and critical to have a gathering of some people,” Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) director general Dr Balram Bhargava said while addressing the health ministry’s press briefing on the pandemic situation in the country. Dr Bhargava also stressed on the fact that people should keep on wearing masks despite being vaccinated against Covid-19.Echoing his concerns, Niti Aayog Member (Health) Dr V K Paul said people have to be careful in the upcoming festive season, adding despite the vaccination programme accelerating in the country, the precautions against Covid-19 must continue.“The time has not yet come to remove masks. This year too, festivals will be celebrated in the same way as they were celebrated last year. We have to wait more for festivals to be celebrated traditionally.” Dr Paul told reporters and urged people to celebrate festivals like Ganesh Chaturthi, Navratri, Eid etc within their families.“We will not have mass gatherings, we will not move out unnecessarily and we will shop at markets carefully without overcrowding.” Dr Paul further said.Last week, the Union home ministry extended all the Covid-19 related protocols in the country till September 30, and directed states and Union Territories (UTs) to take proactive containment measures ahead of the upcoming festive season. According to the order issued by Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla, the MHA told states and UTs to ensure that there are no large gatherings and if required, necessary local restrictions should be imposed in potentially crowded places, where people must adhere to Covid-appropriate behaviour.The home ministry’s orders are of utmost importance for states such as Kerala and Maharashtra, which have been seeing an uptick in their daily infections and are contributing the most towards India’s caseload.India has so far recorded 32,857,937 cases due to Covid-19 which include 32,028,825 recoveries, 439,529 deaths and 389,583 active cases. On Thursday, the country saw a high in its daily tally as 47,092 cases were recorded in the last 24 hours, while 509 more people died in the same period.Authorities have administered a total of 663,037,334 vaccine doses to eligible beneficiaries till now of which over 8.1 million doses were administered in the last 24 hours. During Thursday’s briefing, the health ministry also said that 16 per cent of the adult population in the country has been fully vaccinated, while 54 per cent of the adult population has received at least one dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mass-gatherings-should-be-discouraged-ahead-of-upcoming-festive-season-centre-101630580630618.html
02-09-2021||India||Bihar segregates cops for law & order, investigation; practical problems remain||Bihar may have finally been able to divide its police force into two separate wings on paper, but the situation is far from ideal on the ground. The 2013 policy, coming into effect eight years later, aims at making policing more efficient with personnel at every police station either involved only in investigation of cases or in handling law & order.The state now claims to have segregated work among its personnel at all its 925 police stations and 250 outposts--all the data is available online with the police headquarters. Announced in 2013, the policy aims to streamline functioning so that investigation, now done by a dedicated team, will stand the scrutiny of the court. “A dedicated team for investigation of cases will mean they will not be saddled with routine law & order duty,” said a senior police officer. The move, which faced hiccups since it was announced (mostly due to lack of personnel), will reduce pendency of cases, and the two wings will improve the security mechanism. “In case of a crime, while one team maintain law & order at the spot, the other begins investigation,” said a senior IPS officer. Also Read | Suspended urban and housing development officer raided in Bihar in graft caseHowever, on the ground, the state severely lacks the necessary strength in the force. This has also forced the home department to tweak the proportion of personnel for either duty. “Initially, 50% of the strength in police station was to be devoted to law & order duty and the remaining 50% to investigation. But due to a lack of required strength, it will now be 75% for investigation and 25% for law & order. This can still change as per requirement,” said an official of home department. Bihar still has just 80,000 policemen per 100,000 population against the required 140,000. The government is recruiting more personnel -- last month alone, 17,000 personnel were recruited. But the process is time-taking, and the requirement might not be fulfilled anytime soon. Once the ongoing drive ends, the strength is likely to be around 100,000.Meanwhile, the lack of strength is already showing. Sonepur police station, for instance, which is at the junction of four districts -- Patna, Vaishali, Saran and Muzaffarpur -- has just three policemen for law & order duty. “As a result, we have to deploy our officers dedicated to investigation for law & order duty also, as it covers a whole lot duties, viz. VIP movement, road blockades, traffic jams, crime, and conduct of exams. Three-four policemen are required just for VIP movement,” said another police officer. In Saran, the Bhagwanbazaar police station registers 90 criminal cases every month on an average, but it has just nine police personnel and this impacts investigation. In Danapur police station of Patna, there were 13 personnel dedicated to investigation, only three for law & order duty. “Though the area does not have much of a law & order problem, the officers dedicated for it will never pitch in for investigation and it does not come under their mandate. These are some of the practical difficulties. Those exclusively for investigation also have to maintain a case diary for production in courts. So we cannot deploy our personnel as per the requirement anymore,” said an officer posted there. Additional director general (law&order) Amit Kumar said all the details regarding posting of policemen for law & order duty and investigation were with the police headquarters and the progress was being monitored. “In every police station, one station house officer (SHO) and two additional SHOs have been deployed -- one each for law & order, and investigation. Eventually, even the superintendent of police and deputy inspector general offices will have separate sections. There are 4,775 sub-inspectors (SIs) for investigation, while 2,254 are for law & order duty in the state. The strength will further go up with the induction of 1,600 newly recruited SIs,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-segregates-cops-for-law-order-investigation-practical-problems-remain-101630584432266.html
02-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: Covid vaccination drive in Thane rises by 4% in 10 days and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Vaccination drive in Maharashtra’s Thane rises by 4% in 10 daysThe Covid vaccination drive in Maharashtra’s Thane district has received a shot in the arm with the administration of 360,000 doses in the last 10 days—a 4% spike across the district, officials said. It was made possible due to allocation of more than 200,000 vaccine doses in each of the last two weeks. Read moreWoman accuses husband of forcible conversion in ChhattisgarhA 22-year-old woman in Chhattisgarh’s Durg district has lodged a complaint against her husband accusing him of unnatural sex and forcible conversion for marriage, police said on Thursday. She has also alleged her husband and in-laws harassed her for dowry. Read moreTMC leader Mukul Roy unwell, admitted to Kolkata’s SSKM hospitalTrinamool Congress (TMC) veteran Mukul Roy was admitted to the SSKM hospital in Kolkata on Thursday, according to a report by HT’s sister publication Livehindustan. He was seen walking inside the hospital with his security officials. Read more'As soon as possible': Qatar working with Taliban to reopen Kabul airportQatar is working with the Taliban to reopen Kabul's airport as soon as possible, its foreign minister said on Thursday, urging the hardline Islamists to allow Afghans to leave. Read moreSidharth Shukla death: Rajkummar Rao, Patralekha reach his home. See picsActors Rajkummar Rao and Patralekha have arrived at late actor Sidharth Shukla's home. Sidharth died on Thursday morning after a heart attack. He was 40. Read more ‘Greatest non selection we have ever witnessed’: Vaughan takes a hilarious dig at India for benching Ashwin once againVeteran India spinner Ravichandran Ashwin has been benched again as India continued to play four seamers in the fourth Test against England at the Oval. Though the visitors made a couple of changes to the side – Umesh Yadav and Shardul Thakur replaced Ishant Sharma and Mohammed Shami, the spin option wasn't disturbed as Ravindra Jadeja was preferred again for his batting abilities. Read more2021 TVS Apache RR310 BTO track test review: A customised missile for race trackThe Apache RR310 has been leading the charge for TVS Motor Company in terms of technology and performance ever since its introduction in 2017. TVS' contender in the sub-400cc segment space has already proven its mettle over the last few years, but for 2021 the company had something. Read moreDubai restaurant’s vada pav with edible gold costs about ₹2,000. WatchIf you are someone who loves to see food related content on social media, chances are you’ve seen images or videos of dishes that are prepared using luxury ingredients and are among the most expensive edible items available across the world. Read moreWatch| Waters gush through homes, airport flooded as 'Ida' brings New York to its knees﻿||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-covid-vaccination-drive-in-thane-rises-by-4-in-10-days-101630580811964.html
02-09-2021||India||Covid: Positivity rate on the decline, but no end yet to second wave, says govt||The government said on Thursday there was an overall declining trend in weekly positivity of the coronavirus disease across India since the week ending May 10, but the second wave of the pandemic was yet to come to an end.Speaking at a press briefing on the prevailing Covid-19 situation, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said 39 districts reported over 10 per cent weekly positivity in the week ending August 31, while it was 5-10 per cent in 38 districts around the same time.The the senior official said mass gatherings should be discouraged but if attending it was essential, full vaccination should be a prerequisite. He further urged people to get the jabs against the virus and follow Covid-appropriate behaviour, especially during the festive season. Urging caution, experts have warned of another surge in cases in the coming days and the likely arrival of the third wave around October and November. The country registered 47,092 new cases in the last 24 hours, which was 12 per cent higher than Wednesday's tally at 41,965.Bhushan said from 279 districts that were reporting 100 cases on a daily basis in June this year, the number has come down to 42 districts, as on August 30.“Kerala is one state that has more than 1 lakh active cases. Four states have 10,000 to 1 lakh active cases -- Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh. Rest of the states/Union territories have less than 10,000 active cases,” Bhushan was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Also read | Is Mu variant of coronavirus vaccine resistant? WHO says it could be possibleThe health secretary said about 300 cases of Delta plus variant of SARS-CoV-2 had so far been detected in India.He said 16 per cent of the total adult population of India has been fully vaccinated, while 54 per cent of the adult population has received at least one dose against the vaccine.Also read | Karnataka, Maharashtra tighten rules at airports over new Covid-19 variantsBesides Himachal, Sikkim and Dadra & Nagar Haveli have administered the first dose of the vaccine against the virus to cent per cent of the eligible adults.“We administered 18.38 crore doses in August alone. The average dose per day administered during the month is 59.29 lakh. In the last week of the month, we administered more than 80 lakh doses per day,” the senior government official said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-positivity-rate-on-the-decline-but-no-end-yet-to-second-wave-says-govt-101630580940537.html
02-09-2021||India||Woman accuses husband of forcible conversion in Chhattisgarh||A 22-year-old woman in Chhattisgarh’s Durg district has lodged a complaint against her husband accusing him of unnatural sex and forcible conversion for marriage, police said on Thursday. She has also alleged her husband and in-laws harassed her for dowry.Police said the man and his family have denied the allegations even as they have been booked under the Indian Penal Code’s sections related to unnatural offences and cruelty as well as the anti-conversion and anti-dowry laws.Also Read | Mob beats up pastor in C’garh; raises slogans against religious conversionPolice said the woman was in a relationship with this man of the same area and in December they eloped. On Wednesday, the woman filed her complaint saying her husband forcibly converted her before they got married in Kolkata. Durg police superintendent Prashant Agarwal said the woman’s in-laws have denied the allegations. “We are investigating the case. The case has been registered on the basis of complaint registered by the woman.” He said they have arrested the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-accuses-husband-of-forcible-conversion-in-chhattisgarh-101630577351673.html
02-09-2021||India||Arguments mar Krishna River Management Board meeting||Heated arguments marred the 14th Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) meeting on Wednesday as Telangana sought a 50:50 water sharing ratio while Andhra Pradesh demanded even a higher share, people aware of the matter said. The current 66:34 (Andhra Pradesh-Telangana) ratio will continue, irrigation department officials from both states confirmed.The meeting began at 11am on Wednesday and lasted for about 10 hours as the officials from the two states discussed water sharing and other related issues.“We were unable to convince the board to get a higher share of water from the Krishna. The arguments from both sides nearly resulted in a fight,” said an official from Telangana’s irrigation department, requesting anonymity.Also Read | Telangana adds 4 more mandals to ₹1.75 lakh cr Dalit welfare schemeTelangana, which was carved out of Andhra Pradesh in 2014, has been seeking a higher share of waters from the river citing irrigation and drinking water needs. Andhra Pradesh sought 70:30 ration in its favour even as the KRMB decided to maintain the current arrangement.The water sharing dispute between the two states is pending with the Krishna Water Disputes Tribunal-2. “...we pointed that out as well. The meeting went in our favour,” an Andhra irrigation department official said, requesting anonymity.Modalities and issues related to the Centre’s move to take over projects on the Krishna and Godavari next month were discussed at the meeting as well. Telangana and Andhra Pradesh share the Krishna waters from dams such as Nagarjuna Sagar and Srisailam.In the run-up to Telangana’s creation, the state was allocated 299 thousand million cubic feet (TMC) of Krishna waters out of 811 TMC allocated to united Andhra Pradesh as per an agreement signed in 1976. The pact was signed for the allocation of water to Maharashtra, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh. The Krishna flows across Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana.The Telangana official cited above said the state did not exist when the allocation was made. “So, the 299 TMC allocation was done without proper consultation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arguments-mar-krishna-river-management-board-meeting-101630576511889.html
02-09-2021||India||Tight security in Kashmir following separatist leader Geelani’s death||Security personnel carrying automatic rifles patrolled streets, every key road was blocked by barbed wires while armoured vehicles dotted the streets to enforce restrictions on people’s movement in Srinagar following Kashmiri separatist leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani’s death on Wednesday. All lanes leading to Geelani’s residence in Hyderpora were heavily guarded as he was buried at a local graveyard around 4.30am on Thursday amid tight security. Only Geelani’s close relatives and neighbours were allowed to attend his funeral.Mobile phones and the internet were snapped while businesses and shops were shuttered. Only post-paid mobiles of Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited were working. Inspector general (Kashmir) Vijay Kumar announced restrictions late Wednesday night as a preventive measure when the news of Geelani’s death broke.Geelani, the face of separatism in Kashmir for over three decades, died at his home in Srinagar on Wednesday after a prolonged illness. He was 91. Geelani spent around two decades in jail. He was largely confined to his residence because of ill-health since 2010.Also Watch | Geelani death: Pak mourns loss of asset in Kashmir as India ramps up securityThe movements of a delegation of journalists from Delhi, which this journalist was a part of, were restricted for three days as Geelani’s condition worsened. There were no visits even to the Dal Lake and other popular tourist spots in the heavily guarded part of Srinagar. Paramilitary forces guarded the delegation, and the journalists could not even eat out. “You are part of an official visit,” the security in-charge explained when the journalists told him they have come to the Valley in much more challenging situations.To be sure, this correspondent has visited Srinagar and other parts of Kashmir several times independently and faced no troubles.On Thursday morning, the liaison officer for the delegation did not want to wait any longer. “Let us reach the airport as soon as possible,” he said. The receptionist of the hotel, where the delegation was staying, meanwhile, came running. “Sir, another guest has to reach the airport. Can he join your group? He does not want to travel alone,” he said.Outside, there was an uneasy calm. No one knew how long the restrictions will continue. Barely 200 metres from the hotel, the car carrying the journalists was stopped at the first of several check posts en route to the airport. The journalists showed their tickets to security forces as the delegation was allowed to proceed to the airport. En route Hyderpora was heavily guarded with barbed wires having appeared overnight to block lanes. Hardly any civilians could be seen on the streets of Srinagar, where residents have learnt to live with regular restrictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tight-security-in-kashmir-following-separatist-leader-geelani-s-death-101630573571302.html
02-09-2021||India||Planning a weekend trip to Mussoorie? Take note of latest guidelines||The district magistrate in Dehradun has made a negative RT-PCR test mandatory for travellers who want to visit the hill station of Mussoorie. The test, according to latest guidelines, should not be more than 72 hours old."Testing is also being done at the borders of the district," Dehradun District Magistrate R Rajesh Kumar said on Thursday.In view of the spike in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in a few states, the district administration has also put a cap on the number of travellers allowed on weekends."In view of the standard operating procedures, the number of tourists in Mussoorie on weekends has also been restricted, only 15,000 people can visit," said Kumar.Mussoorie is a popular tourist destination, and a lot of people from Delhi head to the hill station over the weekend since it is located at a favorable distance from the national capital.Kumar also said the district administration has been laying emphasis on vaccination. Ninety five per cent of people have got their first vaccine dose in the age group of 45 and above and 83 per cent in the 18-44 age group.The district administration has also made preparations for the third wave of the coronavirus, which many experts have said will hit in the month of October. Not only the oxygen storage capacity and number of ICU beds in hospitals have been increased, permission has also been given to new labs for Covid-19 testing."We are fully prepared with all the equipment for the third wave. We have a total number of 205 beds for paediatrics," said Dr Ashok Kumar, Head of Department and child specialist, Doon Medical College.The police in Dehradun are summoning those who are not following social distancing or not wearing masks.In July, Mussoorie witnessed a huge rush of tourists. Various videos on social media showed long queues of vehicles on roads leading to the popular hill station and many tourists violating social distancing norms while roaming around in the town.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/planning-to-head-to-mussoorie-for-the-weekend-take-note-of-latest-guidelines-101630570943732.html
02-09-2021||India||Foreign minister S Jaishankar in Croatia on Friday: Here's what's on the agenda||External affairs minister S Jaishankar will visit Croatia on Friday as part of a four-day tour to review bilateral relationship with three Central European countries. He will also go to Slovenia and Denmark during his September 2-5 visit.During his visit to Croatia, Jaishankar will hold bilateral talks with foreign minister Gordan Grlic Radman, and call on the Croatian leadership.A statement by the ministry of external affairs (MEA) said that Jaishankar's visit will provide an opportunity to strengthen the multifaceted relationship with the European Union (EU).He has received a special invite from Slovenia, which currently holds the rotating presidency of the Council of the European Union from July to December, for an informal meeting of the ministers of foreign affairs. The meeting is expected to focus on the situation in Afghanistan and the Indo-Pacific.The informal meeting of the EU Foreign Affairs Council will be held at an estate near the city of Kranj on September 3, under the “Gymnich” format, a person familiar with developments told Hindustan Times on condition of anonymity.Jaishankar will attend the annual Bled Strategic Forum (BSF) being held in Slovenia, and participate in the panel discussion on "Partnership for a Rules-Based Order in the Indo-Pacific".He will also hold discussions with his EU counterparts on issues of mutual interest.During his visit to Denmark on 4-5 September, Jaishankar will co-chair the 4th round of the Indo-Danish Joint Commission Meeting (JCM) along with Foreign Minister Jeppe Kofod.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/foreign-minister-s-jaishankar-in-croatia-on-friday-here-s-what-s-on-the-agenda-101630570088679.html
02-09-2021||India||Deshmukh plea in HC; seeks quashing of ED summons||Former home minister Anil Deshmukh has filed an application in the Bombay high court seeking to quash summons issued to him by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in the CBI corruption case. The ED has issued five summons to him but he has, in turn, sought questioning over video conferencing. On Thursday, when the application came up for hearing before the single judge bench of justice Revati Mohite- Dere, she recused and directed Deshmukh’s counsel to approach the alternate bench to get a hearing scheduled. The ED is investigating the alleged illegal gratification to the tune of ₹4.7 crore which Deshmukh received as the home minister from various restaurant and bar owners through arrested API Sachin Vaze who is in police custody for his role in the Ambani bomb threat case. Also Read | CBI arrests a member of Deshmukh’s legal teamAccording to the ED, the amount received through Vaze was laundered through the Shri Sai Shikshan Sansthan trust owned by Deshmukh with the help of his son. The ED’s probe was initiated after the CBI started investigating the corruption charges against Deshmukh made by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh. The CBI, after completing the probe, registered a First Information Report on April 21. After being issued five summons by the ED, Deshmukh even approached the Supreme Court, seeking relief against the ED probe. The case was heard on August 16 but the apex court did not grant him any relief.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deshmukh-plea-in-hc-seeks-quashing-of-edsummons-101630569911205.html
02-09-2021||India||Communal colour to news brings bad name to country: SC on Markaz Covid reporting||Chief Justice NV Ramana on Thursday expressed concerns over social media platforms and web portals lending communal colour to news items as he was hearing a batch of petitions including the one filed by Jamiat Ulema-i-Hind seeking directions to the Centre to stop the dissemination of "fake news" related to a religious gathering at the Nizamuddin Markaz last year.“Everything shown in a section of private news channels bears a communal tone. Ultimately, this country is going to get a bad name. Did you ever attempt to regulate these private channels," the Supreme Court bench said."If you go to YouTube, so much is shown in one minute. You can see so how much fake news there is. Web portals are not governed by anything. There is an attempt to give communal colour to news and that is a problem. Ultimately it brings a bad name to the country," the Chief Justice said. to this, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said, "Not only communal but also planted news."The new IT rules have made social media intermediaries more accountable, the top law officer of the Union government informed the apex court.The Centre also informed the Supreme Court that the new IT rules have been challenged in various high courts and urged the top court to list the transfer petitions along with present petitions. The top court agreed to hear after six weeks the Centre’s plea seeking transfer of petitions on IT rules from various high courts to the Supreme Court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/communal-colour-to-news-brings-bad-name-to-country-sc-on-markaz-covid-reporting-101630568896936.html
02-09-2021||India||Madhya Pradesh home minister 'explains' what Rahul Gandhi means when he talks about GDP||Madhya Pradesh home minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Narottam Mishra on Thursday responded to Congress leader Rahul Gandhi over the latter’s attack on the BJP-ruled Centre over rising fuel prices. Addressing the media, Mishra “explained” what Rahul Gandhi means when he talks about gross domestic product (GDP).Also Read | Rahul Gandhi attacks govt over increase in fuel, cooking gas prices; BJP rebuts“Here’s what he means when he talks about GDP. G stands for the Gandhi family, D is for his political guru Digvijaya Singh, while P means P Chidambaram. How would he know what GDP really means?” news agency ANI quoted Mishra as saying about the former Congress president.राहुल गांधी के लिए GDP का अर्थ, G से (सोनिया गांधी, प्रियंका गांधी, राहुल गांधी),D से उनके राजनीतिक गुरु दिग्विजय सिंह, P से पी. चिदंबरम है। वे क्या जाने GDP का अर्थ: राहुल गांधी द्वारा सरकार के लिए GDP का अर्थ गैस, डीज़ल, पेट्रोल बताने पर मध्य प्रदेश के गृह मंत्री नरोत्तम मिश्रा pic.twitter.com/I90rVvRfFBAddressing a press conference on Wednesday, Gandhi had said that for the Union government, “rising GDP means rise in prices of gas, petrol and diesel.” The Congress leader, a frequent and vocal critic of the central government over the state of the economy, had further alleged that the Centre made ₹23 lakh crore by increasing the prices of gas, petrol and diesel in the seven years that it has been in power.BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra had responded to the Wayanad MP, saying that the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA) followed the core agenda of CNP or “corruption, nepotism and policy paralysis.” Patra had further said that Gandhi spoke about issues he doesn’t have “clear knowledge of” and that he tried to redefine GDP “in the wrong way.”The Congress MP’s attack on the Centre came a day after the latest GDP figures revealed that the economy grew at 20.4 per cent in the quarter ending June, in line with expectations. However, when compared to the last quarter of 2020-21, this is actually a contraction of 16.9 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heres-what-madhya-pradesh-home-minister-thinks-gdp-means-to-rahul-gandhi-101630568420584.html
02-09-2021||India||Apple hit with antitrust case in India over in-app payments issues||Apple Inc is facing an antitrust challenge in India for allegedly abusing its dominant position in the apps market by forcing developers to use its proprietary in-app purchase system, according to a source and documents seen by Reuters.The allegations are similar to a case Apple faces in the European Union, where regulators last year started an investigation into Apple's imposition of an in-app fee of 30% for distribution of paid digital content and other restrictions.The Indian case was filed by a little-known, non-profit group which argues Apple's fee of up to 30% hurts competition by raising costs for app developers and customers, while also acting as a barrier to market entry."The existence of the 30% commission means that some app developers will never make it to the market ... This could also result in consumer harm," said the filing, which has been seen by Reuters.Unlike Indian court cases, filings and details of cases reviewed by the Competition Commission of India (CCI) are not made public. Apple and the CCI did not respond to a request for comment.In the coming weeks, the CCI will review the case and could order its investigations arm to conduct a wider probe, or dismiss it altogether if it finds no merit in it, said a source familiar with the matter."There are high chances that an investigation can be ordered, also because the EU has been probing this," said the person, who declined to be identified as the case details are not public.The complainant, non-profit "Together We Fight Society" which is based in India's western state of Rajasthan, told Reuters in a statement it filed the case in the interest of protecting Indian consumers and startups.In India, though Apple's iOS powered just about 2% of 520 million smartphones by end-2020 - with the rest using Android - Counterpoint Research says the US firm's smartphone base in the country has more than doubled in the last five years.The Apple case in India comes just as South Korea's parliament this week approved a bill that bans major app store operators like Alphabet Inc's Google and Apple from forcing software developers to use their payment systems."MIDDLEMAN IN TRANSACTIONS"Companies like Apple and Google say their fee covers the security and marketing benefits their app stores provide, but many companies disagree.Last year, after Indian startups publicly voiced concern over a similar in-app payments fee charged by Google, the CCI ordered an investigation into it as part of a broader antitrust probe into the company. That investigation is ongoing.The India antitrust case against Apple also alleges that its restrictions on how developers communicate with users to offer payment solutions are anti-competitive, and also hurt the country's payment processors who offer services at lower charges in the range of 1-5%.Apple has hurt competitors by restricting developers from informing users of alternative purchasing possibilities, thereby harming "app developers' relationship with their customers by inserting itself as middleman in every in-app transaction," the filing added.In recent weeks, Apple has loosened some of the restrictions for developers globally, like allowing them to use communications - such as email - to share information about payment alternatives outside of their iOS app.And on Wednesday, it said it would allow some apps to provide customers an in-app link to bypass Apple's purchase system, though the U.S. firm retained a ban on allowing other forms of payment options inside apps.Gautam Shahi, a competition law partner at Indian law firm Dua Associates, said that even if companies change their behaviour after an antitrust case in filed, the CCI still looks at past conduct."The CCI will look at recent years to see if the law was violated and if consumers and competition were harmed," said Shahi.The CCI has plans to speed up all cases involving big technology firms such as Amazon and Google by deploying additional officers and working to more stringent internal deadlines, Reuters reported in June.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/apple-hit-with-antitrust-case-in-india-over-in-app-payments-issues-101630567066180.html
02-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: Jharkhand cops suspended for assaulting Army jawan and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 1pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Army jawan assaulted for not wearing mask: 3 Jharkhand cops suspendedThe army jawan was riding a bike when he was stopped by the police team on duty. A video of the incident went viral on social media. Read more'Your dominance over soil doesn't mean stability': Resistance leader to TalibanSelf-proclaimed acting president of Afghanistan Amrullah Saleh on Thursday said that the resistance brewing against the Taliban in the northeastern province of Panjshir will defend the rights of all Afghan citizens. Read moreCristiano Ronaldo sets world record, surpasses Iran’s Ali Daei to become highest-ever international goalscorerCristiano Ronaldo on Wednesday set the world record for most international goals, surpassing Iran's Ali Daei tally of 109 goals in international football. Read moreActor Sidharth Shukla dies of heart attack: Mumbai's Cooper HospitalActor Sidharth Shukla has died of a heart attack at the age of 40, Mumbai's Cooper hospital has said. He was best known for winning Bigg Boss 13, and for his roles on TV. Read moreHyundai i20 N Line launched at ₹9.84 lakh. Check features, specs, coloursHyundai India has launched the i20 N Line in the country at a starting price of ₹9.84 lakh (ex-showroom) going up to ₹11.75 lakh for the top-line model. Read moreMan walks with huge colourful snake coiled around himThe clip involves a man and a beautiful rainbow snake named MyLove. There is a chance that the video will leave you intrigued. Read more‘Every Indian Muslim must ask...’: Naseer to those 'celebrating Taliban return'Actor Naseeruddin Shah slammed 'sections of Indian Muslims celebrating Taliban’s return in Afghanistan’. Calling the act dangerous, the veteran actor shared a video message which later went viral. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-jharkhand-cops-suspended-for-assaulting-army-jawan-and-all-the-latest-news-101630564458276.html
02-09-2021||India||International Climate Summit 2021 on Friday, focus on clean energy transition||India will host a key summit on Friday (September 3) as part of the International Climate Summit (ICS) 2021, an initiative by the PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry's environment committee. The global hybrid summit will build a dialogue for India's transition to clean energy, according to the organisers of the event.The ICS has partnered with Invest India for the event. The special focus of the summit will be on 'Powering India's Hydrogen Ecosystem'.Policy makers, regulators, industry leaders, experts and scientists from across the globe are going to be a part of the event. Union ministers Bhupendra Yadav and Jitendra Singh, Niti Aayog member Dr V K Saraswat and Sturle Harald Pedersen, Chairman, Greenstat India, Norway are some of the eminent participants.Reliance Industry Chairman Mukesh Ambani will be a keynote speaker at the summit.At a Virtual Leaders’ Summit on Climate in April this year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi unveiled a new partnership with the US for investments and collaborations to tackle climate change.It was the first major global initiative by US President Joe Biden since he assumed office in January.PM Modi said at the event that India and the US are launching the "climate and clean energy agenda 2030 partnership to help mobilise investments, demonstrate clean technologies, and enable green collaborations”.The Prime Minister also emphasised the importance of lifestyle change in climate action. "Sustainable lifestyles and a guiding philosophy of 'back to basics' must be an important pillar of our economic strategy for the post-Covid era," he said.While India is the third-largest emitter on a country basis, it is also the second-most populous. As a result, emissions per head are extremely low, ranking 134, according to the Global Carbon Atlas project.A major conference on climate change - COP26 - is due to take place in Glasgow from October 31 to November 12, 2021. COP26 President Alok Sharma said last month that it will be the last chance to ensure global temperature increases don’t exceed 1.5 degrees Celsius - the lower limit of the Paris Agreement.Under the 2015 agreement, world leaders agreed to limit global warming to below 2 degrees Celsius. Average global temperatures have increased by more than 1.1 degree Celsius since 1980, and this has been cited by experts as the cause of severe heat waves, droughts and storms.A report released by the United Nations climate panel said earlier this month that global warming is dangerously close to spiralling out of control. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) also said that the world is already certain to face further climate disruptions for decades, if not centuries, to come.The deadly heatwaves, massive hurricanes and other extreme events of weather will become more severe, the report further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/international-climate-summit-2021-on-friday-focus-on-clean-energy-transition-101630565656992.html
02-09-2021||India||Amid mystery fever in UP, Mumbai reports surge in dengue cases||In August, Mumbai reported 132 cases of dengue and many of them had to be hospitalised, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation said in its report on monsoon-related diseases. This comes at a time when the country is combating with Covid pandemic and any outbreak of any disease is triggering fear.In Uttar Pradesh, a mystery fever has killed 41, including 32 children, following which the Indian Council of Medical Research is investigating the mystery disease.The BMC data also revealed that the number of malaria cases too has gone up in August from July, marginally."As the number of dengue cases rises from August to September during monsoon, all precautions must be taken to prevent the breeding of mosquitos. Use of bed nets, window screens, proper clothing is advised to avoid mosquito bite," the civic body said urging people to not depend on self-medication. Immediate treatment has been recommended if there is a history of fever, headache, rashes, muscle and joint pain as dengue leads to complications and risk of death, the civic body said.Maximum dengue cases have been reported from FS, B and the HW ward which spans over areas like Bandra, Khar, Santacruz, Parel etc.Every year, around 5,500 dengue and malaria cases are recorded in Mumbai, the highest being reported between June and August. Last year's lockdown brought down the number of mosquito-borne diseases as construction activities were halted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-mystery-fever-in-up-mumbai-reports-surge-in-dengue-cases-101630562457999.html
02-09-2021||India||Obesity correlated to pollution: Study||It is not just what you eat, what you breathe might also cause obesity. Long-term exposure to high levels of air pollution is strongly co-related to obesity, found a study of over 3,000 schoolchildren from Delhi, Kottayam, and Mysuru. This was a surprise finding by the researchers trying to understand the impact of air pollution on the lung health of children in Delhi.The study found 39.8% of the children in Delhi were obese or overweight as compared to 16.4% in Kottayam and Mysuru (which have better air quality). The researchers found the children, who are obese, or overweight, are at a 79% higher risk of developing asthma across all three cities as compared to their healthy weight counterparts. Obese children in Delhi were at a 38% higher risk of developing asthma than their counterparts in Kottayam and Mysuru.“The burden of asthma is also much higher than anticipated. Usually, we say that the prevalence is between 8 to 12%. Some studies have shown a prevalence of up to 20%. But our study shows a prevalence of nearly 40% among boys,” said Arvind Kumar, founder of Lung Care Foundation, which conducted the study in association with Pulmocare Research and Education.“What this essentially means is that pollution not only leads to a higher burden of asthma, but it also correlated to increased obesity which then leads to asthma. The correlation between air pollution and obesity was a surprise finding for us. The question on BMI (body mass index) was included along with all other demographic parameters, but when we looked at the data, we were shocked. That is when we went back to the medical literature and found that a few recent studies have called pollution an obesogen.”The study did not specifically look at the mechanism by which pollution leads to obesity. Kumar said the toxins in the air either act on the fatty cells making them resistant to insulin or they affect endocrine axis leading to binge eating. “Larger studies are needed to conclusively prove the link.”The study also found a very high incidence of asthma in children in Delhi.The prevalence of asthma confirmed through on-the-spot spirometry tests, which determine the amount of air a person breathes out, was found to be 29.3% in Delhi children as compared to 22.6% in those from Kottayam and Mysuru.This was despite a higher prevalence of predisposing factors such as a history of smoking and asthma in the family. Only 29.8% of the children in Delhi had a history of asthma as compared to 33.7% in Kottayam and Mysuru. In Delhi, 13.9% of the children reported smokers in their families as compared to 18.8% in Kottayam and Mysuru, according to the study.“What this shows is pollution has a higher impact on asthma than known risk factors such as the history of the illness in the family or a smoker in the family. We found that boys were twice as likely to have asthma as girls across the cities. What was worse was most of the children were not aware of their asthma and hardly any of them were on proper treatment. One of the reasons for higher diagnosis in the control cities could be that there were more cases of asthma in the family leading to discussions about the disease and health-seeking behaviour. Conversely, with many allergic symptoms already reported in a high proportion of children in Delhi most people think it is part of life,” said Kumar.Only 12% of the Delhi children, who were found to be asthmatics, had been diagnosed and 3% were under treatment. In comparison, 27% in Kottayam and Mysuru had been diagnosed and 8% were under treatment.“This study has shown that around 85% of adolescent children who were found to have asthma in Delhi, did not know that they had asthma, and less than 3% of them were receiving appropriate treatment. Clearly, we need to create more awareness about asthma among parents and teachers, so that under diagnosis and under treatment of asthma can be significantly overcome,” said Anurag Agarwal, one of the authors of the study paper and director of the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, in a statement.The researchers reported higher allergic symptoms in Delhi children. This included sneezing in 52.8% of children in Delhi over the last 12 months as compared to 39.3% in the control cities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/obesity-correlated-to-pollution-study-101630561090313.html
02-09-2021||India||Rumblings in BJP over exclusion of leaders from Chhattisgarh conclave||Some opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders in Chhattisgarh have expressed displeasure over being left out of a three-day Chintan Shivir (brainstorming session) of the party that began on Tuesday in Bastar and said they would take up the matter with the central leadership.“I do not know why my party has not invited me to this Shivir... I believe the party is listening to only a handful of BJP leaders of the state... I will definitely talk to the senior leaders over this apathy towards me and some other senior leaders,” said a former lawmaker, who did not want to be named.The three-day meeting is being held to finalise the BJP’s strategy for the 2023 assembly polls.Also Read | Chhattisgarh begins survey for data for quotas announced in 2019Another BJP leader said the party has made a “big mistake” by excluding them. “By not inviting some of the regional leaders and former lawmakers, the party is creating a divide which will damage the party,” said the second leader, requesting anonymity. He too said he will talk to the central leadership.BJP’s Chhattisgarh in-charge D Purandeswari, Union minister Renuka Singh, and former chief minister Raman Singh are among those attending the conclave.The BJP ruled Chhattisgarh for 15 years before it lost power to Congress in 2018. It is holding such an event for the first time in tribal-dominated Bastar. The BJP won just one of the 12 assembly seats in the region. Eleven of the 12 seats in Bastar are reserved for the tribals, who account for the state’s 32% population. The Congress wrested the lone seat BJP won in the region in a by-poll that was necessitated after lawmaker Bhima Mandavi was killed in a Maoist attack in 2019.Congress leader RP Singh said the BJP has no respect for senior leaders and the state’s people. “...14 MLAs (members of legislative assembly) of the BJP (in Chhattisgarh) are divided into four camps and everyone knows about it. Their infighting is clearly visible. The BJP is unable to handle the infighting...” BJP leader Sacchinand Upasane said every leader is important for his party. “There is a criterion for invitation for the Shivir. Hence, those who met this criterion were called. We work as a unit...the Congress has no right to comment as its faces infighting...” said Upasane, referring to the tussle for the chief ministerial post in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rumblings-in-bjp-over-exclusion-of-leaders-from-chhattisgarh-conclave-101630560490515.html
02-09-2021||India||India has administered at least 660 million Covid vaccine doses till now||India had administered at least 660 million Covid vaccine doses by Wednesday, September 1. Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya spoke to the health ministers of Karnataka and Tamil Nadu to review the situation there. Due to the rising cases in Kerala, he also discussed with them Covid management in areas bordering Kerala amid a spike in cases in the state.Meanwhile, by 7pm on Tuesday, 661,738,647 vaccine doses were given across the states and UTs. As many as 6,942,335 doses were administered on the day. Of this, 4,857,946 were given as the first dose while 2,084,389 got their second dose.Also Read | ‘Can’t keep schools closed’: Dr Guleria says vaccinating kids will take 9 monthsIn the 18-45 age group, 3,594,907 were given the first dose while 1,039,972 doses were given as the second dose on the day. Cumulatively, 258,965,198 people have been given the first dose while 29,799,597 have got their second shot as well.Among the healthcare workers, 10,359,284 have been given the first dose while 8,412,633 have got their second dose as well. Among the frontline workers, 18,325,480 have got their first dose and 13,312,134 have got their second dose too.India’s Covid tally maintained an upward trajectory for the second consecutive day on Thursday as it reported 47,092 cases in the last 24 hours, the data updated on the Union health ministry’s website at 8am showed. The number was 12 per cent higher than that of Wednesday when it logged 41,965 cases, as per the health ministry data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-at-least-660-million-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101630557970146.html
02-09-2021||India||'Vaccinating kids will take up to 9 months...': Dr Randeep Guleria backs reopening of schools||AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria has backed reopening of schools across the country even as questions remain over how students will be kept safe from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as vaccination drive for those under the age of 18 is yet to be announced. Dr Guleria told India Today that it will take up to nine months to vaccinate all the children and schools cannot be kept closed till then.“Schools cannot be kept shut till the middle of next year,” the senior doctor said, adding that educational institutes should not be opened in Kerala, which is reporting more than 30,000 Covid-19 cases daily. However, in places like Delhi where the positivity rate is low, now is the “best time” to reopen schools, he added.Elaborating his stand, Dr Guleria explained, “I support reopening of schools because physical interaction is important for kids. Also, many of them simply do not have the means to avail education online.”The AIIMS director suggested steps to ensure the safety of children in schools. “All staff members should be vaccinated. Steps should be taken to ensure that no crowding takes place when children are entering the campus or leaving it, as well as during lunchbreak. However, a school should be closed if a cluster of cases is reported from there,” Dr Guleria said.He also backed the resumption of physical classes for students in junior standards, who, he said, are not “that vulnerable to Covid-19.” On a vaccine for children, he said Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech will apply for regulatory approval for the use of its jab, Covaxin, on children in the coming days. The firm, Dr Guleria said, is likely to receive approval this month itself.ZyCoV-D, the Covid-19 vaccine developed by Ahmedabad-based Zydus Cadila, is the only shot to have received Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA) for an age group below 18, having been approved for beneficiaries aged 12 and above.Dr Guleria’s stand backing the reopening of schools is, meanwhile, in contrast to those taken by his AIIMS colleague Dr Navneet Wig and Medanta chairperson Dr Naresh Trehan.With the second Covid-19 wave declining, schools, for senior classes, restarted in July and August. Those in other states began reopening from September 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cant-keep-schools-closed-dr-randeep-guleria-says-vaccinating-kids-will-take-9-months-101630556775535.html
02-09-2021||India||India's Covid-19 tally rises by 47,092, 12% higher than yesterday; daily death toll above 500||India's Covid-19 tally maintained an upward trajectory for the second consecutive day on Thursday as it reported 47,092 cases in the last 24 hours, the data updated on the Union health ministry's website at 8am showed. The number was 12 per cent higher than Wednesday when it logged 41,965 cases, as per the health ministry data.The death toll also saw a rise and reached 439,529 with 509 people succumbing to the disease in the same period. On Wednesday, there were 460 deaths due to the viral disease.Out of fresh 47,092, Kerala reported for more than half of the cases with 32,803 fresh cases being logged in a single day. Kerala is leading the Covid-19 surge in India for the last few weeks now amid threat of the third wave.As many as 35,181 patients recovered across the country from the viral disease in the last 24 hours taking the total recoveries to 32,028,825.Meanwhile, India’s vaccination coverage crossed the 660 Crore landmark on Wednesday as the cumulative figure reached 663,037,334. With the administration of 8,109,244 vaccine doses in the last 24 hours, the health ministry said in the daily release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-covid-19-tally-rises-by-47-092-12-higher-than-yesteday-daily-death-toll-above-500-101630556372868.html
02-09-2021||India||India must proactively find, support innovations, startups: Science minister||Innovations and start-ups must be proactively sought out and supported by the technology development board (TDB) which helps in commercialisation of indigenous technology, said Union minister of state for science Dr Jitendra Singh on the occasion of 25th anniversary of the body. “Our success will be measured not by how many Akshatas were able to find us but by how many Akshatas we find,” the minister said on Wednesday, referring to Akshata Kari, co-founder of Pixuate that was supported by TDB for developing a thermal camera to identify persons with abnormal body temperature in a crowd. With Professor Ashutosh Sharma superannuating as the secretary of department of science and ex-officio chairperson of TDB, Dr Renu Swarup took additional charge of the department. She is the first woman to head the department. “@IndiaDST welcomes Dr @RenuSwarup the first woman Secretary of DST as she takes additional charge of the Department. Looking forward to her support and guidance, as DST & all its institutes strive to make greater contributions towards Nation’s progress,” said a tweet from the department. Also Read | Rare, supermassive black holes spotted by Indian reseachersAt the event, chairperson of Bharat Biotech Dr Krishna Ella, chairperson of Biocon Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw, and Varaprasad Reddy from Shantha Biotechnics recounted how the support of the TDB was essential in fuelling the nascent biotech sector. Biotech industry in India is projected to become a $150 billion industry by 2025. Shantha Biotechnics was the first company to receive a loan from the TBD. “The banks did not want to invest in new technology and the interest rates were high. The support we received from TBD helped us in developing a low-cost Hepatitis B vaccine that eventually brought down the cost across the globe,” said Reddy. Professor K VijayRaghavan, principal scientific advisor, in a video message said the TDB will now have to support innovations in the upcoming challenges – climate change adaptation and mitigation technologies, cyberphysical systems and super computers, and government schemes such as poshan mission and jal jeevan mission. Dr VK Saraswat, NITI Aayog member (science), said that the Prime Minister’s emphasis on translational research to take benefits of science to the people had led to a transition in the ecosystem leading to setting up of over 5,000 start-ups, 45 of them led by women. “Currently, there are a few technologies that are changing the world, such as artificial intelligence, robotics, virtual reality. There is no sector that will not be affected by these and TDB has a role to play in taking the technologies over the valley of death when the risk is high and the money needed is also high,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-must-proactively-find-support-innovations-startups-science-minister-101630556890091.html
02-09-2021||India||Does home ministry want to ban VPN? Here is all you need to know||The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Home Affairs has urged the government to block VPNs in India citing cyber threats. The proposal said that VPNs allow criminals to remain anonymous online and hence India must develop a coordination mechanism to block VPNs permanently.VPNs are virtual private networks used by most companies in India to secure their digital assets. During the lockdown, VPNs became more useful in facilitating seamless work-from-home situations.Here is all you need to know about the VPN ban proposal> The committee said that technological challenges posed by VPN services and Dark Web can bypass cyber security walls and allow criminals to remain anonymous online.> VPN can easily be downloaded, as many websites are providing such facilities and advertising them, it said.> The committee said it recommends that the Ministry of Home Affairs should coordinate with the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology to identify and permanently block such VPNs with the help of internet service providers. So the committee has effectively asked the Centre to take action against VPNs that are sheltering criminals.> The ministry must take initiatives to strengthen the tracking and surveillance mechanisms by further improving and developing the state-of-the-art technology, to put a check on the use of VPN and the dark web, the report said.VPN services encrtpt daya and hides the IP address. For the secon reason, one can check blocked sites using VPN. VPN services hides ones online identity even on public Wi-Fi networks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/does-home-ministry-want-to-ban-vpn-here-is-all-you-need-to-know-101630555850035.html
02-09-2021||India||Former Union ministers welcome Indian envoy’s meeting with Taliban leader||A group of 11 eminent people, including former Union ministers Natwar Singh, Yashwant Sinha, and Mani Shankar Aiyar, has welcomed Indian envoy Deepak Mittal’s meeting with Sher Mohammed Abbas Stanekzai, Taliban Political Office head in Qatar, while urging the government to engage with Afghanistan’s de facto rulers for peace in that country. In a statement issued on Wednesday, the group under the banner of Indian Friends of Afghanistan expressed concern over the Afghan situation and called for peace and stability in the country. It said they “stand shoulder to shoulder with the people of Afghanistan in these difficult times as they seek to embark on a new road of hope towards peace, national reconciliation, and national reconstruction.”Also Read | Where do Taliban get their money from? ‘Drugs and mysterious sponsors’: ExpertsThe group urged the government to prevent any political party from using the developments in Afghanistan to communally polarise Indian society for electoral gains. “...any such attempts should be dealt with sternly.” The group said the Taliban should ensure that no terrorist organisation is allowed to find sanctuary in Afghanistan and that every Afghan citizen, irrespective of ethnicity, ideology, or political background, should be respected.“The Taliban should also respect the rights of women and safeguard the developmental projects undertaken by Indian entities in Afghanistan.” The group asked the Taliban to protect Hindus, Sikhs, and other non-Muslim minorities, and facilitate the dignified return of those who were forced to leave their country.The group said that no country in the region should be excluded from nor isolate itself from collaborative efforts to bring peace in Afghanistan and promote national reconciliation and reconstruction. “This requires India, Pakistan, China, Russia, Iran, and other countries to evolve and implement a common strategy, in cooperation with the United Nations, USA, EU and other members of the international community.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-union-ministers-welcome-indian-envoy-s-meeting-with-taliban-leader-101630555449843.html
02-09-2021||India||Maharashtra may bring curbs back to avert third Covid wave||Amid the possibility of the third wave of Covid-19 infections, the Maharashtra government is mulling reimposing curbs to contain the spread of the virus. Although the restrictions are unlikely to be rolled out immediately, the state government may think of night curfew or restrictions on gatherings after the Ganesh festival, which starts on September 10.The state government expects a rise in Covid-19 cases between September 15 and the first week of October, which could be the beginning of the third wave, according to state health officials. Opening up of activities two weeks ago and crowding during the festivals are expected to lead to a rise in daily cases, which currently hover around 4,800 a day.Also Read | Maharashtra forms Council for Climate Change to prepare action planMumbai’s guardian minister Aslam Shaikh said restrictions could be reimposed by September-end if cases rose significantly. “According to the task force, cases may increase by September-end and it may necessitate the resumption of restrictions. If people follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour rigorously, there would not be a rise in the number of cases,” he said.On Wednesday, the state reported 4,456 new Covid-19 cases and 183 fresh deaths, taking the case tally to 6,469,332 and the toll to 137,496. Mumbai saw a rise in cases with the addition of 415 infections on Wednesday — its highest daily caseload is highest in 44 days. Around 70% of the state’s Covid-19 caseload comes from five western Maharashtra districts of Pune, Ahmednagar, Satara, Solapur, and Sangli. Of the 44,366 cases during August 22-31, 30,888 or 70% are from these districts.The CM is expected to hold a review meeting with the state-appointed task force of doctors and officials from health and other departments in the next few days to discuss the steps in the wake of the possibility of the rise in cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-may-bring-curbs-back-to-avert-third-covid-wave-101630555090460.html
02-09-2021||India||Odisha unveils contingency plan with drought-like situation in 213 of 314 blocks||Odisha agriculture minister Arun Sahoo told the state assembly that contingency plans were being implemented to help farmers, following deficient rainfall in 213 of the 314 blocks in Odisha this monsoon.Sahoo said the pump sets for irrigation have been ordered for areas with low rainfall and the district magistrates (DMs) have been instructed to keep a close eye on the situation.“Odisha has experienced drought 8 times in the last 20 years. Of 6.196 million hectares of farmlands that we targeted, farmers have been able to grow various crops in 5.763 million hectares due to lack of adequate rainwater. But we are prepared to tackle a possible drought,” Sahoo said in assembly while replying to an adjournment motion.He said a contingency plan including water supply through canals, distribution of seeds and mini-kits for vegetable farming was being put in motion along with execution of Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme works to ensure continued means of sustenance.Sahoo said till September 1, the state recorded only 666 mm of rainfall, which is 29 % less than normal. 26 districts in the state barring Khordha, Jagatsinghpur, Koraput and Malkangiri have recorded deficient rainfall of 20% or above. Jajpur was the worst affected with 54% less rainfall. Though paddy crop was affected due to the prolonged dry spell, non-paddy crop might not be affected, he said.However, senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and the opposition chief whip Mohan Majhi alleged the state had failed drought-stricken farmers and demanded a special package and official declaration of drought in the state.“The state government cannot shy away from its duties by putting the blame on nature. The government has done nothing to alleviate the plight of the farmers in this time of drought. Lift irrigation points are lying defunct in the state. While the water bodies have dried up, the government has completely failed in irrigating the farm lands,” said Majhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-unveils-contingency-plan-with-drought-like-situation-in-213-of-314-blocks-101630554970049.html
02-09-2021||India||Geelani laid to rest in Srinagar amid tight security||Kashmiri separatist leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani was buried at a graveyard near his residence in Srinagar’s Hyderpora around 4.30am on Thursday amid tight security, his relatives said. Only Geelani’s close relatives and neighbours were allowed to attend his funeral as the security forces sealed the graveyard.Geelani, the face of separatism in Kashmir for over three decades, died at his home in Srinagar on Wednesday after a prolonged illness. He was 91. Geelani spent around two decades in jail. He was largely confined to his residence because of ill-health since 2010. He was put under house arrest again ahead of the controversial nullification of Jammu and Kashmir’s semi-autonomous status in 2019 and released last year.Even journalists were prevented from covering the funeral and stopped from going to Hyderpora while restrictions were imposed across Kashmir and the internet and mobile phones were snapped. Only post-paid mobiles of Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited were working in Kashmir.Security forces were deployed across Kashmir and all the roads leading towards Hyderpora were sealed. Officials said additional troops have been deployed especially in Srinagar’s old city and North Kashmir. Vehicles were stopped at several places and prevented from moving to Srinagar or other major towns.Inspector general (Kashmir) Vijay Kumar announced restrictions across Kashmir late last night as a preventive measure when the news of Geelani’s death broke. Officials said police had been conducting mock drills related to Geelani’s funeral as his condition worsened. Geelani’s supporters wanted to bury him at a graveyard in Srinagar’s old city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/geelani-laid-to-rest-in-srinagar-amid-tight-security-101630553410743.html
02-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: Sonia Gandhi to take final call on Prashant Kishor and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Sonia Gandhi to take final call on Prashant Kishor, party leaders dividedThe Congress is divided over the issue of including Prashant Kishor in the party as speculations are rife that Kishor may get an extraordinary status if he joins the party. Read moreWhere do Taliban get their money from? 'Drugs and mysterious sponsors': ExpertsThe Taliban have pledged to stop the cultivation of opium in Afghanistan. Analysts say that will be hard for many reasons. Read moreResearchers discover new species of gecko within Goa University campusResearchers working at the Department of Zoology Goa University and the Thackeray Wildlife Foundation, Mumbai, have discovered a new variant of gecko. Read moreCrop on 4 lakh hectares of land damaged in 25 flood-hit areas in BiharEven as many districts continue to reel under floods, the state government has started making primary assessment of Kharif crop damage in over 20 districts owing to deluge. Read more'Want to show him what it means for us to get him out': James Anderson on celebrations after getting Kohli's wicketWhile Anderson has gotten the better of Kohli a couple of times, the latter has also fought back a few times. Read moreCinderella director Kay Cannon on flash mob flak: 'Don't know if I'd compare it to the Imagine video'Cinderella director Kay Cannon has watched the flash mob video that the internet is having a great time hating on. She, however, found it funny. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-sonia-gandhi-to-take-final-call-on-prashant-kishor-and-all-the-latest-news-101630551331593.html
02-09-2021||India||Former Rajya Sabha MP, journalist Chandan Mitra dies at 66; PM Modi offers condolence||Former Rajya Sabha MP and journalist Chandan Mitra passed away on Wednesday night, his son Kushan Mitra has told news agency ANI. "Since it is already out there; Dad passed away late last night. He had been suffering for a while," Kushan Mitra tweeted on Thursday morning. Chandan Mitra was 66."Shri Chandan Mitra Ji will be remembered for his intellect and insights. He distinguished himself in the world of media as well as politics. Anguished by his demise. Condolences to his family and admirers. Om Shanti," PM Modi tweeted.Shri Chandan Mitra Ji will be remembered for his intellect and insights. He distinguished himself in the world of media as well as politics. Anguished by his demise. Condolences to his family and admirers. Om Shanti.Mourning the demise of Chandan Mitra, Rajya Sabha MP Swapan Dasgupta took to Twitter and said that he lost the closest friend. Posting a photo from a school trip in 1972, Dasgupta wrote, "I lost my closest friend—editor of Pioneer & former MP Chandan Mitra—this morning. We were together as students of La Martiniere & went on to St Stephen’s & Oxford. We joined journalism at the same time & shared the excitement of Ayodhya & the saffron wave."I am posting a photograph of Chandan Mitra and me together during a school trip in 1972. Be happy my dear friend wherever you are. Om Shanti pic.twitter.com/58vMvU6Wa9Chandan Mitra was the managing director of Delhi-based The Pioneer till June this year.Mitra is survived by his wife and two sons.Chandan Mitra began his political career in 2003 when he was nominated as a Rajya Sabha member. In 2010, he was elected to another term in the Rajya Sabha as a BJP MP from Madhya Pradesh. In 2018, he joined the All Indi Trinamool Congress.Chandan Mitra went to La Martuinuere school in Calcutta and then attended Delhi's St Stephen's. From there, he went to Oxford University for his higher studies.Deeply saddened by this news. Chandan was my campaign manager in my successful race to be President of the St Stephen’s College Union Society, served in my Cabinet & succeeded me. We remained in touch over the years, ironically till I returned to Delhi& politics separated us. RIP https://t.co/3jCtJqVzJkIn his illustrious journalistic career, he worked with The Statesman, The Times of India, The Sunday Observer, the Hindustan Times, before joining The Pioneer.As tributes started pouring in for Chandan Mitra, Congress MP Shashi Tharoor fondly remembered his campaign manager in the election for St Stephen's College Union Society. "Deeply saddened by this news. Chandan was my campaign manager in my successful race to be President of the St Stephen’s College Union Society, served in my Cabinet and succeeded me. We remained in touch over the years, ironically till I returned to Delhi& politics separated us. RIP," Tharoor tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-rajya-sabha-mp-journalist-chandan-mitra-passes-away-101630552858445.html
02-09-2021||India||As 2nd Covid-19 wave recedes, here’s where test positivity rate stands in states||The devastating second wave of the coronavirus pandemic in the country, which was at its peak in April and May, has now receded, paving the way for schools across the country to reopen. Over the last few days, daily Covid-19 infections have been in the range of 30,000-45,000, suggesting that the second Covid-19 wave is largely under control.The fall in fresh coronavirus cases means several states are witnessing low test positivity rate (TPR) as well. However, TPR, which is the ratio of the number of samples testing positive out of total samples tested on a given day, is still high in other states. According to World Health Organization (WHO) guidelines, for the pandemic situation to be considered “under control,” this figure should be less than 3%.Here is the positivity ratio in various states, as reported by Hindustan Times’ sister publication Live Hindustan, citing independent tracker covid19india.org:TPR>3%: Kerala, where 32,803 people tested positive on Wednesday, has the highest TPR of 18.6%, followed by Mizoram (11.3%) and Manipur (9.7%). Sikkim and Meghalaya are next at 9% and 6.2% respectively.TPR 1-3%: Nagaland’s TPR stands at exactly 3% followed by 2.7% in Arunachal Pradesh. Maharashtra is at 2.4%, while Andhra Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh are at 2.2% each. Puducherry (2.1%), West Bengal (1.7%), Goa (1.7%), Tripura (1.5%), Odisha (1.1%) and Tamil Nadu (1.1%).TPR<1%: At 0.7% each, Karnataka and Assam have the highest positivity under this category, with Lakshadweep next at 0.5%. Both Telangana and Ladakh have TPR of 0.4%, followed by Jammu & Kashmir (0.3%), Uttarakhand (2%) and Chandigarh (0.2%). Delhi, Chhattisgarh, Haryana, Punjab and Anadaman & Nicobar are at 0.1% each. Meanwhile, it is at 0% in Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar and Jharkhand.It is to be noted that 0% TPR does not mean that the number of samples returning a positive result in a state is zero, it only means that very less number of people are testing positive in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-2nd-covid-19-wave-recedes-here-s-where-test-positivity-rate-stands-in-states-101630550724126.html
02-09-2021||India||Thunderstorm, rain likely over parts of Delhi-NCR today: IMD||Thunderstorm with moderate to heavy intensity rain is likely over some parts of Delhi-NCR ( Loni Dehat, Hindon AF Station, Indirapuram); Modinagar, Bagpat, Khekra in Uttar Pradesh during the next two hours, India Meteorological Department warned on Thursday morning. Thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain would continue over few places of Delhi-NCR including Noida, Gurugram, Faridabad, Manesar, Hissar, Gannaur Haryana, Daurala, Meerut, Kithor, Garhmukteshwar during the next two hours, IMD warned at 7am.Also Read | Parts of Maharashtra likely to receive above-normal rainfall in September: IMDWidespread rain is likely to continue over northwest India till Friday. The monsoon trough is continuing to pass through the south of its normal position. The eastern end of the monsoon trough is very likely to shift gradually northwards from today and the western end is very likely to shift northwards from tomorrow. A cyclonic circulation is lying over south Gujarat region. It is likely to move west-northwestwards during the next three days and become less marked thereafter. A trough is running from cyclonic circulation over south Gujarat region to northwest Uttar Pradesh across east Rajasthan at lower tropospheric levels. It is likely to become less marked during the next two days. A shear zone is likely to develop over south Peninsular India from September 4.Due to these meteorological conditions, widespread rainfall activity with extremely heavy rain is very likely over south Gujarat region and Saurashtra & Kutch during next 24 hours; very heavy rain is very likely over north Konkan, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi till today.Heavy rain is also likely over north Madhya Maharashtra during the next 24 hours; south Rajasthan till today and Saurashtra and Kutch till tomorrow.Rainfall activity over south peninsular and west India is likely to increase from September 3. Widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy rain is likely over coastal Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Karnataka during September 4-5. Rainfall activity over northeast India is likely to remain subdued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thunderstorm-rain-likely-over-parts-of-delhi-ncr-todayimd-101630551609778.html
02-09-2021||India||Sonia Gandhi to take final call on Prashant Kishor, party leaders divided||The Congress is divided over the issue of including Prashant Kishor in the party as speculations are rife that Kishor may get an extraordinary status if he joins the party. Given this situation, Congress president Sonia Gandhi will take the final call and she has already held discussions with several senior leaders on this issue, sources said to news agency PTI.It has been learnt that G-23, the group of 23 leaders who had written to Sonia Gandhi last year seeking a complete overhaul of the party, has raised objections to Prashant Kishor's joining the party. Reports said they recently met at Kapil Sibal's residence and discussed Prashant Kishor's possible induction into the party.Some Congress leaders are, however, in favour of including the poll strategist who has a stellar track record, the latest being the West Bengal and the Tamil Nadu assembly election, where the parties for which his company campaigned came to power.Whether there will be a separate campaign committee headed by Prashant Kishor or whether he will function under the present system is the bone of contention.Reports said Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi have no problem in working with Kishor as they have worked together in the past in the 2017 UP election when the Congress was in alliance with the Samajwadi Party. The alliance did not work out and that is why a section of Congress insiders consider Prashant Kishor's success as case-specific.After campaigning for the Trinamool and the DMK, Prashant Kishor announced that he doesn't want to continue with the work that he has been doing and since then speculation of his big political plunge has been doing the rounds. Prashant Kishor was part of the JD(U) in the past and has recently quit as Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh's adviser.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-gandhi-to-take-final-call-on-prashant-kishor-party-leaders-divided-101630546452322.html
02-09-2021||India||Foreign secretary Shringla in Washington, to meet top officials of Biden administration||Foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla arrived in the United States capital on Wednesday to hold meetings with senior officials from US president Joe Biden's administration.Shringla is among the few foreign officials to be in town and the highest level Indian official to meet top officials of the Biden administration after the withdrawal of US troops from Afghanistan that brought down curtains on the 20-year-old war.“We will update you with any meetings, any updates to the schedule, and we'll provide those as we're able,” State Department Spokesperson Ned Price told reporters when asked about the meetings of the visiting Indian diplomat.Shringla arrived in Washington DC from New York, where he presided over a crucial meeting of the UN Security Council on Afghanistan. India was president of the 15-member powerful wing of the UN for August.No other details about his meetings in the American capital were immediately available. However, Afghanistan and the upcoming Quad summit are likely to be on the top of the talks between Indian and US officials. Quad consists of four countries comprising Australia, India, Japan, and the US.President Biden has given top priority to Quad and has announced an in-person Quad summit this fall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/foreign-secretary-harsh-vardhan-shringla-in-washington-to-meet-top-officials-of-biden-administration-101630541525676.html
02-09-2021||NA||Breaking news: Haryana records two deaths, 16 fresh cases due to Covid-19||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:Mumbai sees slight rise in new Covid-19 cases; 47 buildings sealedMumbai on Thursday recorded over 400 (441 to be exact) cases due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) for the second consecutive day, taking the caseload to 7,45,000. On Wednesday, the country’s financial capital logged 415 cases, while on Tuesday, there was a slight fall at 323. Read moreCovid-19: Haryana records two deaths, 16 fresh casesHaryana on Thursday recorded two deaths and 16 new cases due to Covid-19, taking the death toll and caseload to 9,679 and 770,522 respectively. Biological E’s Corbevax may be launched in October: Niti Aayog’s VK PaulHyderabad-based pharmaceutical company Biological E may launch its vaccine, ‘Corbevax’, against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in October with phase three trial underway. Read moreRussia tells Google, Apple to remove Navalny app from storesThe Russian government on Thursday told Apple and Google to remove the Navalny app from their stores and warned the two companies could face fines if they fail to do so. Kremlin-critic Alexei Navalny's app promotes his Smart Voting strategy — a project designed to support candidates who are most likely to defeat those from the Kremlin’s main United Russia party.Kerala sees over 32,000 Covid cases for second straight day, 188 new deathsKerala’s daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Thursday remained above the 32,000-mark for the second consecutive day with 32,097 new infections recorded in the last 24 hours, pushing the caseload to 41,22,133. Read moreDelhi airport launches doorstep delivery of excess baggage for flyers at T-3Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL) on Thursday announced a “pocket-friendly” doorstep delivery service for excess baggage of passengers travelling through Terminal 3 of the Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGIA). Read moreWestern Union restarting money transfer services to AfghanistanAmerican multinational financial services company Western Union announced on Thursday that it is restarting money transfer services to Afghanistan, news agency AFP reported. CBI conducts searches across 20 locations regarding alleged irregularities in JEE mainsThe Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is conducting searches at 20 locations across various cities in the country in connection with alleged irregularities committed in the ongoing JEE (Mains) Exams 2021. Kerala reports over 32,000 Covid-19 cases for second straight dayKerala on Thursday reported 32,097 fresh Covid-19 cases, 188 fatalities in the last 24 hours. The active cases in the state stand at 240,186 and the test positivity rate is at 18.41 per cent. Mass gatherings should be discouraged ahead of upcoming festive season: CentreThe Centre said on Thursday that mass gatherings should be discouraged amid the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, particularly in the upcoming festive season. Read moreKabul airport not operational, will resume evacuation mission as soon as service resumes, says MEAMinistry of external affairs spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said on Thursday that the Kabul airport is CBI seeks police custody of ex-Maha home minister Anil Desmukh's lawyer in corruption caseThe Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) sought a seven-day police custody of Maharashtra ex-home minister Anil Deshmukh's lawyer Daga, sub-inspector Abhishek Tiwari in corruption case. 16% of adult population in India fully vaccinated, says CentreThe Union health ministry said on Thursday that 16 per cent of the adult population in the country has been fully vaccinated against Covid-19, while 54 per cent of the adult population has received at least one dose.Sikkim, Dadra and Nagar Haveli inoculated entire population with first vaccine dose, says health ministryThe Union health ministry said on Thursday that Sikkim, Dadra and Nagar Haveli have joined Himachal Pradesh in vaccinating entire adult population with the first dose of the vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Ireland fines WhatsApp 225 million euros for breaching EU privacy lawsThe Irish government on Thursday fined Facebook's WhatsApp 225 million euros for breaching European Union's (EU's) privacy laws. WhatsApp said the fine was "entirely disproportionate" and that it would appeal.TMC leader Mukul Roy unwell, admitted to Kolkata’s SSKM hospitalTrinamool Congress (TMC) veteran Mukul Roy was admitted to the SSKM hospital in Kolkata on Thursday, according to a report by HT’s sister publication Livehindustan. He was seen walking inside the hospital with his security officials. Read moreWorking with Taliban to reopen Kabul airport, says Qatar ministerQatar's foreign minister told news agency AFP on Thursday that the government is workign with the Taliban to reopen Kabul airport. Mahila Congress protests outside PM Modi's residence over rising pricesOn Thursday, Mahila Congress workers led by their acting chief Netta D'Souza protested outside Prime Minister Narendra Modi's residence in Delhi over the issue of rising prices. The protesters raised slogans against the Centre over the spike in prices of cooking gas cylinders and essential commodities.7 die in New York City due to flash floods caused by Hurricane IdaSeven people have died in New York City due to flash floods caused by Hurricane Ida, news agency AFP reported on Thursday. Kerala govt mulling to reopen schools amid Covid-19 crisisDespite being the worst hit state from the Covid-19 pandemic across India, Kerala is mulling to reopen schools in the state and has set up an expert panel to study the present circumstances and submit a report in this regard. "The education department is contemplating to set up a suitable expert panel to submit a report to know whether the circumstances in the state are all right to reopen the schools," general education minister V Sivankutty said. Madras HC directs TN govt to allow only native breeds of bulls in JallikattuMadras high court directs the Tamil Nadu government to allow only native breeds of bulls to participate in Jallikattu events. It also directed the state government to encourage bull owners and farmers to groom native breeds by way of subsidies or incentives.'We're vaccinating people in districts bordering Kerala': Karnataka CMWe're vaccinating the people in districts bordering Kerala. Students/employees coming from Kerala have to quarantine for a week and take an RT-PCR test at the end of the 7-day quarantine. We're taking all possible measures to prevent the spread of Covid-19: Karnataka CM Basavaraj BommaiDelhi HC quashes 4 FIRs lodged in connection with 2020 riotsDelhi high court quashes four FIRs lodged in connection with a fire incident that occurred during the northeast violence. "Five separate FIRs can't be registered for the very same incident as it is contrary to the laws laid down by the Supreme Court," the court says.Anil Deshmukh challenges ED summons in Bombay HCFormer Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh moves Bombay high court seeking to quash the summons issued to him by the Enforcement Directorate in ongoing money laundering probe.92 new Covid-19 cases and 2 deaths in PuducherryPuducherry reports 92 new Covid-19 cases, 38 recoveries and two deaths. Total cases rise to 123,802 including 121,150 recoveries, 1815 deaths and 837 active cases.CBI arrests Anil Deshmukh's lawyer in corruption probeFormer Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh's lawyer has been arrested. He has been brought to Delhi on transit remand. Two people including the CBI sub-inspector have been arrested in the case so far. Both will be produced before the competent court: CBIIndian Navy ship arrives in Bangladesh with oxygen plantsINS Savitri arrived at Chattogram harbour today and was ceremonially received by Bangladesh authorities. It carries 2 mobile oxygen plants as a gift from the people of India to the people of Bangladesh to support the fight against Covid-19: High Commission of India in BangladeshNearly 525 million samples tested for Covid-19 in India: ICMRCOVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes @PIB_India @mygovindia @COVIDNewsByMIB #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/aYaSrBELZp524,868,734 samples tested up to September 1, 2021. 1,684,441 tests on September 1, 2021: Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).India's daily Covid-19 cases rise to 47,092India reports 47,092 Covid-19 cases in last 24 hours, taking tally to 32,857,937. Recoveries, deaths and active cases rise to 32,028,825, 439,529 and 389,583 respectively.PM Modi pays tribute to Chandan MitraShri Chandan Mitra Ji will be remembered for his intellect and insights. He distinguished himself in the world of media as well as politics. Anguished by his demise. Condolences to his family and admirers. Om Shanti."Shri Chandan Mitra Ji will be remembered for his intellect and insights. He distinguished himself in the world of media as well as politics. Anguished by his demise. Condolences to his family and admirers," tweets PM Modi.Former Rajya Sabha MP Chandan Mitra no moreThank you for all the messages, I will respond in time. Going off SM for a bit. https://t.co/ejMYck29Ba"Since it is already out there; Dad passed away late last night. He had been suffering for a while," tweets Kushan Mitra, son of former Rajya Sabha MP Chandan Mitra.Jaishankar congratulates Vietnam on 76th National DayCongratulations to FM @FMBuiThanhSon and the Government and people of Vietnam on the 76th Anniversary of their National Day. Committed to enriching our Comprehensive Strategic Partnership."Congratulations to FM @FMBuiThanhSon and the Government and people of Vietnam on the 76th Anniversary of their National Day. Committed to enriching our Comprehensive Strategic Partnership," tweets external affairs minister S Jaishankar.Moderna to 'Maderna': Tourist arrested in Hawaii after spelling errorA 24-year-old Illinois woman submitted a fake Covid-19 vaccination card to visit Hawaii with a glaring spelling error that led to her arrest: Moderna was spelled “Maderna," according to court documents. Read MoreRains begins to lash Delhi US in no hurry to recognise Taliban, says 'don't think they are good actors'The United States said it is in no rush to recognise the Taliban rule in Afghanistan. Neither do countries that the US has spoken to in the recent past have any such rush, White House press secretary Jen Psaki said in a press briefing on Wednesday (Washington time). Read MoreTop US general in 'pain and anger' over Afghanistan situation after withdrawalWith the United States finally completing its troops withdrawal in Afghanistan, hastily ending its extended two-decade-long military mission in the war-torn country, one of its top generals has now expressed "pain and anger" over the situation which has long plagued the land now overrun by Taliban insurgents. Read MoreResistance forces in Afghanistan's Panjshir say will continue fighting TalibanThe resistance forces in Afghanistan's northeastern province of Panjshir said on Wednesday that they would continue fighting the Taliban as their negotiations did not lead to any results, news agency ANI reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-september-2-2021-101630540201367.html
02-09-2021||India||Kashmir separatist leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani dies, troops deployed in Srinagar||Kashmir veteran separatist politician Syed Ali Shah Geelani died on Wednesday night in Srinagar, prompting authorities to deploy troops around the city and shut down the internet as a precautionary measure, police said. He was 91 years old. "Troops are being deployed at sensitive places in Srinagar and other major towns and no vehicular movement is being allowed," a police official said.Geelani was the most senior separatist leader in Kashmir. His family said the elderly politician had been ailing for years and had been under house arrest for the last 12 years after leading several anti-India protests.Watch: Kashmiri separatist leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani dies, PDP’s Mehbooba Mufti sends condolencesA family member told Reuters Geelani developed chest pain and chest congestion on Wednesday afternoon and died late at night at his residence in the region's main city of Srinagar.Police chief Vijay Kumar told Reuters the internet was shut down as down as a precautionary measure and restrictions imposed in the Kashmir valley.The roads leading to Geelani's residence in Srinagar were sealed, another official said.Last year, Geelani quit his hard line Hurriyat Conference faction, saying that it had failed to counter New Delhi's efforts to tighten its grip over Kashmir.Hurriyat Conference was formed by various separatist groups in Kashmir in 1993.Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan expressed grief over Geelani's passing on Twitter and said the nation would observe a day of mourning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kashmir-separatist-leader-syed-ali-shah-geelani-dies-troops-deployed-in-srinagar-101630533585417.html
02-09-2021||India||Hurriyat hardliner Syed Ali Shah Geelani dead at 91||Syed Ali Shah Geelani, an avowedly pro-Pakistan Kashmiri secessionist leader, who passed away at his Hyderpora residence in Srinagar on Wednesday night, was the undisputed leader of separatism in Kashmir and the only one who would publicly raise the cry of Azadi-barai-Islam (Freedom for the sake of Islam).The senior-most separatist leaders held a huge sway over a large number of Valley youth.He left behind his wife and six children and a separatist organisation which had become largely mute after the abrogation of J&K special status on August 5.Watch: Kashmiri separatist leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani dies, PDP’s Mehbooba Mufti sends condolencesKnown for his pro-Pakistan stance, Geelani, wanted the merger of Kashmir with Pakistan and has been seen as the strong voice of Pakistan in the Valley.Among the youth with separatist ideology, he was fondly called “Babb” (grandfather) for his unwavering stand demanding freedom from India.His opponents would call him a hawk and stubborn who was not pragmatic enough to change with the changing situations, even most of the mainstream leaders who are currently in jail blamed him for trouble in Kashmir.During his lifetime, he was a staunch Islamist and for many years, he was seen as the face of Jamaat-e-Islami, a politico-religious organisation now banned by the government in Kashmir and remained as chairman All Party Hurriyat Conference in late 90s. His disliking for some of the politicians saw him forming another faction of the Hurriyat Conference in 2003, which was known as Hurriyat Conference (Geelani), the other faction was seen as a moderate faction led by Mirwaiz Umar Farooq.He spent around two decades in jails from time to time. From past around 10 years, he wasn’t keeping well and since 2010, the government used to mostly place him under house arrest at his Rawalpora residence, which also houses the office of his faction of Hurriyat Conference. Since August 5, 2019, Geelani was under house arrest and doctors under police protection used to visit him there though he was occasionally shifted to hospital whenever his condition deteriorated.Before his death, the government had already formulated a foolproof security plan and they feared that his death could trigger series of protests in Kashmir, the protests which erupted after the killing of Hizb commander Burhan Wani in 2016. The government was also apprehensive of violence after Hurriyat Conference (G) faction issued a statement from Muzaffarabad asking people to converge at Eidgah martyrs cemetery soon after the death of the leader and funeral should be held on next day.During his lifetime, Geelani openly advocated that the party Jamaat-e-Islami should support militants fighting for Kashmir and treat foreign militants as ‘guest militants’. For the youth who took to gun, Geelani was one of the few leaders whom they see as their inspiration and many local militants once trapped in encounters sensing their death used to sent messages to their families that their last funeral should be led none other than him.Geelani has been author of a number of books and booklets including his three-volume autobiography ‘Wular Kinaray’ that revolved around his personal and political journey.He twice contested elections from Baramulla Lok Sabha seat, but remained unsuccessful as NC candidates always defeated him. After the beginning of militancy in late 80s, he always opposed polls and was the first to announce the boycott calls whenever government used to announce the elections in Kashmir. He even expressed regrets at times when people voted in 2002 and 2008 polls and panchayat elections held in early 2000. Many considered him inflexible who wanted talks with India only, if government of India accepts Kashmir is an international dispute.Geelani had represented Sopore in J&K assembly thrice, last time in 1987 when he was the candidate of Muslim United Front (MUF) and was one of the four candidates who managed to win their seats despite allegation of large scale poll riggings which led the start of militancy in Kashmir two years later. . He twice contested elections from Baramulla Lok Sabha seat, however, remained unsuccessful as NC candidates always defeated him.After the start of militancy in late 80’s, he always opposed polls and was first to announce the boycott calls whenever government used to announce the elections in Kashmir. He even expressed regrets at times when people voted in 2002 and 2008 polls and panchayat elections held in early 2000.However, his critics blamed him for promoting stone pelting and militancy while his relatives joined government ranks as the officers.Though being a staunch Pakistani supporter, but at times he issued statements against Pakistan government; his closeness with the Pakistan earned him a sobriquet “as green lion”. He even asked people to hold funeral prayers for Osama bin Laden.Many people in Kashmir believe that being a veteran politician and tallest separatist leader; he shouldn’t have closed his doors to the delegation of Indian Parliament members who had come to meet him after the killing of Hizb militant Burhan Wani evoked a protest which saw violence and unrest for six months.Infact many saw him as one of the few persons in the J&K leaders who always said no to New Delhi and became biggest hurdle for New Delhi in Kashmir. With Geelani gone, now it remain to be seen who will replace him as there is not a single person in the separatist camp who holds sway on people like Geelani did.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hurriyat-hardliner-syed-ali-shah-geelani-dead-at-91-101630528806087.html
02-09-2021||India||Experts meet Kerala govt as Covid spike continues||Kerala on Wednesday reported 32,803 fresh Covid-19 cases and 173 deaths as medical experts suggested the high infection rate, triggered by Onam festivities, would continue till the second week of September.The experts, mainly epidemiologists, virologists and public health activists, released the statement after a meeting with the state government over the alarming spike in Covid cases across the state.Most of the experts at the meeting also asked the government to vaccinate maximum people to check further damage. After the meeting, the state government came out with a statement claiming that experts expressed satisfaction over the state’s containment strategy and stressed the need to accelerate the ongoing vaccination drive. The government also claimed that many experts agreed that the state Covid data was better than many other states. However, one of the participants, a senior epidemiologist, who did not want to be named, said some experts expressed reservations over the state’s low testing rate, overdependence on antigen tests, hype and overconfidence. Some of the experts who attended the virtual meeting include Dr R R Gangakedkhar, former chief of ICMR, Dr David Peter from Hopkins University, Dr Devi Sreedhar from Edinburg University and Dr Jacob John, former virology head of the Christian Medical College Vellore. The projection report prepared by the pandemic core committee also said the situation would stabilize only after September 10. The government has called another meeting with local body chiefs on Friday to streamline containment measures. The high caseload has invited enough embarrassment to the state as many neighbouring states have put severe restrictions on people travelling from the state. The Union health ministry has also asked Tamil Nadu and Karnataka to increase vaccines in districts bordering Kerala. Meanwhile, Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party on Wednesday said the meeting was another publicity stunt by the left government. “The government is spreading lies. When the Centre rapped it, the state government said it praised it. We have information that many experts criticised it,” said party leader S Suresh. On Wednesday, the test positivity remained high at 18.76 per cent after 174,854 samples were tested. It also reported 173 deaths on Wednesday, taking the total to 20,961. Active caseload also crossed 220k. Two districts reported over 4000 cases, Thrissur 4,424 and Ernakulam 4,324. Statistics show there is a whopping 24 per cent increase in cases after Onam. R factor, which tells how many new cases have been transmitted from an infected person, has gone up from 0.9 per cent to 1.5% after Onam, health ministry statistics show.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/experts-meet-kerala-govt-as-covid-spike-continues-101630528698319.html
02-09-2021||India||T’gana reports 21% students on 1st day of school reopening||Telangana on Wednesday reported 21 per cent of total attendance in schools across all districts on the first day of reopening of physical classes, indicating that things are far from normal during the Covid-19 pandemic. According to a district-wise report, the total attendance in government schools was a little higher at 27.45% in Telangana. In private (both government-aided and unaided) schools, the total attendance was only 18.35%.The highest percentage of students who turned up for physical classes was reported from the Hanumakonda district at 34.77%, while the same for Hyderabad stood at 22.12%. The lowest attendance of 18.41% was recorded in Nagarkurnool district.In total, out of the state’s 5.2 million schoolchildren, only 1.13 million had attended physical classes on the first day of school reopening. When contacted, officials from the state’s school education department, who did not want to be quoted, said that they are monitoring the situation and refused to comment further.The Telangana government on August 23 announced the reopening of all schools in the state from September 1. However, a high court ruling on 31 August ( based on public interest litigation) put a brake on the government’s plan, stating that while school managements can resume physical classes, they cannot force parents to send their children to school for the same.A bench comprising acting Chief Justice MS Ramachandra Rao and justice Vinod Kumar ruled that students have the option to attend both physical or online classes. The high court’s ruling did not allow the state government to reopen state-run residential, tribal welfare and social welfare schools that have hostels.It also asked the government to submit a report on the preparedness concerning reopening the state-run welfare and residential schools in four weeks. The bench also asked the government to lay down standard operating procedures (SOP) to be followed by all school managements concerning the reopening of the educational institutional institutions in the state.In response to the high court’s ruling on Tuesday, the Telangana School Education department on the same day issued a memo stating that it is now up to school management to have either online or offline classes for children or a combination of both. It added that any undertaking by parents from managements absolving the latter if any child gets infected with Covid-19 would also not have any “legal effect”.When contacted, functionaries from private school managements who did not want to be quoted said that there was a mixed response to the resumption of physical classes. “We had physical classes resuming only for the upper classes, and there was 45% attendance today. So, hopefully, things will be better once parents regain confidence in the coming days,” said an official from the Hyderabad Public School’s management, who requested anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tgana-reports-21-students-on-1st-day-of-school-reopening-101630528697222.html
02-09-2021||India||Karnal SDM who made ‘crack heads of farmers’ remark transferred||CHANDIGARH: The Haryana government on Wednesday transferred Karnal sub-divisional magistrate (SDM-civil) Ayush Sinha, who was recently caught on camera directing police to hit protesting farmers on their head if they breached the security cordon. The 2018-batch IAS officer was transferred out of Karnal and posted as additional secretary of Citizen Resources Information Department (CRID), as per a government order. The CRID has been dealing with some of the flagships programmes of the government, the progress of which is personally monitored by chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar.Sinha is among 19 IAS officers who were either transferred or given additional charge, the government order read. The transfer order came a day after the state government sought a report from Karnal deputy commissioner on the alleged video that surfaced after police action on protesting farmers at Bastara toll plaza on Saturday. Chief secretary Vijai Vardhan has reportedly asked the deputy commissioner to also take into account Sinha’s version of events while preparing the report. In the video clip, Sinha was heard instructing a group of policemen: “Utha utha ke maarna peeche sabko (hit them hard)…We shall not allow this cordon to be breached. We have enough force available. We haven’t slept for the past two days. But you have come here after taking some sleep…Mere paas ek bhi banda nikal ke nahi aana chahiye. Agar aaye toh sar foota hua hona chahiye uska. Clear hai aapko (No one should break the cordon and reach me. If someone does, make sure he has a broken head. Hope this is clear).”The IAS officer, however, alleged the video was edited and consisted only of selected portions of his overall instructions to the cops.Police had used force on the protesters when farmers allegedly tried to march towards the venue of the BJP meeting, in which the chief minister and other senior BJP leaders from the state were present.While the chief minister admitted that Sinha’s choice of words was wrong, he defended the police action against the protesting farmers. Deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala also condemned Sinha’s instructions to the police and assured action against the officer. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of farmers’ outfits spearheading the stir against the farm laws, had said a murder case should be registered against Sinha and sought his dismissal from service. The Morcha had fixed September 6 as the deadline to meet its demands while threatening to lay siege to the Karnal mini-secretariat.The Congress, meanwhile, called for a judicial inquiry by a sitting judge of the high court or a retired judge into the lathicharge incident, in which around 10 farmers were injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnal-sdm-who-made-crack-heads-of-farmers-remark-transferred-101630528687397.html
02-09-2021||India||Visva-Bharati seeks Calcutta high court’s intervention to end students’ protest||Kolkata: Authorities of the West Bengal’s Visva-Bharati University on Wednesday filed a petition before the Calcutta high court seeking intervention in clearing the impasse created by an agitation against expulsion of three students on disciplinary ground, people aware of the development said. The petition is likely to be heard later this week. Visva-Bharati, whose chancellor is the Prime Minister, did not make any official statement. However, lawyers aware of the development said the state’s only central university – which was set up by Rabindranath Tagore at Bolpur in Birbhum district in 1921 – in its petition said that security on campus has been breached by the student agitation that started on August 28. Since then, vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty has been confined to his on-campus residence. Members of the Students Federation of India (SFI), the students’ wing of the Communist Party of India (Marxist), have blocked the gates. The agitators have been sending food items and vegetables for the VC and his family for four days, but he refused to accept these. After Chakraborty lodged a police complaint on August 30, four constables and a sub-inspector were deployed outside his home. On Wednesday, the VC ordered food online. “The VC made a false accusation before some staff members that we are not allowing him to buy food. We have been supplying food thrice a day so that he does not face any inconvenience,” said Rupa Chakraborty, one of the agitating students. Aishe Ghosh, the students’ union president at Delhi’s Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) led the agitation on Tuesday. The students’ wing of the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) will start a parallel movement on Thursday. The three students, who were suspended in January last year, also took part in agitations against several actions taken by Chakrabarty and visits by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders such as Rajya Sabha member Swapan Dasgupta in 2020 and Union home minister Amit Shah before the March-April assembly polls in the state. Demanding Chakrabarty’s removal, Aishe Ghosh said, “He is acting on behalf of the Rashtriya Shayamsevak Sangh (RSS) that wants to establish control over several universities. They tried the same in JNU.” The BJP state leadership on Wednesday reacted to anti-RSS posters put up on the campus. “How can the RSS, which has nothing to do with Visva Bharati, be dragged into this? The VC cannot be harassed in this manner because he expressed his independent opinions,” said Bengal BJP chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya. The central university has temporarily suspended the admission process and publication of results, confirming that the VC is “under siege” due to the ongoing agitation by a section of students. In January last year, there was a protest by students when Swapan Dasgupta was invited by the authorities to speak on the controversial Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) at a seminar. A month after the incident, Chakrabarty triggered a controversy by saying that those who gather at Delhi’s Rajghat donning white caps on Gandhi Jayanti are “the country’s biggest thieves.” A section of faculty and staff members are also unhappy with the VC as disciplinary action and suspension orders have been passed against many of them over the past two years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/visvabharati-seeks-calcutta-high-court-s-intervention-to-end-students-protest-101630528686176.html
02-09-2021||India||Visva Bharati moves Calcutta high court amid students’ stir against expulsion||Bengal’s Visva Bharati varsity authorities on Wednesday filed a petition at the Calcutta high court seeking its intervention to clear the impasse created by an agitation against expulsion of three students on disciplinary grounds. The petition may be heard later this week. The Prime Minister is the chancellor of the university. Visva Bharati did not make any official statement. Lawyers aware of the development said the state’s only central university -- which was set up by Rabindranath Tagore at Bolpur in Birbhum district in 1921 --- said in its petition that security on campus has been breached by the student agitation that started on August 28. Since then, vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty has been confined to his on-campus residence. Members of the Students Federation of India (SFI), the students’ wing of the Communist Party of India (Marxist), or CPI(M), have blocked the gates. The agitators have been sending food items and vegetables for the VC and his family for four days but he refused to accept these. After Chakraborty lodged a police complaint on August 30, four constables and a sub-inspector were deployed outside his home. On Wednesday, the VC ordered food from an online store. “The VC made a false accusation before some staff members that we are not allowing him to buy food. We have been supplying food thrice a day so that he does not face any inconvenience,” said Rupa Chakraborty, one of the agitating students. Aishe Ghosh, the student union president at Delhi’s Jawaharlal Nehru University led the agitation on Tuesday. The students’ wing of the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) will start a parallel movement on Thursday. The three students, who were suspended in January last year, took part in agitations against several actions taken by Chakrabarty and visits by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders such as Rajya Sabha member Swapan Dasgupta in 2020 and Union home minister Amit Shah before the March-April assembly polls. Demanding Chakrabarty’s removal, Aishe Ghosh said, “He is acting on behalf of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) that wants to establish control over several universities. They tried the same at JNU.” The BJP state leadership on Wednesday reacted to anti-RSS posters put up on the campus. “How can the RSS, which has nothing to do with Visva Bharati, be dragged into this? The VC cannot be harassed in this manner because he expressed his independent opinions,” said Bengal BJP’s chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya. In January last year, there was a student unrest when Swapan Dasgupta was invited by the authorities to speak on the Citizenship Amendment Act at a seminar. A month after this incident, Chakrabarty triggered a controversy when he said those who gather at Delhi’s Rajghat donning white caps on Gandhi Jayanti are “the country’s biggest thieves”. A section of faculty and staff members are also unhappy with the VC as disciplinary action and suspension orders have been passed against many of them over the past two years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/visva-bharati-moves-calcutta-high-court-amid-students-stir-against-expulsion-101630528627309.html
02-09-2021||India||BJP MLAs from north Bengal skip party meet, leaders ask units to be cautious||Days after two Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislators from south Bengal returned to the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC), the saffron camp’s efforts to keep the house in order suffered a jolt on Wednesday when five lawmakers from north Bengal districts skipped an organizational meeting convened in Siliguri town. The meeting was called to discuss a range of issues, including post-poll violence. Among the absentees, Ashok Lahiri, the former chief economic adviser to the Centre and MLA from Balurghat, and Satyendranath Roy, who was elected from Gangarampur, informed the party that they would not be able to attend the meeting. Lahiri was attending a meeting in Delhi, while Roy said his wife, a heart patient, was unwell. “I also mailed a copy of the doctor’s prescription,” Roy told the local media. However, there was no response from the other three MLAs; Gopal Chandra Saha from Old Malda, Joel Murmu from Habibpur and Manoj Oraon from Kumargram. BJP state leaders virtually attended the meeting from Kolkata and state unit president Dilip Ghosh asked the north Bengal units to be cautious, said leaders aware of the development. Leader of the opposition in the assembly, Suvendu Adhikari, claimed in Kolkata that no MLA skipped the meeting. On Monday, Tanmay Ghosh, who won the Bishnupur seat in Bankura district returned to the TMC. Biswajit Das, the lawmaker from Bagdah in North 24 Parganas also followed suit on Tuesday. With these defections, the BJP’s tally in the 294-member Bengal assembly came down from 77 to 72. Mukul Roy, who was a BJP national vice-president, returned to the TMC on June 11 but the legislator from Krishnanagar North has not resigned from the party till now. The BJP has sought his disqualification under the anti-defection law. Roy is still a BJP legislator on paper, just like Ghosh and Das. The BJP outperformed the TMC in north Bengal in all recent polls. In the March-April assembly polls, the BJP bagged 30 of the 54 seats in the eight north Bengal districts although the TMC won 213 of the state’s 294 seats. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the BJP bagged 18 of the state’s 42 seats. In north Bengal, it secured seven of the eight seats. Though the BJP won 30 assembly seats in north Bengal, its total tally came down from 77 to 75 as two MLAs from north Bengal did not take oath and resigned from the assembly to retain their Lok Sabha seats. One of them, Nisith Pramanik, was made Union minister of state for home affairs during the last cabinet reshuffle. Adhikari alleged that the TMC was making desperate efforts to engineer defections. “But Mamata Banerjee will not succeed. I have already sent letters to Ghosh and Das, asking them to explain why they should not be charged under anti-defection law. Rest of our MLAs are united,” said Ghosh. TMC state general secretary Kunal Ghosh took a potshot at Adhikari. “The BJP inducted leaders from the TMC amid much fanfare before the assembly polls. Now it is realizing the real meaning of the proverb tit for tat,” said Ghosh. In Siliguri, BJP national spokesperson and Darjeeling Lok Sabha member Raju Bista, said, “Our north Bengal MLAs are united. They did not join the BJP to serve vested interests.” Wednesday’s meeting assumed significance as John Barla, a Union minister of state and MP from Alipurduar in north Bengal has raised the demand for a separate state comprising districts in the region. Bista said, “The deprived people of north Bengal want a separate state. This is the people’s demand and in a democratic country people have the constitutional right to raise their voice.” However, when asked if he and the BJP support the demand, Bista did not answer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-mlas-from-north-bengal-skip-party-meet-leaders-ask-units-to-be-cautious-101630528625965.html
02-09-2021||India||Kerala HC rejects petition seeking CBI probe in Wayanad tree felling||The Kerala High Court on Wednesday dismissed a plea seeking a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe into illegal tree felling in Wayanad (north Kerala) observing that there is no need to intervene in the ongoing investigation. The court, however, directed the special investigation team (SIT) to probe all angles of the case and not to spare any one.A native of Thrissur, George Vattikulam, an activist, moved the High Court last month saying that the SIT investigation was dragging and expressed concern that many influential people involved in the case may go scot free and sought a central agency probe. The court said it is satisfied with the present investigation and directed the SIT to spare no one.The division bench headed by Chief Justice S Manikumar, however, said if the investigation was not proper or made public, then the petitioner had every right to move court again for another inquiry. “The SIT should probe the tree felling on assigned land, forest and protected areas,” it observed.The court later accepted the state government’s contention that the case was progressing well and the main accused were arrested. The court also said it did not want to disturb the ongoing probe. Earlier delay in arresting the main accused, three brothers of the Augustin family, had invited sharp criticism from the court. The Kerala government had opposed the CBI probe.In October 2020, the state revenue department had issued an order allowing felling of protected trees like rosewood and teak grown by farmers on the assigned land. Under the guise of this order, wood worth crores of rupees was smuggled from private and forest land. Poor farmers were given paltry amounts after being shown the government order by timber mafia.The tree felling and smuggling of valuable wood came to light in March after an upright forest officer unearthed illegal felling in which 101 rosewood trees, some of them as old as 500 years old had been cut and smuggled. After this many other districts also reported similar cases and green activists claimed that trees worth ₹500 crore were plundered using a weird government order and they suspected a nexus between politicians, officials and the timber mafia. Later the government had constituted a SIT and the Union Environment Ministry also sought a report from the state on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-hc-rejects-petition-seeking-cbi-probe-in-wayanad-tree-felling-101630528572607.html
02-09-2021||India||Yediyurappa charts own plan to tour state to help BJP win 2023 polls||Even as the national leadership of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has been undertaking tours in Karnataka as part of its drive to consolidate its support base and iron out problems in its cadre and state leadership, former chief minister BS Yediyurappa, at least until now, is charting out his own plans to tour the state to help bring the BJP to power on it’s own in 2023.Though the intent appears to be the same, the two sides have visible differences and distinct approaches to how this so-called common goal can be achieved.The most conspicuous, analysts said, is how the BJPs national leadership is trying to push for an agenda on the platform of Hindutva while Yediyurappa continues to pursue his tried-and-tested caste-based politics.“Yediyurappa will undergo a state-wide tour and will talk to the BJP state leadership and president (Nalin Kumar Kateel) and then finalise it (tour),” said one person aware of the former chief minister’s plans, requesting anonymity.Arun Singh, the BJPs national general secretary in-charge of Karnataka has been touring parts of Old Mysuru region and is scheduled to head to Hubbali on Thursday and other regions in North Karnataka ahead of the upcoming Urban Local Body (ULB) polls on September 3.CT Ravi, the national general secretary and legislator from Chikmagalur is also on a tour to poll-bound districts. Kalaburagi, Hubballi and Belagavi are headed to the polls on September 3.Professor Chambi Puranik, political analyst and former faculty at Mysuru University said that the BJP cannot afford to “antagonize” Yediyurappa and will need him at the forefront if the saffron outfit has any hope of returning to power in 2023.On Tuesday, Arun Singh said that the party will not stop Yediyurappa’s proposed state-tour after Ganesha Chaturthi. He added that the 78-year-old is an experienced leader and need not seek permission from the top brass to tour the state.“There is some kind of understanding (between the BJP and Yediyurappa). Yesterday’s statement indicate that Yediyurappa is not just indispensable but also defiant. He (Yediyurappa) is an asset as well as a challenge to them,” Professor Puranik said.The state is also likely to witness zilla and taluk panchayat elections later this year which, people aware of the developments said, would provide a good indicator of mood on the ground ahead of the 2023 assembly polls.Leaders like Yediyurappa, Siddaramaiah and HD Deve Gowda among others have been part and parcel of Karnataka’s deeply caste-influenced society and politics over the decades that has shaped their careers and the discourse in the state. The Lingayats are believed to back Yediyurappa and the BJP while the backward classes, Dalits and minorities are known to side with the Congress. The JD(S) is believed to derive their strength and numbers in the assembly elections with the backing of the Vokkaligas, another dominant community found in majority in the Old Mysuru region.Yediyurappa stepped down from the top chair after a long and bitter battle between the high command and his own partymen for almost two years on July 26 and was replaced by Basavaraj Bommai, a known loyalist of the former chief minister and who a Lingayat.Yediyurappa, people aware of the developments said, continues to run the government and was able to get his choice of legislators to enter the new Cabinet.More importantly, he kept those particular legislators who challenged his reign at the top post, out.“Yediyurappa has a way to get people to do what he wants,” said a Bengaluru-based analyst, requesting not to be named.The analyst referred to the likes of Basanagouda Patil (Yatnal), a firebrand and hardcore Hindutva leader, who was sucked into the caste-reservation row when he became one of the leading faces of the Panchamasali agitation. Panchamasali is the largest sub-sect within the Lingayats, believed to be the most populous and dominant caste group in Karnataka, to which Yediyurappa too belongs.Yediyurappa came under flak by his own party when he refused to join the hardcore right wings assertion to blame Muslims for the spread of Covid- 19 in April last year after the Tablighi Jamaat row in Delhi.Yediyurappa is faced with opposition from the likes of CT Ravi, another aspirant for the top job, known for his right wing views.“Until Hindus are in majority in this country there will be the constitution written by Dr B R Ambedkar. Until Hindus are in majority there will be equal opportunity, once Hindus become minority what happened to Gandara (Afghanistan) will happen here too,”Ravi said in Kalaburagi on Tuesday, news agency PTI reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yediyurappa-charts-own-plan-to-tour-state-to-help-bjp-win-2023-polls-101630528570053.html
02-09-2021||India||Andhra Pradesh reports 1,186 new Covid-19 cases, 10 deaths||Andhra Pradesh logged 1,186 fresh Covid-19 cases, 1,396 recoveries and 10 deaths in the 24 hours ending 9 am on Wednesday.The state’s Covid-19 chart now showed 2,015,302 total positives, 19,86,962 recoveries and 13,867 deaths so far.The latest bulletin said the number of active cases has come down to 14,473.For the first time in many weeks, all 13 districts reported less than 200 fresh cases in a day, with East Godavari topping with 175. Kurnool and Vizianagaram were at the bottom with 13 each.Kurnool is the only district with less than 100 active cases now.Krishna reported four fresh fatalities, SPS Nellore two, Chittoor, East Godavari, Prakasam and Visakhapatnam one each in a day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-pradesh-reports-1-186-new-covid-19-cases-10-deaths-101630528568923.html
02-09-2021||India||Vaccinate inmates, staff of mental health facilities in a month, Supreme Court tells states||New Delhi: The Supreme Court on Wednesday ordered the states and Union territories to vaccinate all inmates and staff of mental healthcare facilities against Covid-19 within a month and to set up a dashboard to provide information about rehabilitation homes set up for cured mentally ill patients within the same period.Passing a slew of orders, the bench of Justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, Vikram Nath and Hima Kohli said, “All states and UTs are directed to ensure time-bound schedule for vaccination of all persons lodged in mental health institutions and of service providers, health care workers and other staff, not later than one month from the receipt of this order. Progress report should be filed with the Union Ministry of Social Justices and Empowerment on or before October 15 explaining steps taken and the number of persons vaccinated for COVID.”The order came on a contempt petition filed by advocate Gaurav Kumar Bansal, who accused states and UTs of flouting a July 10, 2017 order of the top court requiring states/UTs to establish half-way homes serving as rehabilitation facilities for mentally ill patients who have cured and who were overstaying at the government-run mental hospitals or facilities. On July 6, the top court in the same proceedings directed the Union government to chalk out a plan for vaccinating persons staying in mental health establishments on priority.The court also went through status reports submitted by states and UTs on compliance of its July 2017 order. It said, “We do not find any genuine progress made in that context except different states have set timelines for setting up half-way homes.”Uttar Pradesh, in its report, said the state has re-designated 75 old age homes as half-way homes and shifted 51 patients cured of mental illness to these homes. The bench said, “Merely designating 75 old homes as half-way homes will amount to mere lip service.” The court also commented on the Maharashtra government’s decision to shift 186 cured patients overstaying at mental health institutions to beggar homes, old age homes and other custodial institutions. The bench directed such persons to be relocated in half-way homes by November 30.The bench ordered, “Ultimate task of rehabilitation will not sub-serve by relocation alone.” The bench relied on guidelines issued by the Centre under the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act requiring rehabilitation to be a two-step process of relocation and re-integration into society requiring half-way homes to cater medical, social, and psychological needs of inmates besides training in skills.Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Madhavi Divan informed the court that progress made by states could be achieved by requiring each state/UT to create a dashboard providing details of these homes, their geographical location, facilities provided, intake capacity, and occupancy. This would not only bring in accountability in the long run but also provide the Centre access to information from states.The bench accordingly directed the Centre to frame a Model Dashboard with the required inputs and circulate it to states/UTs to update information on real time basis within four weeks. The court also directed the Centre to monitor progress by state/UT governments on a monthly basis and file a status report before the court in the last week of December, when the matter is to be heard next.The petitioner apprised the court of a report prepared by the National Institute for Mental Health and Neuro Sciences (NIMHANS), Bengaluru in 2016 which highlighted deplorable conditions of living of women inmates in state-run mental health establishments. These included women inmates separated from their child, forceful tonsuring of heads, lack of privacy, lack of sanitary napkins, identity documents and non-issuance of disability certificate or pension to eligible inmates. Gaurav Kumar Bansal, the petitioner in this case, also presented the recommendations of National Commission for Women (NCW) made in 2020 in this regard and pleaded to the court to issue orders as these were clear violations of the Mental Healthcare Act of 2017.The bench directed the Centre to take up these issues with the states/UTs in its monthly meetings and said, “The issues flagged are of serious concern…Necessary directions shall be issued for taking steps to ensure the problems highlighted are alleviated by concerned states/UTs by taking suitable steps.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccinate-inmates-staff-of-mental-health-facilities-in-a-month-supreme-court-tells-states-101630528564169.html
02-09-2021||India||Tamil Nadu logs 1,509 new Covid cases||Tamil Nadu’s active COVID-19 numbers further slipped on Wednesday, with the state recording 16,620 cases while 1,509 new infections were added.The state saw 20 virus-related deaths, one of them with no comorbidity, or pre-existing health condition, according to a government bulletin.Recoveries, at 1,719, outnumbered new infections, even as active cases stood at 16,620 on Wednesday, 230 infections lesser as compared to Tuesday.While the cumulative covid positive cases were 26,16,381, the state has so far recorded 34,941 fatalities, the bulletin said.As many as 25,64,820 people have been cured of the virus so far, including the 1,719 persons today.Coimbatore (186), Chennai--177 and Erode at 137 reported the most number of new infections today. Theni recorded the lowest of four fresh cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-logs-1-509-new-covid-cases-101630528514732.html
02-09-2021||India||Conservationist assaulted by group in K’taka distt, 1 arrested: police||A noted environmentalist and his co-passengers were allegedly assaulted brutally by a group of inebriated men in Karnataka’s Chikkamagaluru district, about 245 kms from Bengaluru, on Monday. The incident took place after the environmentalist DV Girish tried to object to lewd and obscene comments passed by the perpetrators, police said. The incident came to light after a video, captured by a school teacher, surfaced on social media on Wednesday. In the video, eight persons were seen waylaying a gypsy driven by Girish, pulling out the passengers and assaulting and abusing them in the middle of the road just outside a government school in Shantaveri village in the district. Chikkamagaluru rural police station officials said that an FIR was filed on Tuesday on charges of assault and criminal intimidation of the IPC. Police have also arrested one of the miscreants, identified as Aruna, on Tuesday. Girish on Wednesday said that he was travelling back from a friend’s estate in Kemmangundi to Chikmagaluru when they encountered the miscreants. He said that some youngsters, who were visibly inebriated passed lewd comments on a friend’s 17-year old daughter, seated inside the vehicle. “I just used the brakes but didn’t stop and asked them why they were saying such things (lewd remarks),” Girish said. However, Girsh was persuaded by a local taxi driver not to engage with the miscreants and carry on. “Since she girl was there, we did not engage with them and went off. After another 2 kms, I saw these bikes chasing us in my rear-view mirror,” Girish said. But a few kilometers later, the perpetrators overtook the vehicle and waylaid Girish and his friends, pulled them out of them, assaulted and abused them. Girish said the miscreants fled when they got the whiff that the police had been informed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/conservationist-assaulted-by-group-in-k-taka-distt-1-arrested-police-101630528456508.html
02-09-2021||India||Madras HC reaffirms ‘queerphobia’, calls for revamp of medical education||The Madras high court (HC) on Tuesday came down heavily on conversion therapies employed by medical professionals to purportedly cure non-normative gender and sexual identities of persons belonging to the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender and Queer (LGBTQ+) community and issued notice to the National Medical Commission and the Indian Psychiatric Society to submit reports before the next date of hearing on how the two medical bodies would help prevent this from happening. The court further directed the police to amend its conduct rules to ensure that activists and other members of Non-Governmental Organisations working with LGBTQ persons are also protected from police harassment. Justice N Anand Venkatesh passed the order, made available on September 1, while hearing the matter on a writ petition filed by a same-sex couple seeking protection from harassment by the police and its families in March. In an unprecedented move, the judge had sought counselling on LGBT issues before passing a slew of orders on June 7, which also directed the police to ensure that other adults in consenting same-sex relationships are not subjected to similar harassment by the police. Justice Venkatesh on Tuesday referred to a report filed by Dr Trinetra Haldar Gummaraju, a transwoman, and said that “queerphobia” – prejudicial and abusive attitudes and behaviours directed at the LGBT community – was rampant in medical education. Gummaraju’s report stated that the curriculum of undergraduate forensic medicine described “sodomy”, “lesbianism” and “oral sex” as sexual offences, and “transvestism” (cross-dressing) as a “sexual perversion”. The court observed that such material reflected queerphobia and added that it was important for the medical and mental health fraternity to be “non-judgmental and free of moral or personal prejudices about their patient’s identity on the gender spectrum or their sexuality”. “Knowledge about a patient’s gender identity and sexuality may be of interest to a doctor, physician and a mental health professional if it is pertinent in cracking the course of the treatment, but the course of the treatment cannot be one which aims to cure their gender identity or sexuality itself,” the court said. “Prescribing anti-depressants, erectile dysfunction drugs and sending a person to cognitive behaviour therapy as “remedy” to their gender identity and sexuality is nothing conversion therapy camouflaged as medical and mental health support.” The court further directed the Additional Solicitor General R Sankaranarayanan to bring this to the notice of the key medical institutions to revamp the curriculum in the MBBS course. “A specific clause is to be added in the Police Conduct Rules specifically providing that any harassment by the police, to the persons belonging to the LGBTQIA+ community and/or to the activists and NGO workers, will be treated as misconduct and will entail a punishment for such misconduct,” the court said, adding that the police department must conduct sensitization programmes involving members of the LGBT community, as well as social workers and activists working in this field. It further directed that the police not harass NGO workers who provide support to members of the queer community. “One of the excuses given by the police authorities while shunning these persons is the lack of an internal circular issued by the higher authorities of the Department,” the court said. “Evidently, the larger excuse seems to be the sheer lack of awareness and the apathy towards arming themselves enough to fight for a community of public belonging to the citizenry of this nation, to whom they swore to be servants.”The Court recalled its June order which had observed that lack of awareness cannot be an excuse to any form of discrimination. And the absence of internal communication and hierarchical orders “is no excuse to deny protection to the community that is vulnerable, susceptible to threat and harassment.” In June, the judge had issued directions to a slew of state and Central agencies such as the NCERT, state education department, National Medical Commission, union ministries of social justice and women and child development, and even the state home department though the agencies were not respondents in the case. The court directed them to frame guidelines that recognise the rights of LGBTQ+ persons (such as his petitioners) and to ensure their safety and security. On Tuesday, the court heard the compliance reports submitted by various state and central departments. “It is necessary to carry on with this momentum and create a congenial atmosphere for the persons belonging to the LGBTQIA+ Community by accepting them as they are,” the court said. “This Court expects the State and the Central Government to give more priority to this issue and come up with some positive actions on their part.” The court also pulled up news media for insensitive commentary, ridicule and sensationalising of lives of LGBTQ persons. “It is high time journalists stick to sensitive and inclusive terms on the gender spectrum,” the court said. The next hearing has been posted to October 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madras-hc-reaffirms-queerphobia-calls-for-revamp-of-medical-education-101630528455093.html
02-09-2021||India||Schools, more classes reopen across states||New Delhi: Eight states apart from the national capital expanded on Wednesday the resumption of schools for students with strict guidelines on social distancing and sanitising, and each saw low attendance levels on the first day due to hesitancy from parents or lack of readiness of institutions.If in Delhi, classes 9 to 12 opened for the first time since March last year, Haryana, where middle, secondary and senior secondary schools were already functioning, opened its doors students in the primary classes 4 and 5. Madhya Pradesh saw its first school opening after the pandemic, with classes 6 to 12 opening on Wednesday, while in Uttar Pradesh, classes 1 to 5 resumed classroom teaching. In Tamil Nadu and Rajasthan, students of classes 9 to 12 returned to school, while in Telangana all classes except residential schools and tribal welfare schools with hostel facilities were allowed to open. In many of these states, however, online classes remained an option. Schools in Haryana reported an attendance rate of 26%, with officials attributing this to both heavy rain and some measure of Covid-related hesitancy. However, for those children that did make it to school, it was day when they met classmates after nearly 18 months. Ashish Kumar, a student of Class 4 at government school in Rohtak’s Bohar, said, “We faced problems during online classes and missed our friends. We have been asked not to sit on the same bench, and directed not to share water bottles.”Rajbir Siwach, headmaster of the Girls High School in Ishwarwal in Bhiwani, said that only two students out of a total of 26 attended class on Wednesday. In Madhya Pradesh, among the checks put in place by the state administration include schools could only open with 50% attendance, with each student allowed to attend class three times in a week. Under government guidelines, vaccinations of teachers and other staff members have also been made mandatory. Most private schools in the big cities of the state did not reopen on Wednesday, with school administrations saying they were yet to make arrangements as per the guidelines issued. Government schools did open though, and the headmaster of Sarojini Naidu government school in Bhopal, Lakshmi Bhargava, said, “The school has been reopened with proper arrangement of social distancing and santisation. We allowed the students only after receiving the consent letter of parents.” In Uttar Pradesh, while classes 6 to 8 opened from August 24, and 9 to 12 from August 16, classes 1 to 5 opened on Wednesday. They followed the same stipulations as mandated for the senior classes, which include two shifts, and arrangements for hand sanitisers, handwash, thermal scanning, pulse oximeter and first aid kits on the premises. In Tamil Nadu, students from Class 9 to 12 went back to school on Wednesday after March last year. The Tamil Nadu government, however, said that not all students were compelled to attend and they could opt for online classes with the consent of their parents.Most schools in the state did not function beyond lunchtime to prevent a spread while eating. According to the SOP issued by the state, schools should function six days a week and classrooms shouldn’t have more than 20 students to ensure physical distancing. If no additional rooms available, then students should come to school on a rotational basis on alternate days. “Ninety per cent of the teachers and non-teaching staff have received at least one dose, ‘’ school education minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi told reporters on Wednesday, adding that arrangements were being made to ensure full vaccination of all school staff.Colleges also reopened in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday, and the state asked institutions to ensure that students coming from Kerala, where Covid cases are still on the rise, have been vaccinated or produce RT-PCR negative reports. All students in the state can commute for free without a bus pass in state transport corporation buses. In Rajasthan, too, schools opened for classes 9 to 12 along with regulations that mandate a ban on holding mass prayers, sporting activities, meetings, and distribution of cooked midday meals. Only dry ration will be provided to students, and wearing masks and observance of social distance will be mandatory on campus, senior state official said.While across India different states and UTs have used different timelines for the opening of their schools, Assam, Goa, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir, Manipur, Kerala, West Bengal have so far not opened schools, with decisions to be taken in the next few days. In Kerala, which reported an average of 29,515 cases per day over the last seven days, 69% of the country’s daily tally, government officials said that there were no immediate plans to reopen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/schools-more-classes-reopen-across-states-101630528394362.html
02-09-2021||India||Rawat conveys rebels’ grievances to Punjab CM as power tussle continues||Congress general secretary in-charge of Punjab, Harish Rawat, met chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Wednesday and spoke with him about the grievances that the rival camp led by state Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu has aired and asked him to fulfil some of the major demands made by them, like the reduction of electricity rates. Rawat, who is in Chandigarh to iron out the differences between the warring factions led by Singh and Sidhu, also raised the issue of pending election promises and the apprehensions among some dissenting ministers and legislators about alleged attempts to target them in their constituencies by those close to the CM.“I told him about their (disgruntled ministers and MLAs’) grievances. It is his duty to address these,” Rawat told reporters after the meeting. The two leaders met at the CM’s Siswan farmhouse, with Singh summoning top officials, including the advocate general and the director general of police, to brief Rawat on the Bargari sacrilege (the 2015 desecration of the Guru Granth Sahib, the Sikh holy book) and police firing cases, power purchase agreements (PPA), arrest of “big fish” in the drug rackets, cancellation of the three controversial farm laws passed by the Union government, and other pending election promises. These promises are part of an 18-point to-do list prepared by the party’s central leadership based on feedback received from state leaders and handed down to the CM on June 23 for implementation ahead of next year’s assembly elections. Sidhu, who has been seeking action on the agenda, had conveyed to Rawat on Tuesday his dissatisfaction with the state government’s efforts on this front, urging him to get these issues sorted out quickly. The Punjab Congress chief has repeatedly talked about bringing resolutions in the state assembly on PPAs and farm laws.Rawat met Sidhu on Tuesday and offered to quit if he was not being given any say in party affairs, according to people privy to the meeting. This came in the aftermath of Sidhu issuing an ultimatum to the party leadership and the resignation of a key adviser to the state unit chief over his controversial remarks. ‘Give people cheaper power’After discussing the to-do list at length with the chief minister, Rawat, who seemed satisfied with the action taken on some of these issues, said the government would try to find a way to give power to consumers at reduced rates. “On PPAs, the CM said that some actions have been taken. I am hopeful that the state government will extend the facility of 200 units of free power given to SCs (Scheduled Castes) and the poor to consumers of general category also. I have also requested him to give relief to general consumers; how much relief is to be given will be decided by him in consultation with the cabinet and others,” Rawat said. Blaming the previous Akali Dal government for “faulty” PPAs, the Congress general secretary said that it would not be possible to cancel them lock, stock and barrel due to its impact on the power availability and supply situation. “I suggested to him to revisit PPAs for cut in power purchase rates to give maximum benefit to consumers,” said Rawat, the former Himachal Pradesh chief minister. On the three farm laws, Rawat said he told the chief minister to meet the governor regarding the bills already passed by the state government which were pending with him. On the drugs issue, he said the state government had done exemplary work but one person had managed to escape action. “I told him that the government should put its view before the high court so that the fight against drugs enters the decisive phase,” he added. The state affairs in-charge also took up the demand by Sidhu and several party leaders for a full-fledged monsoon session of the state assembly, besides the feeling of insecurity among some disgruntled party leaders, said people aware of the discussions in the Rawat-Singh meeting. The government has convened a special session on September 3 to mark the 400th parkash purab (birth anniversary) of Guru Teg Bahadur. Singh has already stated that his government would consider calling the regular monsoon session in a week or so. Meanwhile, Sidhu reportedly reached Delhi on Wednesday to meet the central leadership of the party. Before he met the chief minister, Rawat also had a one-on-one meeting with Mohammad Mustafa, principal strategic adviser to the PPCC chief, who later said there was a problem in the state unit. “I have suggested a solution that will help,” the retired IPS officer said, refusing to go into details. Gurdaspur MLA Barindermeet Pahra, who also met Rawat, said that the present situation was damaging the party. The party leadership should put a break to infighting and work on fulfilling promises, he added.Last week, four cabinet ministers and several legislators had declared open rebellion and sought the chief minister’s removal, expressing their total lack of faith in his ability to fulfil the pending promises. However, their request was not entertained by Congress’ central leadership.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rawat-conveys-rebels-grievances-to-punjab-cm-as-power-tussle-continues-101630528392536.html
02-09-2021||India||Corruption case: CBI arrests SI for leaking report, detains Deshmukh’s aide||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Wednesday arrested one of its own officers in connection with the leaking of the report of it’s preliminary enquiry into the allegations of corruption against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh. The agency has also detained Nagpur based advocate Anand Daga, who was a part of Deshmukh’s legal team, for attempting to influence the enquiry officers.The central agency registered an offence in connection with leaking of the report and arrested its own sub-inspector Abhishek Tiwari. Tiwari is also suspected of having illegal gratification from Deshmukh’s team for purportedly manipulating the report. Daga was detained on the suspicion that he tried to influence a junior CBI officer during the preliminary enquiry into corruption charges against Deshmukh, agency officers familiar with the matter said.The central agency also detained Deshmukh’s son-in-law on Wednesday, but he was allowed to leave after questioning. The lawyer was detained.“Attempt of Anil Deshmukh’s team were in contempt of Bombay high court, which had directed that all concerned should fully cooperate with the CBI while conducting the PE. In this case it has appeared that Deshmukh’s team tried to subvert the PE,” an official told PTI, asking not to be named,The CBI has initiated the fresh probe after the report of the preliminary probe was leaked and suspected that Daga had tried to scuttle the probe through a junior rank CBI officer, who was part of its team, said a CBI officer. The CBI had undertaken a preliminary enquiry into the allegations of corruption levelled by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh against Deshmukh, pursuant to the April 5 order of the Bombay high court. Deshmukh, accused of corruption by former Mumbai Police chief Param Bir Singh, stepped down soon after citing moral grounds. Later, the ED also registered a money laundering case against Deshmukh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/corruption-case-cbi-arrests-si-for-leaking-report-detains-deshmukh-s-aide-101630528330819.html
02-09-2021||India||Only 6 lodged in K’taka detention centre till now||Two years have passed since the Karnataka government opened a detention centre in Nelamangala in the outskirts of Bengaluru for illegal immigrants staying in the city. Though the construction was completed in 2019, the facility remained locked and only became operational in October 2020. Even though the government had planned this facility as a transit for illegal immigrants, so far only six people had been lodged, who were later deported, Karnataka Police officials said on Wednesday. The centre’s first detainee was a Sudanese national, identified as Omer Altayb Hajahmed, who was arrested in 2019 but was shifted to the detention centre in November 2020.The centre, which is operated by the department of social welfare and secured by the police, has a capacity to lodge 30 to 40 illegal immigrants at a time. Even though the Foreigner Regional Registration Office’s (FRRO) records show there are more than 900 foreigners, whose visas have expired but are still staying in the city, with at least 43 with a criminal case against them, the centre has remained mostly empty since its inauguration. Sharing views on why the facility is being underused, a senior FRRO official on Wednesday pointed out that even though his office is responsible for keeping track of foreigners in the city, the responsibility of identifying and arresting overstaying immigrants is with the local police. “We have provided the details with the police, and they are trying to track them,” said the officer. The detention centre has six rooms to lodge illegal immigrants, along with a common kitchen and a bathroom, while the compound walls are secured by barbed wires on all four sides. The centre also has two watchtowers constructed on two corners and a security room at the entrance, according to the police. “This is not a prison, and it was meant to be a transit center for those awaiting deportation. This is the reason the center comes under the jurisdiction of the social welfare department, we are only providing security,” said a senior IPS officer on Wednesday. The center had come to the limelight after five African women arrested for overstaying escaped from the Government State Home for Women near Nimhans in the early hours on August 19. The five women were arrested as part of the special drive against foreigners overstaying in the city. While three of them are from the Democratic Republic of the Congo, two are Nigerians. Questions were raised during an internal review on why the facility was not used to lodge the detainees. “There are no female staff at the detention center. So, the decision was taken to not to lodge them,” said a senior Bengaluru police officer explaining, why they were kept at the home for women. Karnataka Police chief DG and IGP Praveen Sood on Wednesday said that the police are constantly on the lookout for those illegally staying in the state and special drives are being conducted in Bengaluru. “One of the biggest problems we are facing is that many of those illegally staying in the city are in hiding and many of them have left the state. It is difficult to conduct nationwide searches,” Sood said. Sood added a similar problem is faced with those caught with criminal cases. As many as 70 foreign nationals were arrested in 2020 under Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 (NDPS) in comparison to 44 in 2018 and 38 in 2019, according to Bengaluru police, while the number of arrested persons in 2020 under the NDPS Act increased by 200% last year, as per police records. “When those who are arrested are produced before the court, it is mandatory that they should stay in the country until the trial is over. Many of them come out on bail and disappear. This is a loophole they have found,” he added. A senior Prisons Department official said at present there are no plans to take over the detention facility even though prisons in the state are overcrowded. “Firstly, the facility is very small. Secondly, it was built with the purpose of being a detention centre. It might take some time for the center to start working smoothly. But at present there are no plans to take over the facility,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-6-lodged-in-k-taka-detention-centre-till-now-101630528273736.html
02-09-2021||India||Telangana adds 4 more mandals to ₹1.75 lakh cr Dalit welfare scheme||The Telangana government on Wednesday added four more mandals to the ₹1.75 lakh crores Dalit Bandhu scheme, each from a constituency represented by a Dalit lawmaker. Under the scheme, each beneficiary will receive financial assistance of ₹10 lakh. A statement from chief minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao (KCR) office said to understand the intricacies of the scheme, KCR decided to extend the new scheme to the following four mandals: Chintakani mandal (Madhira Constituency, Khammam district), Tirmalgiri mandal (Tungaturthy constituency, Suryapet district), Charakonda Mandal (Achampet, Nagar Kurnool district) and Nizamsagar mandal (Jukkal seat, Kamareddy district).For the initial implementation of the scheme, which is a brainchild of KCR, the Huzurabad Assembly seat was chosen (pilot project). For this, ₹2,000 crores were released in four instalments in August. The move drew criticism from the opposition, which said that Huzurabad was chosen as it is going for a by-election soon. “Telangana Dalit Bandhu Scheme will be implemented for all the Dalit families in these Mandals,” said the statement from KCR’s office. The statement further stated that after his trip to New Delhi, the chief minister would convene a review meeting in Hyderabad with ministers, MLAs, and district collectors from these concerned areas.Decisions taken at this proposed meeting will be implemented in these four mandals. KCR will be in New Delhi on September 2 to inaugurate the new office of his party, the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS). Under the Dalit Bandhu scheme, all eligible Scheduled Caste (SC) members will receive financial assistance of ₹10 lakh from the state government. Initially, KCR announced that 100 candidates would be chosen from each of the state’s 119 Assembly segments, totalling 11,900 candidates, after a meeting with Dalit leaders of all political parties on June 25.The state sanctioned an initial amount of ₹1,200 crores for the same. However, KCR then decided to extend the scheme to all Dalits and even promised to spend ₹1.75 lakh crore in a phased manner to help uplift Dalits from poverty. “The government may be studying the ground scenario and analysing the response among people for the scheme. The ruling TRS may be seeing how the public responds and what the negatives might be before rolling it out. Or it could be to check the repercussions from other caste groups as well,” said political analyst Palwai Raghavendra Reddy. Reddy opined that the challenge for KCR would be to balance support from other caste groups and other communities. However, he said that the scheme is likely launched with an eye on the 2023 state polls. “After (Malkagiri Lok Sabha MP) Revanth Reddy was chosen as the new Congress chief in July, he has drawn a tremendous response from the public in meetings. So KCR is wary of him,” he added. What is the Dalit Bandhu scheme?KCR’s promise to the Dalit community is that each SC family in Telangana would be given ₹10 lakh to start any business venture of their choice, without any stress to return the money. The money will be deposited into the accounts of Dalit families, which will serve as the seed capital to start a business. The goal here is the economic empowerment of all Dalits.At a high-level meeting on August 27, KCR said that the scheme would continue till every “Dalit family is developed”. A CMO release then stated that a comprehensive family survey pointed out that there are 17 lakh, Dalit families, in Telangana and that the SC population in the state stands at 7.5 million (18 per cent). However, what has raised eyebrows is the fact that the Dalit Bandhu scheme is started on a pilot basis from Huzurabad, which is slated for a by-election. It is being necessitated after former TRS health minister Eatala Rajender was sacked from the cabinet by KCR in May over land-grabbing allegations. Eatala, who has held the seat for over two decades and is a former aide of KCR, resigned as an MLA in June this year and joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). BJP’s chief spokesperson in Telangana Krishna Saagar Rao called the scheme a “bribe” to voters by KCR and said that it is being launched only for the by-poll, which analysts think will be a semi-final to the state 2023 state polls. “This is indirect corruption. During the previous Huzurnagar by-election in the state, KCR had announced schemes and released funds for other schemes. Wherever there are polls, KCR launches new schemes. He is scared that he will lose the state elections in 2023,” said Congress spokesperson Syed Nizamuddin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telanganaadds-4-more-mandals-to-1-75-lakh-cr-dalit-welfare-scheme-101630528267442.html
02-09-2021||India||UN committee to discuss Taliban travel sanctions||New Delhi: The UN 1988 sanctions committee, currently chaired by India and responsible for overseeing sanctions on designated Taliban leaders, is set to meet this month to consider the extension of travel exemptions for top Taliban leaders such as Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar. Under UN Security Council resolution 1267, adopted about a month after the 9/11 terror attacks in the US, the Taliban and its leadership were subject to various sanctions, including an assets freeze, a travel ban and an arms embargo, for sheltering al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden. In 2019, Baradar, the head of the Taliban’s political office in Doha, Qatar, and 14 members of the group’s negotiating team were granted a travel exemption by the UN in early 2019 to join peace talks with the US as part of efforts to end the war in Afghanistan. Those talks led to the signing of a peace deal between the Taliban and the US in February 2020. The Taliban leaders have used the travel exemption, which has been renewed from time to time, to travel to several other countries, including Russia and Central Asian states. Before the collapse of the Ashraf Ghani government on August 15, Afghan officials had been pressing the Indian side to tighten the scope of the travel exemption to ensure it wasn’t misused by the Taliban leaders. The 14 members of the Taliban negotiating team include Sher Mohammed Abbas Stanekzai, Shahabuddin Delawar, Mullah Abdul Manan Omari, the brother of Taliban founder Mullah Omar, and Anas Haqqani, the brother of Haqqani Network leader Sirajuddin Haqqani. Both Stanekzai and Anas Haqqani have been involved in an informal outreach towards India and are also key Taliban negotiators. Though the travel exemption is set to be renewed by September 20, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that it was too early to say what could transpire at the upcoming meeting of the 1988 sanctions committee. There are currently no indications that other restrictions on designated Taliban leaders would be eased, or that some of them would be delisted, the people said. India’s envoy to the UN, TS Tirumurti, is the chair of the 1988 sanctions committee till December 31, and the two vice-chairs are the envoys from Russia and Saint Vincent and the Grenadines. With Russia and China working closely with the Taliban leadership since the group assumed power on August 15, the stance taken by other permanent members of the Security Council – the US, the UK and France – will set the stage for 1988 sanctions committee’s approach towards the designated Taliban leaders. However, the UN secretary-general’s special representative for Afghanistan, Deborah Lyons, had suggested in a special Security Council meeting on August 6 that the travel exemption should be used to pressure Taliban leaders to deliver on commitments to ensure peace. Speaking at a time when the Taliban were still fighting Afghan security forces, Lyons had said: “It should be made clear to the Taliban Political Commission that the exemptions to the travel ban and the high protocol with which they have been received by many of the countries were, in fact, predicated on a commitment and progress in the peace process.” Further extension of the exemption, she added, “must be predicated on real progress on peace”. Brian O’Toole, a former senior US treasury department official, wrote in a recent article for the Atlantic Council that the lack of clarity over the Taliban’s sanctions status by the UN may have “serious ramifications” at a time when the group is seeking international legitimacy. “On one hand, China and Russia – both eager to see the US embarrassed – may seek to exploit confusion over their legally binding obligations as UN member states to strike deals with the Taliban and assist the group in consolidating power in Afghanistan,” he wrote. “On the other hand, debate over the scope of sanctions may present tactical advantages...The UNSC could and should use the threat of sanctions and the possibility of sanctions removal to push the Taliban to respect human rights and freedoms. Hibatullah Akhundzada, the de facto leader of the Taliban’s government, is not on the UN sanctions list – but the Security Council should warn him that this could change if the Taliban rules as brutally as it did in the 1990s,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/un-committee-to-discuss-taliban-travel-sanctions-101630528223147.html
02-09-2021||India||Allow us to appoint our DGP on our own: Bengal govt to Supreme Court||Asserting its “autonomy” and “ultimate power” of superintendence over police officials, the West Bengal government has approached the Supreme Court for dispensing with the need to consult the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) for appointing the state’s new director general of police (DGP).The Mamata Banerjee-government has requested the top court to modify its 2018 order in the Prakash Singh case on police reforms which made it mandatory for the state governments to appoint the DGP from a panel of three most senior police officers.“The Constitution of India does not vest UPSC with the power to assess the respective merit of the officers holding the rank of DGP in the state cadre for determining the fitness to be appointed as the DGP/Head of Police Force (HOPF) of the State, since it is the state government which can have the proximate opportunity to assess the fitness of officers of that rank who had rendered service to the state in the state cadre,” said the plea.The application was mentioned before Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana by senior lawyer Sidharth Luthra on behalf of the state government on Wednesday.Luthra pointed out that the 2018 SC order restrains state governments from appointing acting DGP while the incumbent police chief has retired a day ago. The senior counsel made it clear that the state wanted empanelment by UPSC for the post to be done away with, and therefore, the application was required to be heard urgently. The CJI said he will look into the request for hearing the matter sometime next week.The developments come amid a stalemate over appointment of a new DGP in West Bengal, which named Manoj Malviya, the most senior officer in the Indian Police Service cadre in the state, as interim DGP on Tuesday.The West Bengal government’s application emphasised that UPSC had a limited role to provide consultation on the principles to be followed in the appointments to the service of the Union and promotions and transfers of such candidates, but UPSC could not be entrusted with the function of preparing the panel of officers for the appointment of DGP till Parliament makes a new law.Pointing out that police and public order are subjects exclusively within the jurisdiction of the state, the application contended that UPSC had neither the jurisdiction nor the expertise to consider and appoint the DGP.“Each state has, therefore, exclusive power to legislate in regard to its police system and also have full administrative control over the police in the state...the direct involvement of the UPSC in the appointment process of the DGP of a state would tantamount to curtailment of the legislative powers of a state,” stated the plea.The West Bengal government highlighted that even the Supreme Court should not curtail the legislative powers of a state under the principles of judicial review or in exercise of the court’s extraordinary authority under Article 142 (power to issue orders for doing complete justice).“The state government has the autonomy to select and appoint the DGP in the state without having to refer the names for empanelment to the UPSC, and to resultantly appoint the DGP from the panel prepared by the UPSC...the ultimate power to therefore exercise superintendence, extended to the selection of the DGP (HOPF) is therefore vested with the state government and cannot be taken away,” stated the application.Under the 2018 order, states need to send names of DGP candidates to UPSC, which picks three candidates from the eligible names based on seniority, experience, service record and other criteria. The state government then selects any of the top three candidates, provided that the candidate has a minimum of six months of service left.On July 2, the UPSC wrote to Bengal chief secretary HK Dwivedi seeking a list of eligible officers for the post. Roughly 10 days later, Bengal government prepared a list of 21 names for UPSC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/allow-us-to-appoint-our-dgp-on-our-own-bengal-govt-to-sc-101630528208122.html
02-09-2021||India||‘Queerphobia’ rampant in medical education, need revamp, says Madras high court||The Madras high court on Tuesday came down heavily on conversion therapies employed by medical professionals to purportedly cure non-normative gender and sexual identities of persons belonging to the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender and Queer (LGBTQ+) community and issued notice to the National Medical Commission and the Indian Psychiatric Society to submit reports before the next date of hearing on how the two medical bodies would help prevent this from happening.The court also directed the police to amend its conduct rules to ensure that activists and other members of non-governmental organisations working with LGBTQ persons are also protected from police harassment.Justice N Anand Venkatesh passed the order, made available on Wednesday, while hearing a writ petition filed by a same-sex couple seeking protection from harassment by the police and their families in March. In an unprecedented move, the judge had sought counselling on LGBT issues before passing a slew of orders on June 7.Justice Venkatesh referred to a report filed by Dr Trinetra Haldar Gummaraju, a transwoman, and said “queerphobia” – prejudicial and abusive attitudes and behaviours directed at the LGBT community – was rampant in medical education.Gummaraju’s report stated that the curriculum of undergraduate forensic medicine described “sodomy”, “lesbianism” and “oral sex” as sexual offences, and “transvestism” (cross-dressing) as a “sexual perversion”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/queerphobia-rampant-in-medical-education-need-revamp-says-madras-high-court-101630526546584.html
02-09-2021||India||Vaccinate inmates, staff of mental health facilities in a month, top court tells states||The Supreme Court on Wednesday ordered states and Union territories to vaccinate all inmates and staff of mental health care facilities against Covid-19 within a month and to set up a dashboard to provide information about rehabilitation homes set up for cured mentally ill patients within the same period.The bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, Vikram Nath and Hima Kohli said: “All states and UTs are directed to ensure time-bound schedule for vaccination of all persons lodged in mental health institutions and of service providers, health care workers and other staff, not later than one month from the receipt of this order. Progress report should be filed with the Union Ministry of Social Justices and Empowerment on or before October 15 explaining steps taken and the number of persons vaccinated for Covid.”The court was hearing a contempt petition filed by advocate Gaurav Kumar Bansal, who accused states and UTs of flouting a July 10, 2017 top court order requiring them to establish half-way homes serving as rehabilitation facilities for mentally ill patients who have been cured and were overstaying at government-run mental facilities. On July 6, the court directed the Centre to chalk out a plan for vaccinating inmates of mental health facilities on priority.The court also went through status reports submitted by states on compliance of its July 2017 order. It said: “We do not find any genuine progress made in that context except different states have set timelines for setting up half-way homes.”Uttar Pradesh said it has redesignated 75 old-age homes as half-way homes. “Merely designating 75 old homes as half-way homes will amount to mere lip service,” the bench said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccinate-inmates-staff-of-mental-health-facilities-in-a-month-top-court-tells-states-101630524446040.html
02-09-2021||India||Back to school: For students it’s goodbye internet woes, hello friends and teachers||Fifteen-year-old Aradhna Kumari, a class 9 student, on Wednesday stepped into a physically distanced school campus for the first time in nearly 17 months. The Greater Kailash-2 resident said she was happy to meet and greet her friends and teachers in person after nearly one-and-a-half years. Recalling her initial pandemic days of 2020, the teenager said like most students, she too was happy when classes were called off in March 2020. Little did she know that the closure was going to continue for as long as it did. “I was excited to meet my classmates and friends after such a long time. It felt nice and different to see people in person and not on a phone screen,” said Kumari, a student of Chirag Enclave-Sarvodaya (Co-ed) Vidyalaya (Kautilya). With two other school-going siblings, Kumari said she struggled with internet and accessibility issues during online classes. “My siblings are studying in classes 6 and 9. Many times, our classes take place at the same time and only one of us is able to attend it,” said Kumari. Vishal Kumar, another class 9 student of the school, said his first day back was largely spent interacting with teachers and checking on the progress in different subjects. The 14-year-old said he was happy to be back, and to be finally free of internet issues. “Sometimes, we are unable to join the online class or are removed from an ongoing class due to technical issues. Online classes are fraught with disturbances since several students tend to unmute at the same time while responding to the teacher,” said Kumar. School principal Chitender Singh Verma said of the nearly 800 students in classes 9, 10, and 12, around 300 were back in school. “The rain did not have much of an impact on our attendance. Students are excited about coming back, and we expect the attendance to pick up,” said Verma. The school has 24 benches in a classroom and only 12 students were permitted in each room. Most of the school staff are vaccinated, said Verma. “We have 67 teachers and all of them have received their first dose vaccine while 75% have got the second dose as well.” To ensure mask compliance, the school has asked both teachers and security guards to monitor students. Pradeep Kumar Dahiya, a science teacher, said, “A guard goes to all classes to enquire if any student requires an extra mask or a new mask.” Since several government schools are also functioning as vaccination and ration distribution centres, schools have demarcated areas for these activities, away from the space for academic activities. At Sarvodaya Kanya Vidyalaya Jogabai in New Friends Colony, while the vaccination drive was taking place on the ground floor, classes were conducted on the first floor. Vice-principal Usha Kiran said,“We are also keeping a strict vigil on students and escorting them to the classroom so that they don’t mingle with beneficiaries,” said Kiran. The number of students in one class at the school has been capped at 15 and classes are being conducted in sessions. On Wednesday, 48 students turned up at the school with written consent from parents, said Kiran, adding that attendance was low due to the rain. Teachers were also happy with the resumption of in-person classes. Manju Gupta, English teacher at the school, said, “While we engage with students during online classes as well, many students hesitate in asking doubts. When students are in front of us, we can gauge from their body language whether they are paying attention or not,” said Gupta. At Government Co-ed Sarvodaya Vidyalaya, Sector 21, Rohini, students returned to classrooms adorned with welcome posters, balloons and flowers. Sukhbir Singh Yadav, school principal, said that while the attendance was low in comparison to other days, students were happy to receive a warm welcome from teachers. Yadav said classes for grades 10 and 12 will be held on one day, and will alternate with sessions for grades 9 and 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/back-to-school-for-students-it-s-goodbye-internet-woes-hello-friends-and-teachers-101630521783563.html
02-09-2021||India||Declare cow national animal, its protection a right: Allahabad high court||The cow should be declared the national animal and cow protection should be considered the fundamental right of Hindus because we know that when country’s culture and its faith gets hurt, the country becomes weak, the Allahabad high court observed on Wednesday, denying bail to a man accused of cow slaughter.Rejecting the bail application of Javed, who went by one name only, a single-judge bench of justice Shekhar Kumar Yadav said: “Fundamental Right is not only the prerogative of beef eaters; rather, those who worship the cow and are financially dependent on cows, also have the right to lead a meaningful life. The right to life is above the right to kill and the right to eat beef can never be considered a fundamental right.”The judge noted that the applicant, after committing theft of the cow, had killed it, beheaded it, and stored its meat.“This is not the first offence of the applicant,” the court said, adding that if the applicant is released on bail, he will again commit the same offence, spoiling communal harmony.The judge also asked the government to pass a legislation declaring “the cow as the national animal” and that enables action “against those who talk about harming the cows” and also those who claim to protect cows but only want to “earn money in the name of cow protection”.This wasn’t about religion, justice Yadav stressed, pointing out that several Muslim rulers of India made a point of protecting cows. “Muslims have also considered the cow as an important part of India’s culture during their reign. For example, slaughter of cows was banned by five Muslim rulers. Babur, Humayun, and Akbar prohibited the sacrifice of cows in their religious festivals. The Nawab of Mysore, Hyder Ali, made cow slaughter a punishable offence”.In India, the slaughter of cow is partially or fully banned by law in 20 states, with the earliest going back almost 70 years. Recent years, however, have seen a spurt in attacks by cow vigilante groups on people transporting cows, including, in several cases, those not doing so for slaughter.Emphasising the usefulness of the cow, the judge further observed: “The cow is useful even when she is old and sick, and her dung and urine are very useful for agriculture, making of medicines”.He added that no one has the right to kill “one who is worshiped as a mother.”Justice Yadav was also critical of cow shelters where cows are not properly cared for, and owners who abandon cows that are no longer productive.“The cow needs to be protected and taken care of... and the government will also have to consider their case seriously. Only when there is welfare of cows, will there be welfare of this country,” justice Yadav said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/declare-cow-national-animal-its-protection-a-right-allahabad-hc-101630521729316.html
02-09-2021||India||RSS meet tomorrow to discuss 5 state polls||The Rashtryia Swayamsevak Sangh has summoned an important four-day-long session of its powerful coordination committee starting September 3 to discuss elections in the states of Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Goa and Manipur due early next year.The meeting of the committee, which ensures coordination between the Sangh, its various affiliates, and the Bharatiya Janata Party, is aimed at assessing preparedness of the Sangh’s cadres and ensuring a smooth road to victory for the BJP. The RSS is the ideological parent of the BJP.The meeting will be attended by organising secretaries of all RSS affiliates including the BJP, the Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh, the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad and the Bhartiya Kisan Sangh.Announcing the meeting, RSS senior functionary Arvind Kukde said that around 60 prominent Sangh Parivar leaders representing different organisations, along with RSS central executive committee members, will participate in the conclave. The meeting will be addressed by RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat, general secretary Dattatreya Hosabole and former general secretary Bhaiyyaji Joshi.Former RSS swayamsevak and a keen RSS observer Dilip Deodhar said that the meeting will also discuss recent developments in Afghanistan. “The RSS feels that the Taliban’s violent return to power doesn’t augur well for a civilised world and that it may boost the morale of militants in Kashmir,” Deodhar said. The meeting is likely to adopt a resolution in this regard.According to Deodhar, the RSS is pleased with the performance of the Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh and has decided to whole-heartedly support his team in the polls.The on-going farmers’ stir in Punjab, UP, Haryana and Delhi may also come up for discussion and the conclave may appeal to the government to resolve the issue. The RSS wants the government to incorporate minimum guarantee price and a formula for remunerative price for agricultural produce in the farm laws which were adopted by the Narendra Modi government last year.Kukde stated that the RSS meeting will strictly adhere to Covid-19 protocols. Earlier, the Akhil Bharatiya Pratinidhi Sabha meeting at Bengaluru in March 2020 was cancelled due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “All the organising secretaries of 34 outfits of the Sangh Parivar and all members of RSS central committee members will attend the meeting. It’s a routine annual meeting,” he added.In an unrelated development, former chief justice of India Sharad Bobde on Tuesday, visited the birthplace of RSS founder Keshav Baliram Hedgewar in Mahal area in Nagpur. Bobde, who hails from Nagpur, has been living in the city after his retirement in April. He visited the house in which Hedgewar was born, to see its restoration work. Bobde is believed to have met RSS chief Bhagwat on Tuesday but neither he nor any RSS functionary, has confirmed this.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rss-meet-tomorrow-to-discuss-5-state-polls-101630521367297.html
02-09-2021||India||Rain fury toll increases to 680||At least 13 people were killed in rain-related incidents in the past 24 hours as heavy downpour continued to pound various parts of the country, data released by the Union home ministry said on Wednesday.More than 680 people have died since June 1, when the monsoon officially arrived in the country, it added.While large-scale flooding displaced thousands of people in Assam, Bihar and some parts of West Bengal, landslides triggered by heavy rain continued to wreak havoc in parts of Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh.The ministry’s report on the flood situation said that 22 districts of Assam, 36 of Bihar, 12 of Uttar Pradesh and two each of West Bengal and Jharkhand were affected due to rise in water level in several rivers. About 1.5 million people in these states have been affected due to the floods in the past 48 hours alone, the report added.Data released by the disaster management departments of Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand said the two states recorded more landslides this year when compared to previous years, even though rainfall has been lower. Although rainfall in Uttarakhand was deficient by around 5% this year, the state reported a 32% increase in landslides, as per data from the state public works department. Over 135 people have been killed in over 1,200 incidents such as landslides and boulder falls, or were washed away in swollen rivers this year.Himachal, which reported 44% deficit in August, reported a 60% increase in landslides this year, according to the state disaster management authority. About 150 deaths were reported from the state so far this rainy season.Assam is witnessing floods despite less than normal rainfall. “For the month of August, the state received 296.3 mm rainfall against the normal of 347.1 mm,” Sumit Das, senior scientist at Guwahati-based regional meteorological office, said. Till August-end, Bihar received 801.9 mm of rain as compared to the normal of 1,027 mm, even as 32 of the total 40 districts remained flooded, displacing over a million people. While half of Odisha is witnessing drought-like conditions, the two neighbouring states of West Bengal and Jharkhand recorded flooding in some districts. Both the states have received up to 8% excess rain, which is considered normal.With inputs from other state bureaus||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/680-dead-in-monsoon-rains-assam-bihar-under-heaving-flooding-101630520222755.html
02-09-2021||India||Number Theory: Get used to the new monsoon: short intense bursts; long dry spells||Delhi made up 83% of its August rainfall deficit in just three three-hour spells, two of them on August 21 and one on August 31. But on 15 of 31 days of August, usually the wettest month of the monsoon season, it did not rain at all in the national capital. This may well be the emerging trend in India, where short and more intense spells of rain are replacing uniformly distributed rainfall. However, even this phenomenon has several regional variations.
02-09-2021||India||Railways floats tender to build ‘Rail Arcades’ at major stations||The Indian Railways plans to build ‘Rail Arcades’, envisioned as small city centre hubs with shopping plazas and food courts, at major train stations in the country. The first two are proposed to be developed in Bengaluru and Chandigarh.The state-run Indian Railways Station Development Corporation Ltd (IRSDC) issued tenders last month to develop the small city centre that will let residents of the two cities and travellers “to engage, use the facilities and spend quality time”.The tender, however, states that potential bidders won’t be allowed sell alcohol, beef and pork at these hubs.The proposed arcade zone for KSR Bengaluru railway station will be spread across 15,550 square feet while Chandigarh railway station’s arcade will be half this size, 7,500 sq ft.“The space is to be developed as an experience zone with presence of brands,” said the tender document issued by IRSDC, the dedicated company set up by the government to upgrade railway stations said. The construction and setting of the Rail Arcades is a part of a larger plan to monetise the national carrier’s land parcels and railway stations in a bid to shore up its falling revenue. The IRSDC is also working to transform railway station areas into a ‘Railopolis’, a mini smart city hub with mixed-use development.According to the tender document, the company that gets the contract will be required to take over the identified space and “undertake remodelling of the entire area for development of commercial, leisure & entertainment space for passengers and other customers (non-passengers).” The successful bidder will also be responsible for bringing in reputed brands in the respective segments and ensure that there are food, refreshment and retail product outlets for the right “customer experience”.The contract to set up the arcade, manage it and operate it on a 24X7 basis will be for a duration of nine years when the arcade will have to be transferred back.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-float-tender-to-build-rail-arcades-across-major-stations-101630500600288.html
02-09-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi attacks govt over increase in fuel, cooking gas prices; BJP rebuts||New Delhi: Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday lashed out at the Centre over rising fuel prices, alleging that the government had earned ₹23 lakh crores from increasing prices of gas, petrol and diesel in the last seven years. The Congress leader also said “there’s a new concept of GDP, rising GDP means rise in prices of gas, diesel and petrol”.Hitting back, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) alleged that the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA) followed the core agenda of ‘CNP’, i.e., ‘corruption, nepotism and policy paralysis’. Addressing reporters at party headquarters here, Gandhi said: “The Prime Minister says the GDP is rising. Then I realised what he meant by GDP. Gas diesel petrol. In 2014, Narendra Modi ji had said that the prices of petrol and diesel are rising. In 2014, ₹410 was the price of the cylinder, when the UPA left office. Today it is ₹885, a rise of 116 per cent. Petrol was ₹71.5/litre in 2014, today it’s ₹101/litre, a rise of 42 per cent. Diesel was priced at ₹57/litre in 2014, it’s ₹88/litre today,” he added. “The Centre has earned ₹23 lakh crores from the GDP, not Gross Domestic Product but Gas, Diesel, Petrol. Now my question to the government is, where did they spend this ₹23 lakh crores? The public should ask the government where is the money which the Centre is snatching away from them going?”Further attacking the government over the rising fuel rates amid falling prices of gas and crude oil in the international market, Gandhi accused the central government of “selling the country’s assets”. “...So, in the international market, the prices of gas and crude oil are declining, and on the contrary, they are sharply increasing in India. On the other hand, the country’s assets are being sold,” the former Congress chief said. The Wayanad MP also alleged the Centre had “demonetised” farmers, labourers, small and medium businesses, salaried class, and honest industrialists through its economic policies. “In the last seven years, we have seen a new economic paradigm. Demonetisation on one side, and monetisation on the other side. First, Modi ji said that he is undertaking demonetisation and the finance minister says that she is undertaking monetisation. The people are asking what is undergoing monetisation, and what is being subjected to demonetisation?” he said. On Monday, the Centre had unveiled a four-year National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP) worth an estimated ₹6 trillion to raise ₹88,000 crore this year by leasing infrastructure assets of central government ministries and state-run companies In 2016, as part of its demonetisation move, the Centre had withdrawn ₹500 and ₹1,000 notes as official mode of payment to fight fake currency and tackle black money in the economy. Taking a dig at the Congress leader, BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra said Gandhi can “never understand the real meaning” of GDP.“Rahul Gandhi spoke about issues of which he didn’t have a clear knowledge. He tried to redefine GDP in the wrong way. The UPA government followed CNP - corruption, nepotism and policy paralysis as their core agenda. They won’t be able to understand the real meaning of GDP,” he said. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-demonetisation-to-monetisation-rahul-gandhi-slams-govt-101630500299708.html
02-09-2021||India||Rural economy kept steady during Covid||The rural economy, driven by the farm sector, has been steadily resilient to both the waves of the pandemic, details from India’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) estimates for the first quarter released by the government on Tuesday show.Experts have attributed the 20.1% pick-up in overall growth for the first quarter of 2021-22 to a sharp base effect, compared to 1.6% year-on-year in the fourth quarter of 2020-21.However, the farm sector has hardly seen a dent, as gross value added (GVA) in agriculture remained at 4.5% year on year. GDP is the widest measure of income or output. GVA, in a rough-and-ready sense, is GDP minus taxes.GDP data released on Tuesday show the agriculture sector, which employs half of all Indians, has consistently grown throughout the pandemic.Agricultural GDP, or farm growth, was 3.5% in the first quarter of 2020-21. In the second quarter, it declined marginally to stand at 3%. In the third quarter, just before the pandemic swept in, agricultural growth climbed to a record 4.5%.Agriculture’s resilience is evident in the growth rates, which never turned negative. Compared to positive growth rates in agriculture, Tuesday’s data shows that sectors such as manufacturing grew 49.6% from minus 36% a year ago.“The point is that it is easy for a sector to show sharp growth if previously growth was poor. However, agriculture grew robustly from an already high base,” said analyst Ashok Agrawal of Comtrade, a commodities trading firm.mple rains in the past two years are a key reason for steady growth in the farm sector, analysts say. Nearly 60% of the country’s net-sown area depends on the annual summer monsoon. Farmers are also the only direct recipients of cash transfers, helping to cushion rural incomes.The GDP per worker in agriculture is one-third of the economy-wide GDP per worker. This means productivity in agriculture is too low to lift the overall economy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cash-transfers-subsidies-keep-farm-growth-steady-101630494299325.html
02-09-2021||India||Above normal rainfall likely in September: IMD||There is likely to be above normal rainfall activity at over 110% of the so-called long period average or LPA in September, and while this will reduce the current monsoon rain deficiency of 9% over the country, overall monsoon rain (June 1 to September 30) will still be in the “lower end of normal category,” the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said in its monsoon monthly forecast on Wednesday. The weather office also admitted that its model got the August forecast wrong.The LPA of rainfall during September, based on the data of 1961-2010, is about 170mm. IMD defines as normal for entire country rainfall of 96% to 104% of LPA, and its Wednesday forecast suggests that this year’s overall monsoon rains will be closer to the 4% deficient bound.The LPA for the entire season is 880mm.In September, according to IMD, above normal rainfall activity is likely over many parts of central India, and normal to below normal rainfall is likely over many areas of north-west, north-east and southern most parts of peninsular India.IMD forecast normal rain in August over the country as a whole at 94% to 106% of LPA, but got this wrong. August reported a 24% deficiency due to a subdued monsoon phase till around August 17. In its long-range forecast, IMD said the south-west monsoon seasonal rain (June to September) over the country as a whole is likely to be normal (96% to 104% of LPA) at about 101% of the LPA with an error of ±4%. This assessment has now been downgraded to the lower end of the normal (up to 20% deficient) category on Wednesday.IMD on Wednesday acknowledged that its multi-model ensemble forecasting system got its August rainfall prediction wrong. “Though the model partially picked up the spatial pattern of rains in August, it couldn’t pick up the magnitude of rain in August. We will examine this and endeavour to improve the output,” said M Mohapatra, director general, IMD. The model also couldn’t capture severe rainfall deficiency over Gujarat and Odisha.Long periods of subdued rain in July and August have impacted agriculture. There is deficiency in sowing in many parts of central India, Mohapatra said.The monsoon entered a break or a partial break phase three times this season, with the longest and driest phase between June 29 and July 11. It revived over northwest India on August 19, but weakened again from August 24 onwards and started reviving gradually from August 29.According to IMD, the main reasons for the subdued monsoon in August is what is called a negative Indian Ocean Dipole (IOD) which is normally unfavourable for monsoon; and complete absence of formation of monsoon depressions in August (normally at least two depressions form in August. There was very less typhoon activity over the West Pacific. The remnants of these typhoons move westwards normally and help in creating low pressure areas over Bay of Bengal.IOD is a phenomenon where the western Indian ocean becomes warmer than the eastern one. A positive IOD effect is associated with a better monsoon in India. Now IMD expects La Nina conditions to set in by end of monsoon season.“There will be colder sea surface temperatures across the east equatorial Pacific Ocean which improves monsoon flow over India. At the same time we have negative IOD conditions which subdues monsoon. Together we can expect normal monsoon in September,” Mohapatra said.La Nina, a cooling of sea surfaces near the Peru coast, affects the Indian monsoon positively.IMD also acknowledged that monsoon rain patterns are skewed and often a lot of rain is recorded during a few hours instead of being evenly distributed during the month. “Yes this pattern can hamper agriculture. The solution is rainwater harvesting,” Mohapatra said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/above-normal-rainfall-likely-this-month-predicts-imd-101630482778127.html
