03-09-2021||India||Congress sets up panel on caste-census||Amid a growing chorus for caste-based census and sub-categorisation of castes in the country, Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Friday set up a committee, headed by former Union minister Verappa Moily, to “study the matter”.According to a statement issued by Congress, the panel will comprise senior leaders Abhishek Singhvi, Salman Khurshid, Mohan Prakash, RPN Singh, PLPunia and Kuldeep Bishnoi.“The last publicised caste census was conducted during the British Raj, for the past many years, all political parties depended on manipulated figures of OBCs and make both political and economic programmes based on distorted figures. Even the Mandal Commission was based upon imaginary figures,” panel chairman Moily told HT.“As there was no data, UPA decided to have a socio-economic caste census to make its social and welfare programmes more fruitful. That’s how the SECC was ordered. A caste census is necessary as we are building a castle without foundation,” he added.On August 23, Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar led an 11-member delegation and met Prime Minister Narendra Modi to demand caste-wise enumeration of the Other Backward Classes in the census. The Centre had informed the Lok Sabha in July that it would not enumerate caste-wise population, except those for the Scheduled Castes (SCs) and Scheduled Tribes (STs).The clamour for a caste-based census has also risen in the wake of the upcoming polls in Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and other states in 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-sets-up-panel-on-castecensus-101630693460442.html
03-09-2021||India||Odisha police detain editor of a web portal after Olympian Dutee Chand alleges harassment||Odisha Police on Friday detained the editor of a web-channel for questioning following harassment allegations levelled against him by Olympian Dutee Chand.Sudhansu Sekhar Rout, editor of web-channel Focus TV was picked up from his office at Jharpara in Bhubaneswar and taken to the Mahila Police Station for questioning.“Based on the complaint of athlete Dutee Chand at Mahila Police Station on Wednesday, a case was registered against Rout. Dutee has made serious allegations ranging from threats, defamation, sexual harassment insulting modesty and others against Sudhanshu Sekhar Rout,” Bhubaneswar DCP Umashankar Dash said.The sprinter had lodged a complaint with the Mahila Police Station against Rout, a reporter of the web channel Smruti Ranjan Behera and RTI activist Pradip Pradhan for allegedly publishing defamatory new stories against her during her participation at the recently held Tokyo Olympics 2020.A case was registered under multiple Sections of the IPC, including 292-2 (obscene and indecent publication), 354-A (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 506 (criminal intimidation), 385 (putting person in fear of injury in order to commit extortion) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy).“I was mentally harassed and had to face character assassination. I have filed a defamation case and lodged a police complaint. They made an issue using my character and gender which was very distasteful. I am confident that I will get justice. I am happy and relaxed that today a person has been detained,” said Chand.During a press conference on Thursday, the athlete had alleged that the stories published by the channel had hurt her a lot and she underwent stress which affected her performance at the Olympics. Chand had failed to qualify for the semi-finals in the women’s 200m event in Tokyo Olympics.She also moved the civil court in Bhubaneswar demanding compensation of ₹5 crore from the journalist for defaming her and subsequently causing her to lose advertisement contracts with several corporate houses.She accused journalist Sudhansu Sekhar Rout and RTI activist Pradip Pradhan of running a malicious campaign on social media when she was preparing for the 200m event at the Tokyo Olympics, held recently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-police-detain-editor-of-a-web-portal-after-olympian-dutee-chand-alleges-harassment-101630692861512.html
03-09-2021||India||Apex court stays offline exams in Kerala amid ‘alarming’ Covid spike||Not willing to compromise on the safety of children in Kerala, the Supreme Court said on Friday as it stayed the state government’s decision to conduct offline exams for Class 11 from Monday amid what judges described as an “alarming” Covid-19 situation. On Friday, Kerala reported 29,322 new Covid-19 cases and 131 deaths, taking the state’s cumulative tally to 4,151,455. The toll in the state has reached 21,280. The test positivity rate – the number of samples that test positive – in the past week stands at 18.4%, while average of 29,307 cases per day were reported in the state in the last week.“There is an alarming situation in Kerala. With over 30,000 cases reported daily, the state alone accounts for nearly 70 per cent of cases reported in the country. Children of tender age cannot be exposed to any risk in this situation,” observed a bench of justices AM Khanwilkar, Hrishikesh Roy and CT Ravikumar. The bench was hearing an appeal, filed by advocate A Rasoolshan, against the Kerala high court’s refusal to interfere with the state government’s decision on holding physical exams. In its order on August 27, the HC observed that conducting examination was a matter of government policy and no interference was warranted. Challenging the HC decision, the petitioner told the top court that holding physical exams was a huge risk since children have not yet been vaccinated. According to the petitioner, about 350,000 students are expected to take the examination. Acknowledging the petitioner’s concern, the top court bench said: “Prima facie, we find force in the submission made by the petitioner that the state government has not seriously considered the prevailing situation before deciding to conduct physical examination (for Class 11).” But the Kerala government, represented by advocate CK Sasi, said that the state has taken all precautions, asserting that Class 10 and 12 examinations in April were held without any problems.The bench then asked: “Is the TPR then in April and now the same?”. “Can you assure us that not a single child will be infected? Even if one case gets reported, we will hold you accountable,” it added. “I cannot give that assurance,” Sasi said in response.“As we could not get any satisfactory response from the state government, we grant interim relief staying the offline examination till the next date of hearing,” said the bench.“Kerala has one of the best medical infrastructures in the country. Despite this, the state has not been able to contain the number of cases (due to Covid),” the court observed, adding that it felt allowing unvaccinated children from different parts of the state to gather at an examination centre could be a potential “superspreader” event. The top court bench issued a notice on the petition to the Kerala government and put the examination on hold till September 13 -- the next date of hearing.This is not the first instance where Kerala has been hauled up by the top court for its decisions during the Covid-19 pandemic. In July, the state government’s decision to relax lockdown restrictions in view of Eid-ul-Zuha festivities was challenged before the top court. The court had then slammed the state’s decision as “extremely alarming” and said that if the decision of the state resulted in any untoward spread of Covid infection, any member of the public would be free to approach the Court after which action will be accordingly taken. As two days of restriction got over by the date when the order was passed, the state government decided not to continue with further relaxation of lockdown curbs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/apex-court-stays-offline-exams-in-kerala-amid-alarming-covid-spike-101630692086150.html
03-09-2021||India||PM Modi, Abu Dhabi crown prince discuss ‘recent regional developments’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan on Friday discussed regional developments and agreed that there is no place for terrorism and extremism in the world, while stressing on the importance of the international community standing together against such forces.Their discussion comes amid the developments in Afghanistan, with the Taliban taking over the country and America withdrawing its troops.During their telephonic conversation, the two leaders positively assessed the continued progress in bilateral cooperation in various areas under the India-UAE comprehensive strategic partnership, a Prime Minister's Office (PMO) statement said.Prime Minister Modi appreciated the UAE's support for the Indian community during the Covid-19 pandemic, and also conveyed best wishes for Expo-2020 to be held in Dubai from October 1, 2021, it said."Had a very useful telecon with His Highness @MohamedBinZayed. Reviewed progress in our comprehensive strategic partnership and discussed recent regional developments," Modi tweeted.Both leaders discussed regional issues of common concern, the PMO said.They agreed that there is no place for terrorism and extremism in the world and stressed the importance of the international community standing together against such forces, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-abu-dhabi-crown-prince-discuss-recent-regional-developments-101630691464155.html
03-09-2021||India||84-day gap between Covishield doses provides best protection: Govt to Kerala HC||The Union govt on Friday submitted to the Kerala high court that the duration of 84 days between the first and second days of Serum Institute’s vaccine ‘Covishield’ is providing the best protection against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The statement was mentioned in the Union govt’s counter-affidavit, as it was replying to a writ petition by Kochi-based Kitex Garments Ltd. Kitex Garments sought a directive to the Kerala government to allow it to administer the second dose of Covishield to its workers before the completion of the 84-day dose gap.Also Read| Covid vaccine drive to speed up further in September; 240 mn to be inoculatedKitex Garments said in its petition that over 5,000 of its workers already received the first vaccine dose and it is arranging for the second dose for nearly ₹93 lakhs, but the garment company is unable to administer it because of the dose gap restriction. Advocate Blaze K Jose, appearing for Kitex, told news agency PTI on Tuesday that he argued before the Kerala high court that the Union govt can impose the mandatory 84-day gap between the doses if people were availing the vaccine through them.However, if people are paying it from their pocket, they should be allowed to take the dose after four weeks, which is the minimum prescribed gap between the Covishield doses, advocate Jose further told the court.On Friday, the Union govt’s affidavit said India’s vaccination drive is built on “scientific and epidemiological evidence” and the World Health Organization’s (WHO’s) guidelines and global best practices. It said the dose interval underwent revisions based on available and emerging scientific evidence mentioned above with the overall guidance of the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration (NEGVAC’s) for Covid-19.“This is based on the technical opinion that the duration of 84 days between 1st and 2nd doses of Covishield is providing the best protection against Covid-19, ” the Union govt’s affidavit read and said the grounds advanced by Kitex Garments in its petition were false and frivolous and deserve to be dismissed.However, the Union govt told the high court that it had allowed administering the second dose before the prescribed time period of 12-16 weeks in certain cases. These included people who are seeking to travel abroad for education, employment or were a part of the Indian contingent to the Tokyo Olympics 2020. “As per the evidence available, the immunity provided by two doses of the Covishield vaccine with intervals less than 12-16 weeks would be better than partial vaccination,” the Union govt’s petition said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/84day-gap-between-covishield-doses-provides-best-protection-govt-to-kerala-hc-101630688020918.html
03-09-2021||India||'Pat the back of an alleged rapist': Manish Tewari, Priyanka Chaturvedi fight on Twitter over Tarun Tejpal case||Congress leader Manish Tewari and Shiv Sena leader Priyanka Chaturvedi engaged in a bitter battle on Twitter over Tarun Tejpal, which took an ugly turn as the senior Congress leader wrote that he will be anguished to take his former colleague to the court.It all started with Manish Tewari's tweet where he described Tarun Tejpal as "hugely politically persecuted and now honorably exonerated". Former Congress leader Priyanka Chaturvedi took exception to the adjectives as slammed Manish Tewari for "rubbishing a woman's sexual assault.""Today I got to know that Tarun Tejpal was ‘honorably exonerated’ and ‘politically persecuted’. To rubbish a woman’s sexual assault by this cosy club, smacks of their sick mindset. They believe they can behave as they wish around women and laugh off the serious crime. Shameful," Priyanka Chaturvedi wrote. To this, Manish Tewari said as a lawyer he knows how to read a judgment and cited the verdict in which Tarun Tejpal was found innocent. "Goa Government has gone to High Court.If you have a problem say what you have too in the High Court of Mumbai & Goa," Tewari wrote.Chaturvedi gave it back to Tewari as she said Twitter is a free platform and if the Congress leader has the right to "pat the back of an alleged rapist", she also has the right to an opinion. Unlike you @manishtewari just being a lawyer and ability to read a judgement does not put you on a higher plain. Also this is a free platform I have a right to opinion as much as you have a right to pat the back of an alleged rapist. https://t.co/ACv2RAIc8c"Please do not cross the line of libel & defamation.I would be anguished to take a fellow MP & former Colleague to Court," Manish Tewari replied.As several Twitter users joined the exchange of barbs, Tewari replied to many of them and also dug out a screenshot of Priyanka Chaturvedi extending birthday wishes to Suhel Seth who was accused of sexual misconduct.
03-09-2021||India||Veerappa Moily to head Congress panel on caste census||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Friday set up a committee headed by former Union minister Veerappa Moily to look into the issue of caste census, after many parties have demanded a caste-based census and sub-categorisation of castes in the country, though the Centre has remained non-committal on the sensitive issue. The panel will also have Abhishek Singhvi, Salman Khurshid, Mohan Prakash, RPN Singh, PL Punia and Kuldeep Bishnoi, a Congress release said. The communication from the party said the committee will “study the matter related to caste-census”. Panel chairman Moily told HT, the last publicized caste census was done during the British Raj, for the past many years, all political parties depended on manipulated figures of OBCs and made both political and economic programmes based on distorted figures. Even the Mandal Commission was based on imaginary figures. “As there was no data, the UPA decided to have a socio-economic caste census to make its social and welfare programmes more fruitful. That’s how the SECC was ordered. A caste census is necessary as we are building a castle without foundation,” said Moily. On August 23, Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar led an 11-member delegation and met Prime Minister Narendra Modi to demand caste-wise enumeration of OBCs in the census. The Centre had informed the Lok Sabha in July that it would not enumerate caste-wise population, except those for the SCs and STs. The clamour for a caste-based census has also risen in the wake of the upcoming polls in UP, Punjab and other states in 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/veerappa-moily-to-head-congress-panel-on-caste-census-101630683380000.html
03-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: SC chides UP cops after Delhi Police trace missing girl and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.A reflection on UP cops, says SC after Delhi Police trace missing girl in 24 hrsThe Supreme Court on Friday chided the Uttar Pradesh Police for its lackadaisical attitude in handling a case involving a minor girl missing for almost two months after the Delhi Police traced her in less than 24 hours of the top court’s directions. Read more…Kerala to take strict action against those violating Covid-19 quarantine normsAs the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation in Kerala is worsening with each passing day, the state government on Friday issued an order which said that stringent action will be taken against people who violate the quarantine norms. Read more…‘Will raise our voice for Muslims in Kashmir’: Taliban spokesman Suhail ShaheenA Taliban spokesman has said the group reserves the right to speak out in support of Muslims in Jammu and Kashmir, remarks that run counter to senior Taliban leader Anas Haqqani’s contention that the organisation would not interfere in Kashmir. Read more…BJP, MNS leaders should read Centre’s letter before demanding to reopen temples: PawarNationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Ajit Pawar criticised the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) leaders for staging agitations over the reopening of temples and religious places. Read more…Resistance forces in Panjshir deny Taliban’s claim of capturing Shutul districtThe Afghan resistance forces in Panjshir denied the Taliban’s claim of capturing the Shutul district in the province, as fighting continued between the two for a fourth consecutive day. Read more…6 injured as ISIS-inspired terrorist goes on stabbing spree in New Zealand mallAn attacker inspired by the Islamic State group stabbed six people at a New Zealand supermarket on Friday before police - who had the man under surveillance - shot him dead. Watch here…Nasser Hussain explains ideal lengths to dismiss Rohit Sharma, KL Rahul, Cheteshwar Pujara, Virat KohliAnalyzing the way the Indian batsman have been dismissed in the ongoing five-match series, former England captain Nasser Hussain said Joe Root’s bowlers have not had to change their plans much to get the better of Rohit Sharma, KL Rahul, Cheteshwar Pujara, Virat Kohli and Ajinkya Rahane. Read more…Jasleen Matharu says she tried to comfort Shehnaaz Gill at Sidharth Shukla’s houseJasleen Matharu visited the late Sidharth Shukla’s house on Thursday to pay her last respects and spent quite some time with his family. She also met his rumoured girlfriend Shehnaaz Gill there. In an interview with Pinkvilla, Jasleen said that she spent nearly two hours with Sidharth’s family. Read more…Do your kids use the internet? 9 things they must never do onlineFor kids nowadays, the internet is a basic essential, they cannot imagine a world without it. And because of that, they approach it with far less caution than older people, for them, it’s, more often than not, just a screen that responds to them. Kids are mostly unaware of the invisible risks at play. Read more…||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-sc-chides-up-cops-after-delhi-police-trace-missing-girl-and-all-the-latest-news-101630681456507.html
03-09-2021||India||Kerala to take strict action against those violating Covid-19 quarantine norms||As the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation in Kerala is worsening with each passing day, the state government on Friday issued an order which said that stringent action will be taken against people who violate the quarantine norms.“The quarantine and isolation norms stipulated therein shall be strictly enforced throughout the state by the implementing agencies. The rapid response teams/ward level committees, neighbourhood clusters and the concerned officials of police, revenue health and local self-government departments shall be responsible for ensuring the same,” a state government order read.The order added that the above agencies should also help in providing home delivery of essential items to the quarantined people, in case they face any difficulties. “Action shall be taken against the persons, violating the norms of quarantine, invoking the provisions of DM act, Kerala state epidemic act and other legal provisions in force,” it further said.Kerala government issues order stating that strict action will be taken against those violating the norms of quarantine. The order states that provisions of the Disaster Management Act, Kerala State Epidemic Act and other relevant legal provisions will be invoked. #COVID19 pic.twitter.com/YFCDQ6SZkaThe government’s order comes days after Kerala health minister Veena George blamed violation of home quarantine rules for the increased spread of Covid-19, and said that only those who have the required facilities should prefer home quarantine and the rest should be shifted to the domiciliary Covid-care centres. George quoted a study of the health department and said that 35 per cent of people in Kerala were found to be infected with Covid-19 from home.Advising people placed under home quarantine to not move out of their rooms, the health minister said on August 26 that the rest of the family members in the house should wear a mask to ward off the risk of indoor transmission. The members should also not use utensils or any other objects of the patient, she added.After recording over 30,000 cases for the past few days, Kerala’s daily tally of Covid-19 saw a fall on Friday as 29,322 new cases were recorded, pushing the caseload to over 4.15 million. Nearly 23,000 patients recovered and 131 succumbed to the viral disease on Friday. With this, the cumulative count of recoveries and deaths has climbed to 3,883,186 and 21,280. The active cases in the state stand at 246,437.More than 29.4 million vaccine doses have been administered to eligible beneficiaries till now. Health minister Veena George on Friday flagged a shortage of doses and requested the Centre to supply more. She said that doses of Serum Institute’s Covishield are completely over in six districts and all districts have limited stock of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-to-take-strict-action-against-those-violating-covid-19-quarantine-norms-101630682474999.html
03-09-2021||India||A reflection on UP cops, says SC after Delhi Police trace missing girl in 24 hrs||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Friday chided the Uttar Pradesh Police for its lackadaisical attitude in handling a case involving a minor girl missing for almost two months after the Delhi Police traced her in less than 24 hours of the top court’s directions.The bench told the Delhi Police to find the missing girl on Wednesday on a petition filed by her mother, who worked as a domestic help in the national capital. She said the family was visiting their native village in Gorakhpur in July when the girl went missing and a complaint was lodged by the family at Gorakhpur police station on July 9. But the Uttar Pradesh police, she complained, hadn’t acted on crucial call detail records of her 13-year old daughter and the accused.Additional Solicitor General (ASG) RS Suri, appearing for the Delhi Police, submitted that a police team flew to Kolkata on Wednesday and recovered the girl who is since in the safe custody of the police and is expected to arrive in Delhi soon. The man, who her parents suspected to be the abductor, was also arrested.Happy over the prompt action by Delhi Police, the bench of justices AM Khanwilkar, Hrishikesh Roy, and CT Ravikumar said, “This is certainly a reflection on the Uttar Pradesh police of what they could not do for two months.”The bench told advocate Vinod Diwakar appearing for the UP Police, “The case involves a 13-year old girl. Our only anxiety was that a lot of other things could have happened. Without realising the seriousness of the case and the urgency of the situation, you (UP Police) requested two months additional time. This should not have been the response of the state police.”The court directed the Delhi Police to conduct the medical examination of the girl and provide any necessary psychological counseling to her. After completing all required formalities, the court said the girl should be handed back to her parents.Advocate Amit Pai who appeared for the girl’s mother urged the court to consider issuing guidelines for the police to act in such a situation where a person is reported missing. In her petition, the mother apprehended that her daughter may have been sexually assaulted or traded for prostitution as the accused person had criminal antecedents. The bench said that would not be needed as the police are expected to rescue victims in such situations.Earlier, on Wednesday, the court questioned the UP Police for not acting upon the call detail records as it said, “For the victim’s mother, every hour is precious. You must understand their anxiety in such a case.” While handing over further probe of the case to the Delhi Police, the court had asked the UP Police to continue with the investigation and extend full cooperation to the Delhi Police. A direction was also issued to transfer the case records as well. The bench directed the Delhi Police to file a compliance report by September 7, the next date of hearing, when the court will decide whether to transfer the probe to Delhi Police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-reflection-on-up-cops-says-sc-after-delhi-police-trace-missing-girl-in-24-hrs-101630681700071.html
03-09-2021||India||India, Russia can bring stability to energy market: PM Modi at Eastern Economic Forum||The India-Russia energy partnership can bring stability to the global energy market, while the International North-South Transport Corridor will bring the two countries closer, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday. In a virtual address at the plenary session of the Eastern Economic Forum (EEF) being held in Vladivostok, Modi said the friendship between India and Russia has “stood the test of time”, as reflected by recent cooperation during the Covid-19 pandemic, including in the field of vaccines. EEF is an international meet held annually in Vladivostok to encourage foreign investments in Russia’s resource-rich but underdeveloped Far East. Russia has actively wooed India to invest in the region, and Modi had announced a $1-billion line of credit for the Far East while speaking as the chief guest at the last EEF meet in 2019. “Energy is another major pillar of our strategic partnership. India-Russia energy partnership can help bring stability to the global energy market,” Modi said in his address. Noting that petroleum and natural gas minister Hardeep Puri is in Vladivostok to represent India at EEF, Modi said Indian workers were participating in gas projects in the “Amur region, from Yamal to Vladivostok and onward to Chennai”. He added, “We envisage an energy and trade bridge. I am happy that the Chennai-Vladivostok maritime corridor is making headway. This connectivity project, along with the International North-South [Transport] Corridor will bring India and Russia physically closer to each other.” Modi said state-run Mazagon Docks Limited, one of India’s largest shipyards, will partner with the Russian ship-building facility at Zvezda to build “some of the most important commercial ships in the world”. India and Russia are partners in space exploration through the Gaganyaan programme, and the two sides will also partner in opening the Northern Sea Route for international trade, he said. Lauding President Vladimir Putin’s vision for developing the Far East, Modi reiterated India’s commitment to act as a reliable partner for Russia as part of the “Act East” policy. Modi stressed the importance of greater economic and commercial engagement between the two countries in line with their special and privileged strategic partnership. He highlighted the health and pharmaceutical sectors as important areas of collaboration that emerged during the pandemic, and referred to other potential areas of economic cooperation such as diamonds, coking coal and rare earth minerals. Puri is leading a delegation that includes representatives of leading Indian oil and gas companies to attend the India-Russia business dialogue within the EEF framework. A virtual meeting between Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani and the governor of Russia’s Sakha-Yakutia province was held on Thursday on the margins of EEF.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-russia-can-bring-stability-to-energy-market-pm-modi-at-eastern-economic-forum-101630681159923.html
03-09-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: September 4, 1948 — State-ownership of Reserve Bank; Nationalization Bill passed||New Delhi- Sitting beyond scheduled time, Parliament this evening passed the Bill to nationalize the Reserve Bank of India and the Bill to amend the Indian Cotton Cess Act. The clause most hotly disputed in the Reserve Bank Bill was the one relating to compensation. Prof. K T Shah moved an amendment suggesting that the Government should pay to shareholders only Rs. 114 for each 100-rupee share instead of Rs. 118/10 as provided for in the Bill. The shareholders, he declared, had done nothing to earn the bonus which was proposed to be given to them. Neither they nor the Directors had raised their little finger during the period when Indian gold was being drained away by foreigners. Those opposed to the amendment based their arguments on two factors. One was that the Government having promised this rate of compensation, it would be impolitic and even harmful to go back on it. The other consideration was that the shareholders were mainly people of small means and should not be grudged what they had begun to expect. The Finance Minister, Mr Neogy, explained that shareholders had been receiving 4 per cent as dividend instead of 5. Moreover, the figure as provided for in the Bill had been arrived at after careful consideration, and the Government would not therefore accept the amendment. The amendment was defeated. The Bill was passed amidst applause, with a few amendments, some of them have been sponsored by the Finance Minister himself. Consideration of the Cotton Cess Bill was unexpectedly prolonged mainly because of a 20-minute speech by a back bencher, Mr Satish Chandra, who criticized both the membership and working of the Cess Committee. His complaint was that the Committee did not represent the interests of either the industry or the growers. Mr Sidhwa said that the Committee should conduct research to grow finer varieties of cotton. The Agriculture Minister, Mr Jairamdas Daulatram, promised to give favourable consideration to all the suggestions. He said that if any member in the Committee did not represent the real interests of the growers of the trade, he would be removed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htthisday-september-4-1948-state-ownership-of-reserve-bank-nationalization-bill-passed-101630680500527.html
03-09-2021||India||'What has Rajiv Gandhi…': BJP MP advocates renaming Nagarhole National Park after KM Cariappa||A member of Parliament from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Friday advocated renaming the 'Rajiv Gandhi Nagarhole National Park' after Field Marshal KM Cariappa, the first Indian commander-in-chief of the Indian Army. BJP MP Pratap Simha argued that the name of a city, place, or road should have some significance and the local people should relate to it.“What has Rajiv Gandhi got to do with Nagarhole National Park? I have suggested the name of Field Marshal Cariappa. He was the most celebrated Army officer,” the lawmaker from Karnataka told news agency ANI.Earlier this week, Simha had requested Karnataka's forest minister Umesh V Katti to rename the national park to 'FM KM Cariappa Nagarhole National Park & Tiger Reserve' as a “fitting tribute to remarkable service rendered by him while serving in Army." In a letter dated August 30, Simha said that three national parks are named after Rajiv Gandhi and several others are named after the Gandhi-Nehru family, claiming it was an attempt to wrongfully appropriate inheritance of the Central government’s projects aimed at biodiversity conservation.Highlighting the achievement of Field Marshal Cariappa, the BJP MP said that the first commander-in-chief is credited to have laid the foundation for transforming the Indian Army as one of the most disciplined and battle-hardy units to ensure national security and national unity. He further stated that Kodagu has the rare distinction of 20 serving Major Generals and four Air Marshals, making it a “Land of Generals.”“Field Marshal Cariappa was the 1st Indian Commander-in-Chief (of Indian Army). He was proud son of Kodagu, after his retirement he came back to Kodagu & died there. He had so much love for Kodagu...What's the need to name everything after Gandhi-Nehru family?,” ANI quoted Simha as saying.During Tokyo Olympics, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced his decision to rechristen Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna Award, the highest sporting honour in the country, after Major Dhyan Chand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-has-rajiv-gandhi-bjp-mp-advocates-renaming-nagarhole-national-park-after-km-cariappa-101630676887977.html
03-09-2021||India||Delhi Police chargesheet reads like ‘Family Man' script: Umar Khalid’s lawyer to court||Former JNU student Umar Khalid's lawyer senior advocate Trideep Pais on Friday sought bail for Khalid in the Delhi riots case and said the chargesheet filed by the Delhi Police reads like a script of Amazon Prime's 'Family Man', Livelaw reported. The chargesheet used rhetorics like 'veteran of sedition' (referring to Umar Khalid) and reads like "a 9pm news script of one of those shouting news channels," the lawyer said adding that the investigating officer has "fertile imagination"."Please understand, he's not writing the script of Family Man. He is writing a chargesheet... This is the kind of stuff which is read and peddled, the creation of public opinion in order to substitute the lack of evidence to carry out your objective of unfairly prosecute people when you have no material to do so," Pais argued.In framing the chargesheet, the Delhi Police largely relied on the 2016 chargesheet against Umar Khalid in JNU sedition case. "What happened in 2016 was that there was a poetry session. It was later termed as sedition. Nowhere was it ever alleged that 'Bharat tere tukde honge' was ever said by Umar Khalid," the advocate submitted before additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat.Pais could not complete his argument and the court will now hear the case again on Monday.The argument made by Umar Khalid's lawyer revolved around the point that the Delhi Police has lent a communal colour in its chargesheet to project Umar Khalid communal in front of the public. "If you are saying CAA is bad, it means you believe in this country and secularism. But Delhi Police chargesheet paints anti-CAA protesters as communal," he submitted.Khalid, along with several others accused of being the mastermind of the February 2020 violence, was booked under the UAPA. In April, Umar Khalid was granted bail in one of the riot cases, saying that he was not present at the scene of the crime. But he continued to be in jail in connection with the case in which UAPA has been invoked against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-police-chargesheet-reads-like-family-man-script-umar-khalid-s-lawyer-to-court-101630673815212.html
03-09-2021||India||SC gives govt till Sept 11 for guidelines on issuing Covid death certificates||The Supreme Court on Friday gave Centre till September 11 to report compliance on issuance of certificates for Covid deaths and framing of a national insurance scheme for disaster-related deaths.The court had issued above directions in its June 30 order entitling persons who died of Covid-19 to an ex-gratia amount under the Disaster Management Act 2005. The court had granted Centre six weeks then to fix the amount of ex-gratia. This period was further extended by four weeks on August 16.Appearing for the Centre, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta had sought another week to file the government’s response. The bench of justices MR Shah and Aniruddha Bose said, “By the time you will take steps, even the third wave (of Covid-19 pandemic) will be over. Our orders directing correction of death certificates was passed long back. You had agreed to file a response on our directions by today. We will now grant you a last opportunity.”The court asked for the affidavit to be filed by September 11 and posted the matter for hearing on September 13.Also Read | SC puts interim stay on Kerala’s decision to hold Class 11 exam from Sep 6Advocate Gaurav Kumar Bansal, who filed the public interest litigation (PIL) resulting in the June 30 order, said, “It is unfortunate that the Centre is delaying compliance,” Bansal said.An intervention application filed by persons seeking benefit of ex-gratia payment for Covid deaths informed the court that the last date for framing the ex-gratia scheme was September 8. The bench said, “As regards ex-gratia, we extended time on the last occasion. It is up to the Centre to comply with our orders.”The June 30 judgment held that the kin of persons who died due to Covid will be entitled for ex-gratia compensation under Section 12(iii) of the DMA 2005 since Covid-19 was declared a notified disaster under the 2005 Act. Although persons killed in a notified disaster are entitled to a sum of ₹4 lakh as ex-gratia, according to a letter of April 8, 2015 issued by the Ministry of home affairs, the court did not fix the quantum of compensation but left it to the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) to consider the same.Two major directions by the court included issuance of simplified guidelines for certificate stating the exact cause of death as “Death due to Covid-19”. Such guidelines, according to the court, were to also consider persons who died within two to three months of being found Covid-positive. The court also directed the Centre to provide a mechanism for the families of those whose death certificates had already been issued to get the same corrected. The court also directed the Centre to take appropriate steps in line with the recommendations of the Fifteenth Finance Commission providing for a National Insurance Scheme for disaster-related deaths. As per the finance commission, such a scheme could work as a Social Protection Scheme without increasing the financial burden on the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-gives-govt-till-sept-11-for-guidelines-on-issuing-covid-death-certificates-101630672099524.html
03-09-2021||India||Record 80m rural households have piped drinking water under Jal Jeevan Mission||Official data show there has been a four-fold increase in the rate at which functional piped water is being provided to households in India’s 117 so-called aspirational districts, home to some of the poorest Indians, overtaking the pace at which piped water is bring provided nationally under the flagship Jal Jeevan Mission.Over a third of all households in aspirational and Japanese-encephalitis-endemic districts of the country now have piped water under the Mission.According to Niti Aayog’s classification, aspirational districts are those with a lower than the national average of socio-economic indicators. They also lag in infrastructure development.Also Read | Rural economy kept steady during CovidAbout 11.2 million or 38% of all households in regions of the country deemed Japanese-encephalitis endemic have access to clean piped water critical to improving health outcomes, up from about 2.9% in 2019, an official said, requesting anonymity.Under the flagship Mission, another 11.8 million households, or 35% of the total, have been provided with tap water connection in the aspirational districts, up from 7.9% in 2019, the latest data show.Under the Jal Jeevan Mission-Har Ghar Jal scheme, every rural household is to be provided with a functional tap water connection by 2024. Over 120 million households in India lack access to clean water near their homes, the highest in the world, according to a UN Water report of 2014.India has 189 million rural households, according to Census data. Across India, slightly over 80 million or 42.5% of total rural households have been covered under the piped drinking water mission so far, official data show.The country has had several public programmes to bring clean water to rural residences, such as the National Drinking Water Mission launched in 1986. But the goal of providing piped drinking water to every household entered a “mission mode” with the Har Ghar Jal programme (water for every home) under the Jal Jeevan Mission.Also Read | Fortified rice not enough to tackle malnutrition: ExpertsPoor-quality water causes diseases such as diarrhoea, the third leading cause of childhood mortality in India, according to researchers Subitha Lakshminarayanan and Ramakrishnan Jayalakshmy, who work at Puducherry’s Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research and Indira Gandhi Medical College.The Gajendra Shekhawat-led Jal Shakti ministry oversees the implementation of the rural household water mission.“As per the very design of the scheme, aspirational districts have a priority when comes to laying water infrastructure. Similarly, priority is also accorded to areas with Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes population. This has led to a faster rate of implementation in priority areas,” a second official said, requesting anonymity.The Union budget allotted ₹10,001 crore in 2019-20 for the national rural drinking water mission. In 2020-21, ₹11,500 crore were provided. The Union budget 2021-22 allotted ₹50,000 crore for the Mission.Experts say a key challenge is to maintain the sustainability of water supply sources. In previous attempts to provide drinking water supply, villages connected with water sources fell back to “no-water” status after a few years due to the non-availability of water.Maintaining sustainability will require work on different aspects altogether. These include groundwater recharge, water conservation and, critically, cutting down the overuse of water in agriculture, which hogs 90% of available supply, mainly because farming is not efficient.“Agriculture’s demand for water is disproportionately huge. One of the reasons is free electricity and a lot of incentives for crops such as paddy. India has to bring down its farm-water use to optimal levels for greater sustainability of groundwater,” said Alok Nath, a former water specialist at the Indian Council for Agricultural Research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/record-80m-rural-households-have-piped-drinking-water-under-jal-jeevan-mission-101630670479382.html
03-09-2021||India||Tripura Congress vice president resigns from post||Days after Tripura Congress chief Pijush Kanti Biswas stepped down over alleged lack of cooperation from his party colleagues, vice-president Tapas Dey resigned from his post on Friday, though he is still with the party.Biswas, who withdrew his resignation last week, said he has not received Dey’s resignation letter yet. However, Dey claimed he forwarded his resignation via WhatsApp.“I have resigned from my post. But I have not left the Congress party,” he confirmed. Dey’s resignation came soon after his photo with Union minister of state for social empowerment Pratima Bhowmik went viral on social media.Dey met the minister during a meeting with All India Congress Committee member and former minister Bibhu Kumari Devi on Wednesday. Devi also happens to be the ‘Rajmata’ or ‘regent queen’ of Tripura’s Manikya dynasty.In his resignation addressed to Biswas, Dey said the photograph was seen out of context as he was only visiting Bibhu Devi and the Union minister happened to be there. “It was pure coincidence that the Union minister Madam Pratima Bhowmik suddenly materialised there to pay obeisance to ‘Rajmata’ and we just exchanged pleasantries and there was discussion on some development projects of the people of our state and there were no political talk,” the letter reads. “.....I take this occasion to inform you that I am resigning from all posts of the PCC that I currently hold except the primary membership of the party and if you want I can also resign the party membership of the party, “ the letter continued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-congress-vice-president-resigns-from-post-101630669759306.html
03-09-2021||India||Mucormycosis cases declining? Here's what senior doctor at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital has to say||In what possibly points to a decline in cases of mucormycosis, Dr Ajay Swaroop, who heads the ENT department at Delhi's Sir Ganga Hospital said on Friday the hospital was not getting active cases of the infection commonly known as black fungus. Speaking to news agency ANI, Dr Swaroop said that currently, only those who had mucormycosis previously were coming to the hospital.“We're not getting any active cases. What we are seeing now is old cases that either have residual disease, or patients who had a disease which was treated and now they’ve developed mucormycosis,” the senior doctor said about the infection, which has also emerged as common complication among those who have recovered from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).  We're not getting any active cases of mucormycosis. Now we're seeing old cases that either have residual disease or patients coming with disease in one area that was treated&now they've developed mucor in another area: Dr Ajay Swaroop, Chairman, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital's ENT dept pic.twitter.com/7sMjyhMGlh“We are now seeing such kind of cases and also receiving patients from smaller centres. After suffering a lot, they moved out because transportation is now much easier. Fortunately, not a single case is active,” he added.Dr Swaroop then listed three reasons due to which, he believed, black fungus patients were coming back. “This could be because they’ve not taken full medicinal course, or because they didn’t return for post-operative follow-ups which resulted in the fungus growing up again. It is also possible that from the nose or sinuses, the infection has shifted or moved to other sides,” he explained. The reason why patients are coming back can be - 1) they've not taken full course of medicine, 2) they've not come for post-operative follow-ups & slightest amount of fungus started growing again, 3) from nose or sinuses, it has shifted or skipped to other sides: Dr Ajay Swaroop pic.twitter.com/ZL6qB0xgswMucormycosis, caused by fungi known as mucormycetes, has affected thousands of people across the country. As of July 15, at least 45,432 cases of black fungus were reported by states and Union territories (UTs), according to information shared in the Rajya Sabha on July 20 by Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-new-active-case-of-mucormycosis-in-delhi-s-sir-ganga-ram-hospital-says-senior-doctor-101630667601088.html
03-09-2021||India||Domestic violence case: Honey Singh's parents will have to appear for hearing||Delhi's Tis Hazari District Court on Friday heard both singer Yo Yo Honey Singh and his wife Shalini Talwar regarding the domestic violence case filed by Shalini and said on the next date of hearing, which is September 28, Honey Singh's parents will have to appear in the online hearing. Both Honey Singh's parents have been named as accused in the complaint filed by Shalini.Metropolitan magistrate Tania Singh counselled Honey Singh and his wife for over 1.5 hours in her chamber and said Shalini will visit her matrimonial home on Sunday with two lawyers and the protection officer to take her belongings from there. The entire visit will be videographed. Both Honey Singh and Shalini Talwar have agreed to this visit.The court also said Honey Singh and Shalini Talwar are saying different things about how Shalini left her matrimonial home. While Shalini has claimed that she was thrown out of the matrimonial home on March 20, Honey Singh claimed that Shali left the house on March 16 at her own will."We will sit down together and see if we can reach a conclusion amicably regarding residence. If not, I will hear the matter in detail and pass an order," the court said.The interim order restrained Honey Singh from disposing of their jointly owned property, his wife's Stridhan, etc. Both the parties have been asked to submit their bank statement, ITR and income statements.Shalini has sought a compensation of ₹20 crore, return of her dowry and has also demanded ₹4 lakh per month for a fully furnished house at a prominent location in Delhi. The court will hear Shalini's pela on interim compensation on September 28.Honey Singh and Shalini Talwar got married in 2011. In these 10 years of marriage, Shani has been physically assaulted, cheated on, she has said in her complaint. Honey Singh and his family broke her mentally and emotionally to an extent that she almost started identifying herself as a "farm animal", Shalini mentioned in her complaint.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/domestic-violence-case-honey-singh-s-parents-will-have-to-appear-for-hearing-101630667476298.html
03-09-2021||India||Supreme Court puts interim stay on Kerala's decision to hold Class 11 exam from Sep 6||The Supreme Court on Friday put an interim stay on the Kerala government’s decision to hold offline exams for Class 11 from September 6 amid rising cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the state. Kerala has continued to account for almost 70% of daily new Covid-19 cases in India, according to the health ministry data.While India witnessed a minor decline in new infections on Friday, Kerala remained the main contributor with 32,097 new Covid-19 cases. On Thursday, India reported the highest single-day virus cases in at least two months with 47,092 fresh infections, Kerala contributed the lion’s share of the tally with 32,801 new Covid-19 cases.The apex court observed that the Covid-19 situation in Kerala is “alarming” due to the continued surge in Covid-19 cases, adding that children of tender age can't be exposed to the risk of infection.Also Read | Second wave may continue till Kerala curbs its cases: GovtThe Kerala government, led by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, has been facing criticism from opposition parties, especially the Bharatiya Janaya Party (BJP), for controversial decisions on the relaxation of curbs and subsequent rise Covid-19 cases. Union minister V Muraleedharan, who also hails from the state of Kerala, has been leading the attack against Pinarayi."The state, instead of using scientific methods to contain the spread, is trying to use pandemic for political objectives, Muraleedharan told news agency ANI, urging the state government to follow the guidelines issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).The Kerala chief minister has repeatedly defended his government’s model for containment of Covid-19. Writing for CPI(M) magazine 'Chintha', Vijayan recently accused the critics of neglecting facts and deliberately creating confusion.“There are some unnecessary controversies surrounding the second wave. Some sections are trying to create fear among people by portraying the high numbers during the second wave as a cause of concern,” he wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-puts-interim-stay-on-kerala-s-decision-to-hold-class-11-exam-from-sep-6-101630665519591.html
03-09-2021||India||Tipped off about acid attack on Congress rally, says Harish Rawat||Congress leader Harish Rawat has cited “two sources” and said they have been tipped off about an “acid attack” during their Parivartan Yatra in Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami’s constituency--Khatima. “I have been tipped off by two sources... very worrisome. They said there could be a targeted acid attack on our leaders during the Yatra in Khatima. They may carry the attack by mixing acid in the ink bottle,” said Rawat in a social media post on Thursday.Rawat, who heads the Congress’s campaign committee for the 2022 assembly elections, said the attack will be a blot on Uttarakhand politics if it happens. “There should be competition in politics; healthy competition, ideological competition, and competition to work for the people. But if some people provoke a group of students or other people to carry the acid attack...during the Yatra then it will... be stooping to new low...” He added if it happens, then one can easily identify the political party behind it. Also Read | Congress demands probe into Uttarakhand bridge collapseRawat did not name any party and said he has informed police about the alleged threat. “I pray to the almighty that it remains a suspicion only and does not turn into reality. If in case it does happen, then it will be a highly condemnable act and a dark chapter in state politics.” He added he is not the target, but another Congress leader was. “It is a conspiracy to fail our rally in Khatima.”Police have stepped up the security for the rally that Congress’s state chief, Ganesh Godiyal, and Rawat are scheduled to lead. “...we have enhanced the security during the rally. Our superintendent of police (city) will be present there along with two circle officers and other police personnel to ensure no untoward incident happens,” said Daleep Singh Kunwar, a senior police superintendent. “We have no such input from our intelligence but after Harish Rawat raised the suspicion, we are taking all necessary steps.”Rawat separately accused a “retired bureaucrat” of “political extortion” for the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party and three other parties in Uttarakhand without naming the person. “He is also doing extortion through mining. Apart from this, as the elections are nearing, some are rallying people with vested economic interests in the state to help the ruling party and work against me and the Congress. ...I will put all possible efforts to protect Uttarakhand...”State minister and government spokesman Subodh Uniyal could not be contacted for a reaction to Rawat’s allegations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tipped-off-about-acid-attack-on-congress-rally-says-harish-rawat-101630665679313.html
03-09-2021||India||Karnataka: 19-year-old receives both doses of Covishield vaccine in a gap of two||A 19-year-old in Karnataka's Dakshina Kannada district has been administered two doses of the Covishield vaccine in a gap of two minutes, according to a report by news agency PTI. As of Thursday, KB Arun who hails from Kootelu in the Sullia taluk, has not shown any adverse effects. Health officials are still keeping a close eye at home since Wednesday.Arun is reported to be a daily wage worker. He went for his first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 at a Duggalakda High School in Sullia taluk which was reportedly crowded due to the ongoing mega drive. The health officials kept him under observation for four hours. Usually, the beneficiary is monitored for any adverse effects for 30 following the injection.As per the report, Arun received his first dose of the jab. He waited in the room for some time when he was given a second dose by the same staff unaware that he had already received the jab, news agency PTI reported.The confusion occurred as the youth did not leave the room after getting vaccinated, explained Sullia Taluk health officer Dr B Nandakumar. Arun is claimed to be under the impression that two doses of the jab are required for travel and the nurse also failed to recognise him.Arun is still required to get the following dose of the vaccine in a stipulated time of 84 days, Nandakumar has said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-19-year-old-receives-both-doses-of-covisheild-vaccine-in-a-gap-of-two-101630664498694.html
03-09-2021||India||Fans all set to celebrate Money Heist day!||The fifth season of the popular Spanish series Money Heist is almost here. And fans can’t keep calm for its release today, on September 3. So much so, that the buzz around the release has made a Jaipur-based firm, Verve Logic, declare a holiday. A letter from the CEO, Abhishek Jain states, “To avoid false leave emails and mass bunks, everyone can take a day off and enjoy the show ‘without made-up excuses’.”From giving a day off to employees to watch the show to restaurants preparing special themed menu and discounts to commemorate the occasion, fans are all set for the day!In Delhi-NCR, eateries have geared up to mark the occasion in unique ways too. Manish Sharma, owner, Distillery Gurgaon says, “Our servers will be dressed up as Dali and have a theme menu.”To help patrons enjoy the epic craze, Saurabh Luthra, co-founder, Romeo Lane has come up a special cocktail by the name of Money Heist. “It is created for the special premier day which will be given complimentary to first 20 customers of the day,” he says. Another restaurateur, Nishant Kumar, owner of Ministry of Sound in Noida has come up with a crowd-pleasing menu that has dishes named after the popular characters of the series. He says, “There’s a Berlin Pizza inspired by one of the main characters. Then we have a cocktail named Professor’s Plan B.”The craze doesn’t seem to fade moving from the Capital to the tech city, Bengaluru. A restaurant named Money Heist Bar & Kitchen in Whitefield that got inspiration from the show for its name is giving its customers 15% off on the day. Owner, Sreeram Reddy, says, “ We have been waiting for the next season and hence decided to give some discount to fellow lovers of the show.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fans-all-set-to-celebrate-money-heist-day-101630663339263.html
03-09-2021||India||Supreme Court pulls up Centre as guidelines to issue certificates to kin of Covid-19 deceased yet to be framed||The Supreme Court on Friday pulled up the Centre over delay in framing guidelines for issuing death certificates to families of those who lost their lives due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), news agency PTI reported. A 2-judge bench, comprising Justice MR Shah and Justice Aniruddha Bose, directed the Union government to file a compliance report by September 11.Also Read | Death within 2-3 months of testing positive to be counted as Covid death: SC“We passed the order long time back, and have already extended the time once. By the time you frame the guidelines, the third phase will be over as well,” the bench observed. It was referring to its June 30 order directing the appropriate authority to simplify the guidelines to issue death certificates which, it had said, should state the exact cause of death as “death due to Covid-19” to enable those who depended on the deceased to avail benefits of welfare schemes.Appearing for the central government, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta assured the top court that “everything is under consideration.” However, advocate Gaurav Kumar Bansal, who is one of the petitioners, argued that under the pretext of consideration, things should not be delayed further as the Centre was already granted a 4-week extension on August 16, but is now seeking further extension.Advocate Sumeer Sodhi, who appeared for some other applicants, argued that the extension for the first direction, passed on June 30, was ending on September 8.On this, the bench said it was adjourning the matter only for compliance with other directions. “Put up on September 13 as the Solicitor General seeks time to enable the Union of India to comply with the earlier order and place on record the compliance report of other directions placed by this court on June 30, 2021, on or before September 11,” it said.The apex court’s primary instructions in the said order were for the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) to come up with guidelines, within six weeks, for ex-gratia assistance of family members of those who died due to Covid-19. The Centre, however, sought and received extension on the grounds that the NDMA’s consideration in this regard was at an “advanced stage” but required some more in-depth examination.Also Read | SC grants Centre 6 weeks to fix ex-gratia for deaths due to Covid-19It was this “extension” that the advocates referred to in the latest hearing in the Supreme Court.The court's order was on two separate petitions, one each by Bansal and Reepak Kansal. Later, four other intervenors, who lost their family members due to Covid-19, also moved court.India’s official death toll due to the coronavirus disease is currently at 439,895, including 366 fatalities in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-pulls-up-centre-as-guidelines-to-issue-certificates-to-kin-of-covid-19-deceased-yet-to-be-framed-101630662060550.html
03-09-2021||India||Biological E's ‘Corbevax’ gets DCGI approval for two clinical trials||The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) has given approval to Biological E for two clinical trials of its Covid-19 vaccine candidate Corbevax, the ministry of science and technology announced Friday. The Hyderabad-based pharmaceutical company received approval for Phase 3 comparator safety and immunogenicity trial in adults after a review of Phase 1 and 2 clinical trials data by a subject expert committee.It also received approval for the Phase 2/3 study to evaluate the “safety, reactogenicity, tolerability and immunogenicity” of Corbevax in children and adolescents.Dr Renu Swarup, secretary, the department of biotechnology (DBT), said that the department is committed to the development of safe and efficacious Covid-19 vaccines. Swarup, who is also chairperson of Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council (BIRAC), said in a statement that they look forward to the clinical development of Corbevax for paediatric and adults.Mahima Datla, Managing Director, Biological E. Limited, expressed delight over the “significant approvals” from the DCGI. Datla said in a statement that these approvals encourage the company to move forward and successfully produce the Covid-19 vaccine to meet the country’s needs.“We are grateful to BIRAC for their support and we are enthused that these approvals would help support our subsequent filings with WHO as well. We appreciate and acknowledge the contribution of all our collaborators for their continued support in this endeavour,’’ she added.Also Read | Biological E’s Corbevax may be launched in October: Niti Aayog’s VK PaulThe ministry said that the DBT and BIRAC have supported Corbevax, which is an RBD protein subunit vaccine, from the preclinical stage to Phase 3 clinical studies. The Biological E’s vaccine candidate has also received financial support assistance under Covid-19 Research Consortia through National Biopharma Mission, BIRAC.On Thursday, Niti Aayog member (health) Dr VK Paul said that results of Phase 3 trials of Corbevax were awaited and the company had committed to supply a significant quantity of the vaccine by the end of the year.“Stockpile is being produced. We should wait for the results. We hope it’ll be in the next month or two. They’ve made a broad commitment that they’ll supply a significant amount by year-end,” news agency ANI quoted Dr Paul as saying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/biological-e-s-corbevax-gets-dcgi-approval-for-two-clinical-trials-101630661443467.html
03-09-2021||India||‘Monetisation plan a daylight robbery,’ says Chidambaram||Former Union finance minister and senior Congress leader P Chidambaram, while terming the Centre’s National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP) policy ‘a scandal and a daylight robbery’, said on Friday that the Narendra Modi government was planning to sell off the assets created in 70 years of Independence. The former minister also called it a move that would lead to cartelisation as the assets were going to go to a select two or three industrialists. Chidambaram was addressing a press conference in Mumbai as part of the Congress’s national outreach programme against NMP. Criticising the Modi government, Chidambaram said there was no criterion set for NMP and it was introduced without consultation with anyone. He also raised 20 questions over the policy.The former Union minister asked about the criteria applied for the choice of the assets for monetisation. “For roads and railways, there is PPP model in place, what is the difference between it and the proposed monetisation? If these assents are leased out for 50 years, would they not be depreciated over the years, worth nothing on their return? Will there be provision to avoid asset stripping by the lessee? What steps are being taken to avoid monopolies or duopolies? Has the Modi government decided that the Railways is no longer be considered a strategic sector? Has the government examined the impact of the policy on prices of goods and services in the sectors concerned?” he asked.Also Read | China-Pakistan-Taliban ‘axis’ is India’s cause for worry, warns ChidambaramChidambaram has also questioned that if the government expects the revenue of ₹600,000 crore in the next four years from monetisation, why was it not revealing the total capital investment in the identified assets. “They should also reveal the current revenue from the assets for the people the understand the difference between the two. How is the revenue of ₹6 lakh crore be sufficient to fund the ₹100 lakh crore infrastructure programme announced by the Prime Minister in his Independence Day speech?” he said.When asked about the disinvestment during UPA government, Chidambaram said that the Congress-led government sold loss making units and they had certain criteria for it. “The Congress sold non-core and non-strategic assets. They were chronically loss-making units. Ministerial market shares in PSUs were sold in case the private players in dominating in the sector. Here is they are selling of everything from Railways to airports and sea ports,” he said.BJP legislator Atul Bhatkhalkar said the Congress should first speak about their decision of liberalisation of the economy in early 1990s and the sale of the PSUs in the past. “The economy of the country was going through dire conditions, forcing the then Congress-led government to go for the liberation. Many government entities were sold, Mumbai and Delhi airports were given on lease when Chidambaram was the finance minister in Manmohan Singh government...The funds received from monetisation will be used for infrastructure projects . Congress and P Chidambaram are not able to accept the development the programme is going to bring,” he said.The Centre is yet to react to Chidambaram’s allegations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monetisation-plan-a-daylight-robbery-says-chidambaram-101630661479032.html
03-09-2021||India||International Climate Summit sees launch of national hydrogen portal, sets stage for net-zero goal||India hosted the International Climate Summit 2021 in New Delhi on Friday to get the ball rolling for the country’s journey towards a carbon-free energy ecosystem and become a key global player in renewable energy.Hosted by the PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry and Invest India, in collaboration with NITI Aayog, environment, forest & climate change ministry, CSIR, and the Union government’s department of science & technology, the International Climate Summit 2021 focused on the country’s ambitious Green Hydrogen Mission and forging partnerships in ramping up the transition towards net-zero carbon emissions through adopting clean energy.The summit began with a video excerpt from Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s speech on India’s 75th Independence Day speech this year, where he announced the government's decision to set up the National Hydrogen Mission, aimed at making India the new global hub and exporter of green hydrogen.Speaking virtually at the summit next, Norwegian petroleum and energy minister Tina Bru said, “Green Hydrogen has the potential to realise low to zero-emission solutions in the transportation, industry, and shipping sectors thus opening up new opportunities in these sectors.”She said that climate change has no borders and the common challenge is to cut emissions, for which the world needs to come together and cooperate transcending borders.“India is the world's third-biggest consumer and producer of energy with rapidly growing consumption in the decades to come, we commend the eﬀorts of the Indian government in launching ambitious targets for developing clean energy. Closer collaboration between Indian and Norwegian companies can deﬁnitely accelerate our steps towards a common low-emission future,” Bru added. Norway was the partner country for Friday’s summit.Also Read | The costs of a net zero emission targetModi has set the country a target of 2047 — when India would celebrate its 100th Independence day — to achieve self-reliance in energy production through a mix of electric mobility, gas-based economy, doping ethanol in petrol to make the country a hub for hydrogen production.Minister of state (independent charge) for earth sciences and science & technology, Jitendra Singh India stressed the urgency to address climate challenges through consolidated approach and timely interventions while emphasising on shifting to cleaner options like green hydrogen as a potential energy source for a more sustainable future."Our undivided energies should be invested to attain our aim of minimising emission and that is only possible if we adopt a proactive approach. Green hydrogen will not only enable us to reduce emissions but also help India across several verticals and align with Prime Minister Modi's vision of our nation being self-reliant. It's about time that we collectively work towards making India a Green Hydrogen Hub, not just for ourselves but for the bigger picture where we are considerate of the world as a whole. We have the capability and the capacity to facilitate clean hydrogen energy for the world; this is the appropriate time to get into action and create a world worth thriving in,” the minister said.Jitendra Singh chose the occasion to launch the National Hydrogen Portal - www.greenhydrogen-India.com. It is a platform that will now become a one-stop information source for research, production, storage, transportation, and application of hydrogen across the country and technology.Meanwhile, Union environment minister Ashwini Chaubey stressed the need for creating a sustainable platform for clean energy.“We intend to achieve 40% of non-fossil usage by 2030, making a significant stride towards improving the current state of the country and establishing a green hydrogen ecosystem to smoothen the path to responsible living,” he said.The environment minister said the time has come to redirect our attention towards creating and sustaining an alternate source of energy and mandating it for developing and developed nations alike to take the onus to nurture the health and wellbeing of each one of us on this planet.Reliance Industries managing director Mukesh Ambani delivered the keynote address next in which he said that India is determined to achieve 'Azaadi' (freedom) from dependence on fossil energy and become 'Aatmanirbhar' (self-reliance) in new and renewable energy. ”Since climate change is undoubtedly the most daunting challenge facing human civilisation today, we should rapidly transition to a new era of clean, green, and renewable energy,” Ambani said.He stressed that by investing in smart microgrids, efficient storage solutions, and smart meters, we can enable individuals, neighbourhoods, and communities to become both consumers and producers of energy. Green hydrogen, zero-carbon energy will play a fundamental role in the world's decarbonisation plans.Ambani outlined Reliance’s plan to become a net-zero carbon company by 2035, in line with India’s target to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050.Also Read | By switching on the sun, Railways can prevent 7mn tonnes of carbon emissions“We have prepared a new roadmap which will be the next big value creation engine for Reliance and India. We have started developing the Dhirubhai Ambani green energy giga-complex over 5,000 acres in Jamnagar, Gujarat. It will be amongst the largest, integrated renewable energy manufacturing facilities anywhere in the world,” Dhirubhai Ambani said. “Over the next 3 years, we will invest over ₹75,000 crores in these initiatives to create a fully integrated end-to-end renewable energy ecosystem for the Indians.”Reliance aims to produce 100GW of solar energy by 2030 out of India's goal to reach 450 GW.International Climate Summit 2021 witnessed the coming together of policymakers, academicians, and industry experts from Norway and India in their quest for green energy solutions and to arrive at a consensus in matters pertaining to climate change and sustainability.Christian Valdes Carter, director, Innovation Norway India, said India is among the best-suited countries to produce green hydrogen, and stressed that Norway and India have partnered to promote a green economy.“Norway has more than 50 different hydrogen projects at various stages of development in 50 different places,” he said.Also read | How India can be a $11 trillion economy by 2070 from positive climate actionThe summit addressed climate concerns and essayed to build a dialogue for India's transition to clean energy. It encouraged all stakeholders to put in collaborative efforts to devise solutions pertaining to hydrogen and its applications as a green fuel.From producing and storing to transferring pressurized and liqueﬁed hydrogen, aspects of the entire value chain were deliberated upon during the event. The global event also witnessed signiﬁcant discussions on exploring possibilities in blue and green hydrogen production and storage for heavy-duty transportation of hydrogen used in industrial, steel, reﬁnery, cement, and logistics clusters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/international-climate-summit-sees-launch-of-national-hydrogen-portal-sets-stage-for-net-zero-goal-101630657611399.html
03-09-2021||India||India, Russia ties have stood test of time: PM Modi at Eastern Economic Forum||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday that the friendship between India and Russia has stood the test of time and was seen in “our robust cooperation during the Covid-19 pandemic, including in the area of vaccines” recently. PM Modi also pointed out that energy is another major pillar of the strategic partnership between the two countries. “India-Russia energy partnership can help bring stability to the global energy market,” PM Modi said in his virtual address during the 6th Eastern Economic Forum (EEF) Summit in Vladivostok.“In Indian history and civilisation, the word “Sangam” has a special meaning. It means confluence, or coming together of rivers, peoples or ideas. In my view, Vladivostok is truly a sangam of Eurasia and the Pacific,” the Prime Minister also said.My remarks at the Eastern Economic Forum. https://t.co/FE8mRgm75qRussian President Vladimir Putin was present during the address. PM Modi was the chief guest at the EEF in 2019 and he mentioned his last visit to the country in his address. "In 2019, when I had visited Vladivostok to attend the Forum, I had announced India’s commitment to an Act Far East policy. This policy is an important part of our Special and Privileged Strategic Partnership with Russia,” the Prime Minister added.PM Modi also extended an invitation for the governors of the 11 regions of the Russian Far East to visit India at the earliest. “India has a talented and dedicated workforce, while the Far East is rich in resources. So, there is tremendous scope for Indian talent to contribute to the development of the Russian Far East,” he added.Oil minister Hardeep Singh Puri is in Russia to participate in the Eastern Economic Forum summit as India looks to strengthen its association with the mineral-rich region of Russia. Puri during his five-day visit will meet Nikolay Shulginov, the Russian minister of energy, and the Russian minister for development of Far East and Arctic, Alexei Chekunkov, to discuss the collaboration between Indian and Russian companies in that region," the ministry said in a statement. "India and Russia have robust and growing bilateral energy cooperation, which is a key pillar of Special and Privileged Strategic Partnership between the two countries," it said.Russia is the largest investment destination for the Indian oil and gas companies and Indian public sector companies have made investments in Russia of about $16 billion, including in the Far East and East Siberia, in oil and gas assets such as Sakhalin-1, Vankor and Taas-Yuryakh. Russia is also the largest investor in India's oil and gas sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-russia-ties-have-stood-test-of-time-pm-modi-at-eastern-economic-forum-101630657706450.html
03-09-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi shares video, talks about passion for flying he shared with his dad||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday posted a video on YouTube titled “Joy of Flight” about his passion for flying planes he shared with his father, late former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi. He recalled how his mother, Sonia Gandhi, would be worried every time his father flew a plane. “...she would be worried, and she would be transferring that worry,” he said in the over five-minute video shot at the Rajiv Gandhi Photo Exhibition the Indian Youth Congress organised last month.Rahul Gandhi remembered how he would fly with his father on early morning flights. He spoke about his uncle Sanjay Gandhi’s plane crash. Rahul Gandhi added Rajiv Gandhi had warned his younger brother against flying the plane that crashed and killed Sanjay Gandhi in New Delhi in June 1980.“My uncle was flying a particular type of plane; it was a Pitts. It was a very aggressive plane. My father told him that you know, do not do this. My uncle really did not have the experience. My uncle had similar (flying) hours to what I have about 300-350 hours. And, he should not have been flying that plane. And he flew it. And that is what happens when you do not have the experience and you fly. It is easy to kill yourself.”Also Read | ‘Political vendetta for former PM’: Cong MP from Assam on renaming of parkRahul Gandhi also spoke about how training as a pilot helps one become a leader. “If you lose track of details in the cockpit, you run into trouble. And if you lose track of the 30,000-foot picture you run into trouble. So, a pilot, and I am one, we move from these two spaces very seamlessly and very quickly.” He added roads, railway lines do not block their imagination when pilots fly. Rahul Gandhi said their imagination is at 30,000 feet and that gives them the ability to see large systems. “And this is what really helped my father. I could see this process taking place where he would go and meet people, get into their details, understand their details...”Rahul Gandhi said his father would put him in the cockpit whenever they flew on a plane or helicopter together. “What he would do is he would ask me about all the instruments, ask me questions and we would do the flight check together,” he said. He added he later learnt to fly when he was in college.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-shares-video-talks-about-passion-for-flying-he-shared-with-his-dad-101630658059454.html
03-09-2021||India||‘Message of pure democracy’: Kerala girl's guava sapling to find place in PM Modi's house||A guava sapling, nurtured by a girl in a Kerala village, will now find a place in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s official residence. Actor-turned-politician, Suresh Gopi has handed over the sapling, gifted by Jayalakshmi to PM Modi, during his recent meeting with him in New Delhi. Gopi shared the photo of PM Modi accepting the gift on his Twitter and Facebook handles on Thursday with a brief note. "Nurtured by a thoughtful young girl in a courtyard of Kulanada, a village in Pathanamthitta, all set to bloom in the residence of the Indian Prime Minister," Gopi tweeted.
03-09-2021||India||India signs project agreement with US for air-launched aerial vehicles||India has signed a project agreement with the United States for air-launched unmanned aerial vehicles (ALUAV). According to an official release on Friday, the agreement was signed on July 30 earlier this year between the ministry of defence and the US department of defence under the joint working group air systems in the defence technology and trade initiative (DTTI).The ALUAV project agreement falls under the research, development, testing and evaluation (RDT&E) memorandum of agreement between India's defence ministry and the US defence department. It was initially signed in January 2006 and then renewed once again in January 2015, according to the release. The agreement is a significant step towards deepening defence technology collaboration between the two nations through mutual cooperation in developing defence equipment.The defence technology and trade initiative, between India and the US, aims to bring "sustained leadership focus to promote collaborative technology exchange and create opportunities for co-production and co-development" of weapons technology of both the countries' military forces in the future. Under the DTTI, joint working groups on land, naval, air, and aircraft carrier technologies have been established to focus on mutually agreed projects in each of their respective domains. The project agreement in this regard is being overseen by the joint working group on air systems and is being considered a "major accomplishment" for the initiative.The Air Force Research Laboratory, the Indian Air Force and the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) are all collaborating together for the design, development, demonstration, testing, and finally, the evaluation of systems being co-developed for an ALUAV prototype. According to the government release, the Aeronautical Development Establishment (ADE) at DRDO and the Aerospace Systems Directorate at the Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL), along with the Indian and US air forces are the principal organisations for the execution of the project agreement.The agreement was signed by the co-chairs of the joint working group air systems under the DTTI, the assistant chief of air staff for plans Air Vice Marshal Narmdeshwar Tiwari from the IAF, and the director of the Air Force Security Assistance and cooperation directorate Brigadier General Brian R Bruckbauer from the US air force.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-signs-project-agreement-with-us-for-air-launched-aerial-vehicles-101630654171373.html
03-09-2021||India||JD(U) MLA Gopal Mandal seen in underwear on train. Clarifies his sartorial choice||Gopal Mandal, a legislator of Bihar's ruling Janata Dal(United) or JD(U), was seen inside a train in his undergarments and his choice of clothing led to a ruckus after co-passengers objected to the leader's behaviour. After photographs of Mandal roaming around in undergarments inside the AC first-class compartment of Tejas Rajdhani Express went viral on social media, he has clarified. Reports said that Mandal threatened to shoot the passenger after an argument during the journey from Patna to New Delhi over the issue on Thursday."The moment I boarded the train, I wanted to use the loo immediately. So I removed my kurta-pyjama and took the towel on my shoulder. I did not have the time to wrap it around my waist," Mandal told news agency ANI on Friday.The MLA, who represents Gopalpur in the assembly, said that a person sitting in the adjoining compartment stopped him by holding his hand and questioned him for roaming "naked". "That person asked me why I roaming naked. He held my hand. He disturbed me. Then I rushed to the toilet," he said. The JD(U) MLA said, "The moment I came out, I asked him who are you. He said I am general public. To which I questioned who does this to an MLA."He also claimed that there was no woman present in the compartment at the time he walked past to go to the washroom. "When the police came and questioned us about the argument, I showed them my clothes… That man held my hand and embarrassed me. He pushed me to which I responded by abusing. Thereafter, I apologised to him," he said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jdu-mla-gopal-mandal-seen-in-underwear-on-train-clarifies-his-sartorial-choice-101630654625322.html
03-09-2021||India||'Political vendetta towards former PM': Congress MP from Assam slams renaming of Orang national park||Congress Rajya Sabha MP from Assam Ripun Bora on Friday tweeted to inform he wrote a letter to chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, condemning the state government’s decision to drop the name of former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi from that of the Orang national park. In the letter, which he shared on Twitter, Bora alleged that the decision was nothing but “political vendetta towards a former prime minister who differs from the political ideology of your party.”Wrote a letter to CM Sh. @himantabiswa appealing to revoke the cabinet resolution to withdraw the nomenclature of Rajiv Gandhi Orang National Park adopted in the Cabinet Meeting on 1st sep 2021. pic.twitter.com/kzo21wevGk On September 1, the BJP government in Assam decided to remove "Rajiv Gandhi" prefix from Rajiv Gandhi Orang National Park, claiming that in a recent interaction with Sarma, prominent members of the Adivasi and tea-tribe community made a request in this regard.Also Read | Assam cabinet decides to remove Rajiv Gandhi’s name from Orang national park“The decision of your cabinet committee to remove the nomenclature of Rajiv Gandhi Orang National Park is most unfortunate and will create a bad precedent in the coming days,” Bora wrote, highlighting the contribution and “landmark” decisions taken by the late Congress leader during his time as the prime minister.
03-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: Clampdown following Geelani's death continues in Kashmir and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 1pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Clampdown following Geelani’s death continues in Kashmir for second dayPolice said no major incident of violence has been reported even as there were some stone-throwing incidents in old Srinagar. Read moreRetired Calcutta high court CJ to head SIT probe Bengal post-poll violenceThe Calcutta high court on Friday appointed its retired chief justice, Manjula Chellur, as the head of the SIT, which the court set up to probe allegations of post-poll violence in West Bengal. Read moreTokyo Paralympics: Avani Lekhara wins bronze medal in R8 women's 50m rifle 3P SH1 eventPara-shooter Avani Lekhara, who had earlier won a gold medal in R-2 women's 10m Air Rifle Standing SH1, claimed her 2nd medal at the Games on Saturday. Read moreSidharth Shukla funeral: Aly Goni tearfully hugs Prince Narula outside residence, ambulance arrivesPolice and the media descended at the Cooper hospital on Friday, a day after actor Sidharth Shukla died at the age of 40. Sidharth's funeral is expected to take place today. Read morePlanning to buy car? Chances are you have to wait longer than usual. Here's whyProduction cuts and temporary plant closures announced by a few car makers are likely to have an impact on delivery timelines. Read moreMilind Soman on Ankita Konwar’s Yoga pic: ‘Chakrasan a day keeps disease at bay'Milind Soman recommends a chakrasana a day to keep ‘disease at bay’ and if you too are motivated to nail the Yoga exercise like Ankita Konwar, here are its steps and health benefits. Read moreParalympics: Praveen Kumar bags silver in men's high jump; PM lauds 'hard work'India's Praveen Kumar bagged the silver medal in men's high jump T64 category in Tokyo Paralympics. This took the country's medal tally to 11 in the ongoing Games in Japan. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-clampdown-following-geelani-s-death-continues-in-kashmir-and-all-the-latest-news-101630651681748.html
03-09-2021||India||With 41% population receiving 1st jab of vaccine, Bengal ranks last in states||West Bengal ranks last among states in administering the first Covid-19 vaccine dose with only around 41% of its population receiving it, according to data the Centre shared on Thursday even as officials pointed out that the state has not received doses proportional to its population.Chief minister Mamata Banerjee last month wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi pointing out the Centre was providing a larger number of vaccine doses to Bharatiya Janata Party-ruled states such as Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat and Karnataka.Out of the 938 million people eligible for vaccination in the country, around 54% have received at least one dose till September 1. Himachal Pradesh, which has covered 99.6% of its population with the first dose, topped the list of states. Uttarakhand has covered 81.19% of its population while Kerala 80.14%, Gujarat 71.85% and Madhya Pradesh 70.69%. West Bengal has been able to vaccinate 41.16% of its total eligible population of around 70 million. To date, 30.3 million people in the state have received the first jab. Jharkhand has been able to provide 42.23% of its population with the first dose followed by Uttar Pradesh with 42.25%.The second dose in West Bengal has been given to 11.8 million people, which is around 39% of those who received the first jab. States such as Himachal Pradesh, Gujarat and Kerala, which ranked higher in administering the first dose, lag behind in terms of the second. In Himachal Pradesh, only around 32% of the people have been given the second dose followed by Gujarat and Kerala with 34% and 36%.Also Read | Retired Calcutta high court CJ to head SIT probe Bengal post-poll violenceAccording to the 2011 census, West Bengal was the fourth most populous state with a population of 91.3 million while Karnataka (61.1 million) was the ninth and Gujarat (60.4 million) 10th.An official pointed out when it comes to vaccine doses, the Centre’s allotment is not proportional to the population. He added West Bengal has administered over 42.2 million doses, Gujarat 47.8 and Karnataka 44 million. “Most of the doses were provided to the states by the Centre.”A second West Bengal official said some states may have given the first dose to cover the maximum population without thinking about the second shot. “In West Bengal, we have moved in a more scientific manner. We have kept parity between the first and second doses. We first chose some groups who could act as super-spreaders such as transport workers, jail inmates and sex workers for immunisation.”Some experts said another reason behind the low coverage of the first dose in Bengal could be hesitancy. “This could exist in some pockets but not in general. If you see there has been a huge turnout at vaccination centres leading to near stampede in some areas. Can this be a sign of reluctance?” asked the third official.West Bengal received over 10 million doses in August, the highest since the vaccination drive started in January. It has been promised another 13 million doses in September, officials said.The state administration has started to ramp up the vaccination drive. It has achieved the target of administering nearly 1.3 million doses per day up from 50,00,00. Bengal has managed to vaccinate 70-80% of the population in cities. It is now stepping up the vaccination drive in the rest of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-41-population-receiving-1st-jab-of-vaccine-bengal-ranks-last-in-states-101630653258674.html
03-09-2021||India||SC denies bail to Delhi Sikh riots convict and ex-Congress leader Sajjan Kumar||The Supreme Court on Friday rejected the bail plea of Delhi Sikh riots convict and former Congress leader Sajjan Kumar after noting that his medical condition is stable and improving. The top court on August 24 directed the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to verify the medical condition of Kumar, who is serving life imprisonment in a 1984 anti-Sikh riots case and is seeking interim bail on health grounds.A bench of Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Justice Hrishikesh Roy issued a notice to the CBI on Kumar’s plea and asked it to file an affidavit within a week after verifying his medical condition, reports PTI.Senior advocate Dushyant Dave, appearing for the complainant in the matter, said that Kumar got anticipatory bail from the Delhi High Court in 2010 and he was sent to jail only after his conviction. “This is shocking,” he informed the bench, adding that people were slaughtered during the riots. “I have serious reservation about private hospitals and these powerful accused,” Dave said, adding that the top court in September last year dismissed Kumar's plea seeking interim bail on health grounds.The Delhi High Court reversed the acquittal of Kumar by the trial court in 2013 in the case related to the killings of five Sikhs in the Raj Nagar Part-I area in Palam Colony in southwest Delhi on November 1-2, 1984, and the burning down of a gurdwara in Raj Nagar Part-II. The riots broke out after the assassination of then prime minister Indira Gandhi on October 31, 1984, by her two Sikh bodyguards.In its verdict, the high court convicted and sentenced Kumar to imprisonment for the "remainder of his natural life" in the case, saying the riots were a "crime against humanity" perpetrated by those who enjoyed "political patronage" and aided by an "indifferent" law enforcement agency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-denies-bail-to-delhi-sikh-riots-convict-and-ex-congress-leader-sajjan-kumar-101630647104098.html
03-09-2021||India||Clampdown following Geelani’s death continues in Kashmir for second day||The clampdown imposed on movement and communications following separatist leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani’s death continued in Kashmir for a second day on Friday. Police said no major incident of violence has been reported even as there were some stone-throwing incidents in old Srinagar. Additional troops were deployed on Friday. A police spokesperson said the restrictions and internet shutdown will continue and that a review of the situation will take place on Friday afternoon to decide how long the clampdown will continue.Geelani, the face of separatism in Kashmir for over three decades, died on Wednesday after a prolonged illness at 91. The separatist leader, who spent around two decades in jail, was largely confined to his residence because of ill-health since 2010. Geelani was on Thursday buried in a quiet funeral at a graveyard near his residence in Srinagar’s Hyderpora around 4.30am with his family alleging that the police forcibly took away his body.The police action was likely prompted to avoid a mass gathering, which may have turned restive or violent.Also Read | 89 new Covid cases, no deaths in J&KAs soon as the news of Geelani’s death broke, authorities enhanced security across the Valley. Hundreds of security personnel patrolled streets, put up barricades, and sealed key roads to restrict the movement of people in the clampdown similar to the one imposed after the nullification of the region’s semi-autonomous status in 2019. Shops and businesses were shuttered while the movement of vehicles was restricted. Internet connections and mobile networks were snapped and even journalists were prevented from covering the funeral. Only the post-paid mobiles of Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited were working.Paramilitary forces were deployed across Kashmir and all the roads leading to Hyderpora were sealed. Officials said additional troops were deployed, especially in Srinagar’s old city and north Kashmir including Geelani’s hometown Sopore.Vijay Kumar, inspector general (Kashmir), announced restrictions late Wednesday night as a preventive measure. Officials said police had been conducting mock drills related to Geelani’s funeral as his condition worsened.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/clampdown-following-geelani-s-death-continues-in-kashmir-for-second-day-101630649178483.html
03-09-2021||India||Curbs relaxed, August logged better international air traffic||The government has extended the suspension on scheduled international commercial flight services by another month, to September 30. While this may have brought India’s international traffic down by almost 95%, some international air traffic is on the rise because of the flights operating under special arrangements with over 24-odd countries as well as special chartered services. Last month also saw an uptick in the overseas air traffic owing to student travel.While the scheduled international operations are yet to start, the ministry of civil aviation has permitted international operations under Vande Bharat Mission (VBM) and Air Transport Bubbles (ATB).According to an estimate by rating agency- ICRA, the outbound passenger traffic under VBM for August 2021 rose by 218% compared to July 2021. “One of the reasons could be student outbound travel, given the autumn fall for universities and colleges internationally starts from September,” said Kinjal Shah, vice president and Co-Group Head, corporate ratings, ICRA Limited. Also Read | Negative RT-PCR report must for tourists visiting India from these nations; check detailed listThe passenger traffic under VBM has been growing sequentially since June 2021 after a dip in May 2021 due to the second Covid wave. According to ICRA, international passenger traffic for the Indian carriers stood at around 4.2 million till Aug 31, 2021. “Compared to May, traffic growth stood at 4% in June 2021, 43% in July 2021 and 47% in August 2021. Apart from student travellers, the sequential growth is attributed to relaxations by foreign nations to travel to their countries post a decline in Covid cases in India from June 2021, as well as the rising pace of vaccination,” ICRA said.According to Dubai Civil Aviation Authority (DCAA), passenger traffic between India and Dubai is seeing a steady increase after UAE recently lifted travel restrictions. According to the August data report by the Airports Authority of India, Mumbai, Kochi and Calicut were the top airports for international traffic during July. The New Delhi airport registered 266,533 international passengers in July, up from 193,007 in the same month a year ago, while Mumbai airport recorded 101,203 international passengers during the month, up from 65,930 during the same period in 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/curbs-relaxed-august-logged-better-international-air-traffic-101630648398372.html
03-09-2021||India||EXCLUSIVE | India’s 1st N-missile tracking ship Dhruv to be launched on Sept 10||National Security Advisor Ajit Doval is expected to commission India’s first satellite and ballistic missile tracking ship Dhruv from Visakhapatnam on September 10. Built by Hindustan Shipyard in collaboration with Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and National Technical Research Organisation (NTRO), INS Dhruv has the capability to also map ocean beds for research and detection of enemy submarines.It is understood that the Chief of Naval Staff Admiral Karambir Singh and NTRO Chairman Anil Dasmana will be present at the launch ceremony along with senior DRDO and Navy officials. The nuclear missile tracking ship will be manned by Indian Navy personnel with the Strategic Forces Command (SFC). Such ships are operated by France, the US, the UK, Russia, and China only.The 10,000-tonne ship, which is part of a classified project, will be at the heart of India’s future anti-ballistic missile capability as it will act as an early warning system for enemy missiles headed towards Indian cities and military establishments. The ship will be a vital key to maritime domain awareness in the Indo-Pacific and is being commissioned at the time when the era of underwater armed and surveillance drones has dawned.With both China and Pakistan having nuclear ballistic missile capability and land disputes with India, the INS Dhruv will act as a major force multiplier to India’s maritime security architecture as well add to the capability to understand the true missile capability of the adversary when they test their ballistic missiles.INS Dhruv is equipped with DRDO developed state of the art active scanned array radar or AESA with the ability to scan various spectrums to monitor spy satellites watching over India as well as monitor missile tests in the entire region. This will add to the Indian Navy’s capability to monitor the region from the Gulf of Aden to the ingress routes to the South China Sea via Malacca, Sunda, Lombok, Ombai and Wetar straits.INS Dhruv by mapping the Indian Ocean bed will also help the Indian Navy plan better military operations in all three dimensions—sub-surface, surface and aerial. Given that China has moved to sea-based military doctrine with huge investments in long-range aircraft carriers, warships and submarines, the latest Indian ship will help India’s electronic intelligence-gathering spy agency, the NTRO, to project threat to India in real-time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-1st-n-missile-tracking-ship-dhruv-to-be-launched-on-sept-10-101630647404445.html
03-09-2021||India||BJP leader’s ‘spit’ remark against Bhupesh Baghel sparks controversy. CM hits back||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader D Purandeswari’s remarks against Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel at the party’s three-day-long “Chintan Shivir” have triggered a major controversy. In a video which is going viral, Purandeswari, a former leader of the state’s ruling Congress, is seen saying that if BJP workers turn around and spit, Baghel and his entire Cabinet would be “swept away.”Also Read | Rumblings in BJP over exclusion of leaders from Chhattisgarh conclave“The responsibility of bringing the BJP back to power lies with you. Our karyakartas are the backbone of our party. If today we are sitting here as leaders, then that is because of workers such as all of you. Hence, we want you to move ahead with a resolve. If all of you were to turn around and spit just once, Bhupesh Baghel and his entire Cabinet would be swept away. From today onwards, you will have to work with this resolve. Due to your hard work, we will again come back to power in 2023,” the BJP’s Chhattisgarh in-charge says, as seen in a video shared by news agency ANI. Her speech is met with loud applause.#WATCH "We appeal to you to work with resolve, through your hard work BJP will come to power in 2023....When you turn back and spit, then, Bhupesh Baghel and his cabinet will get swept away," Chattisgarh BJP leader D.Purandeswari while addressing party workers in Bastar yesterday pic.twitter.com/R8Q9TKQ0YUThe former Union minister in the Manmohan Singh-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government was addressing party activists on the final day of the "Chintan Shivir" on Thursday, in Bastar.Responding to Purandeswari, Baghel questioned her “mental state.” Speaking to reporters, the chief minister said, “What can I say about her statement? Who could have thought that her mental state would come down to this after joining the BJP? She was alright when she was with us. Moreover, if you spit towards the sky, it will fall on your face only.”"I did not expect this...if anyone spits on the sky, then it falls on own face," said Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel in response to Chattisgarh BJP leader D.Purandeswari's "spit" remark, in Raipur yesterday pic.twitter.com/4lm0wXxkXkIn the 2018 assembly elections in Chhattisgarh, the Congress had defeated the BJP, which had been in power here since 2003 under then chief minister Raman Singh. Baghel became the state’s third CM, ahead of TS Singh Deo.Assembly elections will next take place in the state in 2023, just months ahead of the Lok Sabha elections the following year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-leader-s-spit-remark-on-bhupesh-baghel-sparks-controversy-cm-hits-back-101630645859751.html
03-09-2021||India||India has administered nearly 670 million Covid vaccine doses till now||India had administered close to 670 million Covid vaccine doses by Thursday, September 2. The government said the second wave isn’t yet over, as the high number of cases in Kerala show. The Union health ministry also reiterated that all mass gatherings should be discouraged ahead of the upcoming festive season. It said only the fully vaccinated should attend such events, and only if it was absolutely essential to do so.Meanwhile, by 7pm on Thursday, 669,835,708 vaccine doses were given across the states and UTs. As many as 6,470,901 doses were administered on the day. Of this, 4,548,047 were given as the first dose while 1,922,854 got their second dose.Also Read | RT-PCR must for tourists visiting India from these nations; check detailed listIn the 18-45 age group, 3,322,853 were given the first dose while 1,042,764 doses were given as the second dose on the day. Cumulatively, 263,216,729 people have been given the first dose while 30,957,208 have got their second shot as well.Among the healthcare workers, 10,359,871 have been given the first dose while 8,429,717 have got their second dose as well. Among the frontline workers, 18,327,131 have got their first dose and 13,385,387 have got their second dose too.India reported 45,352 fresh cases, 34,791 recoveries and 366 fatalities in the last 24 hours, as per the health ministry on Friday.Of the fresh cases, Kerala contributed 32,097. The total death toll in the country reached 439,895. Of the 366 fatalities in the last 24 hours, Kerala logged 188 deaths, Maharashtra logged 55, and the remaining 123 fatalities are from the rest of the states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-nearly-670-million-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101630646301623.html
03-09-2021||India||Madhya Pradesh govt directs hiring as per 27% OBC quota||The Madhya Pradesh government on Thursday directed the implementation of an enhanced 27% Other Backward Classes (OBC) quota for recruitments in all departments, except for school education, health, and medical education. Its General Administration Department (GAD) issued an order in this regard a day after the high court refused to vacate a stay on the hiring of 29,000 teachers for which the quota was applied. The court is likely to pronounce its verdict on petitions challenging the enhanced quota on September 20.The GAD issued the order after seeking advocate general Purushendra Kaurav’s opinion. Kaurav pointed out the high court had not stayed the increase of the quota to 27% from 14% through an ordinance in March 2019.“Some petitions have been filed in the court to challenge it (the ordinance) but advocate general, who gave a legal opinion in the court on August 25, clearly said that barring three departments, the increased reservation can be implemented in all the direct recruitments and examinations,” said the GAD order.Also Read | MP: Thousands who lost one parent left out of Covid relief after tweakState minister Bhupendra Singh said the high court only stayed the admission to post-graduate courses in medical colleges, the appointment of medical officers and teachers as per the increased quota. “There is no stay on the ordinance...” Singh called the government’s order for recruitments a historic decision.Lawyer Rameshwar Singh Thakur, who represents petitioners who have challenged the stay on implementation of reservation in the teachers’ recruitment, said he has maintained the state government was misinterpreting the court’s order.Aditya Sanghi, another lawyer, said the implementation of the enhanced quota will mean the reservation crosses the 50% cap which is not allowed as per a Supreme Court order. “It is very evident that if the court has stayed appointment and admission as per increased reservation, it means it is a stay on all exams and recruitment. As of now, 70 petitions have been filed to challenge this order.”Congress leader JP Dhanopia said the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government cheated OBC by not implementing the increased reservation. “After Congress leaders mounted pressure on the government and roped in two Supreme Court lawyers... they realised their mistake and rectified it. They should also apologise.”BJP leader Rajneesh Agrawal blamed Congress for misinterpreting the court’s order. “In 2019, it was then Congress-led government which misguided the people on the court stay. After taking legal opinion, the state government implemented it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-govt-directs-hiring-as-per-27-obcquota-101630644259475.html
03-09-2021||India||45,352 new Covid-19 cases take India's tally over 32.9 million||India recorded 45,352 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, lower than Thursday's 47,092 infections, even as Kerala continued to contribute the lion's share to the tally, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Friday. The fresh Covid-19 cases and 366 fatalities have pushed the country's tally to 32,903,289 and the death toll to 439,895.Of the 45,352 fresh Covid-19 infections and 366 deaths reported across the country in the last 24 hours, Kerala recorded 32,097 cases and 188 fatalities. Kerala has been reporting in excess of 30,000 daily cases for the past few days. The southern state's infection count now stands at 41,22,133 and deaths at 21,149.The new Covid-19 cases in Kerala include 98 health workers, 102 people from outside the state and the remaining 30,456 have been infected through contact with the source of the contact not being clear in 1,441 cases.Active cases in India rose by 10,195 to stand at 399,778 in the same period, according to data released by the health ministry at 8am. Active cases constitute 1.19 per cent of total cases and the national Covid-19 recovery rate stands 97.48 per cent, the Union health ministry said.As many as 16,66,334 Covid-19 tests were conducted on Friday, taking the total number of tests conducted so far to 52,65,35,068. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 32,063,616 while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, it said.The health ministry on Friday said that more than 650 million Covid-19 vaccine doses have been provided to states and Union territories so far by the Centre for free and under the direct state procurement category. "Twelve million doses are in the pipeline. Around 43.6 million balance doses are still available with the states/union territories," it added.The Covid-19 vaccination drive has been ramped up through the availability of more vaccines, advanced visibility of vaccine availability to states and Union territories for enabling better planning by them and streamlining the vaccine supply chain. The new phase of universalisation of vaccination commenced on June 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/45352-new-covid-19-cases-take-india-s-tally-over-32-9-million-101630640684743.html
03-09-2021||India||Many states have reopened schools with SOPs in place: A listicle||Even as Kerala witnesses a surge in the number of Covid cases, the state is looking at reopening schools. At a high-level online meeting called by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan late on Wednesday, international experts are also learnt to have advocated reopening of schools. Several states have already opened schools on September 1. Here’s a list of how they’ve gone about it:Uttar PradeshPrimary schools in Uttar Pradesh reopened on September 1, in two shifts - 8am to 11am and 11.30 am-1.30 pm. The attendance was significantly low. Schools were reopened for Classes 9 to 12 on August 16, and for Classes 6 to 8 from August 23.On Thursday, the state government released an SOP asking all teachers and school staff, along with their families, to get vaccinated.DelhiSchools in the state reopened on September 1 for classes 9 to 12, in a staggered mode. Schools have been reopened on the condition that the staff is vaccinated and the occupancy in classrooms is 50%. Parents’ consent is mandatory for the students to attend offline classes. Tamil NaduSchools reopened for Classes 9-12 on September 1. All school and college hostels have also been permitted to reopen. Working people’s hostels are also allowed to function following the government’s Standard Operating Procedure. Schools have to ensure all staff is vaccinated. Also, educational institutes have to ensure that students from Kerala are vaccinated and produce negative RT-PCR certificates.Also Read | Delhi weather: Cloudy sky with partial rain expected todayTripuraSchools in Tripura reopened for students of Classes 6-12 from September 1. All schools are required to function in single or double shifts, depending on the size of the classrooms.Telangana Schools in Telangana reopened from September 1. However, as per a state high court order, attendance is not mandatory. While some private schools are taking a more cautious approach and remaining closed till next month, a few have reopened with Covid protocol in place.Madhya PradeshSchools reopened for Classes 9-12 on September 1. Parents’ consent for offline classes is mandatory. While these higher grades will attend school twice a week, a decision on reopening for Classes 1-5 will be taken after monitoring the situation for a week.Rajasthan Schools reopened for classes 9-12 with 50 per cent capacity from September 1. It is mandatory for the teaching and non-teaching staff to have had at least one dose of the vaccine.Puducherry Schools resumed from September 1 for Classes 9-12 with 50% capacity. Haryana The government allowed schools to start physical classes for Classes 4-5 from September 1. Schools are already open for higher classes.AssamThe Assam government has decided to reopen schools and colleges from September 6. As per the SOPs, colleges can reopen hostels for the postgraduate, graduate, and higher secondary final year, fully vaccinated students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/many-states-have-reopened-schools-with-sops-in-place-a-listicle-101630642997948.html
03-09-2021||India||Negative RTPCR report must for tourists visiting India from these nations; check detailed list||The central government has extended its coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-related restrictions to include more countries from where international travellers, intending to enter India, will require a mandatory negative RTPCR test report. The curbs were imposed on additional countries due to concerns over new mutations of the SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus, particularly the 'Mu' and the C.1.2 variants reported in recent days, as well as over the rising number of "Variants of Concern (VOCs)" and "Variants of Interest (Vols)" in general across the world, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare.Also Read | Singapore's Covid-19 vaccinated travel lane might help recover trade with IndiaThe health ministry added seven additional countries to the list of nations from where travellers must carry a negative RTPCR test report to enter India.These seven countries are:Travellers from the United Kingdom (UK), and from countries in the European Union (EU) and the Middle East already need a mandatory negative RTPCR report to get on flights to India. They are also required to take an RTPCR test upon arrival.Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said in a statement, "Considering the reports of new mutations in SARS-CoV-2 and rising number of Variants of Concern (VoCs) and Variants of Interest (Vols) globally, the following countries have been added in the scope of part B of MoHFW's Guidelines on International Arrival, in addition to existing Countries in "Part-B" i.e. United Kingdom, Europe, and the Middle East.""More countries including South Africa, Bangladesh, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, and Zimbabwe. International travellers from all these countries would now need RTPCR negative reports to get on flights to India and RTPCR testing upon arrival here," Bhushan added.The Union health secretary also asked chief secretaries of the respective states and Union territories to refer to the updated guidelines on international travel to strengthen their Whole Genome Sequencing (WGS) activities.Meanwhile, in a separate order, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said that passengers arriving from certain countries will also need to mandatorily provide a negative RTPCR test report.To enter Mumbai, international travellers from these countries will require a negative RTPCR report from Friday, September 3:Passengers from other nations who have to exit the airport or board connecting flights from any of the above-listed nations must also show their respective RTPCR negative reports conducted 72 hours prior to the journey, according to the BMC. Moreover, the travellers will be required to submit self-declaration forms at the airport and will have to undergo 14-day home quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/negative-rtpcr-report-must-for-tourists-visiting-india-from-these-nations-check-detailed-list-101630637143527.html
03-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: At least 44 dead as flash floods drown US states and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Hurricane Ida: At least 44 dead as flash floods drown US states. 10 pointsHurricane Ida pummelled through at least four states in the northeast United States over the past day, triggering torrential rains and flash floods that swept away cars, submerged subway lines, and grounded airline flights from Virginia to New England. Read More'Not afraid, we are united': With Taliban close to forming govt, Afghan women protestAs many as 50 Afghan women in Afghanistan's western city of Herat protested on the streets in a rare, defiant protest for the right to work and over the lack of female participation in the new government to be formed by the Taliban, according to a report. Read MoreAs Maharashtra mulls reopening schools, here's what task force on children saysAs Maharashtra is poised to take a decision in the next few days on reopening schools in the state, the Covid-19 task force on children has stressed vaccinating teachers and non-teaching staff must be prioritised among other things. Read MoreIndia to host global climate meet today, focus on hydrogen powerIndia is all set to host a key conference on Friday as part of the International Climate Summit (ICS) 2020-21 to build a dialogue for India's transition to clean energy. Read MoreTokyo Paralympics: Praveen Kumar wins silver medal in high jump eventPraveen Kumar bagged the silver medal in the men's high jump T64 category with a jump of 2.07m on Friday at the Tokyo Paralympics. World No. 3 Kumar's effort took India's medal tally to 11 in the ongoing Paralympics. Read MoreBlack Widow movie review: Scarlett Johansson goes out on the worst Marvel film ever; a boring blob of blahA massively costly consolation prize for Scarlett Johansson and a glorified backdoor pilot for Florence Pugh, Black Widow achieves the unthinkable and dethrones Thor: The Dark World as the worst film in the Marvel Cinematic Universe. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-at-least-44-dead-as-flash-floods-drown-us-states-and-all-the-latest-news-101630639453072.html
03-09-2021||India||Maharashtra records 4,342 fresh Covid cases; state mulls reopening of schools||Maharashtra recorded 4,342 fresh Covid-19 cases, pushing the count to 6,473,674 on Thursday. The tally of active cases fell to 50,607 as 4,755 recoveries were reported in the past 24 hours. The state also saw 55 Covid casualties, taking the toll to 137,551. Ahmednagar reported the highest toll with 14 deaths. It was followed by Satara with nine fatalities.While there are predictions that the third wave of the pandemic is likely to hit the state this month, the steady rate of daily infections has become a cause for concern for officials. Maharashtra still has over 50,000 active cases and they are hovering between 50,000 and 51,000 for the past week. On August 24, the tally of active cases was 49,752.Meanwhile, the paediatric task force has discussed with the state school education department officials on reopening schools in the state. They want to ensure that schools are prepared and physical classes will not lead to a spike in cases.Bachchu Kadu, minister of state for school education, said the decision on reopening schools would be taken in the next two days. “A meeting in this regard will be held in the next few days. Like other states, schools should be started here as well. But the decision will have to be taken carefully considering the fact that Maharashtra has the highest number of active cases after Kerala,” Kadu said.Also Read | OTT parks in Maharashtra to make sector content?Dr Bakul Parekh, a member of the paediatric task force, said, “We also want the schools to be reopened, but with certain precautions as we are concerned about children’s health. Children are definitely suffering from mental health issues and nutrition and thus schools should be reopened, but in a safe environment. To ensure the same, we have recommended that teaching and non-teaching staff of schools should be vaccinated; there must be proper seating arrangements in the class and one bench should be reserved for one student only.“Schools should divide students in two batches and they should be called for physical classes on alternate days. For example, half the students can be called today and the rest tomorrow and at the same time online classes can also be continued. Sports activities which require close contact should be avoided. Schools can also be started in a staggered manner by allowing some classes now and increasing them later based on the situation and if in case any rise is observed they can be stopped immediately,” he said.Most importantly, classes should be sanitised and there must be a monitoring system in place in all the schools. The school staff should also be trained to deal in case of a medical emergency, added Dr Parekh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-records-4-342-fresh-covid-cases-state-mulls-reopening-of-schools-101630639757743.html
03-09-2021||India||Light to moderate rain likely over parts of NCR during next few hours||Light to moderate intensity rain is likely over parts of Delhi-NCR during the next two hours, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD) bulletin at 7.30am.Light rain is likely over isolated places of South-East Delhi, East-Delhi, Preet Vihar, Panipat, Safido, Karnal, Kaithal, Fatehabad, Adampur, Barwala, Narwana(Haryana), Indirapuram, Ghaziabad, Kandhala, Shamli, Saharanpur, Muzaffarnagar, Deoband, Gangoh (UP), Sidhmukh, Bhadra, Sadulpur (Rajasthan) and adjoining areas during the next two hours, the agency said.Rain intensity is likely to reduce over northwest India from today. The monsoon trough is at the south of its normal position. It is very likely to shift gradually northwards from Friday. A cyclonic circulation is lying over Saurashtra and neighbourhood and extends up to middle tropospheric levels. It is likely to move north-westwards during the next two days and become less marked thereafter. A trough (area of low pressure) is running from cyclonic circulation over Saurashtra and neighbourhood to Haryana across central parts of Rajasthan at lower tropospheric levels. It is likely to become less marked during the next 24 hours.Also Read | NGT does not have suo motu powers: Centre to SCA cyclonic circulation is lying over West Central and adjoining southwest Bay of Bengal off south Andhra Pradesh-north Tamil Nadu coasts. It is likely to become less marked during the next 24 hours. A wind shear zone (zone of change in wind speed and direction) is likely to develop over south Peninsular India from Friday.Due to these meteorological conditions, widespread rainfall activity with isolated very heavy rain is very likely over Saurashtra and Kutch during the next 24 hours and isolated heavy rain is also very likely over Gujarat region and over Saurashtra and Kutch on FridayRainfall activity over south peninsular India is likely to increase from September 4 with widespread rainfall activity and isolated heavy rain very likely over Konkan, Goa, Coastal Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Tamil Nadu during September 4 and 6; Karnataka, Kerala, Mahe and Marathwada on September 5 and 6 and over Madhya Maharashtra on September 6.Rainfall activity over Central India is also likely to increase from September 5 with widespread and heavy rain over Chhattisgarh till September 6; Vidarbha, Madhya Pradesh are also likely to record heavy rain.Scattered rain is likely to continue over east and northeast India including Assam, Meghalaya, sub Himalayan West Bengal for the next couple of days.“The remnants of a low pressure system is still bringing widespread rains over Gujarat and Kutch region. The same system was bringing widespread and intense rain over Delhi and other parts of northwest India till Thursday. The system has now weakened but a western disturbance is also impacting the region. Now with the development of a low pressure area around September 6, we can expect an active spell specially over central India. Large scale features are supporting the movement of the system westwards,” explained K Sathi Devi, head, national weather forecasting centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/light-to-moderate-rain-likely-over-parts-of-ncr-during-next-few-hours-101630637957459.html
03-09-2021||India||India, Bangladesh flights to resume from today. Here's a look at air bubble arrangement||Flights between India and Bangladesh under the bilateral air bubble pact will resume from Friday after four months of suspension due to the Covid-19 pandemic, according to the civil aviation ministry. With scheduled international passenger flights to and from India remaining suspended since March last year due to the Covid-19 pandemic, New Delhi has entered into air bubble arrangements with various countries, including Bangladesh, for operating flights. The pact with Bangladesh, which came into effect on October 28, 2020, was valid till March 27, 2021, wherein Indian and Bangladeshi carriers were permitted to operate services between the two nations.India has an air bubble agreement with 28 countries, which include Afghanistan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Canada, Ethiopia, France, Germany, Iraq, Japan, Kenya, Kuwait, the Maldives, Nepal, the Netherlands, Nigeria, Oman, Qatar, Russia, Rwanda, Seychelles, Sri Lanka, Tanzania, Ukraine, the UAE, the United Kingdom, Uzbekistan and the United States. Under an air bubble pact between two nations, special international flights can be operated by their airlines between their territories.In a communication to the civil aviation authority of Bangladesh on August 28, the ministry of civil aviation said that the air bubble can be restarted from September 3 till the resumption of international passenger flights. "The air bubble may be resumed w.e.f. 03.09.21 till resumption of scheduled international passenger flights," the ministry of civil aviation informed, according to news agency PTI. Domestic carriers -- SpiceJet, IndiGo and Air India -- will be operating flights to Dhaka.Prior to announcing the operation of flights, India imposed a number of restrictions for flights with limited passengers and strict health protocols for the passengers travelling from Bangladesh. "Passengers travelling from Bangladesh to India shall be mandatorily subjected to self-paid confirmatory molecular tests on arrival at the Indian airports concerned (port of entry)," the ministry of civil aviation said."Therefore instead of a blanket restriction of 140 passengers per aircraft, it is proposed that the capacity may be restricted to a specific percentage of the installed seat capacity of the aircraft (say 90 per cent or 95 per cent)," it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-bangladesh-flights-to-resume-from-today-here-s-a-look-at-air-bubble-arrangement-101630625939904.html
03-09-2021||India||International Climate Summit 2021: India to host key conference today, focus on hydrogen power||India is all set to host a key conference on Friday as part of the International Climate Summit (ICS) 2020-21 to build a dialogue for India's transition to clean energy. Policymakers, regulators, industry leaders, experts, and scientists from across the globe are going to be a part of the climate summit. Union ministers Bhupendra Yadav and Jitendra Singh, NITI Aayog member Dr VK Saraswat and Sturle Harald Pedersen, chairperson of Greenstat India, Norway are some of the eminent participants.Also Read | India and UK announce plan to jointly push green growthSpeaking about the International Climate Summit 2021, Dr Ashish Kishore Lele, the director of the National Chemical Laboratory (NCL), said that the key conference on Friday is especially significant for India and by extension, the rest of the world since it will mark the future mitigation strategies of climate change. He stressed the need to adopt these alternative strategies, highlighting the problems that arose due to dependence on conventional fuels.Hydrogen power, one such 'alternative' strategy for India's energy signature, has been in the headlines ever since Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his Independence Day speech on August 15 announced a 'National Hydrogen Mission' for the country. Green hydrogen, which is produced by splitting the water molecule into its hydrogen and oxygen constituents using an electrolyzer powered by renewable energy resources, is expected to be a game-changer for India in meeting its annual energy needs. The country, which currently imports 85 per cent of its oil and 53 per cent of its gas demands, has been reported to spend around ₹12 trillion annually on energy requirements.Also Read | By switching on the sun, Railways can prevent 7mn tonnes of carbon emissionsPrime Minister Modi, while announcing the hydrogen policy, said that India aims to become a global hub for green hydrogen production and exports. The International Climate Summit conference on Friday intends to discuss strategies to power India's budding hydrogen ecosystem, among other agendas.A major conference on climate change - COP26 - is also scheduled to take place at Glasgow in Scotland from October 31 to November 12, 2021. COP26 President Alok Sharma said last month that it will be the last chance to ensure global temperature increases don’t exceed 1.5 degrees Celsius - the lower limit of the Paris Agreement.The ICS 2021 climate summit is being held in partnership with Invest India; its focus will be on 'Powering India's Hydrogen Ecosystem'. It is being organised by the environment committee of the PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry (PHDCCI), a non-government industrial development organisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/international-climate-summit-2021-india-to-host-key-conference-today-focus-on-hydrogen-power-101630626134463.html
03-09-2021||NA||Breaking news: United States expects to admit over 50,000 evacuated Afghans||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:Taliban in full control of Afghanistan, including Panjshir valleyNews agency Reuters reported on Friday that the Taliban have taken full control of Afghanistan, including the Panjshir valley. "By the grace of Allah Almighty, we are in control of the entire Afghanistan. The troublemakers have defeated and Panjshir is now under our command," a Taliban commander told Reuters.  Read more84-day gap between Covishield doses provides best protection: Govt to Kerala HCThe Union govt on Friday submitted to the Kerala high court that the duration of 84 days between the first and second days of Serum Institute’s vaccine ‘Covishield’ is providing the best protection against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Read moreHealth minister Mandaviya to visit Rome, attend G20 health ministers' meetingUnion health minister Mansukh Mandaviya will visit Rome from September 4 to September 7, the his office said on Friday, adding he will attend the G20 health ministers' meeting. Veerappa Moily to head Cong panel on caste censusCongress president Sonia Gandhi on Friday set up a committee headed by former Union minister Veerappa Moily to look into the issue of caste census, after many parties have demanded a caste-based census and sub-categorisation of castes in the country, though the Centre has remained non-committal on the sensitive issue. Read moreKerala CM Vijayan rules out complete Covid lockdown in stateKerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Friday ruled out the possibility of a complete lockdown in state by saying it will a huge crisis for the economy and livelihoods. Karnataka logs 1,220 new Covid-19 cases, 19 more deathsKarnataka's caseload of Covid-19 climbed to 2,953,064 on Friday after 1,220 cases were reported in the last 24 hours. Nineteen more patients died and 1,175 recovered from the viral disease, taking the cumulative count of deaths and recoveries to 37,380 and 2,897,254 respectively. Resistance forces in Panjshir deny Taliban’s claim of capturing Shutul districtThe Afghan resistance forces in Panjshir denied the Taliban’s claim of capturing the Shutul district in the province, as fighting continued between the two for a fourth consecutive day. Read moreChhattisgarh orders probe into mass sterilisation camp in Surguja districtThe Chhattisgarh health secretary Alok Shukla, on Friday, ordered an inquiry into a mass sterilisation camp that took place on August 26 in Surguja district. The state health department reportedly carried out tubectomy surgeries on 101 women, in eight hours, at the camp. Read moreKerala to take strict action against those violating quarantine normsKerala government issues order stating that strict action will be taken against those violating the norms of quarantine. The order states that provisions of the Disaster Management Act, Kerala State Epidemic Act and other relevant legal provisions will be invoked. #COVID19 pic.twitter.com/YFCDQ6SZkaAmid the worsening coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation in Kerala, the state government on Friday issued an order stating that strict action will be taken against people who are found violating quarantine norms. Don't make govt shut everything if 3rd Covid wave hits: Maha Deputy CM Ajit PawarMaharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Friday urged people to follow all Coronavirus-related protocols and said they should not put the government in a position where everything will have to close if the third wave of the pandemic hits Maharashtra. Read moreMoscow not interested in Afghanistan's disintegration, says PutinRussian President Vladimir Putin said on Friday that his government is is not interested in the disintegration of Afghanistan as there will be "no one to talk to". Putin added that apart from the Taliban, there are many other radical forces present in the war-ravaged country. EU to establish joint 'presence' in Kabul if security allowsJosep Borrell, the foreign policy chief of the European Union (EU), said on Friday that the EU will establish a joint presence in Afghanistan's capital Kabul if security allows. Priyanka Gandhi targets Yogi govt over dengue deaths in Uttar PradeshCongress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi on Friday targeted the Uttar Pradesh government over deaths linked to the suspected viral fever and dengue in the state. Read moreSC puts interim stay on Kerala's decision to hold Class 11 exam from Sep 6, says Covid situation 'alarming'The Supreme Court on Friday put an interim stay on Kerala government's decision to hold exams for Class 11 physically from Septermber 6, amid the rising cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The apex court said that the situation in Kerala is alarming because of the surge in infections and children of tender age cannot be exposed to risk as nearly 35,000 cases are being reported on a daily basis. Will review, restore internet services in Jammu and Kashmir soon, says DGPJammu and Kashmir's director-general of police (DGP) Dilbag Singh on Friday said that police will restore internet services in the valley soon, adding situation is absolutely under control. Internet shutdown and other restrictions were imposed in J-K after the death of former Hurriyat leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani on September 1.Biological E's Corbevax gets DCGI approval for two clinical trialsThe Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) has given approval to Biological E for two clinical trials of its Covid-19 vaccine candidate Corbevax, the ministry of science and technology announced FridayPutin says Russia will not restrict other countries using Northern Sea RouteRussia will not restrict other countries using the Northern Sea Route across its northern flank, President Vladimir Putin said on Friday at an economic forum.Three of family killed as car overturns on Lucknow-Agra ExpresswayA couple and their daughter were on Friday killed after their car hit a divider and overturned on the Lucknow-Agra Expressway in Nasirpur area, police said.In my view, Vladivostok is truly a sangam of Eurasia and the Pacific: PM ModiIn Indian history and civilization, the word “Sangam” has a special meaning.It means confluence, or coming together of rivers, peoples or ideas.In my view, Vladivostok is truly a sangam of Eurasia and the Pacific: PM Modi.Racist abuse of England footballers in Hungary 'completely unacceptable': PM JohnsonBritish Prime Minister Boris Johnson said on Friday it was "completely unacceptable" that England footballers were racially abused by Hungary fans during a World Cup qualifier in Budapest.Afghan domestic flights to resume Friday: Ariana Afghan AirlinesAfghan domestic flights to resume Friday, says Ariana Afghan Airlines, reports AFP.Honey Singh appears before Delhi's Tis Hazari court in domestic violence caseBollywood singer and actor 'Yo Yo Honey Singh (Hirdesh Singh) physically appeared before Delhi's Tis Hazari court today, in connection with domestic violence case.Odisha logs 849 new Covid-19 cases, 7 fresh fatalitiesOdisha's Covid-19 caseload on Friday surged to 10,10,072 as 849 more people including 120 children tested positive for the infection while seven fresh fatalities pushed the coronavirus death toll to 8,035, a health department official said.China administered total of 2.085 billioln doses of Covid-19 vaccines as of September 2China administered about 8.2 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines on Sept. 2, bringing the total number of doses administered to 2.085 billion, data from the National Health Commission showed on Friday.Australia shares rise as PM flags quicker reopening after Covid-19 vaccine swapAustralian shares rose on Friday, as Prime Minister Scott Morrison flagged a quicker reopening after a vaccine swap deal with Britain, with heavyweight miners tracking higher iron ore prices contributing to most of the gains.4 construction firms penalised for flouting NGT norms in Greater NoidaFour construction companies in Greater Noida have been fined a total amount of ₹3 lakh for flouting guidelines issued by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) on pollution, officials said on Friday.Landslide claims six lives in western NepalAt least six people lost their lives while two are still missing in Western Nepal after a landslide triggered by heavy rainfall swept away houses early on Friday morning in Parbat district, local Police confirmed.Supreme Court denies bail to Delhi Sikh riots convict Sajjan Kumar on medical groundsSupreme Court denies bail to Delhi Sikh riots convict and senior Congress leader Sajjan Kumar on medical grounds.Man shot dead by police after New Zealand supermarket rampageNew Zealand police shot dead a man who wounded six people in an attack at an Auckland supermarket on Friday as terrified crowds fled for the exits.Drugs case: Actress Rakul Preet Singh appears before EDActress Rakul Preet Singh appeared before the Enforcement Directorate (ED) here on Friday after being summoned as part of a money laundering probe in connection with a high-end drugs racket that was busted in the city in 2017.'Kisan mahapanchayat' to be held in UP's Muzaffarnagar on SundayA "kisan mahapanchayat" on issues related to farmers, including three new agriculture laws of the Centre, has been convened in this Uttar Pradesh district on Sunday.Your success will inspire all budding athletes: President congratulates Praveen KumarImpressive performance by Praveen Kumar at #Paralympics. Your silver medal in men’s high jump with a new Asian record has brought joy to every sport loving Indian. Your success will inspire all budding athletes. Heartiest congratulations. May you keep on achieving new milestones!: President Ram Nath Kovind.PM Modi to address International Climate Summit 2021 todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will address the International Climate Summit 2021 today, to focus on hydrogen power.India logs 5,352 fresh Covid-19 cases, 366 deaths in last 24 hoursIndia recorded 45,352 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, which pushed the nationwide tally to 32,903,289, while the death toll climbed to 439,895 with 366 daily fatalities, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Friday.Proud of Praveen Kumar for winning the Silver medal at the Paralympics: PM ModiProud of Praveen Kumar for winning the Silver medal at the Paralympics. This medal is the result of his hard work and unparalleled dedication. Congratulations to him. Best wishes for his future endeavours. #Praise4Para: Narendra Modi.Japan PM Suga will not run for re-electionJapan PM Suga will not run for re-election: Public broadcaster, reports AFP.South Korea extends distancing curbs ahead of thanksgiving holidaySouth Korea on Friday extended social distancing curbs for several weeks to rein in Covid-19 outbreaks nationwide as the country supercharges its vaccination campaign ahead of a thanksgiving holiday later this month.Voting for Kalaburagi civic body polls underwayVoting for Kalaburagi civic body polls underway at a polling station in the city.India's Tarun Dhillon wins 21-18, 15-21, 21-17 against Korea's Shin Kyung HwanIndia's Tarun Dhillon wins 21-18, 15-21, 21-17 against Korea's Shin Kyung Hwan, advances to semi-finals of #ParaBadminton Men’s Singles SL4.Heavy firing on LoC in KG sector of PoonchHeavy firing on LoC in KG sector of Poonch. More details are awaited.China to ban film stars with ‘incorrect’ politics, limit payPresident Xi Jinping ordered sweeping action to clean up the entertainment industry, with the broadcast regulator moving to ban film stars with “incorrect” politics, cap salaries and eliminate celebrity culture.Special BSF train derailed while entering Shahjahanpur station, no injuries reportedA Special Border Security Force (BSF) Train got derailed on Thursday while entering Uttar Pradesh's Shahjahanpur station.British national pleads guilty to role in terror beheadingsA British national admitted Thursday evening in a federal courtroom near the nation's capital that he played a leadership role in an Islamic State scheme to torture, hold for ransom and eventually behead American hostages.Taliban close to forming new government in AfghanistanThe Taliban were expected to form a government as early as Friday with the new regime under intense international scrutiny over its vow to rule Afghanistan with greater tolerance, especially on women's rights.International Climate Summit 2021: India to host key conference todayIndia is all set to host a key conference on Friday as part of the International Climate Summit (ICS) 2020-21 to build a dialogue for India's transition to clean energy.India-Bangladesh air bubble flights to resume from todayFlights between India and Bangladesh under the bilateral air bubble pact will resume from Friday after four months of suspension due to the Covid-19 pandemic, according to the civil aviation ministry.Flights resume, some power restored in New Orleans after IdaCommercial flights resumed in New Orleans and power returned to parts of the business district Thursday, four days after Hurricane Ida slammed into the Gulf Coast, but electricity, drinking water and fuel remained scarce across much of a sweltering Louisiana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-september-03-2021-101630625770278.html
03-09-2021||India||‘Nobody is helpless’: Praful Patel nudges Cong to decide on Goa poll alliance||PANAJI: Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and former Union minister Praful Patel on Thursday nudged the Congress party to quickly decide if it wants like to align with his party so that the candidates from the two parties get sufficient time to prepare ahead of the polls.Elections to the state’s 40-seat assembly are expected to be held early next year.“We have spoken to the Congress informally and we have indicated that we have been in alliance in past in Goa together and it would be better and in the interest of the overall politics in Goa that all like-minded parties like Congress, NCP should work together and have an alliance like in the past,” Patel told a press conference.“The Congress should reach out to NCP and if they have other like-minded parties in mind in September itself. So that every party has a few months to prepare in those assembly segments so that there is a better chance of success,” he said. The NCP’s lone MLA Churchill Alemão said the party intended to seek eight seats for the party as part of any pre-poll alliance including the seat he currently represents apart from others.When asked if the party was willing go separate ways despite being in an alliance in neighbouring Maharasthra, Patel said his party was already talking to other regional parties. “Nobody is helpless. I have met leaders of other parties also... There are a good number of people who are willing to explore other options if there is no decision (from the Congress). You clap with two hands, not with one hand,” Patel said.“I have met Vijai Sardesai (leader of the Goa Forward Party) and he has also told me that he is also waiting to hear from the Congress party. Let us see now what happens. I do not want to comment beyond this. It is important that all political forces who are like-minded should come together as soon as possible in the interest of the state and politics of Goa,” Patel said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nobody-is-helpless-praful-patel-nudges-cong-to-decide-on-goa-poll-alliance-101630612634785.html
03-09-2021||India||In Bihar’s East Champaran, turbulent river damages 15 houses, school in 2 days||Nearly 15 houses and a government school have been damaged in the past two days due to the erosion caused by the turbulent Gandak River at Sakhawa Tok village in Areraj, officials said on Thursday. Pawan Kumar Jha, circle officer (CO), Areraj, said the exact number of the houses which have collapsed due to erosion would only be known after the water level recedes. “As per the information available with us, approximately 15 houses and parts of a primary school at Sakhawa Tok have collapsed between August 31 and September 1,” said Jha. “No loss of lives has been reported so far. The villagers were shifted to safer places after they were alerted by the district administration,” the CO said. A village resident, identified as Yogindar Yadav (60), said, “The way the erosion happened, we knew that collapse was imminent. Therefore, we left the house about ten days back with whatever household articles we could take.” He has taken shelter in a makeshift tent on an embankment in neighbouring Bhartoli village under Danapur panchayat in Gopalganj. Kamendra Mani Tiwari, the former village head and representative of village chief Anisha Devi, said this has put the total number of houses that have collapsed between 40 and 50. “Villagers have been facing the threat of displacement since the 1990s because of regular flooding. Several families have been displaced since a village called Sakhawa was engulfed by Gandak in 2005,” said Tiwari. When contacted, Sanjay Kumar, district education officer (DEO), East Champaran confirmed that parts of Rajkiya Prathamik Vidyalaya at Sakhawa Tok had collapsed. “We will get the condition of the school examined after the floods,” said the DEO. As many as 83,000 people dwelling in low lying areas of East Champaran and 6,000 people in Gopalganj are still affected by floods. “We are running eight community kitchens in the district,” said Dr Nawal Kishor Choudhary, district magistrate (DM), Gopalganj district. “People living in parts of Sangrampur, Kesariya, Areraj, Sagauli, Chirraiya and Banjariya in East Champaran have been affected by the flood. Six community kitchens have been set up for them,” said Anil Kumar, additional district magistrate (ADM) and in charge of disaster management. Bhaskar, CO at Nautan in West Champaran described the situation as under control. “Water has receded fast,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-bihar-s-east-champaran-turbulent-river-damages-15-houses-school-in-2-days-101630611974550.html
03-09-2021||India||Amid alarming Covid-19 surge, Kerala mulls opening of schools||In the midst of a fresh spike with 32,907 new Coronavirus infections, Kerala is planning to reopen schools and an expert committee will be constituted soon to study the situation. State general education minister V Sivankutty announced this in the capital city adding that experts favoured opening of all schools. The minister’s latest announcement has raised eyebrows in the state.Kerala reported 32,907 fresh Covid-19 cases on Thursday with a test positivity rate of 18.41% after 174301 samples were tested, said the state health ministry. It also reported 188 deaths taking total fatalities to 21,149. The active caseload also climbed to 2,40,186, and after May this is the first time the active load has crossed 2.40 lakh.The minister said the experts’ meeting convened by the government on Wednesday favoured re-opening of schools and a final decision would be taken by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan after recommendations of the new committee. Earlier, the state government said schools will be reopened only after vaccinating all children but it had second thoughts after neighbouring Tamil Nadu opened its schools. Besides TN, at least six other states have opened schools after cases dipped drastically--- the number of cases has dipped in many parts of the country except Kerala.“The education department will constitute a panel to study whether the situation in the state is conducive for opening schools. It will also prepare a project detailing which classes can be opened initially. A final decision will be taken by the CM,” he said. In the last two academic years, classes were conducted virtually in the state.In the experts’ meeting many said since hospitalization has not increased significantly it was a clear indication that the current surge in disease transmission is not out of control. So the state can think of opening up socio-economic sectors. But a section of experts opposed the plan to re-open schools. “This is not the right time. We have no idea how the minister arrived at a conclusion like this,” said public health activist Dr S S Lal, who earlier served with the World Health Organisation.Experts like him said the current pandemic condition will prevail in the state till mid-September and the government should wait till then. The alarming hike and its consistent prevalence forced many experts to link it with a possible beginning of a third wave. This week the state’s accumulated share of Covid-19 cases was above 70 per cent.This is the third day in a row that Kerala has been reporting over 30,000 cases. On Monday, new cases came down but it was due to low testing. On Wednesday, it reported 32,803 with a TPR of 18.73 per cent. At least three districts reported over 3000 cases-- Thrissur 4434, Ernakulam 3768 and Kozhikode 3531. Only north Kerala district Kasaragod clocked less than 1000 cases (555), statistics show.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-alarming-covid-19-surge-kerala-mulls-opening-of-schools-101630610414398.html
03-09-2021||India||CBI files charges in derogatory remarks against judges case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Thursday filed a charge sheet in its probe into alleged derogatory posts on social media against judges and judiciary in Andhra Pradesh, naming one person Lingareddy Rajasekhar, who was arrested on July 9 on his arrival from Kuwait, people familiar with the matter said.The agency had taken over the probe in the matter in November last year against 16 accused on the orders of Andhra Pradesh high court.It was alleged that the key personnel occupying posts of prominence in the State of Andhra Pradesh by intentionally targeting the Judiciary, made derogatory posts on social media platform against Judges and Judiciary following some Court verdicts delivered by the Judges of Hon’ble High Court of Andhra Pradesh.CBI spokesperson R C Joshi said that after taking over the probe, CBI had got objectionable posts removed from the social media, public domains and a lot of such posts/accounts were removed from internet.It was only after Chief Justice of India N V Ramana lamented the CBI last month saying it doesn’t help the judiciary, that it initiated action in the case.“During the course of investigation, the said accused was arrested on July 9, 2021 at Cuddaph (Andhra Pradesh) and presently he is in judicial custody. Searches were also conducted at the residential premises of the accused at Cuddapah which led to recovery of incriminating documents,” Joshi added.After registration of the case, the CBI traced 13 of the 16 accused named in the FIR on various digital platforms, said an officer. Two accused are said to be based in the US while another person is also abroad somewhere.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-files-charges-in-derogatory-remarks-against-judges-case-101630609097785.html
03-09-2021||India||Education minister steps in to resolve Visva-Bharati row||Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Thursday intervened to resolve the ongoing crisis at the Visva-Bharati University in West Bengal, and advised the administration to form an internal committee to have a dialogue with the agitating students.Students have been protesting after against the rustication of three students for three years in connection with an act of vandalism in January.“The Minister advised the VC to constitute an internal committee comprising faculty members to discuss with the agitating students for resolving the issue,” an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dharmendra-pradhan-steps-in-asks-visva-bharati-to-start-dialogue-with-students-101630609095682.html
03-09-2021||India||80% school staff have got at least one jab: Centre||Almost 80% teaching and non-teaching staff employed with schools across states and Union territories have been vaccinated with at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine, Union education ministry officials said on Thursday.“Among the variety of factors that will contribute to the reopening of schools across the county, vaccination of teachers will have a big contribution. The ministry is rigorously following up with the state governments. The initial feedback from the states and UTs are very positive and we have seen in most of the states almost 80% and more teaching and non-teaching staff have received either one or both the doses of Covid-19 vaccines,” a senior ministry official said.The ministry on Tuesday asked states and UTs to create a district-level action plan to speed up the vaccination of schoolteachers and ensure that all teaching and non-teaching staff employed in schools received at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine in the month of September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/80-school-staff-have-got-at-least-one-covid-19-jab-centre-101630609094462.html
03-09-2021||India||2 Haryana men pull out pistols during street brawl in Goa; 1 arrested: Cop||PANAJI: A man from Haryana was arrested after he and his accomplice allegedly pulled out country-made pistols during a street brawl with locals in the Calangute coastal village in north Goa, police said.His associate, however, fled from the spot.Santosh Bhagwan and his companion were involved in a brawl with locals when they pulled out country-made pistols. But they were overpowered . While his companion, who is yet to be identified, escaped, Bhagwan was handed over to the police.“We have arrested one Santosh Bhagwan from Haryana and officials of the Calangute police station are on the lookout for his accomplice,” a police officer, who requested anonymity in view of the ongoing investigation and formalities, said.The two firearms were also recovered from the scene of the offence which took place in full public view in the early evening at Calangute, police said.The Congress was quick to target the ruling government.“The @BJP4Goa has converted Goa into a #CriminalDestination with @goacm @DrPramodPSawant ‘s complete failure to handle Law & Order situation. @INCGoa demands Home Minister @AmitShah must take serious note of rising Criminal Activities & intervene to ensure Goans Safety,” State Congress president Girish Chodankar tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-haryana-men-pull-out-pistols-during-street-brawl-in-goa-1-arrestedcop-101630608976089.html
03-09-2021||India||Odisha lawyer, son held for murder; their outfit also under scanner: Cops||The Odisha police on Thursday arrested a high court lawyer and his son on charges of abduction and murder of a man who was once an active member of Manavbadi Sangathan but lately started to distance himself from the group founded by the lawyer, a senior Odisha police officer said.Manas Das, 51, and his son Manoranjan Das, 25, have been arrested for the murder of Satyabrata Nayak in Cuttack district’s Abhimanpur, inspector general (IG) of police, central range, Narasingha Bhol said.The officer said there were other complaints against the lawyer as well, many of them accusing him of arm-twisting people to join the Manavbadi Sangathan, which he reportedly described as a rationalist organisation, and following its diktat. He barred them from cremating the dead and even stopped women from wearing bangles, Bhol said.The senior police officer said most people hadn’t complained against him as his victims were already poor and marginalised. With the lawyer and his son behind bars, police expect more people will come forward.Satyabrata Nayak, the man who was murdered on August 1, was once a member of his organsiation but had started to move away. “On August 1 morning, a meeting was organised by some leaders of the organisation where Nayak was thrashed brutally… as he could not explain why his brother-in-law did not attend a meeting in another village. The next day, Nayak’s nephew Basant was called to the neighbouring village of Karadagadia where his body was kept on the funeral pyre in a burial ground. Basant was then forced to light the funeral pyre of his uncle,” the IG said.Das and his son also face charges in a second case in which an old man and his son were dragged out of their house and beaten mercilessly for not joining his organisation.“His people literally forced people to follow his weird diktats and if anyone protested they were either ostracised or thrashed,” said the IG.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-lawyer-son-held-for-murder-their-outfit-also-under-scanner-cops-101630608674289.html
03-09-2021||India||Jallianwala Bagh memorial revamp done under ASI supervision: Centre||In wake of criticism by Opposition leaders and some historians over the newly inaugurated Jallianwala Bagh memorial, the Union government on Thursday said all renovations at the memorial, unveiled by Prime Minister Narendra Modi last week, were done under the supervision of the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) while observing international best practices to conserve and preserve it.“Two committees oversaw the entire process, one under ASI and a second panel of experts that consisted of several senior historians,” said Raghvendra Singh, secretary, ministry of Culture. “The renovations were done to commemorate 100 years of the Jallianwala Bagh massacre. All of them were carefully approved.” He added that the original memorial remains untouched and has not been modified in any way.Criticising the revamp, senior Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said in a tweet on Tuesday: “Such an insult to the martyrs of Jallianwala Bagh can only be done by those who do not know the meaning of martyrdom. I am the son of a martyr - I will not tolerate the insult of martyrs at any cost.” A culture ministry official countered the criticism. “There are many people criticising the renovations but they are forgetting that the process was carefully completed and not mindlessly done,” a culture ministry official said on the condition of anonymity.Many across the spectrum slammed the government for overhauling the memorial by installing murals and conducting a sound and light show. “A light has been installed inside the well to help keep it clean,” the ministry official said. “There used to be a sound and light earlier as well but it became defunct. That is nothing new..”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jallianwala-bagh-memorial-revamp-done-under-asi-supervision-centre-101630608441726.html
03-09-2021||India||CBI carries out raids at 19 places over JEE exam manipulation bid||The Central Bureau of Investigation on Thursday conducted searches at 19 locations across the country after registering a case against a private firm on charges of attempting to manipulate the ongoing JEE (Mains) exams 2021, people familiar with the development said.CBI spokesperson RC Joshi said the agency has registered a First Information Report (FIR) against Affinity Education Pvt Ltd and its directors, Siddharth Krishna, Vishambhar Mani Tripathi and Govind Varshney on the charges that they, along with their associates posted at the examination centre and others, were manipulating the online examination of JEE (Mains)HT attempted to reach the company for its comments but there was no response.The raids coincided with the session 4 JEE (Mains) 2021 exams held on Thursday, the last of the string of tests conducted by the National Testing Agency (NTA).Joshi said the accused persons were facilitating aspiring students to get admission to top National Institutes of Technology by solving the question paper of the applicant through remote access from a chosen examination centre in Sonepat (Haryana).“It was also alleged that the accused used to obtain Xth and XIIth mark sheets, the User IDs, Passwords, and post-dated cheques of aspiring students in different parts of country as security and once admission was done, they used to collect heavy amount ranging from 12-15 Lakh (approx) per candidate,” he said.The teams carried out raids at 19 places including Delhi and neighbouring districts in the National Capital Region, Pune, Jamshedpur, Indore and Bangalore which led to the recovery of 25 laptops, 7 computers, around 30 post-dated cheques along with voluminous documents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-carries-out-raids-at-19-places-over-jee-exam-manipulation-bid-101630608254260.html
03-09-2021||India||Passengers from Brazil, South Africa can leave airport only if tested Covid-19 negative||The Karnataka government has made RT-PCR test mandatory for passengers from select countries arriving at airports in the State even if they possess a negative Covid-19 report.However, those coming from Brazil and South Africa will have to wait at the airport for test results and be allowed to leave only after testing negative.“The passengers arriving from the UK, Europe, (the) Middle East, Bangladesh, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand and Zimbabwe on arrival at the Kempegowda International Airport and other entry airports in Karnataka shall provide the sample and leave the airport for further compliance as per the Standard Operating Procedure,” an order said on Wednesday.The order further said, “The passengers arriving from Brazil and South Africa after providing the samples at Kempegowda International Airport/ other entry airports shall wait for the results at the airport. They shall leave the airport only after testing negative”.The order issued by the Additional Chief Secretary in the Department of Health and Family Welfare, Jawaid Akhtar said strict tele-monitoring of these passengers should be ensured.He also said in his order that the protocols should be periodically reviewed according to the scenario of COVID-19 in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/passengers-from-brazil-south-africa-can-leave-airport-only-if-tested-covid-19-negative-101630608138354.html
03-09-2021||India||NGT does not have suo motu powers: Centre to SC||New Delhi: The National Green Tribunal (NGT) does not possess suo motu powers but it can act on letters or communication addressed to it raising environmental concerns, the Centre told the Supreme Court on Thursday. The submission was made by additional solicitor general (ASG) Aishwarya Bhati, appearing for the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC) during a hearing of a bunch of appeals, seeking the court’s decision on whether the tribunal has the power to directly take up issues on the basis on news reports or at the instance of any letter or communication. “The NGT does not enjoy any suo motu powers. But this cannot be stretched to the extent to suggest that a letter or application cannot be entertained by it. The tribunal cannot be tied up in procedural law for exercising power which is amply available to it under the Act. Once the tribunal receives any communication, it is duty bound to take cognisance of that,” ASG Bhati said, conveying the government’s point of view. A bench of justices AM Khanwilkar, Hrishikesh Roy and CT Ravikumar responded that the ASG’s submission is “crucial” to the case since MoEFCC was the ministry which piloted the bill constituting the NGT through Parliament. Bhati said that the National Green Tribunal Act, 2010, was enacted with the purpose of protecting the environment, and the only objection of the Centre was with regard to vesting suo motu powers to the tribunal and its members through which they can initiate action on their own. The bench said that the problem arises by using the generic term “suo motu”. “Even we are not using the term suo motu. But when a communication in the form of a letter or a sworn affidavit is received, should the Tribunal ignore it or will it be duty-bound to consider it?” The court agreed that procedural law requires the tribunal to act on an application or appeal filed before it. However, the judges wondered if this formal step could be substituted by converting a letter or a news report into an application and taking the process forward by issuance of notices to the authors of the new report and to the alleged defaulters or authorities concerned. The Centre said that often it is seen that environmental issues are the last concern of citizens. “Nobody has argued that there is lack of power with the tribunal to consider issues falling within the laws where the NGT exercises jurisdiction,” he said. These include legislations such as Environment Protection Act, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, the Forest (Conservation) Act, and Biological Diversity Act. “We are seeing it from the point of view that environment is of paramount consideration. Environment, unfortunately, ends up being nobody’s baby. Any view taken by the court must not undo the good work achieved so far by the Tribunal,” Bhati said. The ministry so far filed a one-page affidavit denying suo motu power to NGT. The ASG said she will supplement it with a written note explaining the stand of the Centre. The court-appointed amicus curiae (friend of Court), senior advocate Anand Grover, supported the view of the Centre. Having taken a stand earlier that no suo motu power is permissible under NGT Act, Grover told the bench: “What is meant by suo motu is that the Tribunal or its members cannot initiate action or trigger the process on basis of reading a newspaper report.” However, he added, “it can be triggered on an application received by the Tribunal which need not be in the form prescribed under the NGT Act or Rules.” Grover will continue his submissions on Tuesday. In appeals being heard by the apex court about the powers of NGT, two cases stand out. One relates to Kerala, where NGT took up a letter written by a group of residents who wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi complaining against the pollution caused by the presence of stone quarries in their vicinity. A copy of the letter was also marked to NGT. The letter was registered as an application, and orders were passed restricting stone quarries from operating within 200 metres from the nearest residential house.The other case relates to orders passed by NGT on solid waste management in Mumbai based on a newspaper report. The green panel imposed a cost of ₹5 crore on the municipal body for its failure to set up sewage treatment plants.In the first case, the appeals are by granite manufacturers, owners of stone quarries, and the Kerala government, and in the other case, the Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai has approached the top court. The top court said that once the question of suo motu power of NGT is decided, the orders under challenge will either remain or cease to exist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ngt-does-not-have-suo-motu-powers-centre-to-sc-101630608074324.html
03-09-2021||India||Speaker seeks meet on House decorum||Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla wants a pan-Indian meeting of legislative leaders and presiding officers to discuss the issue of decorum and discipline in legislative bodies after Parliament’s monsoon session was marred by continuous disruptions and unruly scenes leading to a near washout.“As we are celebrating 75 years of our independence, I think time has come to have wider consultation with all parties on maintaining decorum of legislative bodies. When we call ourselves as the temple of democracy, constitutional decorum should be maintained as it gives a wider message to the country and its people,” said Birla.In 2001, then Lok Sabha speaker GMC Balayogi had called an all-India conference of presiding officers, chief ministers, ministers of parliamentary affairs, leaders and whips of parties on “discipline and decorum in Parliament and legislatures of states and union territories”. Held on November 25, 2001, the conference adopted a resolution encompassing a code of conduct for members of all legislative bodies in India. Balayogi had observed that “the image of Parliament and its credibility as a representative institution largely depend on the role and functions of its members”.To be sure, it brought little change in disruptions in Parliament. At least three sessions in the last 15 years have been washed out, and several members have been suspended from the House. The last session of Parliament witnessed such unruly scenes that the Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu is contemplating action against at least 12 lawmakers.Birla, at least on two occasions, stayed away from the chair in frustration when disrupting MPs refused to listen to him.He said on Thursday, “We have to relook into the issue of maintaining decorum and how to make Parliament and assemblies accountable to the people of India. Differences between parties are a healthy sign in politics but dialogue and discussion must also take place,” he said.Birla’s observations come after Vice President and Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu on Tuesday proposed naming and shaming of disruptive MPs even as he called on the 5,000-odd lawmakers in India to adhere to House norms.Delivering the Pranab Mukherjee memorial lecture, Naidu suggested that the public should launch a social media campaign, write letters to newspapers and question disruptive lawmakers and even consider the elected representative’s parliamentary conduct as a key factor for voting in elections.Birla, when asked about Naidu’s suggestions, said, “This is his opinion. He is entitled to his own opinion. I think dialogue and discussion is the best way. We have discussed the issue of decorum at the presiding officers’ conference and agreed even as there would be dispute, debate and differences between the Opposition and treasury benches, we have to maintain the decorum of the House.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/speaker-seeks-meet-on-house-decorum-101630608014577.html
03-09-2021||India||Karnataka: Cop arrested for forcing Dalit man to drink urine||The Criminal Investigation Department (CID) of Karnataka Police on Wednesday arrested a police sub-inspector for allegedly forcing a Dalit man to drink urine, while the latter was in custody in May, police said. Arjun Horakeri, a sub-inspector of police posted with Gonibeedu police station, was produced before a court in Chikkamagaluru on Thursday, and an additional district and sessions judge remanded him to 14 days judicial custody, said Chikkamagaluru police. Earlier, the police officer’s plea for anticipatory bail was rejected by the Karnataka high court on June 2. The incident took place on May 10 at Gonibeedu police station in Mudigere taluk of the district. An inquiry was ordered after the man lodged a complaint with the Chikkamagaluru superintendent of police (SP). In his complaint, the victim alleged that Gonibeedu police took him into custody on May 10 based on an oral complaint by a group of villagers accusing him of creating discord between a couple in the village. The man said no written complaint was filed against him, but he was kept in the police station from 11 am to 10.30 pm. “Policemen beat me up for a couple of hours. Then they asked another man who was in the lockup to urinate on me. He refused, but he was forced to do it. After that, they made me lick the urine on the floor,” he told HT on May 22. Chikkamagaluru police registered a case against the sub-inspector under the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act on May 21 and on May 24 the case was handed over to the CID for a fair probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-cop-arrested-for-forcing-dalit-man-to-drink-urine-101630607955474.html
03-09-2021||India||Covid vaccine drive falls behind in Karnataka rural areas: Data||Even as the Karnataka government on Thursday said that it had administered 12,04,402 vaccine doses on the first day of its ‘lasika utsava’ or vaccination festival, which kicked-off from Wednesday, exceeding its own earlier set targets, data from CoWin app shows that most of Karnataka’s targets have been fueled by the largest cities in the state, leaving rural areas far behind. “Thanks to the voluntary participation of citizens and effective work of all the staff of the health department, we could administer 12,04,402 doses, out of which 1,85,488 doses were administered in BBMP limits. Belagavi stood first with 99,973 doses,” Dr K Sudhakar, Karnataka’s minister for health, family welfare and medical education said on Thursday. However, a closer look at the data reveals that most of the shots as well as the highest coverage has been in the five largest cities of the state, leaving behind smaller districts with very poor coverage in comparison. The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) area has so far administered nearly 10 million doses as against the coffee growing region of Kodagu, about 225 kms from India’s IT capital, which has so far managed just under 405,000, data from CoWin shows. Kodagu is one of two districts in the state where restrictions which were imposed over two months ago remain in force due to the high positivity rate in the region allegedly due to its proximity with Kerala. Locals have complained about the frequently sighted “no stock” boards on the health centres in Kodagu, forcing many to remain indoors. The situation is similar in districts like Bidar, Yadgir, Gadag and Chamarajanagar where, officials said, vaccine hesitancy has been on the rise. The district administration of Chamarajanagar was forced to retract its ‘no-vaccine, no- ration’ policy order on Wednesday after a huge public outcry. However, places like Bengaluru, whioch falls under BBMP, has continued with its inoculation drive with paid vaccination, administered by private hospitals, accounting for more than half of the city’s total. “BBMP is intensifying the vaccination drive to ensure every eligible adult in the city is protected against Covid-19,” Gaurav Gupta, the chief commissioner of the BBMP said in a post on Twitter. He said that Bengaluru can easily administer over 100,000 vaccines per day and that on Wednesday it had administered 185,000 doses. The BBMP is now planning to extend the timings of some of its health centres till 9 pm or over 12 hours as against six to eight hours in other rural districts of the state, depending on availability of stock. Gupta on Thursday said that the BBMP is willing to even go door-to-door with vaccines but guidelines prevent them from doing so. He also said that the BBMP will set up vaccination camps close to slums and other high-density localities. In rural areas, most people are expected to travel long distances to visit public health centres which does not guarantee the vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-vaccine-drive-falls-behind-in-karnataka-rural-areas-data-101630607902882.html
03-09-2021||India||Chandan Mitra: A stalwart of journalism who also left a mark on the world of politics||Former editor, commentator, parliamentarian, and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-turned-Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader, Chandan Mitra, passed away late on Wednesday after prolonged illness. He was 65.Mitra, who was editor-in-chief and former managing director of The Pioneer, had also been executive editor of Hindustan Times. He was a two-term Rajya Sabha Member of Parliament (MP), first as a nominated member (2003-2009) and then as a BJP member from Madhya Pradesh (2010-2016).President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed sorrow, with the President tweeting, “Chandan Mitra was an outstanding journalist and his stint as a parliamentarian added to his reputation. His understanding of Hindi heartland and its history was profound. His demise leaves a void in Indian journalism.”PM Modi said that Mitra would be remembered for “his intellect and insights”, and tweeted, “He distinguished himself in the world of media as well as politics. Anguished by his demise.”Among other political tributes, two personal tributes, reflecting Mitra’s educational background, came from leaders at opposing ends of the political spectrum. Rajya Sabha MP and BJP leader, Swapan Dasgupta, said he had lost his closest friend. Posting a photo from a school trip in 1972, he tweeted, “We were together as students of La Martiniere & went on to St Stephen’s & Oxford. We joined journalism at the same time & shared the excitement of Ayodhya & the saffron wave.”Congress MP Shashi Tharoor recalled their days together in Delhi’s St Stephen’s College, where Mitra was Tharoor’s campaign manager in the election for college president.After a brief teaching stint in Delhi University, Mitra did his doctorate on political mobilisation and the nationalism movement in India, with a focus on eastern Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, from Oxford in 1984. He returned to India to begin a life in journalism with The Statesman, before moving to The Times of India, and then The Sunday Observer. He then joined Hindustan Times where he served in senior editorial leadership roles, including as executive editor. Mitra left HT to join The Pioneer as editor, and eventually bought control of the newspaper in 1998.Mitra acquired a political profile with his proximity to the BJP and its leadership. At a time when the party had a limited number of articulate English-speaking spokespersons, Mitra filled a void in communicating the BJP’s message to an urban audience as news television picked up. He maintained links across party lines.But Mitra’s foray into electoral politics — he failed to win the 2014 Lok Sabha election as a BJP candidate from Hooghly in his home state, West Bengal — was unsuccessful. And he did not get significant organisational or political responsibilities.A BJP leader, who did not wish to be named, said, “His contribution to the party is important, but he failed to make the transition from the old BJP of (LK) Advani to the new BJP of Modi and Amit Shah.” Eventually, amid reports that he was unhappy at not being given a third Rajya Sabha term, Mitra moved to the TMC in 2018. But by then, he had begun battling ill health and retreated partly from public life.Mitra is survived by his wife and two sons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chandan-mitra-a-stalwart-of-journalism-who-also-left-a-mark-on-the-world-of-politics-101630607901268.html
03-09-2021||India||34 nursing students test Covid positive in Bengaluru||As many as 34 students at a private nursing college in Bengaluru have tested positive for Covid-19 since August 28, making it the biggest coronavirus disease cluster in the city, which has seen fresh infection cases ebb in the past few weeks. Officials of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike’s (BBMP) Maharadevapura zone confirmed that 34 students, including 22 girls and 12 boys, have tested positive for Covid-19 at Christian Nursing College in Bengaluru’s Horamavu area. Most of those infected came to Bengaluru from Kerala early last month, officials said. “The infected students are currently undergoing treatment at a Covid care centre and none of them has any serious symptoms. All of them have received at least the first of the vaccine,” a civic official said, requesting anonymity. BBMC officials said that all students arrived at the nursing college in Bengaluru on August 5 and they carried RT-PCR negative test results with them on arrival. It is likely that one of them contracted the virus in Bengaluru itself, an official said. The first case in the cluster came to light when three students who shared a room in the girls’ hostel showed symptoms of Covid-19. On August 28, at least 10 students tested positive for the infection, officials said. While testing the primary and secondary contacts of these students in the girls’ hostel, 12 more tested positive for Covid-19 on August 30. “A day later we also tested occupants of the boys’ hostel and other building nearby, including teaching and non-teaching staff in the college. During these tests, 12 more students tested positive,” a BBMP official said, adding that they learnt that students had ordered food online and also visited local stores. The college and hostel buildings have been sealed and marked as containment zone, officials said, adding that offline classes have been suspended. The local police station has been informed about the containment zone, which has now been barricaded, said BBMP officials. This comes after 32 students tested positive for Covid-19 at a private college in Kolar Gold Field on Wednesday. Chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Thursday said strict monitoring has been ordered on state’s borders with Kerala. “We have already started a special drive. We are vaccinating (people) within 20 km of the border, inside Karnataka. We are conducting tests at every village and checks are being conducted at different locations, such as bus and railway stations. For students, especially nursing students coming from Kerala, we have asked them to quarantine for a week and get RT-PCR test done (before starting classes),” said Bommai. Karnataka on Thursday clocked 1,240 fresh COVID-19 cases, taking the caseload to 29.52 lakh, while 22 deaths pushed the death toll to 37,361. The day also saw 1,252 people being discharged, taking the total number of recoveries to 28,96,079. Active cases stood at 18,378, a health department bulletin said. Bengaluru Urban accounted for the maximum number of 319 cases and four fatalities, it said. Dakshina Kannada district bordering Kerala remained a major COVID-19 hotspot with 264 fresh infections and five fatalities.So far, 44,000,960 beneficiaries have received at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine in the state, including 9,743,583 in Bengaluru. On Monday, Karnataka announced fresh travel restrictions for those coming from Kerala, which has been witnessing highest daily caseload in the country for the past several weeks. In its order, the government has made institutional quarantine mandatory for students and employees entering the state from Kerala. Karnataka health minister K Sudhakar told reporters on Thursday that quarantine arrangements must be made or paid for by the respective educational institutions and companies, firms, or offices of these students and employees. He added that the home quarantine of these individuals cannot be allowed under any circumstances. “The students and employees must produce a negative RT-PCR test of not over 72 hours if they want to enter the state, irrespective of their vaccination status,” the minister added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/34-nursing-students-test-covid-positive-in-bengaluru-101630607898856.html
03-09-2021||India||Canadian city to celebrate Gauri Lankesh day on September 5||Burnaby, a city in Canada, has declared September 5 as Gauri Lankesh Day, commemorating the slain activist’s life on her death anniversary. The decision was taken during the Burnaby City Council meeting on August 30 and a proclamation, signed by city mayor Mike Hurley, was published on the official website subsequently. Gauri Lankesh, a journalist-turned-activist, was shot dead outside her home in Rajarajeshwari Nagar, Bengaluru, by unidentified men on September 5, 2017. The 55-year-old was an open critic of the Hindutva politics in the state. The proclamation hails Gauri as a courageous Indian journalist who stood up for truth and justice. “Gauri Lankesh, through her work, encouraged her readers to adopt scientistic temperament and reject religious fanaticism, caste-based discrimination and bigotry,” read the proclamation uploaded on the city website. In April 2020, the city of Burnaby proclaimed April 14 as ‘Dr BR Ambedkar Day of Equality’. Also, the city declared a day dedicated to civil rights activist Jaswant Singh Khalra and Sikh Heritage. Filmmaker and Gauri’s sister, Kavitha Lankesh said that she is happy that a city in Canada has recognised her sister’s work. “I’m very happy to hear that. I didn’t know about this until someone informed me. I’m very happy that Gauri’s work is being recognised internationally, even though no such recognition has been provided by the government here. I’m glad that her message is spreading across the world,” said Kavitha. Meanwhile, the Supreme Court on September 8 is expected to hear the plea filed by Gauri’s sister Kavita Lankesh, challenging the dropping of charges under the Karnataka Control of Organized Crime Act 2000 (KCOCA) against one of the accused in the murder case. The bench, led by Justice AM Khanwilkar, had issued notice to Karnataka on the petition filed by Kavitha, in which she appealed against the state high court’s decision in April to quash charges under KCOCA against Mohan Nayak. KCOCA is a law enacted by Karnataka in 2000 to combat organised crime and terrorism. The Act was modelled on the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act, 1999 (MCOCA). According to police, if the charges of KCOCA are dropped against Nayak, it could set precedence for the charges to be dropped against other accused in the case as well. A senior home department official, in the know of the developments, said that the SIT had approached the government to file an appeal against the Karnataka high court decision. However, the government didn’t act on it. The home minister didn’t respond to HT’s call for a comment regarding this allegation. As per the charge sheet, Nayak is accused of providing accommodation to the killers on the outskirts of Bengaluru. He was arrested on July 19, 2018. Nayak was arrested after the main suspects in the case, including the shooter Parashuram Waghmore and mastermind of the crime Amol Kale, were taken into custody. According to the petition filed through advocate Aparna Bhat, Nayak was also involved in arranging logistics for the killers, both before and after the crime. It stated that the high court erred in setting aside the order of the Bengaluru police commissioner passed in August 2018 invoking KCOCA against Nayak and the subsequent supplementary charge sheet filed by the Special Investigation Team under provisions of KCOCA. The SIT filed an additional charge sheet in November 2018, in which Nayak was named. According to the charge sheet, Nayak took weapons training as well. On April 22, the Karnataka high court dropped the organised crimes charges against Nayak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/canadian-city-to-celebrate-gauri-lankesh-day-on-september-5-101630607835563.html
03-09-2021||India||Mizoram accuses Assam Police of abducting worker, fresh row erupts||Mizoram on Thursday accused Assam Police of abducting a JCB vehicle operator at gunpoint from the disputed border, which witnessed violent clashes between forces of both sides in July this year.Assam, however, denied the allegation and accused the neighbouring state of constructing camps of the former’s land.In a letter to Assam’s Hailakandi deputy commissioner Roshan Kumar Jha, deputy commissioner of Mizoram’s Kolashib district, Dr H Lalthlangliana, appealed for cooperation from the neighbouring state in the matter. “It has been brought to my notice based on a reliable report that Assam police officials wearing commando uniform blindfolded and kidnapped a JCB operator from our side with a gun pointed to his head. He was then dragged by the river, ripped off his clothes and threatened for his life. His mobile phone along with JCB keys were taken by Assam Police.This is considered to be a setback towards the initiatives for peace,” the letter read.Lalthlangliana also urged Assam officials to return the items allegedly taken away by Assam police to the earth excavator operator at the earliest.“I urge for your immediate intervention as district magistrate into the situation and to take necessary action towards these perpetrators...I look forward to your positive response and also request your kind cooperation to maintain peace and order at the interstate border.”Refuting the allegations, Hailakandi district superintendent of police (SP) Gaurav Upadhyay said: “Our police officials did not harm anyone and there is no question of kidnapping any Mizo citizen at gunpoint. Mizoram is trying to mislead by spreading lies. I think they should stop acting this way at such a crucial time when people are angry and upset.” Accusing Mizoram of constructing camps on the former’s land since August 26, the SP said repeated letters to the Kolashib administration in this regard elicited no response, prompting the police to use force to stop the work.“On August 26, we noticed two camps constructed by Mizoram on our land at Dholakhal area under Bilaipur Police station. Along with me, DC and forest officials of Hailakandi wrote letters to Kolashib district administration of Mizoram, but no response came. They again started constructing new camps using a JCB excavator which we the stopped because it was happening on our land,” he said.Last week, Assam Police had objected to the construction of a bridge, by Mizoram, in Hailakandi district and forcefully stopped the work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mizoram-accuses-assam-police-of-abducting-worker-fresh-row-erupts-101630607782629.html
03-09-2021||India||Focus on Covid-19 ‘booster dose’: Andhra CM Reddy to officials||Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on Thursday asked the state government officials to focus on a booster dose of the Covid-19 vaccine for people who are fully vaccinated. He also asked them to study the effect of the virus on people who have gotten infected even after vaccination. At a review meeting with officials from the health department, Covid Task Force Committee and others, Reddy also decided to continue the ongoing night curfew from 11 pm to 6am daily, keeping in mind the upcoming festive season. As of now, 3.02 doses of the Covid vaccine have been administered in Andhra to over 21.8 million people. Of that, 13.3 million people received a single dose while 8.4 million received both the doses, according to a press release from Reddy’s office. The chief minister also instructed officials to ensure that Covid protocols are followed in all educational institutions and public places. Andhra reopened its schools for offline classes on August 16 amid strict Covid guidelines. It was decided that schools in Andhra would resume physical classes wherever the positivity rate is below 10%. Strict guidelines or standard operating procedures (SOP) have also been laid down with regard to schools’ reopening, such as compulsory wearing of masks and maintaining distance in classrooms. During the review meeting on Thursday, state government officials also told the chief minister they were confident that by November, everyone above the age of 18 would be provided with a single dose of vaccine. With regard to preparedness on the anticipated Covid third wave, government officials informed the chief minister that 20,964 oxygen concentrators and 27,311 oxygen cylinders are available. On Thursday, the state reported 1,378 new cases taking the total count to 2,016,680. So far, 13,877 people have succumbed to the virus in Andhra. There are 14,473 active cases and the recovery rate stood at 98.58%, stated the government release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/focus-on-covid-19-booster-dose-andhra-cm-reddy-to-officials-101630607657276.html
03-09-2021||India||Actor Sidharth Shukla dies at 40, heart attack suspected||Popular television and film actor Sidharth Shukla, who became a household name with his role in the long-running TV show “Balika Vadhu”, died on Thursday. He was 40.Shukla, who is survived by his mother and two sisters, was taken to civic-run RN Cooper hospital around 11am, but doctors declared him brought dead. “Initial report indicates that he died of a heart attack. We, however, won’t be able to confirm the cause of his death until we complete the post mortem,” said a senior doctor from the forensic department of the hospital.After post-mortem, a forensic expert at the hospital said the cause of Shukla’s death of remains “inconclusive”. The hospital sent his viscera along with a few organs to the forensic state laboratory, Kalina, for further investigation.“These are trained medical experts who have conducted the post-mortem. But to overrule claims of foul play, we have sent the samples to FSL for further investigation. There they will investigate for toxicity along with other details… We haven’t seen any internal injury marks on the body,” said a senior doctor from the hospital.Shukla began his career in showbiz as a model and made his acting debut with a lead role in the television show “Babul Ka Aangann Chootey Na”. He later appeared on shows such as “Jaane Pehchaane Se... Ye Ajnabbi”, “Love U Zindagi” but it was “Balika Vadhu” that made him famous.Other than “Bigg Boss 13”, he participated in other reality shows, including “Jhalak Dikhhla Jaa 6” and “Fear Factor: Khatron Ke Khiladi 7”.In 2014, Shukla made his Bollywood debut with the Karan Johar-produced “Humpty Sharma Ki Dulhania” where he had a supporting role opposite Varun Dhawan and Alia Bhatt.The actor’s sudden death at a young age came as a shock for his colleagues and others in the industry. “OMG! This is so shocking! Words will fail to describe the shock and sense of loss of his near and dear ones! May he rest in peace,” actor Manoj Bajpayee said on Twitter. Filmmaker Hansal Mehta described Shukla’s passing away as extremely tragic.“No age to have a heart attack. No age to go. This is extremely sad and disturbing. Hope this time for sadness, reflection and mourning does not get converted into a Tamasha by some idiots,” Mehta wrote.Actor Riteish Deshmukh said he was “shocked beyond words”. “Gone too soon…. Condolences to his family, loved ones. - He was loved by millions. #SiddharthShukla you will be missed - rest in peace brother. Om Shanti.” “The Lunchbox” actor Nimrat Kaur tweeted that Shukla’s passing away was “terribly shocking and distressing”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/actor-sidharth-shukla-dies-at-40-heart-attack-suspected-101630607654920.html
03-09-2021||India||Tamil Nadu to bring legislation for NEET exemption, says health minister Subramanian||Tamil Nadu will soon bring legislation seeking exemption from the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) for admission into undergraduate medical colleges and send it to President Ram Nath Kovind for his assent, the health department said on Thursday. Presenting the department’s policy note, health minister M Subramanian, said a committee of secretaries, headed by the chief secretary Irai Anbu, has suggested promulgating an act indicating the need for elimination of NEET in medical education. “This will ensure social justice and protect all vulnerable student communities from being discriminated against in admission to medical education programmes,” he said. Tamil Nadu has been consistently opposing NEET for admission to medical courses. Recalling that the government constituted a high-level committee under the chairmanship of retired Justice A K Rajan, to study the impact of NEET on socially and economically backward students, the minister said the committee submitted the report to the government in July, and the majority of stakeholders had opposed the exam. NEET is an emotive issue in Tamil Nadu, with more than a dozen cases of students from poor and rural backgrounds dying by suicide related to the exam. The issue has also gone through several legal and political wrangles. The AIADMK government, in 2017, passed two bills seeking exemption from NEET but was rejected by the Centre. The minister also announced 11 new government medical colleges to be established in Ramanathapuram, Virudhunagar, Nilgiris, Dindigul, Tiruppur, Namakkal, Nagapattinam, Krishnagiri, Tiruvallur, Kallakurichi and Ariyalur with an intake of 150 MBBS seats each. “Administrative and financial sanctions have been accorded for construction of buildings and creation of new posts as per the National Medical Commission norms. Now, the construction of buildings is in progress,” he said.The minister went into detail on how the state managed Covid-19 during the second wave when the DMK government took over in May. “Present thrust is on vaccination and localised containment and active surveillance..” he said. “With the vaccine drive and continued vigil, it is hoped that the impact of Covid-19 will come down further in the coming days.” As hospital and oxygen support infrastructure is being augmented, he added that currently, Tamil Nadu has a storage capacity of around 1794.75 mt of Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-to-bring-legislation-for-neet-exemption-says-health-minister-subramanian-101630607595389.html
03-09-2021||India||Use only native bulls in Jallikattu: Madras HC||The Madras high court on Thursday directed the Tamil Nadu government to ensure that only native breeds of bulls are allowed to participate in Jallikattu, prohibiting the use of imported, hybrid or crossbreeds for the sport. In 2014, the Supreme Court had banned the event following an appeal by the Animal Welfare Board of India and People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA). But political parties and sections of people in the state rallied behind the sport, saying that Jallikattu is part of Tamil Nadu’s tradition and culture and it should continue. In 2017, huge protests erupted across the state for the ban against Jallikattu to be lifted. The Tamil Nadu government unanimously enacted legislation to amend the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960, to preserve the cultural heritage and ensure survival and continuance of native breeds of bulls. Citing that the very purpose of the legislation was to persevere heritage and culture, for which western breeds shouldn’t be used, public interest litigation (PIL) was filed in 2019 in the Madras high court seeking only native bulls be used and groomed as Jallikattu is played in Tamil Nadu since the Sangam era. A bench of justices N Kirubakaran (since retired) and P Velmurugan on August 18 passed an order to this effect with five directions for the conduct of Jallikattu, and the order copies circulated on Thursday. “The intention of the Act is to preserve and protect the native breeds of bulls,” the court said. “The adjective ‘native’ identifies and classifies distinctly indigenous breeds of bulls only and it excludes other types of bulls like hybrid and imported bulls. Hence, the provision of law should be strictly interpreted giving restrictive meaning to ‘native breeds of bulls’.”The court further directed the concerned authorities to get a certificate from veterinary doctors to certify and ensure that the participating bulls are native breeds only. They shall encourage bull owners and farmers to groom native breeds by way of subsidy or incentives. The court also pointed out that native breeds of bulls alone have got the hump, which is a necessity for a bull to participate so that the tamer can either cling or embrace the animal by holding on to the hump for 30 seconds or run with the bull for 15 meters or sustain three jumps of the bull. Jallikattu is usually played during the harvest festival of Pongal in Tamil Nadu in January and earlier this year the state government permitted it by following Covid-19 protocols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/use-only-native-bulls-in-jallikattumadrashc-101630607594229.html
03-09-2021||India||Hyd police arrest scam-hit Karvy’s CEO, CFO in ₹137 crore loan default case||The Hyderabad police on Thursday arrested the chief executive officer (CEO) and chief financial officer (CFO) of scam-hit Karvy Stock Broking Pvt Ltd in connection with the ₹137 crores loan default case. Rajiv Ranjan Singh (52), CEO, and G. Krishna Hari (63), CFO, were taken into custody by officials of the Central Crime Station (CCS) of the Hyderabad police. Before this, C Parthasarathy, the chairman of the company was arrested on August 19 on charges of defaulting ₹137 crore loan to IndusInd Bank.The arrests were made after the vice-president of IndusInd Bank, Hyderabad, lodged a complaint with the police, alleging that Karvy availed credit facilities to the tune of ₹137 crores from the bank by pledging securities/shares and personal guarantee of its chairman and managing director Parthasarathi. The bank alleged that Karvy officials suppressed facts that the securities belonging to clients were pledged without their consent. In 2019, the Securities Exchange Board of India (SEBI) also barred Karvy from taking new clients after it was found that the brokerage firm allegedly misused clients’ securities worth over ₹2,000 crores. However, this is not the only case in which Karvy officials have been booked. On August 25, the Cyberabad police (separate commissionerate covering Hyderabad’s IT hub of Hitec City) also registered a case against Karvy Stock Broking Pvt Ltd for allegedly duping ICICI Bank of ₹563 crores. On Thursday, the Hyderabad police, in a press release, said that the accused company became a “defaulter” by diverting funds into its own, and connected businesses entities. “The complaint bank was left with no collateral, and thereby KSBL defaulted in repayments of about ₹137 crores as on 31.03.2021,” it added. According to Avinash Mohanty, joint commissioner of police (detective department), Rajiv Ranjan Singh, who is in charge of trading and broking, executed trading accounts of nine companies from 2014 to 2019, and Krishna Hari diverted funds, which was raised from banks by pledging client securities as collateral to nine shell companies on verbal instructions of Parthasarathi. It was allegedly done to show a huge turnover and market share of Karvy in the stock market, and it also caused a huge loss of ₹300 crores, which was shown as book debts. “Further, several criminal cases were registered at CCS DD Hyderabad against the accused company and others,” said the police. The aforementioned persons were arrested and produced before a local court for judicial remand. They have been booked under sections 406, 420, 409, 421, 422, 120(B) R/w (read with) 34 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). M. Yugandhar Rao, the co-founder of Karvy group, who is also an accused in the case, is yet to be arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hyd-police-arrest-scam-hit-karvy-s-ceo-cfo-in-137-crore-loan-default-case-101630607534345.html
03-09-2021||India||Kerala considers reopening of schools amid alarming spike in Covid-19 cases||The Kerala government is planning to reopen schools and an expert committee will be constituted soon to study the Covid-19 situation in the state, general education minister V Sivankutty said on Thursday amid a fresh spike in virus cases. On Thursday, the state reported 32,907 fresh Covid cases with a test positivity rate (TPR) of 18.41% after testing 174,301 samples and 188 deaths, the state health ministry said. For the first time since May, the active caseload has crossed the 240k mark as fresh cases raised the total tally to 240,186.Sivankutty defended the government’s plans to reopen schools, saying that the experts’ meeting convened by the government on Wednesday favoured the decision and a final call will be taken by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan after recommendations of the new committee. Earlier, the state government said schools will be opened only after vaccinating all children, but had second thoughts after neighbouring state Tamil Nadu reopened schools. Besides TN, at least six other states have reopened schools after the case tally dropped drastically.“The education department will constitute a panel to study whether the situation in the state is feasible to reopen schools. It will also prepare a project detailing which classes can be opened initially. A final decision will be taken by the CM,” he said. For the last two academic years, classes are conducted virtually in the state.In the experts’ meeting, many said since hospitalisation was not increased significantly, it was a clear indication that the current surge in disease transmission is not out of control. So, the state can think of reopening socio-economic sectors. A section of the experts, not present in Wednesday’s meeting, opposed the plan to re-open schools. “This is not the right time. We have no idea how the minister concluded this,” said public health activist Dr S S Lal, who earlier served with the World Health Organisation.Experts like Lal said the current pandemic condition will prevail in the state till mid-September and the government should wait till then. The alarming hike and its consistent prevalence forced many experts to link it with a possible beginning of a third wave. The opposition parties in the state are yet to react to the government’s latest plan. This week, the state’s accumulated share of cases was above 70 per cent. This is the third day in a row the state is reporting over 30,000 cases, Monday being an exception due to low testing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-considers-reopening-of-schools-amid-alarming-spike-in-covid-19-cases-101630607475752.html
03-09-2021||India||Six arrested in Telangana for killing three of a family: Police||The Warangal district police on Thursday arrested six persons in connection with the murder of three people belonging to the same family. The arrests were made a day after Mohd. Shafi, the main accused, barged into the house of his elder brother Chand Pasha, and murdered him and two others over a business dispute, police said. The murder took place in the LB Nagar area of Warangal town on September 1. The crime was committed by Shafi after he sought ₹1.2 crores from Chand Pasha to clear some debt. Both the brothers were engaged in the cattle trade. They would purchase the animals from rural areas and sell them to slaughterhouses in Hyderabad, the district police said.“There are three brothers actually, and the elder (Chand Pasa) and the second (Shafi) were in the cattle business together. There were differences between them over sharing of profits, and the accused said that his elder brother had bought properties and was not giving him money to clear his debt,” said Warangal district commissioner of police Tarun Joshi, quoting the accused. On Wednesday, Shafi and five others barged into Pasha’s house, killing him, his wife Sabera (42) and Sabera’s brother Khaleel (40). Chand Pasha’s sons Fahad (20) and Samad (24) were injured in the attack.The other five accused have been identified as Boini Venkanna, Md. Said, R. Vijender, Md. Akbar and Md. Pasha. “All five of them are known to Shafi through the cattle business he was running. They used a long knife to commit the murder, which was procured from Hyderabad,” said Joshi. All of the six accused have been arrested and sent to judicial remand, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/six-arrested-in-telangana-for-killing-three-of-a-familypolice-101630607474349.html
03-09-2021||India||T’gana fails to get more share of Krishna water during 14th KRMB meeting||Telangana’s bid to share water on a 50:50 ratio from the Krishna river basin with Andhra Pradesh was unsuccessful as both sides refused to yield even one bit during the 14th Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) meeting which was held on 1 September. The meeting witnessed heated discussions from both sides, with officials from Telangana’s irrigation department even walking out once during the meeting on Wednesday, which went on for nearly 10 hours after starting at 11 a.m. The current water sharing ratio of 66:34 (AP-TS) ratio will continue for this year, which senior irrigation department officials from both states confirmed. Telangana, which was bifurcated from AP in 2014, was allocated 299 thousand million cubic feet (TMC) of water, while AP was given 512 TMC from the total 811 TMC which the erstwhile joint state of Andhra Pradesh had. Based on an agreement signed in1976 to distribute the roughly 2060 TMC feet of Krishna river water, Maharashtra was allocated about 560 TMC feet, Karnataka 700 TMC feet, and 811 TMC feet was allocated for (erstwhile) Andhra Pradesh. The Krishna river now runs across the states of Maharashtra, Karnataka, AP and Telangana.“We were unable to convince the board to get a higher share of water from the Krishna river. The arguments from both sides nearly resulted in a fight,” said an official from Telangana’s Irrigation department, who did not want to be quoted. Telangana has been seeking a higher share of water from the Krishna river citing higher irrigation and drinking water needs since 2018. The issue of Telangana seeking a higher share of Krishna water is currently pending before the Krishna River Water Disputes Tribunal - 2 (KWDT-2).“The issue is that unfortunately in a 2015 meeting with the Ministry of Jal Shakthi, the current 66:34 ration was agreed upon, which has been recorded in the minutes of the meeting as well. So AP cites that,” the Telangana official informed.When contacted, a senior irrigation department official from AP who did not want to be quoted said, “We put forth our arguments as well. The same issue (Telangana seeking higher share from Krishna river) is also pending with the Krishna Water Disputes Tribunal-2, so we pointed that out as well. The meeting went in our favour.”Officials from both the Telugu states on Wednesday evening also met for a meeting of the Godavari River Management Board (GRMB) to discuss water sharing and other issues as well. The Godavari river is however devoid of any common projects between both Telugu states. It has about 2,000 TMC of water, which is shared on a 50:50 basis. On Wednesday, the meeting of the KRMB and GRMB also discussed modalities and issues concerning the Centre taking over all of the projects under the Krishna and Godavari rivers. A gazette notification for the same was passed by the Centre on July 15. It stated that the KRMB and GRMB will take control fully from October 14. Officials from both states said that a roadmap is being prepared for the same. “The river management boards will not take over fully because we can’t let it run smaller irrigation and drinking water projects. There will be people from both states on the board, so hopefully it will function smoothly,” said the official from Telangana. Among other things, Telangana has also opposed AP from diverting water from Godavari river basin into the Krishna river’s basin for its projects. As per a bifurcation agreement, the KRMB also has to shift to Andhra, while the GRMB will permanently be in Telangana. As of now, the KRMB is in Hyderabad given that it is still the joint capital of both states till 2024. It is learnt that the AP government wants to shift it to Visakhapatnam (about 550 kms away from the river basin), but Telangana officials want the KRMB office to be closer to the basin.In the KRMB meeting, other items that were discussed in the 10-hour long meeting were: providing funds to the board, filling up vacant posts, utilising water during surplus years, jurisdiction of the board, power generation problems, minor irrigation projects etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tgana-fails-to-get-more-share-of-krishna-water-during-14th-krmb-meeting-101630607416106.html
03-09-2021||India||Tamil Nadu CM Stalin announces memorial for Vanniyar agitation victims||Tamil Nadu chief minister M K Stalin on Thursday announced that a ₹4-crore memorial for 21 people who died in police firing during the Vanniyar quota agitation in 1987 would be constructed in Villupuram district, marking the state’s stance on social justice.“I made this commitment to honour the sacrifice of those who struggled for social justice during the by-elections for Vikravandi (assembly constituency in Villupuram in 2019),” said Stalin, adding that his family, too, belongs to a socially backward community.The agitation paralysed the entire state for at least a week, when Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (ADMK), later AIADMK, founder MG Ramachandran (MGR) was the chief minister. The agitations were quelled when the DMK came back to power in 1989, and M Karunanidhi created 20% reservation for MBCs, and Vanniyars were among the 108 caste groups in the list. But the community said that their representation and access to opportunities were still abysmal.Recently, the DMK government passed a government order to implement the 10.5% reservation for the Vanniyar community, introduced by the previous AIADMK regime earlier this February, to appease its ally the PMK (Pattali Makkal Katchi), a Vanniyar caste-based party, whose founder S Ramadoss was in the forefront of the agitation in the 1980s.The announcement for the memorial comes ahead of the local body polls in the state. The DMK’s principal ally, the Congress’ floor leader K Selvaperunthagai went a step ahead by asking the PMK to reconsider its alliance status-quo. Since the 1990s, PMK has oscillated between the DMK and AIADMK in assembly and parliamentary elections. In 2016, for the first time, PMK went alone, projecting former Union minister Anbumani Ramadoss as its chief ministerial candidate, but were unsuccessful.Selvaperunthagai recalled that PMK founder Ramadoss had organised a social justice conference in 1989 thanking Karunanidhi for providing the 20% reservation to MBCs. The Congress leader then said that in 2019, when PMK joined the AIADMK-led NDA alliance for the parliamentary elections, he had asked them how they can align with a party that shot down the 21 people “like pigeons”. He added, “Now, the DMK government, which has been protecting your community is ruling the state. I appeal to the PMK founder to ponder over who had stood by you and your people all through.”However, the PMK leaders present in the House did not respond but released a statement welcoming the announcement.In the late 1970s, Ramadoss forged a coalition of Vanniyar community groups, which later came under the umbrella of the Vanniyar Sangam (Federation of Vanniyars). It continues to be the parent body of the PMK. In the 1980s, the Sangam was carrying out protests demanding MBC status for Vanniyars. MGR, at that time, was hospitalised in the US and held discussions with the group on his return, but he soon passed away in 1987.Last year, ahead of the assembly elections, the PMK revived this decades-old demand and threatened to walk out of the alliance with AIADMK if their reservation demands weren’t met. In December 2020, the PMK cadre, who were on a state-wide protest for the reservation, pelted stones on a train, brought traffic to a standstill as the Chennai police sealed its borders to restrict them from entering the city. Subsequently, then chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami ordered a statewide caste-based data, and before the model code of conduct came into effect, passed the 10.5% reservation bill for Vanniyars in jobs and education. Political experts do not see Stalin as extending an olive branch to the PMK but rather to wipe them out completely by catering to the larger Vanniyar community. “By staying with the 10.5% reservation and announcing the memorial, Stalin is taking a pro-Vanniyar stance to neutralise Ramadoss’s position,” said political commentator Raveendran Duraisamy.Karunanidhi had built up a solid Vanniyar presence within the DMK to counter Ramadoss’ rise. “But Stalin is playing it differently,” he said, adding that he is doing what late J Jayalalithaa did by giving importance to leaders and people of the Vanniyar community but she took an anti-PMK stand. “Stalin is in a profitable alliance so he doesn’t need to appease the PMK when he can win over the community at large. He also wants to dilute the AIADMK-PMK combination,” said Duraisamy. At least seven districts in Tamil Nadu have a dominant Vanniyar presence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-cm-stalin-announces-memorial-for-vanniyar-agitation-victims-101630607414756.html
03-09-2021||India||Taliban leaders keen to assess India’s stance towards group||As the Taliban move closer to the formation of a government in Afghanistan, senior leaders Sher Mohammed Abbas Stanekzai and Anas Haqqani have been engaged in discreet efforts to gauge the thinking in New Delhi towards the group.Both Stanekzai, the deputy head of Taliban’s political office in Qatar, and Haqqani, a member of the group’s negotiating team, have also been part of an outreach towards India over the past week. This has resulted in them being seen as the main contactpersons for any Taliban contacts with the Indian side in the coming days.Haqqani, the youngest son of Haqqani Network founder Jalaluddin Haqqani and brother of Taliban deputy leader Sirajuddin Haqqani, has been in contact with intermediaries in Kabul and New Delhi to assess the latest thinking on the Indian side regarding the Taliban, people familiar with the developments said on condition of anonymity.During these contacts, Haqqani indicated a clearer picture regarding any sort of formal engagement with India would emerge only by the end of September, the people said. This was because the immediate task of the Taliban is forming a government and consolidating its position across Afghanistan.Haqqani also indicated during these contacts that if the Indian side had conditions for any engagement with the Taliban, his group too would have certain conditions, the people said.The overtures from Stanekzai, who trained for several years at the Indian Military Academy (IMA) in Dehradun in the early 1980s, didn’t cause as much surprise in New Delhi as the outreach from Haqqani, whose family still heads the Haqqani Network, linked to some of the most brazen attacks on Indian interests in Afghanistan.Former ambassador Amar Sinha, who served as India’s envoy in Kabul, said the Haqqani Network would have a “special problem” in living down its long-standing connections with Pakistan.“We can listen to this charm offensive but we also have to put them to the test. There has been credible evidence linking the Haqqani Network to attacks on Indian interests,” he said.The Haqqani Network was famously described in 2011 by Admiral Mike Mullen, then chairman of the US Joint Chiefs of Staff, as a “veritable arm of Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence”. Recent reports have suggested that the Haqqani Network will seek to control the intelligence set-up and interior and defence ministries in the new set-up.Indian, Afghan and US officials have said over the years that there was strong evidence the Haqqani Network was behind the July 2008 suicide car bombing at the gate of the Indian embassy in Kabul, which resulted in the death of nearly 60 people, including defence attaché Brig Ravi Datt Mehta and diplomat V Venkateswara Rao.There have also been reports of the Haqqani Network working closely with Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) fighters in Afghanistan.Both Stanekzai and Haqqani have in recent days made public remarks that appear to be aimed at assuaging Indian concerns regarding the Taliban and its reported ties with Pakistan’s military establishment.In a video statement issued last week, Stanekzai said the Taliban wants to continue Afghanistan’s political, economic and cultural ties with India.Haqqani, in an interview with the News18 channel, even went to the extent of saying there is “nothing like the Haqqani Network, but only the emirate” of the Taliban, which wants good and positive relations with all countries, including India. He added that though the Indian government had supported the Taliban’s opponents in Afghanistan for 20 years, the group didn’t want to remember the past as it wants good relations with all nations.The Taliban, Haqqani said, wouldn’t interfere in the Kashmir issue, even as he dismissed reports about links between the Haqqani Network and the Pakistani security set-up as “propaganda”.Gautam Mukhopadhaya, who served as India’s envoy to Afghanistan, Syria and Myanmar, said there is a need to ask hard questions about the outreach to India by Taliban leaders.“While these assurances are welcome and should not be dismissed, we should ask hard questions about the motives of their outreach, which is mainly to get legitimacy from the one historically important country for Afghanistan – India, what the trade-offs would be in terms of our friends, what security guarantees are worth taking into account the Kabul airport attacks, and how they could protect anyone from the machinations of the ISI, with which they have close ties,” he said.Mukhopadhaya, also a senior visiting fellow at the Centre for Policy Research, added, “India has had some sort of working arrangement for security and the departure of its nationals but it has not granted legitimacy to the Taliban set-up. Once that is granted, we would have lost everything and have no bargaining chip. We would also betray the principles on which the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan was founded or whatever resistance may appear.”He said India shouldn’t give in to the current trend of recognising the Taliban because of the uncertainty about Afghanistan’s future, which “could range from a good case scenario of an inclusive transitional administration to a resistance and civil war, to an Iraq-Syria scenario”. But he advocated maintaining a window to continue people-to-people contacts and humanitarian aid, which should be routed through the UN or international organisations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/taliban-leaders-keen-to-assess-india-s-stance-towards-group-101630607359536.html
03-09-2021||India||I pray to Waheguru daily that the mistrust ends: Harish Rawat amid Punjab crisis||The Congress in-charge for Punjab, Harish Rawat, spoke to Ramesh Vinayak and Navneet Sharma about the tussle between chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and the party’s state chief Navjot Singh Sidhu. Edited excerpts:Who will lead the Congress in the 2022 polls – Captain Amarinder or Sidhu?The Congress has some established norms that are applicable to all states. Where we are in government, both the CM and the PCC president are there. The PCC chief represents the AICC. The CM runs the government and people want to see how you have governed the state. This is the standard practice. After the elections, MLAs sit together and almost always they resolve to leave the decision of selecting the leader to the Congress president. Therefore, who will be the face of the party is not an issue.But, the party had named Capt Amarinder Singh as its CM face before the 2017 polls.We were not in the government then. Amarinder Singh Ji was PCC president at that time. He was named the chief ministerial candidate to boost the prospects. At present, we are in the government... Both situations cannot be equated. Both are very important people and have their role and responsibilities.What about your statement last week that the party will go into the polls under Capt Amarinder’s leadership?My complete statement was not reported. I had made mention of the Congress tradition in this regard, but it was left out. It was unfortunate that some of my colleagues made it an issue of public debate. Instead of talking to the media, they should have called and spoken to me.When the Congress high command made Sidhu the PCC chief, it was expected that it would solve the issue between the leaders, but it hasn’t, and the party still has two centres of power.We were also hoping that with greater responsibility and a bigger platform under his feet, he will be able to resolve contradictions. I think he will learn by experience. We will have to understand one thing that Sidhu’s politics is based on anti-incumbency. When Sidhu was in BJP, he was criticising the SAD even though the two parties were in alliance. The issues he raised were also taken up by the Congress, but they are not so simple that you can resolve them by pressing a button. I know how the chief minister has to walk on a razor’s edge on several issues. He has to ensure that there is no social or communal backlash.But Sidhu is emerging as the biggest critic of his own government.There is difference in the way we look at it. On PPAs, electricity bill, bus permits, etc, I am as vocal as Sidhu is. Should I be seen as my own government’s critic?Why can’t the CM convince Sidhu about all this?Sidhu is convinced. To certain extent, I will like him to stick on these issues. After all, I have to see everything with electoral angle also. We will find a solution to all these issues if not today, then tomorrow.If that’s so, what is behind the tussle between Sidhu and CM?I pray to Waheguru with folded hands daily that mistrust between the two should end. You have to deal with psychology of human beings. The CM has his own experience and Sidhu has his own style. When you have such people, it is difficult to make them bond... it takes time.What is the root cause of this mistrust, temperamentally they are different or there is no chemistry?There are many things – background, personality and approach. These cannot be rectified in one day. I am quite hopeful that we will solve this problem before the elections, and everything will be in order.Isn’t the Congress losing out in the battle of perception?We are fortunate that our competitors are like lost gamblers otherwise we would have faced problems. I have no hesitation in admitting this.There is strong perception that Sidhu’s elevation and 18-point agenda have eroded Capt Amarinder’s authority.We are an old party and I have been a chief minister myself. Do you think I do not understand that if the CM’s authority is eroded whom will it hurt? Circumstances were such that we needed to take a decision. Unfortunately, the CM took a public stand. I had advised him against taking a stand in public. If any decision was taken against his stand, it was not eroding his authority. In democracy, nobody is the last word. Sometimes, the Congress president’s decisions are changed by the working committee.You once said that Sidhu is like a Rafale. Is he in control or gone out of control?Rafale is always in control. Its control system is excellent. I have not wasted my 55 years in politics. You should have some faith in my art. Our Rafale will hit the opposition. At this moment, we are refining its weaponry system||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-pray-to-waheguru-daily-that-the-mistrust-ends-rawat-amid-punjab-crisis-101630607114162.html
03-09-2021||India||50 farmers, 7 cops injured in clashes near Badal rally in Punjab’s Moga||Moga police on Thursday used batons and a water cannon to disperse a group of protesting farmers who allegedly tried to disrupt a Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) rally led by party chief Sukhbir Singh Badal, people familiar with the development said.Around 50 farmers and at least seven policemen were injured in the clashes which erupted after protesters allegedly broke barricades to enter the rally venue at the grain market on Moga-Ferozepur road around 1pm, DSP (City) Jashandeep Singh Gill said.Around 40 farmers were detained and several cases under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, National Highway Act and The Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act were registered against unknown persons at City Police Station, Moga, police said. Seventeen named people have also been booked in this regard, they added.The police action on the cultivators came nearly a week after several protesters were lathi-charged while heading towards Karnal to protest against a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) meeting. Around 10 farmers were injured in the incident. On Wednesday, the Haryana government transferred Karnal sub-divisional magistrate (SDM-civil) Ayush Sinha, who was caught on camera directing police to hit protesting farmers in Karnal in their heads if they breached the security cordon.Badal, who began a 100-day “yatra” across 100 assembly constituencies in Punjab ahead of the polls next year, alleged the protesters were “not farmers but owed allegiance to the Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party”.Some of the protesters, police claimed, hurled stones in a bid to force their way inside the venue, prompting security personnel to resort to water cannons and a cane charge on the crowd. More than 10 vehicles were also damaged in the incident.“The police have repeatedly urged farm unions to exercise their democratic right to protest in a peaceful manner. But the protesting farmers broke the police barricading with tractors, scuffled and pelted stones at cops. The mob also vandalised vehicles of police and the general public. Gurdeep Singh, deputy superintendent of police, Moga, was hit in the head with a stone and presently, he and other six cops are undergoing treatment in the hospital,” Moga senior superintendent of police Dhruman H Nimbale said.The protesting farmers, however, claimed that they were trying to peacefully enter the rally venue when police used force on them.“The administration and police department promised a meeting with Badal as we wanted to ask some questions. But they did not organise a meeting for us with him. Upset over this, the farmers were peacefully trying to march towards the rally side when police used water cannons and cane-charged us. At least 10 to 20 famers were received major injuries while over 40 received minor injuries,” Baldev Singh Zira, general secretary of Bharti Kisan Union, Krantikari, said.Condemning the clashes, SAD leader Bikram Singh Singh Majithia said, “The attempts to disrupt the massive Akali gatherings being organised as part of the party’s ‘Gal Punjab Di’ campaign were part of a deep-rooted conspiracy of the Congress in conjunction with the Centre to disturb the hard-won peace in Punjab and impose president’s rule in the state.”(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/50-farmers-7-cops-injured-in-clashes-near-badal-rally-in-punjab-s-moga-101630606996042.html
03-09-2021||India||House panel to review implementation of govt schemes in J&K||The parliamentary committee on information technology, chaired by Congress MP Shashi Tharoor, on Friday will begin a week-long visit to Jammu & Kashmir, Mumbai, Hyderabad and Chennai to assess the “overall functioning” of various government schemes and initiatives, including the Centre’s flagship scheme for easy internet access, BharatNet, and review the working of organisations such as Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC), people familiar with the matter said.The panel, comprising 31 members, will also review access to internet services in J&K, the people cited above added.As per the plan, the panel on Friday will meet representatives of the department of telecommunications in Srinagar to discuss the “overall functioning of BSNL and progress of implementation of various schemes… including BharatNet in the circle”. BharatNet is the government’s flagship project that aims to provide easy internet connectivity to all 2.5 lakh gram panchayats in the country.In Mumbai, the panel will also meet members of Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC) and hold a review of its functioning.The ministry of information and broadcasting is currently facing pushback from the film industry regarding a proposed amendment that allows the ministry to ask CBFC to review a film that has already been certified.In Hyderabad, the panel will visit T-Hub, the country’s largest tech incubator. It will also meet state government officials to discuss the “digital payment and online security measures for data protection”. It will also undertake a review of the functioning of Doordarshan Kendras in the state. The panel’s visit will conclude in Chennai with a visit to the Indian Institute of Technology, which is currently working on a domestic 5G test bed. In February, HT had reported that the committee, in a report submitted to Parliament, said the country is woefully unprepared to roll out 5G technology. The government, however, said the rollout will begin shortly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/house-panel-led-by-tharoor-to-review-implementation-of-govt-schemes-in-j-k-cities-101630606935611.html
03-09-2021||India||Mizoram schools to admit Myanmar refugee children||The Mizoram government has requested all district education officers to admit the children of Myanmar refugees in state-run schools on humanitarian grounds, months after hundreds of families fleeing a military coup in the neighbouring nation entered India.Mizoram shares a 400-km border with Myanmar, where the military junta in February this year toppled the elected Aung San Suu Kyi-led government and put several political leaders under house arrest.“I am to state that Chapter 2(4) of the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act 2009 (RTE Act-2009) mentioned that children aged between 6 and 14 years belonging to disadvantaged communities have the right to be admitted to school in a class appropriate to his or her age for completing elementary education,” the state’s director of school education James Lalrinchhanda said in an August 31 letter to education officers in districts and sub-districts.“I, therefore request you to take necessary action on admission to migrant/refugee children in your jurisdiction to school so that they can continue their schooling,” he said.The order did not specifically mention children of Myanmar refugees, but Mizoram minister for school education Lalchhandama Ralte told HT that the directions were largely meant for the children of Myanmar nationals who entered Mizoram following the military coup earlier this year.“The decision was taken by the department on compassionate and humanitarian grounds. Even the RTE Act mentions the right of children to receive education,” he said over the telephone from Aizawl.“There are nearly 400 children of Myanmar refugees who fall in the age group of six to 14 years. Most of them are in Champhai and Aizawl districts. They will be admitted to government schools from September itself,” Lalchhandama added.Since March this year, thousands of Myanmar nationals -- including politicians, parliamentarians, government officials, policemen and their families -- have crossed over to Mizoram.Most of these refugees, who came from the Chin province of Myanmar are currently based in the bordering Champhai district in Mizoram. Over a thousand others are believed to be in Aizawl.Mizoram Police’s criminal investigation department said in June that 9,247 refugees had entered the state from Myanmar and were spread out in 10 districts with over 4,000 in Champhai and over 1,600 in Aizawl, according to a Press Trust of India report.Earlier in March, the central government directed four states that share a land border with Myanmar — Mizoram, Nagaland, Arunachal Pradesh and Manipur — to stop illegal migrants and deport them back to Myanmar.Following that directive, Mizoram chief minister Zoramthanga wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 18 and said the order was “not acceptable” to the state.“I understand that there are certain foreign policy issues where India needs to proceed cautiously. However, we can’t ignore this humanitarian crisis,” the CM, who also pointed out the ethnic ties between the Chin people and the Mizos, had said.“Mizoram cannot just remain indifferent to their sufferings. India cannot turn a blind eye to this humanitarian crisis unfolding right in front of us in our own backyard,” Zoramthanga had written.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mizoram-schools-to-admit-myanmar-refugee-children-101630606873521.html
03-09-2021||India||Supreme Court airs concern over spread of fake and ‘communal’ news||The Supreme Court on Thursday expressed concern over the proliferation of fake news and the communalisation of reportage and asked the Centre if it is “really serious” about fixing accountability on web portals and other media to check the menace. The court observed that communalisation of news gives the country a “bad name”.A bench, headed by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana, lamented that there were several web portals and YouTube channels maligning judges and the judiciary that do not care to respond when questioned about the basis of their reports.“There seems to be no control on web portals. They can publish anything they like. If you go to YouTube, how much fake news and distortions take place there? There is no control. Anybody can start any channel, any TV and report anything,” observed the bench, also including justices Surya Kant and AS Bopanna.The court was hearing a clutch of petitions, led by Jamiat Ulama-i-Hind, seeking directions to the Union government to stop the dissemination of fake news and take strict action against a section of the media for spreading communal hatred and bigotry through their reportage.Representing the Centre, solicitor general Tushar Mehta informed the bench that the new information technology rules that came into force this year seek to address several of the issues highlighted by the court by striking a balance between self-regulation and statutory control. He added that the government is committed to ensuring the flow of “unadulterated news” to the audience while being mindful of the freedom of the press.The bench, however, responded: “You have a regulatory regime for TV and newspapers but are you suggesting these web portals and YouTube channels require no regulation? Are you really serious about the regulatory regime? The problem is that everything in this country is shown from a communal angle. That’s a very serious problem. Ultimately the country is going to get a bad name.”Mehta replied that the 2021 IT Rules have brought about a regulatory regime to also cover digital news portals. “These rules have been challenged in various high courts. One high court has passed an interim order staying a part of the rules. We have filed a transfer petition before this court so that the issues are finally dealt with by the Supreme Court,” added the S-G.The CJI said: “I have never come across any web portal that responds. They never respond. They have given a bad name to the institution and when they are asked questions, they say it is our right to carry anything.”Senior advocate Sanjay Hegde, representing one of the petitioners, said he is himself a victim of this phenomenon as microblogging website Twitter removed him from the platform and also objected to his filing a writ petition before the Delhi high court against the removal.The CJI retorted: “They hear voices of only powerful people. They don’t hear voices of common man like judges, etc., and write anything against the institution without any accountability.” The bench further observed: “Let us have a meaningful and full debate on all these issues.”The court accepted Hegde’s request to amend his petition in the backdrop of the new IT and cable TV rules that have been notified and certain provisions of the new rules that he sought to challenge. The court asked all the counsel, including the S-G, to file their response and rejoinder affidavits to the amended petitions and listed the matter after six weeks.Acceding to S-G’s plea, the bench said the transfer petitions filed by the Centre for bringing different cases pending before various high courts against the new rules to the top court for an authoritative pronouncement will be heard together with the present batch of cases.On July 9, the Kerala high court restrained the Centre from taking any coercive action against members of the News Broadcasters Association (NBA), which challenged the new IT Rules on the ground that they give government authorities “excessive powers” to “unreasonably and impermissibly restrict” the media’s freedom of speech and expression. The NBA is a consortium of 78 private TV news and current affairs broadcasters, including the country’s leading 25 news channels.The Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules 2021 were introduced in February this year. The new rules applied to digital news media platforms, social media intermediaries and OTT platforms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-airs-concern-over-spread-of-fake-and-communal-news-101630606816789.html
03-09-2021||India||Don’t attend mass events unless fully vaccinated: Govt||The Union health ministry reiterated on Thursday that all mass gatherings should be discouraged ahead of the country’s upcoming festive season, and if attending such events is absolutely essential for someone, then full vaccination must be treated a prerequisite.The second Covid-19 wave is “not yet over” in the country, and spike in cases has always been observed as soon as festive seasons get wrapped up, senior officials health ministry officials warned on Thursday.While nationally the positivity rate continues to show an overall declining trend since the week ending May 10, several districts still have very high positivity rates, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said during the government’s Covid-19 press briefing. A total of 39 districts reported a positivity rate of over 10% in the past week, while another 38 districts had a positivity rate of 5-10%, he added.Government experts urged people to get both their vaccine shots as soon as possible and to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour in the coming weeks.Till Thursday night, around 700 million doses of the vaccine were administered to 514.6 million people, with 155.2 million people fully vaccinated and 359.4 million people receiving one shot, according to government data. When seen alongside the country’s projected adult population of 940 million (according to the Census of India’s National Commission on Population), this means that while 54.7% of India’s adults have received jabs, only 16.5% of those above the age of 18 are fully vaccinated.Several festivals across nearly all faiths such as Ganesh Chaturthi, Dussehra, Eid Milad un-Nabi, Diwali, along with holidays such as Gandhi Jayanti, are lined up in the coming 8-10 weeks. Covid infections saw a major spike in Kerala in the past two weeks – a phenomenon experts have attributed to Onam festivities and the laxity of restrictions on social movement through the festival.“The key message we wish to convey to everyone is that we must be careful particularly in the context of the festive season. Therefore, we make a very strong plea even as we accelerate the vaccination programme… our precautions must continue. The time has not yet come to live life without wearing a mask. Like last year, this year also festivals need to be celebrated in a modified way. We will have to wait for celebrating festivals such as Ganesh Chaturthi, Navratri, Eid etc. with great fervour,” said VK Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog.“It is best to celebrate within [your] family, and avoid crowding at places and stepping out unnecessarily. Shopping at market places must be done very carefully without overcrowding. The wave seems to be stabilising even though it is not over yet… virus mutations can still turn this tide against us,” said Paul.Apart from celebrating at home, senior government experts stressed on the continuous importance of people being careful about ensuring Covid-appropriate behaviour is followed. They also urged that people should embrace vaccination as availability of doses is increasing.Balram Bhargava, director general, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), underlined measures that he stressed are absolutely essential to stop new Covid-19 waves: wearing masks even after vaccination, avoiding gatherings and getting fully vaccinated.“I have a few points to make: it is absolutely essential to wear a mask even after vaccination; mass gatherings should be discouraged, particularly in the upcoming festival season because we still have few districts which are having the problem; and full vaccination should be a prerequisite if it is absolutely essential or it becomes critical to have a gathering of some people,” he said.Bhushan, while sharing data, also urged people to not drop their guard as the second wave was not over yet. There are still 42 districts in the country that are reporting at least 100 new Covid-19 cases each day, he said.As for weekly positivity, 39 districts are reporting weekly positivity rate of 10% or more, while another 38 districts currently have weekly positivity rate between 5% and 10%. Centre has asked states to monitor districts reporting higher than 5% case positivity rate to get to the cause of increased disease transmission, and taking immediate containment measures have been suggested for those districts that are reporting higher than 10% case positivity.It is also a matter of concern that the weekly case positivity rate that had dropped under 2% around the end of July and first week of August has again seen a slight increase – the weekly positivity rate in India currently stands at 2.62%.Experts also emphasise the need for avoiding crowded places for now.“Some things are basic when we talk about fighting an infectious disease that is as transmissible as Covid-19. Gatherings should be avoided and wearing a mask is mandatory. Vaccination is important and should be taken as it is proved that vaccines currently in use help the progression of disease to severe levels, and these certainly reduce deaths to a large extent.The vaccines also work against variants in circulation; therefore, people should take these,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head, pulmonary department, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-attend-mass-events-unless-fully-vaccinated-govt-101630606813417.html
03-09-2021||India||Terror from Afghan soil key concern, says India||India stressed on Thursday that its main concern on Afghanistan was the use of Afghan soil for terrorism or “anti-India activities”, and said that it was too early to discuss any possible recognition of the new Taliban regime now in control in the country.New Delhi’s position was outlined by external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi two days after India officially acknowledged a meeting with the Taliban in Doha. India is also focused on the evacuation of its nationals who are still in Afghanistan, Bagchi said.Tuesday’s meeting between India’s envoy to Qatar, Deepak Mittal, and Sher Mohammed Abbas Stanekzai, head of the Taliban’s political office in Doha, has given rise to questions on whether New Delhi has softened its position on the Taliban and could be considering the recognition of any new set-up created by the group in Kabul.At a regular news briefing, Bagchi ducked all questions on whether India still perceives the Taliban as a terror group and on recognising any government formed by the group, and said: “Our main concern, one of the primary, immediate concerns is that Afghan soil should not be used for anti-Indian activities or terrorism against India. That is one of our main issues.”India’s focus is not on whether the Taliban is a terror organisation, and “the focus, let me reiterate, is that Afghan soil should not be used for terrorist activities of any kind or [for] anti-India activities and we will try to focus on that element”, Bagchi said.The Indian side has seen reports about the formation of a government by the Taliban, but has no details regarding the nature of this dispensation, Bagchi said. He said there was “no update” on any invitation being extended to India to participate in the inauguration of such a government.Setting aside questions about recognising a Taliban government, he said, “Let’s just treat the Doha meeting for what it is – it is just a meeting and I think these are still very early days.”India used the meeting in Doha as an opportunity to convey its concerns, including evacuation of its nationals and terrorism, and “received a positive response” from the Taliban side, he added.In response to a question on why the Taliban had not publicly acknowledged the Doha meeting, which was held at the group’s request, and why there were no photographs of the interaction, Bagchi said: “I think it just didn’t happen, it’s just a meeting, it wasn’t really that kind of an event where photos are taken. I don’t think there’s any thought behind it [that] we don’t have a photo of it. I think neither side took a photo.”Bagchi sidestepped a query on whether India has a road map for further engagements with the Taliban by saying: “We wouldn’t have done anything without giving it some thought. Let’s see how things move.”As reported by HT, the Indian side opened channels of communication with specific Taliban factions and leaders, including Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, last year. However, Tuesday’s meeting in Doha was the first time New Delhi has officially acknowledged an interaction with the Taliban.The triumphant return of the Taliban has triggered concerns that the group’s victory could re-energise jihadi groups across South Asia, particularly anti-India terror organisations based in Pakistan, such as Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed. In a message congratulating the Taliban, al-Qaeda has called for the “liberation” of Kashmir.India has not spelt out its position on the Taliban since the group assumed power in Kabul on August 15, following the collapse of the Ashraf Ghani government. Over the past few days, Stanekzai and senior Taliban leader Anas Haqqani have been engaged in an outreach towards India.The US completed the drawdown of its forces from Afghanistan on August 30, though secretary of state Antony Blinken has said Washington will remain focused on counter-terrorism and holding the Taliban accountable to its commitments in this regard.Bagchi also said India is prioritising the evacuation of Indian nationals and some Afghans, though this issue is linked to the resumption of operations at Kabul airport. “We will have to revisit this issue when the airport is operational, we will have to wait for that. There is no clarity now,” he said.He declined to give a number for the Indian nationals still in Afghanistan, but said the “vast majority” of citizens who wanted to leave had already returned home. “There are very few Indians left, we are in touch with them,” he said.Asked about the status of Afghan nationals coming to India, he said the emergency e-visas being issued since August 16 were valid for six months. Other Afghans who were already in India had had their visas automatically extended during the pandemic, and internal discussions were ongoing on other “specific issues”, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terror-from-afghan-soil-key-concern-says-india-101630606753392.html
03-09-2021||India||National Green tribunal does not have suo motu powers: Centre to Supreme Court||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) does not possess suo motu powers but it can act on letters or communication addressed to it raising environmental concerns, the Centre told the Supreme Court on Thursday.The submission was made by additional solicitor general (ASG) Aishwarya Bhati, appearing for the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC) during a hearing of a bunch of appeals, seeking the court’s decision on whether the tribunal has the power to directly take up issues on the basis on news reports or at the instance of any letter or communication.“The NGT does not enjoy any suo motu powers. But this cannot be stretched to the extent to suggest that a letter or application cannot be entertained by it. The tribunal cannot be tied up in procedural law for exercising power which is amply available to it under the Act. Once the tribunal receives any communication, it is duty bound to take cognisance of that,” ASG Bhati said, conveying the government’s point of view.A bench of justices AM Khanwilkar, Hrishikesh Roy and CT Ravikumar responded that the ASG’s submission is “crucial” to the case since MoEFCC was the ministry which piloted the bill constituting the NGT through Parliament.Bhati said that the National Green Tribunal Act, 2010, was enacted with the purpose of protecting the environment, and the only objection of the Centre was with regard to vesting suo motu powers to the tribunal and its members through which they can initiate action on their own.The bench said that the problem arises by using the generic term “suo motu”. “Even we are not using the term suo motu. But when a communication in the form of a letter or a sworn affidavit is received, should the Tribunal ignore it or will it be duty-bound to consider it?” The court agreed that procedural law requires the tribunal to act on an application or appeal filed before it. However, the judges wondered if this formal step could be substituted by converting a letter or a news report into an application and taking the process forward by issuance of notices to the authors of the new report and to the alleged defaulters or authorities concerned.The court-appointed amicus curiae (friend of Court), senior advocate Anand Grover, supported Centre’s view. Grover said: “What is meant by suo motu is that the Tribunal or its members cannot initiate action or trigger the process on basis of reading a newspaper report.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ngt-can-act-on-letters-communication-but-not-on-news-reports-centre-tells-sc-101630596253070.html
03-09-2021||India||Kashmir locked down as Syed Ali Shah Geelani gets quiet burial||Kashmiri separatist leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani was on Thursday buried in a quiet funeral at a graveyard near his residence in Srinagar’s Hyderpora amid a clampdown on movement and communications in Kashmir. The burial took place around 4.30am with Geelani’s family alleging that the police forcibly took away his body.Geelani’s son, Nayeem, said police officers told the family the burial would have to happen at the local graveyard before dawn. “We told the police that he desired to be buried at Eidgah (in old Srinagar), and that we wanted to bury him there in the morning... The officer in charge... told us that there is pressure from higher officials to bury him at night,” he said.He added that the police forcibly took away the body at 3am. “The body was taken to a local mosque and later buried after religious formalities. They asked us to attend the funeral, which we refused.” He also claimed the family requested the police to wait till the morning so that other relatives could gather but that this request wasn’t accepted. Nayeem said the family visited the grave in the morning.The police action was likely prompted by a desire to avoid a mass gathering, which may have turned restive or violent. Inspector general of police (Kashmir) Vijay Kumar refused to comment on Nayeem’s allegations.Nayeem said even after his death, authorities were fearful of his father. “They (government) thought that this death could trigger an upheaval.” Nayeem said his father developed a breathing problem at 9:30pm on Wednesday. “We put him on the oxygen support, but he passed away around 10pm.”Geelani, the face of separatism in Kashmir for over three decades, died after a prolonged illness at 91. The separatist leader, who spent around two decades in jail, was largely confined to his residence because of ill-health since 2010.As soon as the news of Geelani’s death broke, authorities enhanced security across the Valley. Hundreds of security personnel patrolled streets, put up barricades, and sealed key roads to restrict the movement of people in a clampdown similar to the one imposed after the nullification of the region’s semi-autonomous status in 2019. Shops and businesses were shuttered while the movement of vehicles was restricted. Internet connections and mobile networks were snapped and even journalists were prevented from covering the funeral. Only the post-paid mobiles of Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited were working in Kashmir.Forces were deployed across Kashmir and all the roads leading to Hyderpora were sealed. Officials said additional troops were deployed, especially in Srinagar’s old city and north Kashmir including Geelani’s hometown Sopore.News agency Press Trust of India reported that Geelani’s family was asked to carry out the burial at night as a precautionary measure because of intelligence reports that suggested some “anti-national elements” could use the opportunity to create a law-and-order situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/geelanis-family-alleges-forced-burial-at-night-amid-clampdown-in-kashmir-101630587012385.html
03-09-2021||India||Congress forms panel to plan protests on national issues||Ahead of elections in several states, Congress chief Sonia Gandhi on Thursday set up a nine-member panel of party leaders headed by Rajya Sabha MP Digvijaya Singh to plan “sustained agitations on national issues”.Besides Singh, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, MPs Uttam Reddy and Ripun Bora, dalit leader Udit Raj, who switched over to the party from the Bharatiya Janata Party last year, and party leaders Manish Chatratha, Zuber Khan and BK Hariprasad were named as members of the panel.A statement issued by the party said the Congress president has constituted the nine-member panel with Singh as its chairman with immediate effect to “plan sustained agitations on national issues”.The formation of the committee came days after the Congress, along with 18 other Opposition parties, announced to hold nationwide protests from September 20 to 30. The party has been attacking the Centre over several economic issues such as rise in fuel and LPG prices, farm laws and most recently, the national monetisation pipeline announced by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-sets-up-panel-to-plan-agitations-on-national-issues-101630586412246.html
03-09-2021||India||Ex-gratia amount in journalist welfare scheme to be reviewed||The government on Thursday set up a 12-member committee to review the existing guidelines of the Journalist Welfare Scheme (JWS). The committee, headed by Prasar Bharti Board member Ashok Tandon, is expected to give its report in two months. The committee will examine the need for revision of the quantum of ex-gratia payment in death as well as other cases under the JWS. It will also look into the aspect of differentiation and parity between accredited and non-accredited journalists for availing benefits under the scheme.Also Read | Former Union ministers welcome Indian envoy’s meeting with Taliban leaderThe committee has also been asked to look into the revision and broad-basing the definition of ‘working journalist’ for the purpose of the scheme, keeping in view the Occupational, Safety, Health and Working Condition Code-2020 as well as Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021.“This decision is considered significant in the light of the several changes that have taken place in the media eco-space, including the loss of a large number of journalists due to Covid-19...,” read the ministry of information and broadcasting statement.Members of the committee are The Week resident editor Sachidananda Murthy, senior journalist Shekhar Iyer, Panchjanya editor Hitesh Shankar, Amitabh Sinha (News 18), Shishir Sinha (Business Line), Ravinder Kumar (Zee News), Smriti Kak Ramachandran (Hindustan Times), Amit Kumar (Times Now), Vasudha Venugopal (Economic Times) and Press Information Bureau additional director general Kanchan Prasad. Pankaj Salodia, Director (IP) will be the convener of the committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-sets-up-12-member-panel-to-review-journalist-welfare-scheme-101630585212131.html
03-09-2021||India||Wet spell over northwest India, including Delhi may hit 4-day pause: Met||The wet spell over northwest India, including Delhi, is likely to abate for the next three to four days, continuing the trend seen in this monsoon season of intense rains interspersed with relatively dry spells, but will resume from early next week, the India Meteorological Department said.However, in the same period, rains will increase over peninsular India and the west coast, the Met said.A low-pressure area is likely to develop over Bay of Bengal on September 6; it is likely to travel westwards and bring widespread rains over central and parts of northwest India.“A wet spell is just ending with widespread rains over northwest and west India. Another wet spell is likely to begin from September 6 in association with the likely development of a low-pressure area,” said M Mohapatra, director general, IMD.“The remnant of a low pressure system is still bringing widespread rains over Gujarat and the Kutch region. The same system was bringing widespread and intense rain over Delhi and other parts of northwest India till Thursday. The system has now weakened but a western disturbance is also impacting the region. Now, with the development of a low-pressure area around September 6, we can expect an active spell, especially over central India,” said K Sathi Devi, head, national weather forecasting centre.The extended rain forecast of IMD indicates there will be widespread rains over central and east India at least till September 16, and fairly widespread rains over parts of east and northwest India till September 23.The normal date for commencement of monsoon withdrawal from northwest India is September 17. The withdrawal may be further delayed this time, IMD said.“We do not have a forecast for monsoon withdrawal but our long-range forecast is showing good rains at least till September 16 so we have to monitor conditions closely,” said Mohapatra.According to IMD, widespread rainfall with isolated very heavy rain is very likely over Saurashtra and Kutch during the next 24 hours, and isolated heavy rain is also very likely over Gujarat and the Saurashtra and Kutch regions on Friday.Rainfall activity over south peninsular India is likely to increase from September 4, with widespread rainfall and isolated heavy rain very likely over Konkan, Goa, Coastal Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Tamil Nadu between September 4 and 6; Karnataka, Kerala, Mahe and Marathwada on September 5 and 6; and over Madhya Maharashtra on September 6.Rainfall over Central India is also likely to increase from September 5. with widespread and heavy rain over Chhattisgarh till September 6; Vidarbha and Madhya Pradesh are also likely to record heavy rain.Meanwhile, scattered rain is likely to continue over east and northeast India including Assam, Meghalaya, sub-Himalayan West Bengal for the next couple of days.There is 9% deficiency in rain since June 1 across the country with 13% deficiency each over northwest and central India, 8% over east and northeast India, and an 8% excess over the southern peninsula.IMD expects the monsoon in September to be 110% of the long period average, which will reduce some of the deficit, although overall rainfall in the June-September season will still be at the “lower end of the normal category”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-to-reduce-over-northwest-india-another-wet-spell-likely-after-sept-6-101630583172079.html
