04-09-2021||India||Bihar looks to simplify road accident claims, fast-track ex-gratia||PATNA: Bihar is set to become the first state to simplify claims of road traffic accident (RTA) insurance by removing the victims or their dependants from the litigation process and paying them an interim ex-gratia amount of ₹5 lakh within 15 days in the event of a death, officials aware of the matter said.The state will also take the onus to contest the case in court, on behalf of the victim, if the insurance firm of the accused vehicle owner decides to challenge the order, the people quoted above said.From September 15, the state is to set implement the new amendment to the Bihar Motor Vehicle Rules that empower the state transport appellate tribunal to settle all such accident claims within 60 days. The new amendment was notified in the Bihar gazette on August 11 after a cabinet order.So far, road traffic accident insurance claims are tried in the civil court and cases can linger on for years.“This is the first of its kind initiative in India to simplify accident claims,” said Bihar’s transport secretary, Sanjay Kumar Agarwal.The new rules allow immediate payment of ₹5 lakh as interim compensation in case of a death and ₹50,000 for grievous injury to dependants or victims of road traffic accidents involving vehicles that are insured, uninsured or involved in hit-and-run cases. The compensation for grievous injury is proposed to be increased from ₹50,000 to ₹2.5 lakh.As part of the new rules, victims or their relatives will not have to run from pillar to post for the settlement of claims, people quoted above said. The state will pay the interim compensation and also take the responsibility of fighting a legal suit on behalf of the victim if an insurance firm were to challenge its order.“We have set up a revolving corpus of ₹50 crore under the Bihar motor vehicle accident assistance fund through which such payments will be made,” said Agarwal.In case of insured vehicles, the state will pay the compensation to the victim or their dependants through the corpus fund and recover the amount from the insurance firm after the tribunal settles the case within the stipulated 60 days, he added.For uninsured vehicles, the state will recover the compensation amount by auctioning the vehicle if its vehicle owner is unable to pay the compensation to the victim’s family. Should the amount realised through auction be less than the compensation fixed, the state will bear the difference amount through the Bihar motor vehicle accident assistance fund, said Agarwal.Nearly 20% of about 1.4 million registered vehicles in the state till 2019-20 do not renew their insurance, according to estimates. “We will start a special drive to check for insurance of motor vehicles soon,” he added.For hit-and-run case, the compensation amount will be borne through the state’s corpus fund and replenished partially by the Centre through insurance companies, which pay ₹50,000. The state will bear the remaining ₹4,50,000 in deaths involving hit-and-run cases.Under the changed rules, all sub-divisional officers (SDO) will be the accident claim inquiry officer and district magistrates (DM) the accident claims assessment officer. The SDO conducts the inquiry on the basis of site inspection done by the police and the motor vehicle inspector.“The changed rules do not mandate any site inspection or examination of witness at the trial stage. If challenged, the case will be adjudicated on the basis of a summary trial based on the petition of the victim or their relatives, deposition by the insurance firm and reports by the police, the SDO and DM,” said Agarwal.In case the tribunal or a higher court awards a higher compensation, the difference of the amount already paid as interim compensation would be credited into the bank account of the victim’s family. However, in case of an adverse order for the government, the interim amount already paid as compensation to the family of the victim will not be taken back but adjusted through the Bihar motor vehicle accident assistance fund.Bihar ranks 15th in India in terms of road accidents and ninth in terms of fatalities arising out of them, as per data released by the ministry of road transport and highways (MoRT&H) in 2019.Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Kerala, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh and Gujarat are among states which rank higher than Bihar both in terms of number of road accidents and deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-looks-to-simplify-road-accident-claims-fast-track-exgratia-101630779280045.html
04-09-2021||India||CID summons Suvendu Adhikari for questioning over alleged suicide of bodyguard||The West Bengal Criminal Investigation Department (CID) has asked Bharatiya Janata Party leader Suvendu Adhikari to appear before it on Monday for questioning in connection with the alleged suicide of his security guard in 2018, officials said. Interestingly, the Enforcement Directorate has also summoned West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee to Delhi for questioning in connection with the multi-crore coal smuggling case on the same day. Even though Adhikari didn’t respond to calls and messages, a BJP spokesperson said that it was vendetta politics as Adhikari had defeated Mamata Banerjee in Nandigram in the recently held assembly elections. “When the security guard died, Adhikari was a minister in the TMC government. Back then he was God. Now that he has joined the BJP and has defeated Mamata Banerjee he has become a demon. The TMC is not being able to digest the defeat of Mamata Banerjee. This is nothing but vendetta politics,” said Samik Bhattacharya, BJP spokesperson. In July the CID had initiated a fresh probe into the death of Adhikari’s security guard who reportedly died by suicide in 2018. According to the police, the victim, Suvabrata Chakraborty, allegedly shot himself with his service revolver in October 2018. Chakraborty was the former security guard of BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari, who was then transport minister in the Mamata Banerjee administration. The guard died two days later. In July, after the TMC came to power for the third time, the victim’s wife lodged a three-page complaint with the local police in East Midnapore district demanding a fresh probe into her husband’s death. Adhikari had sided with the BJP in December 2020 just ahead of the state assembly elections. Though the TMC returned to power with a thumping majority, chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who contested from Nandigram in East Midnapore district, was defeated by Adhikari, her protégé-turned-adversary. Adhikari is now the leader of the opposition in the state legislative assembly. “BJP is continuously resorting to vindictive politics. The way, Abhishek Banerjee and a few others are being attacked in the name of investigation; people of West Bengal won’t accept it. It has been proved that such steps are not above vindictive politics,” Partha Chatterjee, state minister and Trinamool Congress’ secretary general had told the media when ED had summoned the CM’s nephew.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cid-summons-suvendu-adhikari-for-questioning-over-alleged-suicide-of-bodyguard-101630779264692.html
04-09-2021||India||8 arrested in UP over illegal conversion charged with ‘waging war against country’||Lucknow: Eight people arrested over alleged illegal religious conversion in Uttar Pradesh have been charged with conspiring to wage war against the country.Special judge Ram Gupta allowed a plea by the anti-terrorist squad, which had arrested the eight in June, seeking the addition of sections 121 A (conspiring to wage war against the country) and 123 (concealing the existence of a design to wage war against the government) in the FIR.While allowing the plea Thursday, the court also extended the judicial custody of the accused till September 14.The accused against whom the offences were added are -- Mohd Umar Gautam, Mufti Kazi Jahangir Alam Kasmi, Irfan Sekh alias Irfan Khna, Salahudin alias Jainuddin Sekh, Prasad Rameshwar Kanware, Bhupriya Vindo alias Arslan, KausarAlam and Dr Faraj Babullah Shah.The accused were taken in judicial custody under sections 417 (cheating), 120B (criminal conspiracy), 153A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence), 153B (imputations, assertions prejudicial to national-integration) among other sections of the IPC, alongside those of Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Act 2021.The ATS had filed the plea in the special court, seeking the addition sections 121A and 123 of the IPC.The ATS alleged the gang was involved not only in illegal religious activities but also conspired to disturb the population ratio in the country to promote enmity among different religions, thereby posing a danger to the unity, integrity and sovereignty of the country. “The gang aimed to establish Islamic state in the country,” the ATS said on Saturday. “During investigation of the case, such evidence has been collected which disclose commission of offences under section 121A and 123 of IPC against the accused and hence it is necessary to take remand of the accused under the added sections also,” ATS investigating officer Mohan Prasad Verma said.The ATS had lodged the FIR in the case on June 20 at its special police station in Lucknow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/8-arrested-in-up-over-illegal-conversion-charged-with-waging-war-against-country-101630778725419.html
04-09-2021||India||Covid-19 pandemic under control in Kerala, says CM Pinarayi Vijayan||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday said the Covid-19 situation in the state is under control and there has not been any big spike in infections after the Onam festival as feared. The CM said though the number of patients increased, hospital admissions came down in the last three weeks and the situation would stabilise soon. He said in mid-August, the hospitalisation rate was 5.99 per cent of active cases but it came down to 5.23 per cent between August 28 and September 3. “There is not as big a hike as we feared after Onam. Hospitalisation rate is coming down slowly. Even in the recent experts’ meeting all lauded the state’s containment strategy,” he said. The Kerala government had called a meeting of experts on September 1. Vijayan said the night curfew and Sunday lockdown will continue till the situation stabilised. Many experts have criticised the night curfew saying movement was minimum during night hours. He said the state has vaccinated 75 per cent of the eligible population and out of this 27.4 per cent got both doses even as the Union government ensured proper supply of vaccines. The CM also flagged off a new campaign “Be the Warrior” exhorting youngsters and volunteers to participate in a big way in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. However, the opposition Congress and BJP said the government’s containment measures remained only confined to slogans and public relations exercises. “Now the government is taking refuge in experts’ meeting to paint a rosy picture. Instead of admitting that its containment strategy had failed it is looking for alibis,” said BJP leader S Suresh. Kerala on Saturday added 29,682 new Covid-19 cases with a TPR of 17.54 per cent after 1,69,237 samples were tested. It also reported 142 deaths with the death toll rising to 21,422. Active cases now stand at 2,50, 065. Thrissur district topped with 3,474 cases followed by Ernakulam with 3,456 and Malappuram with 3,156 cases. North Kerala’s Wayanad and Kasaragod districts reported less than 1000 cases. In the last 24 hours the country reported 42,618 new cases with 330 deaths. The national TPR is below 3% and the active caseload stands at 4,05,681.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-pandemic-under-control-in-kerala-says-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-101630774164528.html
04-09-2021||India||PM Modi's approval rating is 70%, highest among 13 global leaders||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has an approval rating of 70 per cent, which is the highest among 13 global leaders polled in the survey conducted by The Morning Consult. In the survey, updated on September 2, PM Modi is ahead of Mexican president Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi, German Chancellor Angela Merkel, US President Joe Biden. The list also includes Australian PM Scott Morrison, Canada PM Trudeau, UK Prime Minister Boris Jonson, Brazilian President Jaire Bolsonaro etc.PM Modi's approval rating has also gone up in the recent two months as, in June, PM Modi's approval rating was 66%. Global Leader Approval: Among All Adults https://t.co/dQsNxouZWb Modi: 70% López Obrador: 64% Draghi: 63% Merkel: 52% Biden: 48% Morrison: 48% Trudeau: 45% Johnson: 41% Bolsonaro: 39% Moon: 38% Sánchez: 35% Macron: 34% Suga: 25% *Updated 9/2/21 pic.twitter.com/oMhOH3GLqYHere is PM Modi's approval rating in comparison with global leadersNarendra Modi: 70%López Obrador: 64%Mario Draghi: 63%Angela Merkel: 52%Joe Biden: 48%Scott Morrison: 48%Justin Trudeau: 45%Boris Johnson: 41%Jair Bolsonaro: 39%Moon Jae-In: 38%Pedro Sánchez: 35%Emanuel Macron: 34%Yoshihide Suga: 25%Modi's disapproval rating has also dropped to around 25 per cent, one of the lowest on the list.The Morning Consult's graph shown that PM Modi's disapproval rating reached a peak in May when the second wave of the Covid hit the country hard. Now that the Covid situation in the country is steadily improving even amid the threat of a third wave of the pandemic, PM Modi's disapproval rating has come down.PM Modi's approval rating was at its peak at 84 per cent in May 2020 just after the outbreak of the pandemic in India. The Morning Consult calculates the approval and disapproval rating“based on a seven-day moving average of all adults in a given country with a margin of error of between +/- 1-3%”. Online interviews of approximately, 2,126 adults were sampled for the data on India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-approval-rating-is-70-highest-among-13-global-leaders-101630772142617.html
04-09-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: Sept 5, 1976 — Viking-2 lands on Mars, sends photos||Pasadena, California- The first two photographs of Mars sent back by Viking-II today show a desert terrain similar to the landing site of the earlier probe, Viking-1, Mission Control announced here. A spokesman said all communications with both modules of Viking-II were restored, and the first two pictures showed a sandy surface strewn with boulders of various kinds, some sharp-edged and others round and sponge-like in appearance. The fact that the pictures were transmitted successfully indicated that the main antenna on the orbiting section was again directed towards the earth and the communications problems were solved, he added. The section was thrown out of position yesterday at the moment of separation of the two parts and the antenna was pointing to space, cutting off normal communication between earth and the landing module. The first photographs were very clear, showing that the first camera on the module was working well. They consisted of a shot of the landing spot showing one of the module’s legs and a panoramic view. Over the next few days, Viking II will continue to take photographs of the area around the site and will not begin biological experiments in the search for life until a week’s time. Dr Carl Sagan, an astronomer on the Viking team, said that the rocks liberally strewn across the landscape appeared to come from a nearby crater. He said that racks pitted with holes, around the foot pad of the Viking lander, appeared to be lava from a volcano 2nd success Viking-II’s touchdown was the second major success for the US space programme within six weeks, following quickly on the heels of the almost-flawless mission by Viking-I now sitting 4,000 miles away near the Mars equator. Viking II, which set down in a valley called “Utopia,” will be looking for confirmation of signals sent back by Viking-I that microscopic forms of life may exist in the sticky, red Mars soil. Fog and lee are both present near the “UtopIa” region and scientists think it is much more probable that life will be found where there is water. “We’re at the right place at the right time as far as water goes,” one Viking project scientist said shortly before touchdown. Tension was high at the laboratory’s command post as radio contact was lost for 45 minutes shortly after the lander capsule shot away from the orbiter 11,000 miles above the planet’s surface. Confirmation that Viking II had landed almost exactly at the planned time of 3-38 p.m. local (2238 GMT, 0408 IST) came when the feeble signal from the orbiter showed that the lander had switched to the higher radio frequency it was to use on the Martian surface.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htthisday-sept-5-1976-viking-2-lands-on-mars-sends-photos-101630769844958.html
04-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: Kerala BJP chief alleges LDF, UDF vying to support Taliban and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Vijayan's party, UDF vying to support Taliban, says Kerala BJP chiefBJP state president K Surendran on Saturday alleged that the mainstream political parties of Kerala are vying to extend support to the Taliban. Since the insurgent group came to power in Afghanistan, both the LDF and the UDF have been playing a different sort of politics, the state BJP leader charged. Read more…India-US 2+2 meeting to be held in NovemberThe next round of India-US 2+2 ministerial dialogue is expected to take place in November and “there is some talk” of a summit meeting between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Joe Biden on the sidelines of the first in-person summit-level meeting of the leaders of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue (Quad). Read more…For fourth straight day, Delhi reports no death due to Covid-19Delhi recorded no fatality due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) for a fourth straight day on Saturday, according to the data available on the health bulletin. The national capital reported 55 fresh cases and 63 new recoveries, taking the respective cumulative tally to 14,37,929 and 14,12,493, the bulletin data revealed. Read more…AAP should declare CM face early, based on ground realities, says MannSangrur Punjab Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) president and local MP Bhagwant Mann has said that the party not announcing a chief minister candidate for the Punjab assembly polls in 2022, early enough, was a big hurdle for party workers in their daily interactions with the public. Read more…Ramp up 1st Covid vaccine dose coverage of 18+: Centre to N-E, hill statesThe Centre on Saturday asked 11 northeast and hill states and Union Territories (UTs) to quickly increase the first dose coverage of the vaccine against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) among those in the 18-plus age group and focus on those above 60 years, saying the coverage of both doses has been unsatisfactory in some states. Read more…4th Test: Rohit Sharma further enhances reputation as Test opener with maiden overseas centuryIndia batsman Rohit Sharma on Saturday notched up his 8th Test century during Day 3 the fourth Test against England at the Oval, and one that he would always cherish given this is the batsman's first three-figure score in Test cricket away from home. Read more…Realme 6, Realme 6i, Realme X get Android 11-based Realme UI 2.0Realme earlier this month rolled out Android 11-based Realme UI 2.0 to its Realme Narzo 30 Pro smartphone. Now, almost a month later, the company has announced that it has started rolling out a stable version of its Realme UI 2.0 on its Realme 6, Realme 6i, and Realme X smartphones. Read more…Salman Khan told Bhagyashree 'please do it' after she cried over hugging scene with him in Maine Pyar KiyaActor Bhagyashree has opened up on how she was worried about shooting a few scenes, in her debut film Maine Pyar Kiya (1989), where she had to hug and kiss her co-star Salman Khan. Bhagyashree, who will appear as a guest on Zee Comedy Show this weekend, revealed how Salman convinced her to do the 'hug sequence'. She also spoke about how the kissing scene was changed for her. Read more…Teacher's Day 2021: Dumbledore to Kabir Khan, teachers from our wildest dreamsThis Teacher's Day 2021, let's take a look at some of the best onscreen and literary teachers that taught us how a gentle guiding hand can truly unleash your inner brave heart, genius and talent. Read more…||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-kerala-bjp-chief-alleges-ldf-udf-vying-to-support-taliban-and-all-the-latest-news-101630767844748.html
04-09-2021||India||PM Modi’s upcoming visit to US maybe linked to holding of Quad Summit||A visit to the US by Prime Minister Narendra Modi this month is being linked to greater clarity on the holding of the first in-person summit of Quad leaders following Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga’s decision to step down, people familiar with developments said on Saturday. The first face-to-face meeting of leaders of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue, after their maiden virtual summit in March, was being seen as the centrepiece of a visit to the US by Modi. However, Suga’s surprise move led to confusion and uncertainty about plans for the Quad meet to be hosted by Washington, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity. The Indian side has already begun advance preparations for a possible visit by the prime minister, and some of the grounds were prepared during foreign secretary Harsh Shringla’s three-day visit to Washington this week. There has been no formal announcement from the Indian side, though dates between September 22 and 27 were being looked at for the visit. If the visit does go ahead, Modi is also expected to address the annual UN General Assembly in New York and hold his first bilateral meeting with US President Joe Biden. “There is some amount of confusion and lack of clarity on whether the Japanese prime minister will travel to the US following his decision to step down. The Indian side has begun the spade work but a call will have to be made at a higher level,” one of the people cited above said. The people said the Japanese side had proposed holding the Quad Summit in a hybrid format, with Suga joining virtually. There have also been suggestions for holding the summit after the election of a new Japanese prime minister. It is learnt that not all Quad members are interested in holding the summit in a hybrid format. The people also noted the US recently asked more than 150 countries planning to send a leader or a minister to speak in person at the UN General Assembly to consider giving a video address in order to prevent the meeting from becoming a super-spreader event. The Quad comprises India, Australia, Japan and the US. Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison is expected to travel to the US in September to join Biden for events commemorating the 70th anniversary of the Australia, New Zealand and US Security Treaty, or ANZUS Treaty. On Friday, Suga announced his decision not to seek re-election as leader of the ruling Liberal Democrat Party (LDP) in the face of mounting criticism over his handling of the Covid-19 crisis. Suga took over just under a year ago after Shinzo Abe resigned citing ill health. Opposition to his leadership among LDP lawmakers has diminished his chances of winning a second term. Even if Suga were to go ahead with a visit to the US, he has to return to Japan before September 29, when LDP will hold its presidential election. Suga is also expected to be preoccupied with campaigning for the party election, which will begin on September 17. His successor must call a general election by November 28. The political developments in Japan have also raised the possibility of the annual bilateral summit with India being cancelled for the third straight year. The meet couldn’t be held in 2019 because of violent protests against the amended citizenship law in Guwahati, the proposed venue, and it wasn’t held last year because of the pandemic. The planned Quad Summit was aimed at giving fresh impetus to several key initiatives, including the grouping’s vaccine partnership and measures to ensure an open and free Indo-Pacific. The four countries plan to distribute one billion doses of US-developed vaccines produced in India across the Indo-Pacific but the move hit a road block after India was hit by a devastating second wave of infections. In March, Biden hosted the first virtual Quad leaders’ summit that pledged to work for an open and inclusive Indo-Pacific anchored by democratic values and unconstrained by coercion, an apparent signal to China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-upcoming-visit-to-us-maybe-linked-to-holding-of-quad-summit-101630769184332.html
04-09-2021||India||Kerala sees below 30,000 Covid cases for 2nd straight day; 142 more deaths added||Kerala’s daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) remained below the 30,000-mark for a second consecutive day as 29,682 new cases were recorded in the last 24 hours, pushing the caseload to 4,181,137, according to the health department’s bulletin.Nearly 26,000 were discharged while 142 succumbed to the viral disease in the same period. With this, the cumulative count of recoveries and deaths has climbed to 3,909,096 and 21,422 respectively. The active cases in the state stand at 250,065.On Friday, Kerala reported 29,322 new cases, 131 deaths and 22,938 recoveries.On Saturday, Thrissur reported the most number of cases at 3,474, followed by 3,456 cases in Ernakulam, 3,166 in Malappuram and 2,950 in Kozhikode, the bulletin added. More than 169,000 samples were tested for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours and the cumulative figures have gone up to 32,234,770 and the test positivity rate is at 17.54 per cent.The fresh cases in Kerala include 132 health workers, 185 people from outside the state and 28,008 people who were infected through contact. The source of infection of 1,357 people was yet to be traced. The bulletin also stated that 603,968 people are under observation across the state of which 33,411 are in isolation wards of hospitals and the remaining 570,557 are in home or institutional quarantine.Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Saturday that his government will continue with the night curfew and Sunday lockdowns in the state, adding the situation will be reviewed on September 7. Vijayan said the daily cases did not see a major surge after the Onam festival as it was feared before, and the hospital occupancy in the state has also declined in the previous three weeks. From August 16-20, the hospitalisation rate was at 5.99 per cent and it reduced to 5.23 per cent from August 28- September, he added.On Friday, the chief minister ruled out the possibility of a complete lockdown despite the worsening pandemic situation by saying it would bring a huge crisis for Kerala’s economy and livelihood. “Expert opinion is that we need to build social immunity and move back to normal. Caution should not be compromised at all,” Vijayan told local body officials and said that neighbourhood monitoring committees would be set up under which Covid-19 restrictions will be imposed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-sees-below-30-000-covid-cases-for-2nd-straight-day-142-more-deaths-added-101630767987579.html
04-09-2021||India||RSS-linked weekly attacks Infosys over IT portal glitches, wonders if 'anti-national' forces at work||The RSS-associated weekly magazine Panchjanya has blasted Infosys in its latest edition over the glitches surrounding the Goods and Service Tax (GST) and Income Tax portals. Panchjanya has carried a four-page cover story on the Bengaluru-based IT services company, with Infosys founder Narayana Murthy’s picture on it and text which reads 'Saakh Aur Aghaat' (Reputation and Damage).The article criticising Infosys’ handling of the project wonders whether any "anti-national power is trying to hurt India's economic interests through it". Dubbing the company as 'Unchi Dukan, Phika Pakwaan' (great cry and little wool), Panchjanya noted that the regular glitches have "brought down the trust of taxpayers in the Indian economy"."Due to glitches in both GST and Income Tax return portals developed by Infosys, the taxpayers trust in the country's economy has taken a hit. Is it that any anti-national force via Infosys is trying to hurt India's economic interests," the article wondered.While the weekly admitted that it doesn’t have any concrete evidence to back the serious allegation, it said the company has been multiple times accused of helping the "naxalites, leftists and tukde-tukde gangs".Also Read | I-T portal glitch: Finance ministry 'summons' Infosys CEO Salil ParekhSenior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh said that the article attempts to shift the blame from the government and is “actually anti-national”. Taking to Twitter, the Rajya Sabha MP and former Union minister said that IT companies like Infosys have transformed the country and the article deserves to be “wholeheartedly condemned.”The scurrilous attack on Infosys in a RSS publication is outrageous and actually anti-national. Companies like Infosys have transformed India and its standing in the world. The article is an attempt to shift the blame from the Govt and deserves to be wholeheartedly condemned!The scathing piece targeting Infosys came days after Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman held a meeting with the company’s MD & CEO Salil Parekh to convey “deep disappointment and concerns” of the government as well as the taxpayers about the issues in the e-filing portal. Sitharaman has given Infosys a September 15 deadline to resolve all the issues faced by taxpayers on the portal. According to the finance ministry, Parekh assured that Infosys is working expeditiously to ensure a glitch-free experience for the taxpayers on the portal.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rsslinked-weekly-attacks-infosys-over-it-portal-glitches-wonders-if-anti-national-forces-at-work-101630762936029.html
04-09-2021||India||Vijayan's party, UDF vying to support Taliban, says Kerala BJP chief||BJP state president K Surendran on Saturday alleged that the mainstream political parties of Kerala are vying to extend support to the Taliban. Since the insurgent group came to power in Afghanistan, both the LDF and the UDF have been playing a different sort of politics, the state BJP leader charged. He said that the pro-Taliban stance is to whitewash 1921's Malabar Rebellion in Kerala.The Malabar rebellion still courts controversy as the BJP and the RSS consider this as one of the first manifestations of the Taliban mindset in India, while both the Congress and the LDF consider this as an anti-imperialist movement.Many insurgents who left Kerala to join ISIS in 2016 have been released from Kabul prisons after the Taliban captured Kabul and announced an amnesty for everyone. At least 14 of them reportedly joined the Islamic State of Khorasan Province, the IS branch, which claimed the responsibility of the airport blasts.Earlier, CPI(M) politburo member MA Baby opined that the Taliban victory increases the possibility of radical Islam becoming a magnet for more citizens, including Keralites. In reply to this, IUML leader Abdu Rabb said CPI(M)'s ideological partner China has already made overtures to the Taliban leadership.IUML MLAMK Muneer had complained of receiving an anonymous threat letter after he made an anti-Taliban post on Facebook soon after the Taliban captured Kabul.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vijayans-party-udf-vying-to-support-taliban-says-kerala-bjp-chief-101630762834050.html
04-09-2021||India||Ramp up 1st Covid vaccine dose coverage of 18+: Centre to N-E, hill states||The Centre on Saturday asked 11 northeast and hill states and Union Territories (UTs) to quickly increase the first dose coverage of the vaccine against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) among those in the 18-plus age group and focus on those above 60 years, saying the coverage of both doses has been unsatisfactory in some states. The 11 states and UTs included Arunachal Pradesh, Ladakh, Jammu and Kashmir, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Tripura, Uttarakhand, Assam, Nagaland and Sikkim.In a high-level review meeting chaired by Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan on Saturday, it was observed that the coverage of both vaccine doses in the 60-plus age group is unsatisfactory in Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland, Manipur and Meghalaya, according to a statement by the Union health ministry.Also Read| Covid vaccines’ export may not resume before 2022“The attention of the States was brought to the fact that the administration of the first dose has progressively outpaced the administration of the second dose. It was suggested that States earmark doses, earmark days and target the completion of the exercise for these beneficiaries,” the statement added.During the meeting, other issues which were discussed included Covid-19 vaccination coverage among special groups, including transgenders, persons with disabilities, prisoners; coverage among women, specifically pregnant and lactating women and details regarding balance stock of 0.5 ml syringes with states and UTs.Union health secretary Bhushan also advised states and UTs to keep monitor the stock from the state vaccine stores to cold chain point, check rational distribution and restrict wastage of vaccines below 2 per cent, update data on the electronic vaccine intelligence network (eVIN) daily and also check the supply of other denomination syringes as per availability for vaccination, the health ministry statement also said.Saturday’s meeting with these states comes after Prime Minister Narendra Modi chaired a meeting with the chief ministers of northeastern states on July 13, where he called for greater emphasis on micro-containment zones amid the influx of tourists at hill stations and markets. Modi said that officials had to keep an eye out for the various variants of Covid-19, and also called for greater cooperation to prevent the third pandemic wave.Also Read| Is Mu variant of coronavirus vaccine resistant? WHO says it could be possibleIndia’s Covid-19 vaccine coverage has climbed to 677,211,205 so far of which 519,866,213 have received the first dose and the remaining 157,344,992 are fully vaccinated, i.e inoculated with both doses. More than 5.88 million people were given the jab in the last 24 hours.The health ministry said on Thursday that 16 per cent of the adult population in the country has been fully vaccinated, while 54 per cent of the adult population has received at least one dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ramp-up-1st-covid-vaccine-dose-coverage-of-18-centre-to-n-e-hill-states-101630762622900.html
04-09-2021||India||'We owe them a fair exam': Rahul Gandhi on JEE (Main) scam||As the Congress on Saturday demanded a Supreme Court-monitored probe into the alleged JEE Main scam, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted that the nation owes a fair exam to the students who prepare very hard for such competitive exams, "battling difficulties of various kinds". The Centre is better at providing cover-ups, Gandhi said.The CBI has registered a case against Affinity Education Pvt Ltd and its directors on charges of several irregularities including arranging proxy candidates in exchange for hefty money to guarantee rank in the exam.
04-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: Why Bhabanipur by-polls are important for Mamata Banerjee and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Bhabanipur by-polls announced. Why is it crucial for Mamata Banerjee? 10 pointsThe Election Commission announced on Saturday it will hold by-polls in three assembly constituencies of West Bengal, including the Bhabanipur seat where chief minister and Trinamool Congress leader Mamata Banerjee intends to contest, and one seat in Odisha on September 30. Read moreSupertech says towers built as per law, to file review petition against SC orderSupertech Ltd chairman RK Arora said on Saturday they will file a review petition against the Supreme Court order to demolish the company's two 40-storey residential towers in Noida as he stressed that the buildings were constructed according to the law and with approval of the competent authority. Read moreBSF opens fire on drone at border village in Punjab’s Tarn TaranThe Border Security Force (BSF) opened fire upon a drone flying into Indian territory along the border with Pakistan near Rajoke village of Bhikhiwind sub division early on Saturday. Read moreUS: Biden's plans to start delivery of Covid booster shots face complicationsPresident Joe Biden's plan to start delivery of booster shots by September 20 for most Americans who received Covid-19 vaccines is facing complications that could delay the availability for those who received the Moderna vaccine, administration officials said Friday. Read moreWoman’s scream makes neighbours call cops. She yelled after seeing a spiderA Facebook post involving a woman’s scram, a few cops, and a spider has now left people chuckling. There is a chance that the story will tickle your funny bone too. And if you’re someone who has arachnophobia, then chances are you will relate to the share too. Read moreTokyo Paralympics: India's Pramod Bhagat clinches gold medal in men's singles (SL3) badminton eventIndian shuttler Pramod Bhagat added to India's medal rush by winning the gold medal in the men's singles (SL3) event at the ongoing Tokyo Paralympics. He defeated Great Britain's Daniel Bethell 21-14,21-17 to win the final in Japan. Read moreThis new WhatsApp Web feature will change your app life forever; check it outWhatsApp Web will soon get this great new feature and change the way you react on the app with your family, friends and colleagues forever. The company is working on a new WhatsApp Web feature for its apps on Android and iOS. Read moreShang-Chi day 1 box office: Marvel film mints ₹3.25 cr, beats BellBottom's opening day collectionMarvel Studios made a comeback in India with Shang-Chi And The Legend Of The Ten Rings two years after Spider-Man: Far From Home released. The film, released on Friday, has collected ₹3.25 crore net on its first day despite theatres in Maharashtra remaining shut. Read moreMade-in-India Ola Electric S1 scooter to be shipped to US from early 2022Ola Electric S1 scooter has created quite a buzz in the Indian automobile market but the company is also focusing on making its presence known in global markets. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-why-bhabanipur-by-polls-are-important-for-mamata-banerjee-101630754386735.html
04-09-2021||India||Third BJP legislator joins TMC in five days in West Bengal||In another blow to the Bharatiya Janata Party in West Bengal, Soumen Roy--- the party’s MLA from Kaliaganj in north Bengal--- joined the ruling Trinamool Congress on Saturday. Roy is the third BJP MLA to switch sides in five days and the fourth since the TMC came to power for the third consecutive time in May this year after a sweeping victory in the assembly elections. “Roy approached our party chief Mamata Banerjee and also held talks with the party’s national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee,” said Partha Chatterjee, state minister and secretary general of the TMC. Earlier in June, Mukul Roy, who was BJP’s national vice-president, had returned to the TMC. On August 30, Tanmay Ghosh, who had won the Bishnupur seat in Bankura district on a BJP ticket in the recently held polls, joined the TMC. A day later Biswajit Das, BJP’s MLA from Bagda constituency in North 24 Parganas, joined the TMC. Both Roy and Das, after joining the TMC, hinted that more BJP legislators could join the ruling party in the near future. “I have been associated with the TMC for long. I, however, contested the elections on a BJP ticket. But my heart was with the TMC. I got misguided and made a mistake. I apologise to my party,” said Roy while speaking to the media at the TMC headquarters in Kolkata. The TMC had won 213 seats, while the BJP had managed 77 seats in the assembly polls held earlier this year. The party’s strength, however, had dropped to 75 as two MLAs did not take oath and had resigned to retain their Lok Sabha seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/third-bjp-legislator-joins-tmc-in-five-days-in-west-bengal-101630753703517.html
04-09-2021||India||By-poll schedule for 4 assembly seats including Mamata Banerjee’s announced||By-polls to four assembly seats, including West Bengal’s Bhabanipur where Mamata Banerjee is expected to contest as she needs to get elected to the state assembly by November to continue as the chief minister, will be held on September 30, the Election Commission of India (ECI) announced on Saturday.Banerjee, who took oath as the chief minister on May 5, needs to be elected within six months to retain the post. Her Trinamool Congress (TMC) swept to power for the third time this summer. But Banerjee lost the March-April assembly polls from Nandigram to her protégé-turned-adversary Suvendu Adhikari of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). TMC has been pressing for holding the by-polls as soon as possible. It has been critical of the ECI over the delay in announcing the schedule for them. In June, Banerjee said the election watchdog was awaiting Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s instructions to hold the by-elections. A delegation of TMC parliamentarians met the ECI on July 15, seeking the by-polls at the earliest.The by-poll schedule was announced days after the ECI sought inputs on 30 constituencies across the country from concerned chief secretaries and disaster management authorities in view of the pandemic. Apart from Bhabanipur, the by-polls will be held to Jangipur, Samerganj (West Bengal), and Pipli (Odisha) seats. The ECI has allowed 14-day campaigning in Bhabanipur while curtailing the electioneering in other constituencies as per the pandemic situation. “Campaigning is allowed but it has been notified according to the pandemic (situation)...,” a person familiar with the matter said on the condition of anonymity.The ECI said public gatherings will be prohibited during the nomination process. “Only three vehicles (will be) permitted within a periphery of 100 meters of RO’s (returning officer) office. No procession for nomination shall be permitted,” the ECI said in an order.For indoor campaigns, 30% of the allowed capacity or 200 persons, whichever is less, will be permitted. A register will also be maintained to count the number of people attending the meetings. The daily count of Covid-19 cases shot up from around 200 on February 26, when the eight-phase elections in Bengal were announced, to more than 27,000 on April 29 when the polls ended. Health experts linked the surge in infections to political rallies that violated the Covid-19 protocol.Elections in two constituencies in West Bengal’s Murshidabad were cancelled when the candidates contesting them died of Covid-19 in April during the staggered assembly polls. Two BJP members of Parliament, Nisith Pramanik and Jagannath Sarkar, resigned after winning assembly polls. Two other TMC legislators died after contracting the Covid-19 infection. TMC lawmaker from Bhawanipore, Sovan Deb Chatterjee, resigned to vacate the seat for Banerjee to contest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bypoll-schedule-for-4-assembly-seats-including-mamata-banerjee-s-announced-101630745604342.html
04-09-2021||India||Election Commission announces bypolls in 4 seats, including Bhabanipur where Mamata Banerjee will contest||The Election Commission of India (ECI) on Saturday announced that it will hold by-elections in four constituencies, including chief minister Mamata Banerjee's assembly segment Bhabhanipur in West Bengal, on September 30.The polls will also be held in Samserganj and Jangipur of West Bengal and Pipli (Odisha) on the date. The counting of votes will be done on October 3, the ECI said.The last date of nomination will be September 13, and candidates will be able to withdraw their names till September 16.Mamata Banerjee had lost the West Bengal assembly elections from Nandigram where she contested against Bharatiya Janata Party's Suvendu Adhikari, while her Trinamool Congress (TMC) decimated the BJP. In such a scenario, she has to get re-elected to the assembly to retain her chief minister's seat.The Mamata Banerjee-led TMC registered a landslide victory in the April-May assembly polls, winning 213 seats in the 294-member West Bengal assembly. Despite aggressive campaigning, the BJP lost the polls but emerged as the second-largest party with 77 seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ec-announces-bypolls-in-4-seats-including-bhabanipur-where-mamata-will-contest-101630742012294.html
04-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: Mumbai becomes first district to administer 1 crore Covid vaccine doses and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Mumbai becomes first district to administer 1 crore Covid vaccine dosesMumbai became the first district in the country to reach the milestone of 1 crore Covid-19 vaccination mark. According to data uploaded on the CoWIN portal, Mumbai has administered vaccine doses to 1,00,63,497 people. Read MoreTokyo Paralympics: Manish Narwal wins gold medal, Singhraj Adana wins silver in men's P4 mixed 50m pistol SH1 eventIndia's Manish Narwal and Singhraj Adana claimed two medals for India in men's P4 mixed 50m pistol SH1. Read MorePM Modi likely to visit US this month, meet President Joe Biden: ReportPrime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to visit the United States at the end of September, according to a report by Hindustan Times' sister website Livehindustan. Read MoreRatan Tata dismisses news of him advocating linking liquor sale to Aadhar CardRatan Tata has once again taken on fake news by busting a social media post falsely attributed to him. Read MoreKBC 13: Amitabh Bachchan auditions with Deepika Padukone for Farah Khan, recreates 'ek chutki sindoor' sceneActor Amitabh Bachchan and Deepika Padukone recreated the 'ek chutki sindoor ki keemat' scene for Farah Khan on KBC. In a new promo from the upcoming episode of Kaun Banega Crorepati 13, Amitabh hosted Deepika and Farah. Read MoreDakota Johnson in sheer embellished silver gown looks bold and beautiful at Venice Film FestivalAmerican actor Dakota Johnson arrived in Venice, Italy, to attend the premiere of her latest film, The Lost Daughter, at the 78th Annual Venice International Film Festival. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-mumbai-becomes-first-district-to-administer-1-crore-covid-vaccine-doses-and-all-the-latest-news-101630739654406.html
04-09-2021||India||'Kisan Mahapanchayat' in Muzaffarnagar on Sunday, UP govt beefs up security||The farmers protesting against the three central laws are organising a 'Kisan Mahapanchayat' in Uttar Pradesh Muzaffarnagar on Sunday. According to farmer leaders, discussions will be held on issues concerning farmers, including the contentious three laws passed by the Centre last year.Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farmer unions spearheading the anti-agriculture law stir, has claimed that farmers from Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Punjab and Maharashtra will take part in the Mahapanchayat."It is expected that lakhs of farmers will take part in the Kisan Mahapanchayat that will inaugurate Mission Uttar Pradesh of Samyukt Kisan Morcha, on 5th of September in the city's GIC Ground," SKM said.The farmers' body said that mobilisation meetings have taken place in several places in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh.The SKM also said that if cases against farmers were not withdrawn by September 8, an action plan for a larger protest will be decided on the day after a meeting among the protesting farmer unions.The Uttar Pradesh government has made elaborate security arrangements in view of the farmers' gathering. Six companies of the provincial armed constabulary (PAC) and two companies of rapid action force (RAF) are being deployed in Muzaffarnagar.DIG of Saharanpur range Preetinder Singh said on Saturday that the event will be videographed while five SSPs, seven ASPs and 40 police inspectors will be posted on security duty.The farmers' protest against the three contentious laws has been going on for more than nine months at the Delhi borders. The farmers have been demanding the repeal of the laws which they claim will do away with the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporations.More than 10 rounds of talks with the government that has been projecting the laws as major agricultural reforms have failed to break the deadlock between the two sides.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kisan-mahapanchayat-in-muzaffarnagar-on-sunday-up-govt-beefs-up-security-101630738421221.html
04-09-2021||India||PM Modi likely to visit US this month, meet President Joe Biden: Report||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to visit the United States at the end of September, according to a report by Hindustan Times' sister website Livehindustan. As per the report, PM Modi will visit Washington where he is likely to hold a bilateral meeting with President Joe Biden.He will also visit New York for the 76th session of the annual United Nations General Assembly (UNGA). Though no official date for PM Modi's visit has been announced, the first day of the high-level general debate is scheduled for September 21.This will be PM Modi's first official visit to the US and a first in-person meeting with Biden, since the latter took over the presidency in January this year.According to a report by news agency ANI, the preparations for the visit are already underway. PM Modi last visited the US in 2019 during Donald Trump's presidency. He had addressed a massive diaspora event in Houston, titled "Howdy Modi".The development comes in the backdrop of US withdrawal from Afghanistan and seizure of power by the Taliban.The US and its Nato allies withdrew forces from Afghanistan last week, plunging the country into a major crisis. Thousands of people are now rushing to the borders to flee the Taliban rule, known for its brutal and radical justice system.After the Taliban captured the capital city of Kabul on August 15, the US had supported India with the evacuations of its citizens. The US has also been extending help to India in the Covid-19 crisis by sending medical supplies.India is a non-permanent member of the UN security council and its month-long presidency has just ended. During the upcoming UNGA session, Afghanistan is expected to be a key topic of discussion.Meanwhile, the 2+2 dialogue between India and the United States would be held in November later this year, foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla announced earlier in the day. He is currently in Washington and has been holding discussions with several senior officials of the Biden administration including Secretary of State Anton Blinken and Deputy Secretary Wendy Sherman."We're looking at the 2+2 which will happen in November. The exact dates are not yet worked out," Shringla told a group of Indian reporters at the conclusion of his three-day visit.The last meeting of the 2+2 dialogue was held in New Delhi and the next meeting is to be hosted by the US in Washington DC.External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar has also held a series of telephonic conversations with his counterpart Blinken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-likely-to-visit-us-this-month-meet-president-joe-biden-report-101630739039778.html
04-09-2021||India||Amit Shah honours Olympic silver medalist Mirabai Chanu, thanks her for hardwork||Union home minister Amit Shah on Saturday felicitated Tokyo Olympics silver medalist weightlifter Mirabai Chanu at the 51st Foundation Day celebration of the Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPR&D). The Manipur government has appointed Chanu as Additional Superintendent of Police (Sports) in the police department. Shah presented the athlete with a shawl and memento.He said Chanu brought honour for the nation by winning a medal at the Tokyo Olympic games and is now a proud member of the police force. I thank her for her hardwork and dedication, the home minister added."This is a small gesture by BPR&D to welcome her (Saikhom Mirabai Chanu) to the fraternity on behalf of the Indian police," an official statement said on Friday, reports news agency PTI.Chanu had bagged a silver medal in the 49kg category weightlifting that opened India's account at the recently-concluded Tokyo Olympics.Shah also gave away trophies and medals for excellence in training to winner states/Union Territories and central police organisations and forces, and seven authors who wrote on policing subjects in Hindi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-honours-olympic-silver-medalist-mirabai-chanu-thanks-her-for-hardwork-101630736939623.html
04-09-2021||India||Millions in cash, government jobs: How Haryana is honouring Paralympics stars||The Manohar Lal Khattar-led government in Haryana has announced that it will provide a cash reward of ₹6 crore (60 million) and another one of ₹4 crore (40 million) to India's Paralympics stars Manish Narwal and Singhraj Adana, respectively. Both the para-athletes clinched historic medals for the country in the men's P4 mixed 50m pistol SHI on Saturday, with Manish winning the gold and Singhraj bagging the silver in the Tokyo 2020 Summer Paralympic Games.The Haryana administration also announced that both these sportsmen would be provided government jobs in the state, according to a report by the ANI news agency.The two medal winners will also be offered government jobs.Earlier, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had also announced that his administration will provide prize money of ₹2.5 crore to para-athlete Harvinder Singh, who won the first bronze and the only medal in archery at the Paralympics Games in Tokyo on Friday. After his loss in the semifinals, Singh had managed to clinch the bronze in the men individual recurve open at the multi-sports event for para-athletes.
04-09-2021||India||1 dead, 6 injured in explosion at textile factory in Maharashtra's Palghar||One person was killed and six others were injured in a massive blast at a textile factory in Tarapur industrial area of Maharashtra's Palghar district. One person is missing in the bkast which took place on Saturday.Palghar district Disaster Management Cell chief Vivekanand Kadam said the incident occurred around 6am. The sound of the explosion was so loud that it was heard four to five kilometers away. The explosion triggered a major fire at the unit located in Tarapur MIDC, Boisar, he said, reports news agency PTI.Kadam said that the fire brigade personnel and police rushed to the spot on being alerted and launched a rescue operation, adding that the explosion occurred in one of the units of the factory "The blaze has been brought under control and the cooling operation is underway," he added.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-dead-6-injured-in-explosion-at-textile-factory-in-maharashtra-s-palghar-101630731669044.html
04-09-2021||India||'24,000km journey, 5,000 programs': BJP chief Nadda thanks people for making Jan Ashirwad Yatras successful||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief Jagat Prakash Nadda on Saturday thanked the people of the country for supporting and blessing millions of party workers. These yatras were launched by the BJP on August 16 to capitalise on the recent reshuffle and expansion of the Union Council of Ministers."Gratitude to the people of the country for giving immense support and blessings to the members of respected @narendramodi ji's cabinet during Jan Ashirwad Yatra. During the 24,000 km journey, more than 5,000 programs received the affection and blessings of the countrymen," according to Nadda's tweet translated from Hindi. जन आशीर्वाद यात्रा में आदरणीय @narendramodi जी के मंत्रिमंडल के सदस्यों को अपार समर्थन और आशीर्वाद देने के लिए देश की जनता का हमारे करोड़ों कार्यकर्ताओं की तरफ़ से आभार।24,000 किमी० की यात्रा के दौरान क़रीब 5,000 से अधिक कार्यक्रमों में देशवासियों का स्नेह और आशीर्वाद मिला। pic.twitter.com/vFdOOnWjQoThirty nine ministers, who were inducted into the Union council of ministers on July 7, were part of these yatras across 22 states. Such a big scale of the yatra was meant to take on the opposition, which the BJP said jeopardised democracy by stalling the monsoon session of Parliament.Through these yatras, the ministers interacted with the people and told them the party's version of the washout of the monsoon session of Parliament. The decision to take out Jan Ashirwad Yatras was taken after Prime Minister Narendra Modi was not able to introduce his Council of Ministers in both houses of Parliament due to opposition's protest, seeking a discussion on the Pegasus snooping controversy, the farmers' agitation and price rise.The government alleged that the opposition, by not adhering to the tradition of introducing ministers in Parliament, showed disregard towards the representatives from the socially and educationally backward classes, women and other marginalised sections, who have been given a place at the high table.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jan-ashirwad-yatra-nadda-thanks-people-for-making-the-initiative-successful-101630731628039.html
04-09-2021||India||‘Special moment for Indian sports’: Modi lauds Paralympians for bagging gold, silver in Tokyo||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday congratulated Paralympians Manish Narwal and Singhraj Adana for clinching the respective gold and silver medals for India in men's P4 mixed 50m pistol SHI today at the Tokyo 2020 Summer Paralympic Games. Taking to his official handle on Twitter, the Prime Minister said that this is a “special moment for Indian sports” and wished both the talented para-athletes the very best for their futures.Also Read | Tokyo Paralympics: Manish Narwal wins gold medal, Singhraj Adana wins silver in men's P4 mixed 50m pistol SH1 eventShooter Manish Narwal scored a total of 218.2 in the final, creating a Paralympic record in the process of winning the gold medal. Lauding his great accomplishment at such young age, the Prime Minister called Manish “stupendously talented” and wished him the best for the coming times.“Glory from the Tokyo Paralympics continues,” the Prime Minister tweeted. “Great accomplishment by the young and stupendously talented Manish Narwal. His winning the Gold Medal is a special moment for Indian sports. Congratulations to him. Best wishes for the coming times.” Glory from the Tokyo #Paralympics continues. Great accomplishment by the young and stupendously talented Manish Narwal. His winning the Gold Medal is a special moment for Indian sports. Congratulations to him. Best wishes for the coming times. #Praise4Para. pic.twitter.com/gGHUXnetWAManish's teammate Singhraj Adana fell short by just a bit today; however, in no less an achievement, managed to bag the silver medal after scoring 216.7 in the final. Wishing him the best for his future endeavours, the Prime Minister congratulated Singhraj and said that India is rejoicing at his feat.“The outstanding Singhraj Adhana does it again!” the Prime Minister said. “He wins yet another medal, this time in the Mixed 50m Pistol SH1 event. India rejoices due to his feat. Congrats to him. Wishing him the very best for his future endeavours.”The outstanding Singhraj Adhana does it again! He wins yet another medal, this time in the Mixed 50m Pistol SH1 event. India rejoices due to his feat. Congrats to him. Wishing him the very best for the future endeavours. #Paralympics #Praise4Para. pic.twitter.com/EWa9gCRaorEarlier, the two Indian shooters had a good show in the qualification round to reach the final. While Manish amassed 533-7x points, Singhraj scored 536-4x points after the end of six series t the Asaka Shooting Range. Singhraj finished at the fourth position while Manish occupied the seventh spot after the end of the qualification round.The other Indian in the fray, shooter Akash failed to book the final berth as he ended with 507-3x points, finishing 27th in the qualifying round.As the pistol is held with one hand only, athletes in the SH1 category have an impairment affecting one arm and/or the legs, for example resulting from amputations or spinal cord injuries. P4 is a classification for the mixed 50m air pistol competition. Some shooters compete in a seated position, while others take aim in a standing position as defined in the rules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/special-moment-for-indian-sports-modi-lauds-paralympians-for-bagging-gold-silver-in-tokyo-101630728848825.html
04-09-2021||India||Covid-19 weekly wrap: Kerala leads surge as daily tally remains above 40,000||India added more than 208,000 cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in a span of five days starting Monday (August 30), as the daily tally increased steadily, according to an analysis of the Union health ministry data in the past week.On Monday, India added 42,909 fresh cases, while the number saw a slight dip on Tuesday when there were 30,941 cases of infections. The daily Covid-19 tally went up by 41,965 again on Wednesday. On Thursday and Friday, the number stood at 47,092 and 45,352, respectively.As per the health ministry, the surge has been mostly led by Kerala which has accounted for more than half of the cases being reported daily.The death toll also saw an upward trend as the country reported 413 fatalities on average. On Thursday, the number breached a 500-mark after 509 people succumbed to Covid-19. It recorded the lowest number of fatalities on Tuesday when 350 people lost their lives to Covid-19.On Monday, Wednesday and Friday, there were 366, 460 and 380 respectively.The weekly positivity rate stands at 2.66 per cent, while the daily rate hovered above 2.50 per cent.Meanwhile, on the vaccination front, India inoculated millions of people daily in a mega drive. So far the cumulative Covid-19 Vaccination coverage has crossed over 676.5 million. It is administering over 5,000,000 doses every day.India rolled out a massive vaccination drive on January 16, after facing fee initial hurdles, it has been vaccinating the population at a landmark speed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-weekly-wrap-kerala-leads-surge-as-daily-tally-remains-above-40000-101630726113437.html
04-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: Mansukh Mandaviya to attend G20 health ministers' meet in Rome today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Mansukh Mandaviya to attend G20 health ministers' meet in Rome todayUnion health minister Mansukh Mandaviya will begin his four-day visit to Rome, Italy, where he is expected to attend a meeting of the health ministers of the G20 countries, according to his office. Read MoreCovid R-value rises amid threat of third wave: All you need to knowAs states across India race to control the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) ahead of an expected third wave in October, there is a more worrying factor in the form of rising R-value. Read MoreNo bullets and bombs here: Union minister Naqvi asks Taliban to ‘spare’ Muslims of IndiaHours after a Taliban spokesperson claimed that the group has the “right” to raise its voice for the Muslims of Kashmir, Union minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi asked the insurgents to “spare” Muslims of India, saying there are no instances of extremist atrocities in the name of religion in this country. Read MoreSensex, Nifty at fresh highs: What are the factors and how sustainable this is?The markets closed at a new high on Friday, with the BSE Sensex gaining 277.41 points or 0.48 per cent to end the day above 58,000 for the first time ever. Nifty also rose by 89 points or 0.52 per cent to close at 17,324. Read MoreAlia Bhatt's leg workout revealed, watch 5 intense exercises she does at the gymBollywood actor Alia Bhatt never shies away from mixing things up for her workout routine. The star keeps herself fit by doing Pilates, yoga, weight training, core-strengthening exercises, and more at the gym. Read MoreNaomi Osaka says she is going to take break from tennis after US Open lossNaomi Osaka says after US Open loss that she thinks she is going to take another break from tennis. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-mansukh-mandaviya-to-attend-g20-health-ministers-meet-in-rome-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101630725441174.html
04-09-2021||India||Covid R-value rises amid threat of third wave: All you need to know||As states across India race to control the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) ahead of an expected third wave in October, there is a more worrying factor in the form of rising R-value. The R-value in the last week of August rise to 1.17 as against 0.89 between August 14-17, according to the researchers at the Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai.The R-value determines how rapidly the Covid-19 pandemic is spreading."Not only is it greater than one, it is much higher than the last time there was a scare of a third wave (it was 1.03 at that time)," Sitabhra Sinha, who is leading the team of researchers, told news agency PTI."This is driven by several states having their R-value go over 1 in the last few days of August - most notably Kerala and Maharashtra, but also Mizoram and Jammu and Kashmir," Singh added.Why is R-value important?The Reproduction number or R denotes how fast an infection is spreading. When a wave is at its peak, it is evident that the virus is spreading at a faster rate. But at a time when the wave is receding, a slight increase of R-value can indicate an impending upward trend in the wave again.If R is greater than 1, the number of infected people is increasing in each round - this is what is called the epidemic phase. In other words, it tells how 'efficiently' a virus is spreading.States with highest R-valueThe R-value of Kerala stood at 1.33, which is the highest number of active cases in the country, according to the Institute of Mathematical Sciences. It was 1.36 for Mizoram, 1.25 for Jammu and Kashmir, 1.09 for Andhra Pradesh and 1.06 for Maharashtra.R-value during the second waveWhen the second wave swept through the country between March to May, the R-value was 1.37 (between March 9 to April 21).From May 15-June 26, the R-value stood at 0.78. However, it slowly started increasing - it was 0.88 from June 20-July 7, 0.95 from July 3-22, 0.96 from July 24-27.It breached the value of 1.03 for the first time after the second wave during July 27-31. However, since then it has slowly started to decline.The R-value was 0.92 from August 6-9, and rose to 0.99 between August 12-14. But it slipped to 0.89 between August 14-17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-r-value-rises-amid-threat-of-third-wave-all-you-need-to-know-101630724602492.html
04-09-2021||India||No bullets and bombs here: Union minister Naqvi asks Taliban to ‘spare’ Muslims of India||Hours after a Taliban spokesperson claimed that the group has the “right” to raise its voice for the Muslims of Kashmir, Union minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi asked the insurgents to “spare” Muslims of India, saying there are no instances of extremist atrocities in the name of religion in this country. In an interview with ANI news agency, the minority affairs minister said that the only scripture that is followed in India is that of the Constitution, and that worshippers in mosques here are not killed by bullets and bombs, nor are girls stopped from going to the school.Also Read | Taliban may announce new government today as Panjshir puts up last stand: 10 pointsNaqvi indicated that there is a marked difference between the way India and Afghanistan are governed and thus the Taliban would do better than to speak for the Muslims in this country.“I appeal to them (the Taliban) with folded hands that spare the Muslims of India,” the minister told ANI. “Here worshipers praying in mosques are not attacked with bullets and bombs. Here girls are not stopped from going to school, their heads and legs are not cut off.”“The scripture of the governments of this country is the Constitution and the country functions following it,” Naqvi added.Notably, in an interview with BBC Urdu this week, Taliban spokesperson Suhail Shaheen had said, “As Muslims, we also have a right to raise our voice for Muslims in Kashmir, India or any other country.” The statement came as a marked contrast to what another Taliban leader, Anas Haqqani, had said in a recent interview with the CNN-News18 network: “Kashmir is not part of our jurisdiction and interference is against our policy.”Also Read | Taliban indicated they'd be reasonable in addressing Indian concerns: ShringlaZabiullah Mujahid, yet another Taliban spokesperson, had also not brought up any mention of direct interference in Kashmir and instead told a Pakistan-based channel that India and Pakistan ought to sit together to resolve all issues. Although Taliban leader Shaheen's comments raised concerns within certain sections in India that the group could now set their eyes on Jammu and Kashmir, foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said on Friday that in the limited engagement that India has had with the Taliban, the new Afghan rulers have indicated that they would be “reasonable” in addressing New Delhi’s concerns.“Obviously, like us, they're also watching carefully and we have to watch Pakistan’s actions with a fine-tooth comb,” he told a group of Indian reporters at the end of his three-day official visit to Washington DC, indicating that India will adopt a wait-and-watch policy with regard to how the situation evolves in Afghanistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-bullets-and-bombs-here-union-minister-naqvi-asks-taliban-to-spare-muslims-of-india-101630716289092.html
04-09-2021||India||'Karbi Peace Accord' to be signed today; Amit Shah, Assam CM likely to attend||The Centre is set to sign a tripartite "Karbi Peace Accord" on Saturday and the agreement is expected to be signed in presence of the Union Home Minister Amit Shah, the Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and the representatives of Karbi outfits here in the national capital, sources said.The accord is expected to be signed at the North Block office of the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) in the afternoon.The accord is significant as the insurgency by Karbi -- a major ethnic community of Assam -- groups, dotted by several factions and splinters, has had a long history in Assam, marked by killings, ethnic violence, abductions and taxation since the late 1980s.It is learnt that nearly 200 Karbi militants, who were part of those 1,040 militants surrendered before the Assam government on February 25 this year, will be present during the signing of the agreement, said sources.These surrendered militants are learnt to have arrived in Delhi and are staying at different hotels.Assam Chief Minister will be in New Delhi by late Friday night to participate in the tripartite peace accord.A total of 1,040 militants of five insurgent groups of Karbi Anglong district ceremonially laid down arms at an event in Guwahati on February 25 in the presence of then Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal, a development which further bolsters the 'terrorism-free Assam' image of the current BJP-led government. Among the surrendered militants was Ingti Kathar Songbijit, a primary accused in multiple cases of militancy and ethnic violence in the state.The surrendered militants belong to Karbi Longri NC Hills Liberation Front (KLNLF), People's Democratic Council of Karbi Longri (PDCK), United Peoples Liberation Army (UPLA) and Kuki Liberation Front (KLF).They submitted a total of 338 weapons, including 8 light machine guns with 11,203 bullets, 11 M-16 rifles and 58 AK-47 rifles.The militants of the five organisations had come to surrender their weapons after a year when the BJP signed the Bodo Peace Accord to end the long-run violence in Bodoland. The Bodoland region is an autonomous territorial region that is administered by the elected body - Bodoland Territorial Council. The Bodo Accord was first signed in 2003 to maintain peace in the region, later it was extended by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led BJP government in 2020.These outfits originated from the core demand of forming a separate state. The Karbi Anglong Autonomous Council (KAAC) is an autonomous district council, protected under the Sixth Schedule of the Indian Constitution.The Karbi National Volunteers (KNV) and Karbi People's Force (KPF) came together to form the United People's Democratic Solidarity (UPDS) in the late 1990s. In November 2011, UPDS gave up arms and signed a tripartite memorandum of settlement with the Centre and the Government of Assam, settling for enhanced autonomy and special packages for the KAAC. The then general secretary of the UPDS, Horen Sing Bey, is now the BJP MP from the Autonomous District Lok Sabha constituency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karbi-peace-accord-to-be-signed-today-amit-shah-assam-cm-likely-to-attend-101630714889566.html
04-09-2021||India||Amit Shah to honour Olympic silver medal winner Mirabai Chanu today||Union home minister Amit Shah will on Saturday honour weightlifter Mirabai Chanu for bringing accolades for the nation at the Tokyo Olympics. The ceremony will take place during the 51st Raising Day celebrations of the Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPRD), a government think tank."This is a small gesture by the BPR&D to welcome her (Saikhom Mirabai Chanu) to the fraternity on behalf of the Indian police," the BPR&D said in an official statement.During the event, Shah will also give away trophies and medals for excellence in training to winner state and central police organisations and forces and will also award seven authors who wrote on policing subjects in Hindi, the statement added.BPRD is a national level apex body under the Ministry of Home Affairs to promote excellence in policing. It advises the government in conceiving, preparing and executing policy, modernisation, research and capacity building initiatives related to the Indian police.The 27-year-old had clinched a silver medal in weightlifting in the 49kg category that opened India's achievement account at the recently concluded Tokyo Olympics. Chanu managed to lift a total of 202 kg in the women’s 49kg category to become the second Indian weightlifter after Karnam Malleswari to win an Olympic medal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-to-honour-olympic-silver-medal-winner-mirabai-chanu-today-101630714013442.html
04-09-2021||India||Foreign minister Jaishankar to visit Denmark today as part of 4-day Central Europe tour, details here||Minister of external affairs S Jaishankar will be visiting the Nordic country of Denmark on Saturday, September 4, as part of his four-day tour to central Europe. Jaishankar had visited the Balkan nations of Slovenia and Croatia on the first two days of his visit (that is, on September 2 and 3) and held bilateral talks with the leadership of the two countries, advancing India's interests with the European Union (EU).Also Read | High-level group focuses on India’s priorities in AfghanistanOn Saturday and Sunday, respectively the third and fourth days of his visit, Jaishankar is scheduled to be in Denmark, where the minister will be attending a meeting with his counterpart there.Jaishankar's four-day visit to central Europe is meant to provide an opportunity for reviewing the progress in bilateral ties with these three Central European nations, according to a statement released by the Union ministry of external affairs. It said that the minister will be attempting to strengthen, during his visits, the “multifaceted relationship” that India has with the European Union.Once in Denmark, external affairs minister S Jaishankar is scheduled to co-chair the fourth round of the Indo-Danish joint commission meeting, which plans to undertake a comprehensive review of the bilateral cooperation under the Green Strategic Partnership, established during the virtual summit in September last year.Also Read | From Slovenia, a special invite for Jaishankar to EU foreign ministers’ meetingJaishankar on Thursday attended an informal meeting in Slovenia with the foreign ministers of the EU member states. He then held discussions with his counterparts on issues of ‘mutual interests’, one which takes special significance in light of the fact that Slovenia currently holds the rotating presidency of the Council of the European Union. The informal meeting of the EU Foreign Affairs Council was held at an estate near the city of Kranj under the “Gymnich” format, a person familiar with developments told Hindustan Times on the condition of anonymity. He also attended the annual Bled Strategic Forum (BSF) being held in Slovenia, and participated in the panel discussion on "Partnership for a Rules-Based Order in the Indo-Pacific".In Croatia, Jaishankar held talks with his counterpart, Gordan Grlić Radman, on issues that concern India's relationship with the Balkan nation and other regional and global issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/foreign-minister-jaishankar-to-visit-denmark-today-as-part-of-4-day-central-europe-tour-details-here-101630712696664.html
04-09-2021||India||International Vulture Awareness Day: Know its history and aim||International Vulture Awareness Day (IVAD) falls on the first Saturday in September every year and is a way to show the human kind's appreciation for vultures and the ecosystem services they provide. The initiative is run jointly by the Birds of Prey Programme of the Endangered Wildlife Trust in South Africa and the Hawk Conservancy Trust in England.Through IVAD, both the organisation try to raise awareness about the threats that vultures are facing today and promote a co-ordinated international effort to publicise the conservation of vultures to a wider audience.Vultures are under severe threat in recent years, particularly due to poisoning. Globally, 75% of all vultures are threatened with extinction, according to the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) red list. A new analysis of data from the International Union for the Conservation of Nature and BirdLife International found that 30 per cent of 557 raptor species worldwide are considered near threatened, vulnerable or endangered or critically endangered. Eighteen species are critically endangered, including the Philippine eagle, the hooded vulture and the Annobon scops owl, the researchers found.Of threatened birds of prey that are active mostly during the day — including most hawks, eagles and vultures — 54 per cent were falling in population, the study found. The same was true for 47 per cent of threatened nocturnal raptors, such as owls.History of International Vulture Awareness DayThe International Vulture Awareness Day began in South Africa and the UK. The first IVAD was observed in September 2009. LAst yea,r the day coincided with the Teachers' Day in India on September 5.Aim of International Vulture Awareness DayThe aim of International Vulture Awareness Day is for each participating organisation to carry out their own activities that highlight vulture conservation and awareness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/international-vultures-awareness-day-know-its-history-and-aim-101630712237938.html
04-09-2021||NA||Breaking: CID summons Suvendu Adhikari in connection with ex-bodyguard's death||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:CID summons Suvendu Adhikari in connection with ex-bodyguard's deathThe West Bengal Crime Investigation Department (CID) summoned Leader of Opposition in the state assembly Suvendu Adhikari on Monday in connection with the death of his former bodyguard Subhabrata Chakraborty. Taliban, resistance forces battle to control Panjshir ValleyTaliban and opposition forces battled on Saturday to control the Panjshir Valley north of Kabul, the last Afghan province holding out against the Islamist group, with both sides claiming to have the upper hand without producing conclusive evidence. Read moreSchools in Himachal to remain closed till Sept 14The Himachal Pradesh government announced on Saturday that schools in the state will remain closed till September 14 in view of the Covid-19 situation.  "Teaching and non-teaching staff shall continue to attend the school. For residential schools, SOPs developed by Education Department will be followed to contain Covid-19," urban development minister Suresh Bhardwaj said. Maharashtra records 4,130 new cases, sees rise in active Covid casesMaharashtra on Saturday added 4,130 fresh Covid-19 cases, while the state’s active case count saw a jump, taking it tally to 52,025 from 50,466 on Friday. Mumbai, for the fourth day, has reported over 400 fresh cases with 413 new infections. Read moreOver 680 million Covid vaccines adminsitered in India till nowIndia administered more than 62.25 lakh COVID vaccine doses today, taking total vaccination coverage to over 68 crores (68,37,29,058): Union Health Ministry pic.twitter.com/buBmebwwpfMore than 680 million doses of vaccine against Covid-19 have been administered in India till now. Kerala to continue with night curfew and Sunday lockdown, says CMChief minister Pinarayi Vijayan also said that the Kerala government will continue with the night curfew and Sunday lockdowns across the state. Kerala reports 29,682 new Covid-19 cases, 142 deathsKerala has reported 29,682 new #COVID19 cases, 25,910 recoveries and 142 deaths today. Active cases at 2,50,065 & death toll at 21,422 in the state. Test positivity rate stands at 17.54%: Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan pic.twitter.com/sec6RCFnUZKerala's daily tally of Covid-19 remained below the 30,000-mark for a second consecutive day as 29,682 were reported in the last 24 hours. Monitoring flood situation in Bihar, rescue work underway: State ministerBihar water resources development minister Sanjay Kumar Jha on Saturday said the state government is continuously monitoring the flood situation and relief, rescue work is underway with full readiness. Read moreMalaysia makes ousted PM head of country's Covid recovery bodyMuhyiddin Yassin, the former Prime Minister of Malaysia, has now been appointed as the country's Covid-19 recovery council. Yassin was ousted last month amid raging anger over his government's handling of the pandemic. Kabul airport reopens to received aid, civilian flights to start soon: QatarQatar’s ambassador to Afghanistan said a technical team was able to reopen the Kabul airport to receive aid and that civilian flights will operate from the airport soon, according to Al-Jazeera on Saturday. Read moreDelhi adds 55 new Covid-19 cases, 63 discharges in last 24 hrsDelhi reports 55 fresh COVID cases and 63 recoveries in the last 24 hours Active cases: 354Total recoveries: 14,12,493Death toll: 25,082 pic.twitter.com/3czQPZiywUThe national capital on Saturday reported 55 new Covid-19 cases and 63 more discharges, taking the caseload and total recoveries to 1,437,929 and 1,412,493 respectively, according to the health department's bulletin. No deaths were recorded on Saturday and the toll stands at 25,082. BJP MLA from West Bengal's Kaliaganj joins TMCWest Bengal: BJP MLA from Kaliaganj, Soumen Roy joins TMC in presence of state minister and party leader Partha Chatterjee in Kolkata pic.twitter.com/bRKnZjQOwNIn West Bengal, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) suffered another setback as its MLA from Kaliaganj, Soumen Roy, joined the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) in presence of state minister and party leader Partha Chatterjee in Kolkata. K'taka to vaccinate 500,000 people daily in Sept, says CM BommaiKarnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Saturday that the supply of vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has increased in the state, adding the government will inoculate 500,000 people daily in September.  Fire breaks out at a factory in Dehradun, ops underway#WATCH | Uttarakhand: Fire breaks out at a factory in Lal Tapper Industrial Area in Dehradun pic.twitter.com/lv2z3Cb4BKA fire broke out at a factory in Uttarakhand's Dehradun on Saturday and the fire dousing operations are underway. According to news agency ANI, the police reached the spot on time and took stock of the situation. "Fire service and police personnel are on the spot to douse the fire that broke out at M/s Khurana Brothers (Lisa Factory) in Laltappad industrial area of Dehradun," the Uttarakhand Police tweeted. China with Pak support has advantage in Taliban ruled AfghanistanThis week US National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan was asked whether Taliban was the enemy, the Joe Biden aide said that it was hard to put on a label on it, partly because we (US) are yet to see what they will be now that they are in complete control of Afghanistan. Read MoreEC to hold bye-elections in 3 assembly constituencies, including in West BengalThe Election Commission decides to hold bye-elections in 3 assembly constituencies, including West Bengal.PM Modi likely to visit US this month, meet President Joe Biden: Report Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to visit the United States at the end of September, according to a report by Hindustan Times' sister website Livehindustan. Read MoreUP’s Covid-19 tally at 17,09,401. These districts have zero infectionsAs many as 24 out of 75 districts in Uttar Pradesh do not have a single case of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), news agency ANI reported on Saturday citing the chief medical officer (CMO). Read MoreInter-state child trafficking gang busted and 4 people arrested in MumbaiAn inter-state child trafficking gang busted and 4 people arrested. One child, stolen by them on 31st Aug, recovered from Telangana & reunited with his mother. The child was sold at ₹3.5 lakh.Two of the 4 accused hail from Mumbai, while the other two belong to Telangana.20 leaders of Samyukta Kisan Morcha will speak at Mahapanchyat in Muzaffarnagar tomorrow: BKU leader Rakesh Tikait20 leaders of Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) will speak at Mahapanchyat in Muzaffarnagar tomorrow. We will also hold discussions on govt's decision of selling big organizations and how to stop it. Large number of people attend the meeting: BKU leader Rakesh Tikait.HM Amit Shah honours Olympic champion Mirabai ChanuUnion home minister Amit Shah on Saturday felicitated Olympic champion Mirabai Chanu here for bringing laurels to the country in weightlifting.Restrictions on assembly of people continue in most of Kashmir, mobile Internet snapped againRestrictions on assembly of people remained in force in most parts of Kashmir Valley after the death of hardline separatist leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani while mobile Internet services were suspended on Saturday morning after being restored the previous night, officials said.Thai PM Prayuth wins confidence vote amid criticism on virusThai Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha won votes of confidence in Parliament on Saturday, helping to steady his government after it had come under intense criticism for bungling its response to the coronavirus pandemic.Top Afghan TV network stays on-air despite fear of TalibanAs Taliban fighters entered Kabul on the evening of August 15, executives at Afghanistan's biggest independent TV network had a tough decision to make: stay on-air or go dark.Delhi records minimum temperature of 26.1 degrees CelsiusThe national capital on Saturday recorded a minimum temperature of 26.1 degrees Celsius, normal for this time of the year, the India Meteorological Department said.1 killed, 6 injured in massive blast in textile unit in Maharashtra's TarapurMassive blast in textile unit in Tarapur. 1 worker killed,6 injured,1 missing. Fire Brigade at spot.US to bolster firefighter ranks as wildfires burn year-roundUS wildfire managers have started shifting from seasonal to full-time firefighting crews to deal with what has become a year-round wildfire season as climate change has made the American West warmer and drier.New Zealand to criminalise attack planning after mall stabbingNew Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern vowed on Saturday to tighten counter-terrorism laws this month after a knife-wielding militant known to the authorities stabbed and wounded seven people in a supermarket.Australia’s Covid Epicenter Sees Another Day of Record CasesNew South Wales, Australia’s most populous state, reported a record 1,533 new daily coronavirus cases, with the state’s creaking health system braced for a peak in hospitalizations in October.India logs 42,618 fresh Covid-19 cases, 330 deaths in last 24 hoursIndia recorded 42,618 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, which pushed the nationwide tally to 32,945,907, while the death toll climbed to 405,681 with 330 daily fatalities, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Saturday. India's Tarun Dhillon loses in semifinal of men's singles class SL4 badminton eventIndia's Tarun Dhillon loses in semifinal of men's singles class SL4 badminton event, to play for bronze in Tokyo Paralympics.Google locks down Afghan govt email accounts as Taliban looks for access: ReportGoogle has temporarily locked down some Afghan government email accounts as the Taliban is attempting to access the former officials' emails, Reuters reported.Three of seven New Zealand attack victims are in critical condition: PMNew Zealand's Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said on Saturday that a total seven people were wounded in an attack by an Islamist militant in an Auckland shopping mall and three are in critical condition.India's Manoj Sarkar loses in semifinal of men's singles class SL3 badminton eventIndia's Manoj Sarkar loses in semifinal of men's singles class SL3 badminton event, to play for bronze in Tokyo Paralympics.US expects to admit more than 50,000 evacuated AfghansAt least 50,000 Afghans are expected to be admitted into the United States following the fall of Kabul as part of an “enduring commitment" to help people who aided the American war effort and others who are particularly vulnerable under Taliban rule, the secretary of homeland security said on Friday.Joe Biden moves to declassify documents about Sept. 11 attacksPresident Joe Biden on Friday directed the declassification of certain documents related to the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, a supportive gesture to victims' families who have long sought the records in hopes of implicating the Saudi government.New Zealand reports first death in current Covid-19 outbreak, 20 new casesNew Zealand reported on Saturday the first death in the current Covid-19 outbreak and 20 new local cases of the highly infectious Delta variant, health authorities said.India's Pramod Bhagat enters final of men's singles class SL3 badminton eventIndia's Pramod Bhagat enters final of men's singles class SL3 badminton event in Tokyo Paralympics.US reaffirms its strong defence relationship with IndiaIndia and the United States on Friday reaffirmed the strength of their defence relationship underscoring their commitment to strengthen bilateral and multilateral cooperation for a free and open Indo-Pacific region.Australia's New South Wales reports record 1,533 Covid-19 casesAustralia's most populous state of New South Wales reported a record 1,533 locally acquired Covid-19 infections on Saturday, topping the previous high of 1,431 cases from a day earlier.Judge released New Zealand extremist despite concernsA court report about a man in New Zealand who was inspired by the Islamic State group warned he had the motivation and means to commit violent acts in the community and posed a high risk.Mansukh Mandaviya to attend G20 health ministers' meet in Rome todayUnion health minister Mansukh Mandaviya will begin his four-day visit to Rome, Italy, where he is expected to attend a meeting of the health ministers of the G20 countries, according to his office.Amit Shah to honour Olympic silver medal winner Mirabai Chanu todayUnion home minister Amit Shah will on Saturday honour weightlifter Mirabai Chanu for bringing accolades for the nation at the Tokyo Olympics.Foreign minister Jaishankar to visit Denmark today as part of 4-day Central Europe tour, details hereUnion minister of external affairs S Jaishankar will be visiting the Nordic country of Denmark on Saturday, September 4, as part of his four-day tour to central Europe.Centre to sign 'Karbi Peace Accord' today, Amit Shah, Assam CM expected to attendThe Centre is set to sign a tripartite "Karbi Peace Accord" on Saturday and the agreement is expected to be signed in presence of the Union Home Minister Amit Shah, the Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and the representatives of Karbi outfits here in the national capital, sources said, reports ANI.Virus pushes some California hospitals near ICU capacityHospitals in the heart of California’s Central Valley are running out of beds in their intensive care units, state officials announced Friday, as a more contagious version of the coronavirus continues to spread primarily among the unvaccinated population.1 arrest after clash over Arizona school's Covid mandatesThe father of an Arizona elementary school student was arrested after he and two other men showed up to the campus with zip ties, threatening to make a “citizen's arrest” on the school principal over a Covid-19 quarantine, school officials said Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-september-04-2021-101630711936133.html
04-09-2021||India||It cannot be unending story: SC to police over delays in Religare probe||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of Delhi Police to give a timeline for completing its probe into former Fortis Healthcare promoter Shivinder Mohan Singh in a case of alleged misappropriation funds of Religare Finvest Ltd.“How much time should it take to complete the investigation? It cannot be an unending story,” observed a bench headed by Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana as it took a petition by Singh against cancellation of his bail in May.Appearing for Singh, senior counsel Sidharth Luthra complained that his client has been made to suffer for the inability of the EOW in completing the probe. “I (Shivinder) have been in jail for 23 months. If the agency is dragging its feet and not filing its final chargesheet, how can I be at fault? After all, this is an offence with seven years in jail as the maximum punishment. Due to this continuous incarceration, I cannot defend myself,” said Luthra.Luthra said it was not a case where an accused was never considered entitled to bail but the high court had decided to cancel the relief even though there was no change in circumstances. At this point, senior advocate R. Basant appearing for Religare, pointed out that the case related to siphoning off of around ₹2,400 crore.But the bench said the investigation must come to an end at some time and decided to issue a limited notice to the EOW. “We are not passing any order at this stage. Let the agency come and tell us when they are going to complete the investigation,” the bench told the counsel while adjourning the case by two weeks.In May, the Delhi high court had cancelled Singh’s bail, noting that his detention was necessary to unearth the “conspiracy hatched by him” and trace the alleged siphoned off money.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-cannot-be-unending-story-sc-to-police-over-delays-in-religare-probe-101630711650949.html
04-09-2021||India||19-yr-old drinks acid over harassment, dies in Uttar Pradesh||A 19-year-old woman died after consuming acid on Friday, allegedly due to constant harassment by a man in her neighbourhood, in Uttar Pradesh’s Agra district, police said, adding that two persons have been arrested and efforts are on to nab the main accused.“Her family members first got her admitted to a local hospital but as her condition deteriorated, she was shifted to the emergency ward of SN Medical College and Hospital. Her statement was recorded by a magistrate before she died on Friday afternoon,” Malpura police station in-charge Arun Baliyan said.The woman, a Class 12 student, had shifted to a village within Malpura police station limits six months ago. In their complaint, the woman’s family said the accused had been harassing the deceased. The woman even complained to the youth’s family but in vain, police said.Her family registered a complaint against the 19-year-old accused, his father and one Vijay Kumar. “A case of abetment to suicide was registered. While Chandra Bhan and Vijay Kumar have been arrested, a search is on to arrest the main accused,” Baliyan said.If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist. Helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669Sneha India Foundation: +914424640050 Sanjivini: 011-24311918||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/19yrold-drinks-acid-over-harassment-dies-in-uttar-pradesh-101630705675678.html
04-09-2021||India||Bidar school sedition case: Take action against errant cops, formulate norms, says HC||Bengaluru: The Karnataka High Court (HC) on Friday directed the state home department to initiate disciplinary action against errant police officers linked with case involving a school in Bidar and also asked that guidelines be formulated to avoid a repeat of such incidents. The observations came after DL Nagesh, Bidar’s superintendent of police in his affidavit said that he has written to the Director General and Inspector General of Police to initiate action against officers who are alleged to have violated the Juvenile Justice Act. In the affidavit, Nagesh said that on examining the photographs of the said interrogation, he prima facie found that the Investigation Officer (IO) “ought to have ensured the strict compliance” of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Model Rules 2016. “I further state that the investigation officer was in mufti (not in uniform). However, the photographs show that his subordinates who are seen in the photographs were in uniform. I state that when I orally enquired, it was informed that they did not interact with any of the children and they have entered the hall only for the purpose of assisting the Investigation Officer,” Nagesh said in his affidavit. A division bench headed by acting chief justice of Karnataka, Satish Chandra Sharmaand Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum pulled up the state home department on Friday almost three weeks after the HC specifically asked the government to formulate guidelines that would serve as a law for police to follow in cases involving minors. On August 16, the court asked the concerned officials to submit an affidavit on what action they will take against the officers.Pictures of uniformed police officers allegedly carrying weapons interrogating students of classes 4, 5, and 6 at the school had gone viral on social media in January last year. The students were interrogated after Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad activist Neelesh Rakshyal in January 2020 filed a case against the school authorities over the play. Rakshyal objected to the reciting of “Hum Kaghaz Nahin Dikhayenge (we will not show our documents)”, a popular poem against the contentious Citizenship (Amendment) Act. He complained against the school after a parent streamed the play on a social media platform. Rakshyal accused the school of anti-national activities, spreading “negative opinion” about the law among the students, spreading “communal tension”, and “inciting the public” to oppose the legislation. The police slapped sedition charges on the school authorities and arrested a parent and teacher besides interrogating the students.“They (Karnataka home department) have submitted an affidavit saying that they will take disciplinary action. (The) court said that just stating to take action will not be enough and you (government) have to show that you have started the process and comply with the earlier order,” said one advocate for the petitioners, requesting not to be named. The petitioners moved court on February 7 last year. In their petition, the petitioners said: “In blatant violation of Rule of Law and various provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code, 1973, and Juvenile Justice Act, 2015, and Rules, 2016, Responded no. 3 and 4 have interrogated the students aged merely from 9 years to 12 years of the school in Bidar, creating mental trauma and fear in the children’s state of mind.”Nagesh DL said he sent a report on August 30 to the state police chief recommending departmental inquiry in the matter.Bhagwanth Khuba, the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party Member of Parliament from Bidar who has since become a Union minister, in January 2020 sought action against the school authorities while accusing them of using students to spread false information about Modi. He even suggested the blacklisting of the school.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bidar-school-sedition-case-take-action-against-errant-cops-formulate-norms-says-hc-101630700060225.html
04-09-2021||India||Memorial will be built in honour of Ayothidasa Pandithar: Stalin||ChennaiA memorial will be built in honour of social reformer Ayothidasa Pandithar (1845-1914), chief minister M K Stalin announced on Friday in the Tamil Nadu assembly.Reformist leader Thanthai Periyar had hailed Pandithar as a pioneer in social reforms and rationalism, the chief minister said and recalled the quote of the 19th century reformist that divisions like caste and religion were the stumbling blocks to India’s progress.Pandithar was a writer, researcher, historian, doctor, orator and in essence a multi-faceted personality, the CM said in a statement in the House.In Tamil Nadu, no one could do politics without using the words “Tamilan and Dravidam” (Tamilian and the Dravidian land) and it was Pandithar who changed these two words into an idea that defined the political landscape of the region, he added.The reformer used these words as a weapon of wisdom and Tamil Nadu politics continued to function in the path shown by him, Stalin said.In commemoration of the 175th (birth) anniversary of Pandithar and in his honour a ‘manimandapam’ would be built in North Chennai, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/memorial-will-be-built-in-honour-of-ayothidasa-pandithar-stalin-101630698920223.html
04-09-2021||India||CBI files second charge sheet in Bengal post-poll violence case, arrests one||Kolkata: The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Friday filed its second charge sheet in the ongoing probe into post-poll violence in West Bengal and accused four people of murdering a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) worker at Bhatpara in North 24 Parganas district on June 6, said lawyers aware of the development. The charge sheet was filed in the Barrackpore court. CBI also arrested a man in connection with the murder of a BJP worker’s mother in Jagaddal area of North 24 Parganas district. The victim, Shovarani Mondal, 64, was hit on the head by a stick, allegedly by Trinamool Congress (TMC) workers who came looking for her son on May 3, a day after the assembly polls results were announced. Meanwhile, the Calcutta high court on Friday said a parallel probe into offences other than murder and rape will be supervised by former chief justice of the high courts of Calcutta and Bombay, Justice (retired) Manjula Chellur. On July 19, the court ordered a CBI probe into alleged murders and rapes and a parallel probe by a special investigation team (SIT) comprising Indian Police Service (IPS) officers posted in Bengal. On Thursday, the state government named 10 officers for the SIT. CBI’s second charge sheet came within 24 hours of the first one filed at Rampurhat court in Birbhum district. The victim at Bhatpara, Jaiprakash Yadav, died in a bomb attack by motorcycle-borne assailants. One of the four CBI teams touring the state visited Yadav’s home thrice since August 26 and recorded statements of his family members and neighbours. On August 27, CBI officers asked Yadav’s family to identify the victim’s blood-soaked clothes that were kept in the custody of Bhatpara police station. “This was done because Yadav’s face was mutilated beyond recognition. The bomb hit him on the head,” a CBI officer stationed in Kolkata said on condition of anonymity. Arjun Singh, BJP Lok Sabha member from Barrackpore seat, has alleged that Yadav was murdered because he worked hard to ensure the victory of Singh’s son, Pawan, from Bhatpara assembly seat in the recent polls. A CBI team on Friday talked to the family of BJP worker Debabrata Maity, who was attacked, allegedly by TMC workers on May 3, at Nandigram in East Midnapore district. He died at SSKM Hospital in Kolkata on May 13. CBI lodged a case in this connection on August 31. The TMC on Friday commented for the first time on the ongoing probe, calling it “politically driven”. “The Calcutta high court ordered the probe on the basis of a report given by the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC). The report was politically biased. The CBI is only meeting families of BJP workers. It is not probing the deaths of the 13 TMC workers killed in violence,” said Sukhendu Sekhar Roy, TMC Rajya Sabha member. “The CBI and Enforcement Directorate are being used to target TMC leaders and ministers. They have not only targeted TMC national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee but his wife as well,” said Roy, referring to the summons sent by ED to the chief minister’s nephew and his wife in the coal smuggling case. BJP state president Dilip Ghosh, however, countered Roy. “What was the state police doing all these months? Why were charge sheets not filed and arrests not made? The TMC leadership is rattled because the CBI is acting tough and fast,” Ghosh said. On June 21, a five-judge bench of acting chief justice Rajesh Bindal and Justices IP Mukerji, Harish Tandon, Soumen Sen and Subrata Talukdar dismissed the state’s petition seeking recall of its June 18 order that asked the NHRC to probe the allegations of violence. Dismissing the plea for recall, Justice Bindal observed that the conduct of the state did not inspire confidence of the court. In its report, the NHRC panel slammed the state government saying the violence “shows a pernicious politico-bureaucratic-criminal nexus”. It recommended a CBI probe and said trials should be conducted outside Bengal. The NHRC report said at least 1,934 police complaints were lodged between May 2 and June 20. These included 29 murder charges, 12 complaints relating to rape and sexual assault and 940 complaints of loot and arson. The report said that out of the 9,304 people named as accused, less than 3% are currently in jail. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee dismissed the NHRC report, calling it distorted. The high court on July 19 ordered a CBI probe into all allegations of post-poll murder and rape and asked the agency to file its report in six weeks. CBI has so far registered more than 30 cases in the districts and one murder case in Kolkata. The agency has formed four teams for the probe, with each team comprising deputy inspector generals and superintendents from Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Karnataka and other states. Every team is headed by a joint director. The Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) is providing security for the officers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-files-second-charge-sheet-in-bengal-post-poll-violence-case-arrests-one-101630698081228.html
04-09-2021||India||Visva-Bharati students move protest away from VC residence after HC order||Students of West Bengal’s Visva-Bharati University ended their agitation outside the campus residence of vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty on Friday afternoon after the Calcutta high court, while virtually hearing a plea from the university, passed a strongly worded order asking the local police to remove the agitators after 4 pm.“All demonstrations, banners, barricades and obstruction outside the residence of the vice-chancellor shall be forthwith removed by the officer-in-charge, Santiniketan police station. The vice-chancellor of the university in addition to his own security guards shall also be provided with three constables from the Santiniketan police station for his protection,” Justice Rajasekhar Mantha said in his order, a copy of which HT has been.Set up in 1921 by Rabindranath Tagore at Santiniketan in Bolpur town in Birbhum district, Visva-Bharati is Bengal’s only central university and the Prime Minister is its chancellor. The agitation had been going on since August 28 when three students were expelled on disciplinary ground. The VC was confined to his on-campus residence since then as the students blocked the gates.Asking the police to break all locks allegedly placed by the students, the order said, “No demonstration shall be conducted by any students or any persons within a distance of 50 metres of any portion or part of the university, particularly, the schools, classrooms, the residence of the vice-chancellor, teachers, professors, officials, staff library, the administrative buildings laboratories etc.”The judge also banned the use of loudspeakers on campus and said no teacher or employee can be prevented from entering any department or office. He also ordered the police to stop outsiders from entering the campus.“This court notes with anguish that the functioning of a university, which grooms the citizens of the future, has been disrupted,” the order said.Soumya Majumder, the university’s lawyer, told the court that the VC was wrongfully confined. He added that the VC was unwell but doctors were not allowed to examine him.“The students are being used as a front by some influential persons,” said Majumdar.Appearing for the state, advocate Amitesh Banerjee denied the allegations and said the VC was never prevented from moving in and out of his residence. He said medical officers sent by the state to examine the VC were refused entry by his family.Advocate Shamim Ahmed, who represented the agitators, told the court that the three students were expelled in violation of rules and were not given any opportunity to appeal. The advocate also accused the VC of functioning in a high-handed manner against the former registrar and some professors and teachers.Justice Mantha observed during the hearing that a students’ agitation cannot resemble a trade union movement, said advocate Jayanta Narayan Chatterjee, who represented the university.The judge said he will hear all the parties on September 8.By late afternoon, the students moved the stage of their agitation 50 metres away from their previous location and started a fresh protest sans loudspeakers.“Our movement will continue,” said Rupa Chakraborty, one of the agitators.Visva-Bharati did not make any statement till 9 pm.Members of the Students Federation of India (SFI), the students’ wing of the Communist Party of India (Marxist), are spearheading the agitation.The agitators regularly sent food items and vegetables for the VC and his family but he refused to accept these. After Chakraborty lodged a police complaint on August 30, four constables and a sub-inspector were deployed outside his home. The VC has been ordering food online since Wednesday.The three students, who were suspended in January last year, took part in agitations against several actions taken by Chakrabarty and visits by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders such as Rajya Sabha member Swapan Dasgupta in 2020 and Union home minister Amit Shah before the March-April assembly polls.The SFI has alleged that the VC was acting on behalf of the Rashtriya Shayamsevak Sangh (RSS). The BJP state leadership, however, reacted to anti-RSS posters put up on the campus.In January last year, there was a students’ protest when Swapan Dasgupta was invited by the authorities to speak on the Citizenship Amendment Act at a seminar.A month later, Chakrabarty triggered a controversy when he said those who gather at Delhi’s Rajghat donning white caps on Gandhi Jayanti are “the country’s biggest thieves.”A section of faculty and staff members are also unhappy with the VC as disciplinary action and suspension orders have been passed against many of them over the past two years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/visvabharati-student-move-protest-away-from-vc-residence-after-hc-order-101630697240134.html
04-09-2021||India||TDP seeks NHRC intervention into arrests of protesting party workers||Hyderabad: Days after police action against some of the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) workers protesting against rising fuel prices, the party on Friday wrote to the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC), urging it to order a probe into alleged human rights violations of peaceful protesters in Andhra Pradesh.In his letter, TDP Politburo member Varla Ramaiah asked the NHRC to take action against officials responsible for the “deterioration of law and order” in the state, ruled by chief minister Jagan Mohan Reddy’s YSR Congress Party (YSRCP). Ramaiah alleged that the state government and police violated people’s fundamental right to speech and expression. “They were suppressing all voices of dissent and scuttling democracy at every step. If the erring officers were not made accountable to their suppressive actions, they would cause further erosion of democratic values in the state,” read Ramaiah’s letter.On August 28, TDP workers staged a protest against the rising prices of petrol, diesel, and essential commodities, and raised slogans against the state government and CM Reddy. Police arrested several workers of the opposition party at various places.“Several FIRs were registered against TDP leaders in Kotabommali, Dendulur, Pulivendula and Bommanahal police stations. More FIRs were registered in order to threaten people from expressing their dissent in a peaceful manner,” Ramaiah said in the letter.One of the TDP leaders to be arrested was former MLA from Denduluru seat Chintamaneni Prabhakar, who was reportedly taken into custody while he was attending a wedding. Earlier, TDP national president and former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu also wrote to the state’s director general of police Gautam Sawang to release his party members. He claimed that the protests were held in a peaceful manner, by adhering to Covid-19 guidelines. He further claimed that the ruling party “unleashed” its police force to arrest TDP leaders, cadre and the general public.The ruling YSRCP, however, dismissed the TDP’s allegations, saying law was taking its due course on this issue. YSRCP spokesperson and Denduluru MLA Abbaya Chowdary Kothari said Chintamaneni Prabhakar had staged a protest with 150 people and disturbed a government review meeting. The ruling YSRCP is numerically in a strong position after it won 151 out of the state’s 175 assembly seats and 23 out of 25 Lok Sabha constituencies in the 2019 general and state elections.Stating that Prabhakar has 74 cases registered against him for various offences, Kothari claimed the TDP leader has a history of attacking government officials, including police personnel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tdp-seeks-nhrc-intervention-into-arrests-of-protesting-party-workers-101630696280118.html
04-09-2021||India||Kerala facing vaccine shortage, asked Centre for more doses: Health minister||ThiruvananthapuramA day after Kerala’s overall Covid-19 cases crossed the 4.1 million mark, state health minister Veena George on Friday said the state is facing vaccine shortage and the Covishield stock is completely over in at least six districts, following which the government has asked for more vaccine doses from the Centre.The districts -- Kollam, Kottayam, Ernakulam, Thrissur, Kozhikode and Kannur -- are facing the shortage of Covishield and only 140,000 doses are remaining in the state’s reserve but all districts have limited stock of Covaxin, she said.The southern state is eyeing to complete the vaccination of all those aged above 18 years this month itself, which requires more jabs, the minister said in a statement.“The state is once again facing vaccine shortage. Almost all districts are suffering the scarcity. The Centre has been asked to provide more vaccine doses for the smooth continuation of the drive,” George said.Pointing out that many people are reluctant to take Covaxin, she said there is no need to worry about receiving the country’s indigenous jab and both vaccines are effective as well as safe.George said the state has achieved another target in the vaccine drive as 75% of people, aged above 18 years, have been given the first dose.This would comprise 2,15,27,035 people of the total 30.58 million population of the state, she said, adding that of them, 27.74% people (79,60,935) had received the second dose also.According to the estimated population of 2021, it is 60.81% and 22.49% respectively. With this, a total of 2,94,87,970 people have received either the first dose or both doses of vaccine. “Over 86 lakh (8.6 million) doses could be given in the month of August alone. The government is aiming to complete the vaccination of those aged above 18 years this month itself. This requires more vaccine doses,” the minister added.Kerala’s overall Covid cases breached 4.1 million as its consistently high daily numbers showed no signs of a let-up, with the state once again witnessing over 30,000 new infections on Thursday.The state, which recorded the country’s first coronavirus case in early 2020, reported 32,097 new COVID-19 infections and 188 deaths on Thursday, which pushed the total infection count to 41,22,133 and the fatalities to 21,149.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-facing-vaccine-shortage-asked-centre-for-more-doses-health-minister-101630696225184.html
04-09-2021||India||NIA files charge sheet against ‘IS member’||Bengaluru The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Friday filed a supplementary charge sheet in a special court here against a suspected ISIS terrorist for his alleged involvement in collecting and supplying arms and ammunition in Mumbai as part of a larger conspiracy of the terror group, an official said.Shihabudeen has been charged under sections of the Indian Penal Code, the Arms Act and the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act.The case was registered in January last year in Bengaluru against Mehboob Pasha, a resident of Bengaluru’s Gurappanapalya, and 16 others.Pasha, in association with Khaja Moideen who is accused in several cases registered in Tamil Nadu related to terrorism and murder of Hindu leaders, formed a terrorist gang by recruiting young Muslims in south India, the official of the premier investigation agency said.They formed the Al-Hind module and selected Bengaluru as their base and conducted several criminal conspiracy meetings in Karnataka and Tamil Nadu since April, 2019, the NIA official said.They had propagated the ideology of the proscribed terrorist organisation, the Islamic State or the ISIS, and conspired to collect arms and explosives for murdering police officers and Hindu leaders, the official said.Shihabudeen was part of the larger conspiracy and on the directions of Moideen, he had collected and handed over arms and ammunition to other accused in Mumbai, the NIA official said.These arms were further used in the murder of Special Sub-Inspector Wilson of the Tamil Nadu Police, the official said, adding that further investigation in the case was underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-files-charge-sheet-against-is-member-101630696160782.html
04-09-2021||India||Chennithala bats for Chandy amid row over new leadership of KPCC||Kottayam The two powerful groups in the state Congress -- one headed by Ramesh Chennithala and another by Oommen Chandy -- joined hands here on Friday to launch a scathing attack on the new leadership of the KPCC headed by its chief K Sudhakaran and leader of opposition in the state Assembly V D Satheesan over their “arrogant” style of functioning.Expressing displeasure over the new leadership for ignoring him and Chandy in organisational matters particularly in the selection of 14 DCC chiefs, Chennithala described himself as “just a four annas (25 paise)” member of the party but said Chandy was a senior leader and AICC general secretary and all the decisions of the state Congress should be taken after consulting with him.A day after the Congress leadership asserted in Kannur that PCC chief K Sudhakaran will be the “last word” on organisational matters in the state and spoke about bringing discipline in the party, Chennithala took a dig at the new leadership, indicating that many of them had violated discipline in the past and asked what would happen, if it is implemented retrospectively.“I am not saying that matters in the Congress should be discussed with me. I am just a four annas (25 paise) member of the party. But Oommen Chandy is the general secretary of AICC. So (they) have an obligation to discuss the matters with him,” the Haripad MLA said at a party function here in which Nattakom Suresh took charge as Kottayam DCC president.Attacking the style of functioning of the current leadership led by Sudhakaran and V D Satheesan, Chennithala said when he and Chandy led the Congress for 17 years, they had never used the language of “arrogance”.“When we got the power (in the organisation), we never used the language of arrogance. Instead we carried all the people together. We had put party interest over personal interest,” said Chennithala, who is also the former leader of opposition in the state assembly.At this stage, it is the responsibility of the leadership to hold all in the party together, he said.Chennithala also criticised the new leadership for branding him as a senior Congress leader, saying he was not a veteran and was only 64.In an apparent dig at PCC chief Sudhakaran, who is 73, he said those who have crossed the age of 74 or 75 are calling him senior leader.Attacking the new power centre in the state Congress, senior leader K C Joseph said no one came forward to help Chandy when he came under cyber attack recently.Joseph, who is a strong supporter of Chandy, also flayed the KPCC decision to suspend former MLA K Sivadasan Nair from the Congress in the name of party discipline.Nair and former KPCC general secretary K P Anilkumar were suspended temporarily early this week for publicly expressing displeasure over the selection of the party’s district chiefs by the All India Congress Committee.Although Chandy was not present at the function held in Kottayam on Friday, it became a venue of joint protest by both the ‘A’ group headed by Chandy and ‘I’ group led by Chennithala against the new power centre in the state Congress.The two groups have been active in the state unit since the times of veteran leader K Karunakaran and senior leader AK Antony.The KPCC leadership refused to react to the comments of Chennithala at Kottayam, the stronghold of Chandy.“No comments,” Satheesan said when the issues raised by Chennithala were brought to his notice by the media. He, however, asserted that Sudhakaran will have the last word on organisational matters in the state Congress.The development comes even as the central leadership of the party was trying to mollify Chandy and Chennithala describing them as the “pillars of the party” in Kerala.AICC general secretary (in-charge Kerala), Tariq Anwar has said all decisions on organisational matters will be taken after consulting them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chennithala-bats-for-chandy-amid-row-over-new-leadership-of-kpcc-101630696105933.html
04-09-2021||India||Siddaramaiah urges Karnataka government not to implement NEP||Bengaluru: The intention behind the new decision to implement the new National Education Policy (NEP) is to indoctrinate students with the idea of communalism through education, said senior Congress leader and Leader of Opposition in Karnataka assembly Siddaramaiah on Friday. “It (NEP) promotes privatization leading to inequality and social injustice. The intention is to indoctrinate students with the idea of communalism through education. NEP is unscientific and will push lakhs of students to darkness,” read a communication from the former chief minister’s office. Siddaramaiah asked the government to withdraw the implementation of the policy, adding that NEP infringes upon the autonomy of states over education and universities. The former chief minister was responding to a letter written by the office of minister of higher education C N Ashwath Narayan informing about the implementation of the new National Education Policy and seeking an appointment with the Leader of Opposition to discuss the same. “It is to be noted that the government has already decided and inaugurated to implement the said policy from the current academic year, without any discussion with the students, teachers, education experts or opposition. It is not correct to call for discussion now after inaugurating the implementation,” Siddaramaiah said in his letter to Narayan. Claiming that detailed deliberations should have been initiated democratically before drafting such issues with wide implications, Siddaramaiah added, “India has a high student-to-teacher ratio which should come down for the benefit of students. Also, the government allocation for education as a percentage of GDP is very low. The NEP also recommends the allocation to education to be at 6% of GDP. So then Karnataka should allocate about ₹1.08 lakh crore,” read his letter. Suggesting that the government should have discussed and debated these issues before the implementation since NEP decides the future of many students shaping their next 70-80 years, Siddaramaiah said that the implementation of NEP is a violation of federal arrangements and infringes upon the autonomy of states over education and universities. “Education is a tool for social elevation for many marginalized sections. Has BJP implemented NEP to prevent this elevation of social status among marginalized sections?... If there has to be a debate about NEP in good spirit, I urge the government to withdraw the implementation of NEP immediately and we will come for discussion about that. If, after deliberations, NEP is found to be good, we will support the government to implement NEP,” he added. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/siddaramaiah-urges-karnataka-government-not-to-implement-nep-101630696040677.html
04-09-2021||India||Bommai faces quota, caste census challenges from dominant groups||Bengaluru The dominant communities in Karnataka have started to mobilize support on the promises made by the Bharatiya Janata Party(BJP) on reservation as well the contentious caste census. The Vokkaliga-Lingayat-Veerashaiva Sourdha Vedike, a collective group of people from the two dominant communities are holding a meeting on Saturday in Bengaluru to assert their demands not to release the findings of the 2015 caste census report commissioned by the Siddaramaiah-led Congress government. “We (Lingayats and Vokkaligas) have always been number one and two (in terms of percentage of population) and they (Siddaramaiah) have made it into fourth and fifth,” BS Nataraj, the convener of the forum said. The statements come at a time when extremely backward and marginalized caste groups have openly demanded that the government don’t accede to the Panchamasali, the largest sub-sect of the Lingayats, who are seeking to be included to the 2A category as well release the findings of the 2015 caste census. The Panchamasali have threatened to revive their stir post September 15 if their demands of being reclassified into 2A is not fulfilled by the BJP government as promised by former chief minister BS Yediyurappa. It also leaves Bommai with difficult choices to make as he has to find a middle ground between the two demands as it includes communities who have traditionally backed the BJP and those that the saffron party is actively pursuing to enhance its chances of returning to power on its own in 2023 . Nataraj said that the state government does not have the powers to conduct such a survey and that it comes under the Centre to do so. He added that there should be an inquiry on where the Siddaramaiah government spent ₹160 crore which it allegedly claims was the cost of the month-long exercise. MC Venugopal, the president of the The Athi Hindulida Vargagala Jagruthi Vedike, on Friday said that though everyone in society has the right to demand better reservation status, it can be done so only after the findings are released. “This report has been made by spending around ₹160 crore of the tax payers money. How can it not be released without even discussing it or knowing its contents,” Venugopal said. The forum has even taken the legal route to get the data released and have secured the backing of former chief minister Siddaramaiah who himself has a lot to gain from mobilising more backward communities under his AHINDA (Kannada acronym for minorities, backward classes and Dalits) support base. The case is scheduled to come up on September 8.The Panchamasali had earlier demanded that a member of their community be chosen to replace Yediyurappa as chief minister but the BJP chose Bommai, who is from a smaller sub-sect (Sadar) of the Lingayats, aggravating the community and its seers. On Friday, Congress leader MB Patil said that they will mobilize support to revive the separate minority religion status for the Lingayats which was initiated just before the 2018 assembly elections. Siddaramaiah had approved to accord a minority religion status on the Lingayats, which analysts and political leaders said was aimed at splitting one of the biggest support base of the BJP before the 2018 polls. However, the decision to distinguish between Lingayats and Veershaiva, terms which are used interchangeably and also the latter as a sub-sect, had proved costly for Siddaramaiah and the Congress who lost power in the assembly elections. “After the elections (2023) we will move forward together,” Patil said on Friday.Speaking to reporters at his palatial home in Sadashivnagar, one of Bengaluru’s most expensive residential localities, he said that there were very poor sections within the Lingayat and its 99 sub-sects and demanded that the community be included under 2A category. He said that there is no relation between the Lingayat agitation and the Congress. “There is no middle ground as such for Bommai. It will be more beneficial for the BJP to not antagonize the two dominant communities (Vokkaliga and Lingayats) than the fragmented backward classes,” said one Bengaluru-based political analyst, requesting not to be named. He said that the backward classes are also not known to support any political party en masse and the BJP stands to benefit from continuing its strategy of backing the demands of the dominant groups and refrain from releasing the findings of the report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bommai-faces-quota-caste-census-challenges-from-dominant-groups-101630695863154.html
04-09-2021||India||Madras HC asks police to quiz EPS, Sasikala in Kodanad case||Chennai The Madras high court on Friday asked the police in Nilgiris district to summon former chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami, V K Sasikala, and others for examination before a trial court, which is hearing the 2017 Kodanad Estate heist-cum-murder case, which has come to haunt the former CM, who accidentally came to the top post after J Jayalalithaa’s death and solidified his position in the AIADMK.After the party’s defeat in the assembly elections, the four-month-old DMK government closing in on him on cases related to his regime and the 2017 Kodanad Estate heist-cum-murder case is the latest among them.The usually cool-headed Palaniswami has been visibly anxious since the Niligiris police last month questioned a key accused, K V Sayan, who has previously linked Palaniswami with the case. Since then, the Nilgiris district police formed a special team to further investigate the case. And the Niligiris sessions court on Thursday granted four weeks’ time for the prosecution to submit a report on the status of the inquiry.Palaniswami in at least two press interactions has been constantly telling reporters that Stalin is out to frame him in the case. “I’m hearing from reporters that they took a secret statement from Sayan to frame me and others,” he said. The AIADMK walked out of the assembly over this issue, protested, and complained to the governor. In a step ahead, an AIADMK functionary who is a prosecution witness filed a plea in court seeking for the further investigation in the case to be stopped which the court denied. “Palaniswami is taking legal aid in the case,” said a senior AIADMK leader close to him and not wishing to be named. The party is rattled. “They’re giving him (Palaniswami) mental torture,” AIADMK spokesperson D Jayakumar told reporters last week. Palaniswami who was on the periphery of politics came into the limelight and directly occupied the chief minister’s chair in a coup led by Jayalalithaa’s close aide VK Sasikala who wanted the post for herself but had to hand it in to someone she trusted after being convicted in February 2017 in the disproportionate assets case. In the party where Jayalalithaa was the only power centre and Sasikala managed it all behind the scenes, the latter’s absence gave room to several factions, particularly the one led by deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam. Even as Palaniswami and Panneerselvam have kept Sasikala out and the party together with their dual leadership, the factions are still not fully settled.Palaniswami comes from a humble background with no mentor is politics and hails from a Gounder (Other Backward Class) farmer family in Salem in the western region of Tamil Nadu. During his four years as chief minister, he nurtured his community and leaders from the west within the party that challenged the predominant community of Mukkalathors to which Panneerselvam and Sasikala belong. These moves ensured that Panneerselvam, who was Jayalalithaa’s choice for chief minister thrice in her absence due to being jailed and hospitalised, became sidelined. The tension between the two spilled over publicly several times but somehow the decisions always went in Palaniswami’s favour. He was the AIADMK’s CM candidate and when they lost, he got the next best position, the leader of opposition.“Despite so many problems and factionalism, Palaniswami consolidated his position and he even managed to bring Panneerselvam to his side,” says political analyst Maalan Narayanan. “Even in future polls, he is the only contender for Stalin, so they would want to weaken him. But not all that is happening is purely political. In the Kodanad case, there are glaring gaps in investigations.”The sensational case refers to the break-in at Jayalalithaa’s 900-acre tea estate in Kodanad in April 2017, which had resulted in the murder of a security guard and several other mysterious deaths. The timing of the crime is also intriguing as it happened following Jayalalithaa’s death in a Chennai hospital in December 2016 and Sasikala’s imprisonment in February 2017 in the disproportionate assets case and when Palaniswami was chief minister. He had told the assembly the day after the incident that it was a case of robbery gone wrong. “The AIADMK cadre are still concerned over Jayalalithaa’s death so if the investigation proves that Palaniswami had a hand in the Kodanad case, he is doomed forever. If he’s proved innocent, he can once again solidify his place that DMK was targeting him. But I don’t think the DMK would have walked into this without having some strong clues,” said Narayanan. Stalin has also played this subtly. While he hasn’t openly criticised Palaniswami, the government agencies are going about anti-corruption raids and conducting fresh investigations. In the assembly, Stalin has dismissed allegations that this is out of political vendetta and justified that this is the DMK’s poll promise to bring the culprits to book. “We are not bringing up any new cases, are we? They’re paying for their actions over the last 10 years,” said a DMK leader not wishing to be named.After the DMK settled down after firefighting the second wave of Covid-19, the action began when the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) began to file corruption cases against former AIADMK ministers, including Palaniswami’s close aide SP Velumani (ex municipal administration minister). The AIADMK began to get jittery and formed a special legal team to advise their party leaders who they said were being targeted by DMK out of political vendetta. “Palaniswami and Velumani are from the western region which is the weak link for the DMK,” says Naraynana. “So their targets have started from the western region to neutralise AIADMK’s power.” A speculation making the rounds is that the DMK would prefer to have Panneerselvam compared to the stronger Palaniswami as the lone leader of the AIADMK. “It could be possible,” says Narayanan. “MGR once called DMK an evil force. And they’ve continued to criticise the DMK but Panneerselvam isn’t highly critical and he has gone to the extent of even praising the DMK. But Palaniswami continues to speak from an anti-DMK stance.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madras-hc-asks-police-to-quiz-eps-sasikala-in-kodanad-case-101630695862076.html
04-09-2021||India||35% increase in private vehicles on Bengaluru roads: Officials||Bengaluru: The Bengaluru city police is grappling to control vehicular traffic as the city continues to witness a steady rise in the usage of private vehicles. According to an informal survey conducted by the Bengaluru police, there is a 35% increase in the number of private vehicles on the road post lockdown, said joint commissioner of police(traffic) BR Ravikante Gowda on Thursday. The joint commissioner also added that the increased traffic along with various civic works continuing across the city, the job of traffic policemen has increased exponentially. “Except for east Bengaluru, in all divisions, the traffic is back to normal. Our officers are reporting that there is a considerable increase in the number of private vehicles. Although we did not conduct a formal study, an informal survey conducted across the city showed an increase of 35% in the number of vehicles on the road. There is a huge increase in the number of two-wheelers,” said Gowda. Gowda added that during their recent interaction with commuters, many had expressed concerns over using public transport. “Because of the pandemic, people are hesitant to use public transport. The Metro and BMTC are yet to pick up numbers. In Bengaluru, commute is already dominated by private transport and the pandemic has increased those numbers. We are trying to spread awareness,” he said. The data shared by the state transport department shows that the total number of vehicles registered in Bengaluru has nearly breached the 10 million mark as of January 2021, despite the pandemic and lockdown. Out of these, 6.4 million are two-wheelers, and 2.3 million are private cars. Bengaluru which added about 600,000 new vehicles each year since 2018, added nearly over 1.1million vehicles in 2020-21, which is double the number. Despite this increase in vehicular population, the number of traffic policemen in the city remains understaffed. The number of traffic police in Bengaluru has been below its sanctioned strength and according to a study by the Bureau of Police Reforms and Development (BPR&D), the sanctioned strength of traffic police in several cities in the country, including Bengaluru, should be much higher than the current numbers. According to official records, the Bengaluru traffic police have a sanctioned strength of 5,262 personnel to regulate traffic across 44,000 intersections and they are 600 men short of the sanctioned strength. The joint commissioner said that there was indeed a shortage of staff in the department and the government is trying to fill the gap at the earliest. “...but over the years we have increased the use of the technology in our enforcement, which has been a boon for us. The various cameras across the city have been instrumental in capturing more than 50% of the city’s traffic violations,” Gowda said. While the top brass relies on technology, traffic policemen in the city say technology has its shortfalls, especially in traffic management. “There are around 44,000 intersections in the city. Out of this, there are only 388 junctions with signals and only around 500 have policemen manning them. Deployment is stretched in the outskirts of the city, and it becomes difficult to manage all major roads. We believe if we are able to regulate traffic on more roads and intersections the traffic situation can be improved,” said a senior officer in the traffic department. Meanwhile, civic experts say there is a need to create a new system in Bengaluru rather than going back to the old days of traffic jams. V Ravichandar, a civic expert said that the city should and will have a ‘5 km city’ in the coming days. “The work from home culture will enable people to work and live in a 5km radius. Such a system will make Bengaluru a pandemic-proof city to some extent. One thing this pandemic has taught us is that cases happen in bubbles and travel results in the spread,” he added. He said that a combination of hybrid work culture (combination of work from home and office) and removal of the need for cross-city travel would not only decongest Bengaluru but also improve reliance on public transport. “Once the need for long-distance travel within the city is limited, we will see people walking or using cycles more in the 5 km hubs,” Ravichandar added. Such a move, however, requires a change in the government’s thought process. Ravichandar has urged that the city’s master plan be relooked with a new outlook.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/35-increase-in-private-vehicles-on-bengaluru-roads-officials-101630695800757.html
04-09-2021||India||Drug resistance to fungal infections increasing: ICMR report||There has been a sustained increase in drug-resistant pathogens, according to the latest annual report of the Antimicrobial Resistance Research and Surveillance Network released on Friday, which surveys infections in large hospitals, and has found an increase in the number of cases that were hard to treat with currently used antimicrobials. The findings reinforce concerns around the overuse of antimicrobials and found that one of the pathogen that showed increased drug resistance in the study is also one that causes secondary infection in many serious Covid-19 cases. The pathogens include klebsiella pneumoniae (that causes pneumonia) and acinetobacter baumannii (that cause pneumonia, urinary tract infection) -- these are usually found at tertiary care hospitals.  The study, however, also highlighted a slight recovery in susceptibility of one of the most commonly found pathogens -- E Coli -- to Imipenem, one of the broad-spectrum antibiotic drugs (that act against wide range of disease-causing pathogens), from 63% in 2019 to 72% in 2020. “This is only a slight recovery and that too for one antimicrobial. On the other hand, we also have pathogens such as acinetobacter baumannii and klebsiella pneumoniae in which drug resistance has been increasing. This is especially concerning because K pneumoniae is the commonest pathogen causing secondary infection in Covid-19 patients,” said Dr Kamini Walia, a scientist with the epidemiology and communicable diseases department at ICMR. The report, which is based on 60,000 isolates collected from 30 tertiary care centres across Delhi, categorises the highly drug-resistant pathogens into three groups and provides actionable steps on how to treat each of the pathogen and how to prevent the spread of the infection within hospitals. The report further warned against a surge in fungal infections, including those due to rare species, among hospitalised patients. “There are several factors as to why we are seeing an increase in fungal infections – there is an increase in antibiotic and steroid use, the patients with co-morbidities are living longer because of better medical care, there is an increase in immunosuppression therapies and the changing environment. Most fungi used to thrive at 25oC, however, they seem to be overcoming the temperature barrier and infecting humans. There used to be 200 species of fungi that caused human infections when I was studying, now we have more than 700 to 800 species,” said Dr Arunaloke Chakrabarti, head of the department of microbiology at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education & Research, Chandigarh. The study, which was conducted during the first wave of the pandemic in 2020, does not mention mucormycosis -- a fungal infection that shot up among Covid-19 patients during the second wave of the pandemic earlier this year.“This report pertains to last year when the problem of mucormycosis was not as acute,” said Dr Walia. “There is a lot of emphasis on candida due to which most centres were sending those isolates; not many were sending in isolates of mycelial fungi and mucormycosis is a mycelial fungi,”  Chakrabarti added. Asked whether the indiscriminate use of antibiotics such as azithromycin and doxycycline during the pandemic will lead to more resistance in the future, Walia said, “Changes due to such overuse of antibiotics happen at a molecular level, it takes time for us to see the phenotypic changes. Also, the overuse of these antibiotics happened at a community level, our report focuses on hospital-based infections.” The report calls for urgent antibiotic stewardship programmes in hospitals to cut down on unnecessary prescription of antimicrobials and a diagnostic stewardship to ensure that appropriate antimicrobials are used after identifying the pathogen to reduce antibiotic pressure on the pathogens that is the key driver of antimicrobial resistance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drug-resistance-to-fungal-infections-increasing-icmrreport-101630695321440.html
04-09-2021||India||India capable of becoming global green hydrogen exporter: Jitendra Singh||India has the geographic advantage and potential to switch from a net fossil energy importer to a clean energy exporter with focus on green hydrogen, science and technology minister Jitendra Singh said on Friday.Speaking at a climate summit organised by the PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Singh said projections for potential demand for green hydrogen by 2030 show global annual export potential for green hydrogen was expected to be around 10.4 million tonnes in East Asia and European Union, which is a $20-billion market.“We are one of the first nations of the world that has a green hydrogen mission. Green hydrogen can be produced with solar energy to split water in an electrolyser with oxygen as only by-product. The abundance of solar irradiance and water in India is an advantage with us. Green hydrogen can help India to become self-reliant in our energy needs at the same time keeping our commitment on climate change,” Singh said, adding that Prime Minister Narendra Modi while referring to various subjects during his Independence Day speech repeatedly underlined the importance of technology and hydrogen.“When we talk of climate change and green hydrogen we have to understand the responsibility that India has. World is looking up to India as a country which can play a frontline role. We with a huge population, unless India participates in the fight against climate change, the world will not be able to achieve optimum results. More than 65% of our population is below the age of 40 years and incidentally more than 90% of our energy demand is met by imported fossil fuel and therefore the problem of climate change in the world cannot be resolved unless India reduces its emissions, which is both a responsibility and obligation to the world,” he said.Singh added that in spite of our renewable energy increasing, renewable electricity can help abatement of only 45% to 50% of the carbon dioxide emissions. He said India can have an aspirational goal of ‘Hydrogen 212’ where green hydrogen generation cost is of less than $2 per kg; hydrogen storage plus refuelling cost of less than $1 per kg and replacement of end use technology with green hydrogen technology in less than 2 years.After finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced the launch of a hydrogen mission in February, Ulka Kelkar, director, Climate Program, World Resources Institute, India, had said, “The Hydrogen Energy Mission will be critical because hydrogen may be the only way to have zero carbon emissions from heavy industries like cement and steel - provided that hydrogen is produced by electrolysis from renewable electricity.”PM Modi in his Independence Day speech said green hydrogen production and exports will lead India towards a clean energy transition. “Green Hydrogen is the future of the world. Today, I announce the setting up of the National Hydrogen Mission. We have to make India a global Hub for green hydrogen production and export,” the PM had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-capable-of-becoming-global-green-hydrogen-exporter-jitendra-singh-101630695140702.html
04-09-2021||India||Centre defends new IT rules in 2 HC affidavits||The Union government have filed two counter-affidavits before the Madras High Court, defending the constitutional validity of the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 or IT Rules, and said that “common users are protected”. The government was responding to two different petitions challenging the IT Rules, 2021 and pending in the Madras HC --one filed by Carnatic vocalist and Ramon Magsaysay awardee TM Krishna and the other by the Digital News Publishers Association (DNPA) comprising 13 media outlets and journalist Mukund Padmanabhan. The Madras high court had disapproved of the Centre’s repeated delay in filing the counter. On August 25, the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) filed the counter stating that the delay was because they wanted to ensure ‘consistent defence’ as there are various challenges before different High Courts across the country which had challenged different parts of the new IT Rules. There are a total of 19 writ petitions pending across high courts in the country and each emanate out of a unique set of circumstances, the MEITY submitted. But all cases commonly seek to declare the IT Rules 2021 ultra vires the Constitution and the IT Act, 2000, the ministry noted. MeitY defended the new rules while the Ministry for Information and Broadcasting (MIB) filed a separate 115-page counter-affidavit on August 26 supporting the stance of the former ministry seeking to dismiss the petitions. MeitY said that there is no chilling effect on speech and expression as it does not impose any penalties on users who post content in contravention of the IT Rules. The 23 page affidavit also said that the right to privacy is not absolute and when an “important countervailing interest is shown to be superior, the right to privacy can be intruded upon.”The only ramification is the removal of such content or the termination of user’s access by the intermediary, which may be challenged by the user under the grievance redressal mechanism specifically set out in the IT Rules or by way of judicial review, the affidavit read. The affidavit added that content can be removed only if it is unlawful and after a court order and after being notified by the authorised agency. “No other executive other than the appropriate government or its agency is empowered to issue an order for removal of content,” it assured.The affidavit said that the IT Rules 2021 were in consonance with the Constitution of India and the notion “welfare of the people is the supreme law” has been taken into prime consideration while framing the rules. “Businesses must be legally complaint to the law of the land,” the affidavit said, asking the court to dismiss the petitions. Expanding on this, the MIB in its affidavit submitted that it’s well within the scope of the Information Technology Act (IT Act), 2000 and the Constitution.The Madras HC’s first bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice PD Audikesavalu posted the next hearing in the case for September 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-defends-new-it-rules-in-2-hc-affidavits-101630695080769.html
04-09-2021||India||Fill up 6,000 vacant teaching posts on mission mode by October: Minister to VCs||In his first formal interaction with the vice-chancellors (VCs) of around 45 central universities on Friday, Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan urged them to fill up the 6,000-odd vacant teaching posts on a ‘mission mode’ by October. In a veiled reference to the students’ protests, the minister also asked the VCs to be “accommodative” and “flexible” in the democratic set-ups of universities.During a virtual interaction, Pradhan informed the VCs that 6,229 teaching posts were lying vacant across the central universities. Of them, 1,012 are in Scheduled Caste category, 592 Scheduled Tribe, 1,767 other backward classes (OBC), 805 economically weaker sections and 350 in Divyang (people with disabilities) categories.“We urge all the universities to fill up these 6,000-odd posts in a mission mode between September and October. Let’s do that in a campaign mode. All the central universities should publish the advertisement of their vacancies by next week,” Pradhan said.Emphasising that various stakeholders have to be “accommodative” and “flexible” in a democratic set up of universities in the country, Pradhan said there should not be any compromise on teaching and learning. Even as he did not name any university, the minister’s comment came a day after he intervened to resolve the ongoing crisis at the Visva-Bharati University in West Bengal, and advised the administration to form an internal committee to have a dialogue with students, who were agitating over the rustication of three students in connection with an act of vandalism and misconduct that took place on the campus in January.“We all, at some point of time, have been students. There will be students’ rebellion at the campuses. But everyone has to work with discipline and under the Constitutional framework. We have to be a little accommodative and flexible in a democracy. However, there cannot be any compromise with teaching and learning. The VCs are custodians of the University and they should take care of it,” Pradhan told VCs.A vice-chancellor, who attended the meeting, said Pradhan told all university heads to “encourage all kinds of ideas and views” on their campuses. “The minister asked the VCs to create a space where all kinds of views and ideas are encouraged. He said there may be some incidents of student protests or agitation over any issue at the campuses, but the academic work should not get hampered because of it,” the VC said, adding that universities have also been asked to keep the ministry “in loop” in case there is any “untoward incident” reported on campus.The minister also said that VCs should play “pioneering roles” in outlining plans to implement several initiatives under the new National Education Policy (NEP) 2020, including four-year undergraduate programmes, multiple entry-exit points, and academic banks of credits, among others. He encouraged the universities to offer Japanese language as an additional skill subject to enhance the “employability” of students.During the interaction, universities updated the ministry about their plans of implementing the NEP-2020. “Over 40 universities informed that they have started implementing several initiatives including the introduction of the academic bank of credits that will allow students to earn credits for different courses,” a senior ministry official said.Minister lauds JNU courseMeanwhile, Pradhan appreciated Delhi-based Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) for introducing a new course on counter-terrorism meant for engineering students, and lauded VC Jagadesh Kumar for the initiative.“Recently a colleague from the Parliament wrote to me asking why JNU has introduced a course on terrorism. Our engineers today are not just engineers. They are involved in building social products. So, if a course helps engineering students understand the kind of hindrances they could face, then I congratulate JNU VC Jagadesh Kumar and his team for introducing such a course,” Pradhan said.After JNU’s decision to introduce a course titled ‘Counter Terrorism, Asymmetric Conflicts and Strategies for Cooperation among Major Powers’, Communist Party of India’s (CPI) Rajya Sabha member Binoy Viswam on Tuesday wrote to Pradhan demanding the course must not be allowed to be taught.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fill-up-6-000-vacant-teaching-posts-on-mission-mode-by-october-minister-to-vcs-101630694960737.html
04-09-2021||India||SC asks CBI to disclose ‘success rate’ in prosecuting cases||The Supreme Court on Friday directed the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to give an account of its “success rate” in prosecuting cases across the country while underscoring that the “premier investigating agency” cannot simply launch prosecutions and then not bother about their outcome. A bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and MM Sundresh said that it is important to know the extent of success of the CBI in cases where investigations and prosecutions have been carried out by the agency because there has to be some accountability as well. “We want a complete chart of how many cases you have been prosecuting in trial courts and in the high courts. We will examine the success rate of the premier investigating agency. Also tell us how many cases have been pending in different courts and for how long. Let an analysis be done,” the bench told additional solicitor general Sanjay Jain, who was appearing for CBI. The ASG, however, sought to dispute the proposition on the success rate of the agency. “In an adversarial system where the accused also have rights to be defended, is the success rate really important?” he asked. The bench retorted in affirmation. “Yes, indeed. Such assessments are done all over the world. If you have no case, what is the fun in launching an investigation or a prosecution. Let us not forget that investigation is the most important part of a trial, and you are supposed to be the premier investigating agency,” it told Jain. Observing that the “success rate” is an empirical tool and an important indicator, the bench added: “We are saying this with our experience; a lot more is required to be done.”With the writing on the wall, the ASG pleaded for sufficient time to collect the relevant data. The bench gave him six weeks to do so. The court was hearing a matter arising out of the CBI’s appeal from a 2018 judgment of the Jammu & Kashmir high court. By this judgment, the high court let off some lawyers from the charges of fabricating false evidence against a few security forces personnel to frame them in a case of rape and murder. While the two girls from Shopian had died due to drowning in March 2009, the CBI claimed, some lawyers and doctors created false evidence of rape and murder to implicate personnel of security forces. However, it took CBI more than a year to file its appeal against this order. In January, the top court sought an explanation from the department noting the delay in filing the case “shows clearly gross incompetence in the legal department of the CBI which raises serious questions of its efficacy to prosecute the case”. When the agency submitted its explanation for the delay in February, the bench was livid and called it “a saga of gross negligence in performing duties while asking, this time, the CBI director to file his personal affidavit as to what steps are being taken to ensure proper functioning of prosecution of legal cases. Subsequently, then CBI director Rishi Kumar Shukla filed his affidavit in March 2020 apologising for the inordinate delay in filing the appeal. The director pointed out that a new set of instructions with stipulated timelines have been issued to streamline the process of filing and monitoring of appeals filed by the agency. The affidavit stated that “not only the responsibility of in-house officers has been fixed for strict processing of the matter within timeline but they have also been tasked with coordinating with the ministries so that appeals may be filed within the prescribed time limit.” On Friday, the bench perused the affidavit of the former CBI director’s director but asked the ASG about the number of cases the agency has been prosecuting and the conviction rate. “You have to put your house in order. At the same time, you submit details of the cases pending in the trial court and the high court along with the cases where you have succeeded. You give us the year-wise data on this. Let us see how you have done,” it told the law officer. HT reached out to CBI officials but they were not available immediately for a response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-asks-cbi-to-disclose-success-rate-in-prosecuting-cases-101630694845458.html
04-09-2021||India||Record 80m rural households now have piped drinking water under JJM||Official data shows that there has been fourfold increase, over the past two years, in the rate at which functional piped water is being provided to households in India’s 117 so-called aspirational districts, home to some of the poorest Indians, overtaking the pace at which piped water is bring provided nationally under the flagship Jal Jeevan Mission.Over a third of all households in so-called aspirational and Japanese-encephalitis-endemic districts of the country now have piped water under the Jal Jeevan Mission.According to Niti Aayog’s classification, aspirational districts are those with socio-economic indicators lower than the national average. They also lag in infrastructure development.About 11.2 million or 38% of all households in regions of the country deemed Japanese-encephalitis endemic have access to clean piped water critical to improving health outcomes, up from about 2.9% in 2019, an official said, requesting anonymity.Under the flagship water mission, another 11.8 million households, or 35% of the total, have been provided with tap water connections in the aspirational districts, up from 7.9% in 2019, the latest data shows.The Jal Jeevan Mission-Har Ghar Jal scheme aims to provide every rural household with a functional tap water connection by 2024. Over 120 million households in India lack access to clean water near their homes, the highest in the world, according to a UN Water report of 2014.India has 189 million rural households, according to Census data. Across India, slightly over 80 million or 42.5% of total rural households have been covered under the piped drinking water mission so far, official data shows.The country has had several public programmes to bring clean water to rural residences, such as the National Drinking Water Mission launched in 1986, but the goal of providing piped drinking water to every household entered a “mission mode” with the Har Ghar Jal programme (water for every home) under the Jal Jeevan Mission.Poor-quality water causes diseases such as diarrhoea, the third leading cause of childhood mortality in India, according to researchers Subitha Lakshminarayanan and Ramakrishnan Jayalakshmy, who work at Puduchery’s Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research and Indira Gandhi Medical College, respectively.The Gajendra Shekhawat-led Union Jal Shakti ministry oversees the implementation of the rural household water mission.“As per the very design of the scheme, aspirational districts have a priority when comes to laying water infrastructure. Similarly priority is also accorded to areas with Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes population. This has led to a faster rate of implementation in priority areas,” an official with said, requesting he not be named.The Union budget allotted ₹10,001 crore in 2019-20 for the national rural drinking water mission. In 2020-21, ₹11,500 crore was provided. The Union budget 2021-22 allotted ₹50,000 crore for the mission.Experts say a key challenge is to maintain sustainability of water supply sources. In previous attempts to provide drinking water supply, villages connected with water sources fell back to “no-water” status after a few years due to non-availability of water.Maintaining sustainability will require work on different aspects altogether. These include groundwater recharge, water conservation and, critically, cutting down the overuse of water in agriculture, which hogs 90% of available supply, mainly because farming isn’t efficient.“Agriculture’s demand for water is disproportionately huge. One of the reasons is free electricity and lot of incentives for crops such as paddy. India has to bring down its farm-water use to optimal levels for greater sustainability of groundwater,” said Alok Nath, a former water specialist at the Indian Council for Agricultural Research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/record-80m-rural-households-now-have-piped-drinking-water-under-jjm-101630694662721.html
04-09-2021||India||Firozabad deaths due to dengue, not ‘mystery disease’: UP govt||Uttar Pradesh’s additional chief secretary (information) Navneet Sehgal on Friday said recent deaths in Firozabad were due to dengue and seasonal diseases and ruled out reports of “mystery disease”, even as toll in the district rose to 50 with three more fatalities.“In some districts, including Firozabad, cases of dengue and seasonal diseases were reported. The state government has deployed 15 more doctors in Firozabad and a special cleanliness drive will be conducted in the entire state from September 5 to curb mosquito-borne diseases,” Sehgal said in a press conference in Lucknow.He added that in each district a nodal officer will coordinate the cleanliness campaign and blood samples of patients were being tested at the King George’s Medical University in the state capital.“Patients are being provided free-of-cost treatment. The chief minister has met patients and their families,” said Sehgal.Firozabad chief medical officer Dr Dinesh Kumar Premi confirmed 50 deaths in the district. Premi recently joined as CMO after Dr Neeta Kulshrestha was shunted from the post on September 1. Schools in the western UP district are closed till September 6 for students up to Class 8.There are 36 active camps in the district and 3,719 people, including those who have fever, are undergoing treatment there, the CMO said.“Most of the deaths in Firozabad, particularly those in recent days, were because of dengue. The reason for deaths in the early part is not yet clear. Patients are responding to treatment for dengue,” said Dr AK Singh, additional director (Health) at Agra.Firozabad, about 50 km from Agra, has witnessed a surge in fever deaths all through August and the initial days of September.Meanwhile, hospitals have started preparing facilities to cater to fever patients in case they come in big numbers. Lok Bandhu and Balrampur hospitals in Lucknow have prepared a separate dengue ward each with mosquito nets for each bed.Lok Bandhu hospital has set up 10 beds while Balrampur Hospital has prepared 20 beds in their respective dengue wards.“Keeping dengue patients separate from other patients is necessary. Hence, we have arranged separate ward with mosquito net on each bed in the ward,” said Dr Ajay Shankar Tripathi, medical superintendent of Lok Bandhu Hospital.Doctors warned against mosquito breeding and said stagnant water in and around houses should immediately be removed.“Even a spoonful of stagnant water is enough for mosquito breeding. Water even in flowerpots should be changed every day,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/firozabad-deaths-due-to-dengue-not-mystery-disease-upgovt-101630694600576.html
04-09-2021||India||Collegium resends 9 names despite Centre’s objections||The Supreme Court collegium on Friday overruled the objections of the Union government and reiterated nine names for appointment as judges in different high courts, recommending 68 people in total across 12 high courts.The reiterations include four names for the Calcutta high court; two for the Jammu & Kashmir high court; two for the Karnataka high court, and one for the Rajasthan high court.“The Supreme Court collegium in its meeting held on 1st September, 2021 has, on reconsideration, resolved to reiterate its earlier recommendations for elevation of the advocates as judges in the high courts,” stated the resolution published on the Supreme Court website on Friday night.The three-member collegium comprises Chief Justice of India, NV Ramana, and justices Uday U Lalit and AM Khanwilkar.Apart from the reiterations, the collegium also recommended 59 names for judges in 11 high courts across India. This the highest number of names recommended for appointment as HC judges.Among the 68 names cleared in total, 44 are lawyers while 24 are serving judicial officers. There are 10 women names among the recommendations. In yet another first, a woman judicial officer belonging to the scheduled tribes was recommended for appointment in the Gauhati high court. As reported by HT on August 31, the Centre declined to accept 14 names for appointment in the high courts as judges, asking the collegium to review its recommendations. This included the oldest recommendation made by the collegium back in July 2019 for the Calcutta high court.Similarly, one name for the Jammu & Kashmir high court was pending for almost 21 months; another one not accepted by the government for the same court was forwarded in March this year after additional inputs sought by the government regarding the advocate’s legal practice.The government had also demanded reconsideration of two names meant for the Karnataka and Kerala high courts. Of the two names returned for the Karnataka high court, one was initially recommended in October 2019 and reiterated in March this year.There is, however, no resolution yet on the four names sent back by the government for the Delhi high court and one name for the Kerala high court.The memorandum of procedure (MoP), which guides the appointment of judges in the higher judiciary, makes it clear that the government is bound by the decision of the collegium after the names are reiterated.The resolutions published on the website also stated that three names of judicial officers were being sent againfor appointment as judges in the Allahabad high court apart from fresh recommendations for 13 new names.Three judicial officers and three lawyers have also been recommended for appointment in the Rajasthan high court, while five judicial officers have been sought to be elevated as judges in the Jharkhand high court.In addition to reiteration of old recommendations, six fresh names have been sent for appointment in the Calcutta high court.For appointments in the Kerala high court, four names each from among lawyers and judicial officers have been recommended by the collegium. One name for the Madhya Pradesh high court and four names for the Madras high court have also been forwarded to the Centre.Two fresh names for the Jammu & Kashmir high court; two for the Chhattisgarh high court; five for the Gauhati high court and four names for the Punjab & Haryana high court have also been recommended.As of August 1,455 posts of high court judges were lying vacant in 25 high courts across the country, translating to more than 41% of the total strength.The high courts of Delhi, Allahabad, Calcutta, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Patna, Punjab and Haryana, Rajasthan and Telangana face shortage of more than one-third of their total judges’ strength.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/collegium-resends-9-names-despite-centre-s-objections-101630694540009.html
04-09-2021||India||Chennai horror: Poverty the link in sordid sex abuse story of 7 minor girls||Kumaran Nagar is nothing more than a cluster of ramshackle houses by the polluted Cooum river that runs through Chennai. It is located within the middle- and upper-milddle class borough of Anna Nagar, where many peoplework as domestic helps or do odd-jobs. Others have small businesses, if they can be called that.The 30-year-old woman who is one of the lead actors in a sordid saga playing out right now in the city was a flower seller. Most days, S Kanchana, who lives in the same area, would see her, and her daughter, a nine-year-old, selling flowers by the roadside.Last weekend, Kanchana watched as the police descended on the area and arrested the mother, and then took the girl away to a children’s home. The mother’s crime -- allowing her daughter to be sexually abused in return for money, sometimes in her own home; and perhaps luring other girls, friends of her daughter. Kanchana says she still can’t believe it. “We hear of such crimes happening in far off places, but you would never imagine someone you’ve lived next to and known for decades would be capable of such things.”Also arrested is the 30-year-old woman’s younger sister, 28, who allegedly allowed her daughter to be abused too. The abuser, A Perumal, 48, who runs a ration store in TP Chatram in the city has also been arrested; in all, he is accused of abusing seven minor girls. The police suspect there may be more. They believe the assaults took place either in his hole-in-the-wall store, or in the home of the 30-year-old woman. He filmed all the assaults.Perumal has been booked under section 376(rape), and various provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012-- section 5 (aggravated penetrative sexual assault), 6 (punishment for aggravated penetrative sexual assault), 9 (aggravated sexual assault), 13 (use of child for pornographic purposes), 14 (punishment for using child for pornographic purposes), and 16 (abetment of an offence).Senior police officials say the two arrested mothers received between one and two thousand rupees every time Perumal sexually assaulted their daughters.The assaults were discovered by accident .The city police were cracking down on the illegal sale of chewing tobacco or gutka, banned in Tamil Nadu. Based on a tip-off, they seized 30 packets of gutka from his shop, and then asked for Perumal’s phone. Piqued by his resistance in handing it over and hoping to trace his supplier, they seized both his mobile phones. On one, they found something much worse than the contact details of his supplier. The phone was filled with pornographic videos, many of which showed him sexually abusing different girls, including the seven minors; all the victims are between the ages of 9 and 17. The police then brought in an all-women police team, which primarily deals with domestic violence and POCSO cases. The team decided to visit Kumaran Nagar, five minutes from the ration shop after inquiries with local residents.“We changed into plain clothes because we were going to try and find the children; we first identified the 9-year-old girl. We were stumped when she said the other girls in the video are her younger (cousin) sister and friends,” said inspector E Rajeshwari.Within hours five girls were rescued. Later they identified two more girls from the videos but are yet to locate them, Rajeshwari added.The 28-year-old woman who has been arrested lives in Ezhil Nagar, a resettlement colony where cramped homes stand cheek by jowl, its residents displaced by both the tsunami in 2004 and most recently, the 2015 Chennai floods. She moved there three years ago with her husband, a painter, their young daughter, and two sons. Neighbours say even the father did not know what was happening.According to one neighbour, K Madurai: “He (the husband) only knew that she often took her daughter to Anna Nagar because her mother and sister lived there.”In this colony too, most families earn their incomes through daily wage work, and there is now fear about their own children. “We all have several children at home and when she did this to her own daughter, we cannot allow her to come back here,” said another neighbour who asked not to be named.The pandemic and the restrictions necessitated by it have not been kind to the people of Kumaran Nagar or the resettlement colony. Daily wage work has dried up, for instance. It’s a fertile ground for trafficking, experts warn.“Global trends during any emergency or disaster have proved that children are the worst hit,” said Andrew Sesuraj, convener of Tamil Nadu Child Rights Watch. “The government data has acknowledged that the pandemic and the ensuing lockdown has led to loss of livelihood, especially in the unorganised sector. The loss of livelihood invariably will lead to increased child labour child marriage, child trafficking. In the given situation, the announcement by the education department to track the children who have not returned to schools after reopening is a welcome move by the state,” he said.Senior police officials said all five minor victims have been sent to a government-run children’s home in Chennai, at least until investigations are complete. Thus far though, they believe, that only mothers of two of the girls were involved. On Wednesday, the families of two other victims waited desperately to meet their girls outside the children’s home, and said that they had been caught completely unaware. Both families are in the flower business too, but say they did not know how their wards knew Perumal, who’s shop was at least 5km away from Anna Nagar.The aunt of one of the victims, who is 17, said that the girl finally opened up about the abuse to the police and that even the victim had no idea Perumal was filming his assault.Before moving in with the aunt, the girl lived with another aunt in the same area, whose 15-year-old daughter is also among the victims. The family told HT that both girls had dropped out of school, and sold flowers for a living. “The only time my daughter has been alone is when she has to give flowers to people’s homes who give us a monthly payment. It’s that time of the year when flower sales are brisk because of festivals such as Janmashtami, Onam and Ganesh Chaturthi,” said the mother of the 15-year-old.Perumal, it turns out, was also a customer.On Tuesday night, three days after they were picked up, the child welfare committee brought the 15-year-old to meet her parents in a police vehicle, with the girl refusing to eat at the children’s home.Investigators suspect that Perumal may also have circulated the videos of his sexual acts, and his phone has been sent for forensic analysis. “We found that he has been receiving a steady flow of money so we will be freezing his bank account,” said an officer investigating the case who asked not to be named.The police said they are reconstructing the chronology of the events. Thus far, they believe that Perumal’s wife and two adult children were not in the know, and that Perumal first entered into a physical relationship with the two women, 30 and 28, and that their daughters were assaulted at a later stage.What is clear is that the victims came from poor homes and most of their parents were flower vendors. It has also emerged that all the families have been hit hard economically by the pandemic, and that none of the victims attend school. Most dropped out at some stage.As did the two women arrested.In Kumaran Nagar, a tailor recalls stitching school uniforms for the 30-year-old, and also the girl. Everyone here is poor and has always been so, she said, but what happened to the girls is not right.“How will the children ever heal?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chennai-horror-poverty-the-link-in-sordid-sex-abuse-story-of-7-minor-girls-101630694479973.html
04-09-2021||India||Day after farmers-police clash, SAD suspends poll campaign||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Friday suspended it’s election outreach programme by six days in view of ongoing protests by farmers against the party. The 100-day campaign, which began on August 18, was put on hold till September 10. Besides this, the party also announced the formation of a three-member panel to talk to the protesting farmers and “remove all misunderstandings”. “@Akali_Dal_ core committee has decided to reschedule #GallPunjabDi campaign by 6 days. We have formed a 3-member committee comprising BS Bhundar,Prof PS Chandumajra & MS Sirsa to talk to farmer orgs & remove all misunderstandings. Campaign will restart from Amloh on Sept 10,” party chief Sukhbir Singh Badal tweeted. On Thursday, at least 50 farmers and seven policemen were injured in clashes which erupted after protesters allegedly tried to disrupt a SAD rally led by the party chief in Moga district. Badal alleged the protesters were “not farmers but owed allegiance to the Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party”.Requesting the leaders of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, a platform of farm unions spearheading the protests since November, not to disturb peace in Punjab, Badal said: “We request the leadership of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha not to disturb the peace in Punjab. Our team is ready to answer any question posed by them regarding our policies.” The SAD chief also denied making any remarks against the ongoing farmers’ movement.“I hold the kisan sangharsh (farmers’ movement) in utmost esteem. The SAD has backed all calls given by the Samyukt Morcha. My statement was aimed at Congress and Aam Aadmi Party workers who masqueraded as farmers to incite violence at SAD functions in the past one week. We feel the Samyukt Morcha is alive to these facts and will also clarify that the protests were conducted by Congress and AAP workers,” Badal told reporters after a meeting of the party’s core committee. Badal also condemned the manner in which Punjab Police was being used by chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh allegedly to disrupt peace in the state. “SAD has always remained in favour of the farmers and we advocate the decision favouring farmers. However, it is Captain’s (Amarinder Singh) government which has implemented the three farm laws in Punjab,” he said.AAP Kisan Wing Punjab president and MLA Kultar Singh Sandhwan said: “He (Sukhbir) should first answer the questions raised by farmers as the Badal family has always called itself a benefactor of the farming community.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/day-after-farmers-police-clash-sad-suspends-poll-campaign-101630694420787.html
04-09-2021||India||Statue resembling CM Mamata with 10 hands set to share pandal space with Goddess Durga||A statue resembling West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, with ten arms akin to that of Goddess Durga, will be placed along with the idol of the Goddess at a Durga Puja pandal in Kolkata. The life-size statue would not just resemble the chief minister but would also have the same height (5’4”) as her, organisers said. It won’t be worshipped though. “Idols of the Goddess and her entire family will be there. We will worship the clay idol of Goddess Durga as usual. It is just that our theme for this year is Tumi Bhorsha (You are the hope), so we are creating a statue of Mamata Banerjee,” said Indranath Bagui, president of Nazrul Park Unnayan Samity. The decision, however, has had the Bharatiya Janata Party fuming with senior party leaders saying that it is an insult to the Goddess and hurts the sentiments of Hindus. “This deification of Mamata Banerjee, who has blood of innocent Bengalis on her hands, following the gruesome post-poll violence in Bengal, is nauseating. This is an insult to Goddess Durga. Mamata Banerjee must stop this. She is hurting the sensibilities of Hindus of Bengal,” tweeted Amit Malviya, national head of the BJP’s IT cell. The TMC, however, has shot back saying that there is no harm if someone shows respect to woman-power. “The BJP won’t understand such sentiments because they worship Nathuram Godse. What is the harm if someone respects women power?” asked Kunal Ghosh, TMC spokesperson and the party’s state general secretary. Puja organisers said that unlike the Goddess, who holds weapons in her ten hands, Mamata Banerjee’s idol would hold logos and names of various schemes launched by her government, which returned to power for the third consecutive term this May in Bengal. “She would be holding placards and logos of various government welfare schemes such as Kanyasree, Ruposree, and Lakshmir Bhandar among others in her hands,” said Bagui. The puja organizers said that at least two other local puja committees have joined hands with them during the pandemic to come up with the pandal. This is their 38th year and the total budget would be around three lakh rupees. The organisers said that they have already sent an invitation to Banerjee through the local legislator to inaugurate the puja. The chief minister inaugurates dozens of pujas every year. Last year most of them were inaugurated virtually because of the pandemic. This is, however, not the first time that a puja committee has made such efforts – making statues of Mamata Banerjee and keeping them in the pandal. In 2016, a puja committee in Bhawanipore, the traditional assembly seat of Banerjee, kept an idol resembling her in the pandal. A few years back a puja committee in Nadia district’s Chakdah also made similar efforts where the face of the Goddess resembled the chief minister. In 2017, a puja committee had come up with a statue of Mamata Banerjee which was taller than the Goddess, triggering a controversy. “Work on the idol has already started and the model is complete. As it will be a statue of fiberglass it will not be sent for immersion. The organisers will keep it with them,” said Mintu Pal, the 54-year-old who is making the idol at his workshop in Kumortuli, Kolkata’s idol making district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/statue-resembling-cm-mamata-with-10-hands-set-to-share-pandal-space-with-goddess-durga-101630694121097.html
04-09-2021||India||CVC suggests mentorship scheme in govt depts||The Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) has recommended that all government departments and ministries adopt a formalised and well-constituted mentorship scheme where a senior, as a mentor, acts like a “friend, philosopher and guide” to the newly inducted officers, people familiar with the development said.For now, the recommendation is for the newly inducted officers of all-India services like Indian Administrative Service, Indian Police Service, Group ‘A’ officers and their equivalents in other organisations, public sector undertakings and public sector banks. Guidelines for this have already been issued to all the departments/ministries, people cited above said.According to the apex vigilance body, the ‘mentor’ in government departments can help the mentee (new officers) with the correct public service attitude, impart key professional skill sets, and provide guidance on expected norms of personal conduct in public life through experience sharing.This, the CVC feels, would elicit better emotional responses to challenges in service and support officers to achieve their potential in contributing as public servants. Also, the new officers will know the procedures and functioning of their department.“The Commission is of the view that for a new entrant in service, the guidance, support and positive orientation provided by senior can go a long way in developing personal and professional traits, which ultimately result in the development of leadership qualities, improved performance at the workplace, and the capability to face professional challenges,” said an official, who didn’t want to be named.There are approximately 31.1 lakh regular central government civilian employees, according to the data of the ministry of personnel, public grievances and pensions. There is no centralised data for the number of officials who join the central government every year, but it runs into thousands.Former Oil and Natural Gas Corporation chairman R S Sharma termed the step “extremely laudable”. “This is an excellent idea and extremely laudable. What happens at present is that new inductees aren’t aware of the systems, procedures and culture of their organisation (s) concerned. Direct guidance from the immediate senior will not only increase the efficiency but also lead to better coordination,” Sharma said.Sharad Kumar, former acting CVC, agreed. “Senior government officials — be it IAS, IPS or others — used to act as mentors earlier, but lately it was noticed that either seniors do not have time for the new inductees, or they don’t want to share their knowledge and experience. Having a mentor-mentee relationship will go a long way in achieving the targets in public service”.The CVC has also recommended ‘attitudinal change’ in government employees, for which they need to be exposed to good practices through induction and mid-career training programmes.To achieve this, the CVC has finalised a five-day exposure visit module for induction training and a three-day exposure visit module for mid-career training of government officials.Further, to expose the government employees to village life, the Commission has involved rural self-employment training institutes or RSETI set up by the department of rural development.The village visit will include interaction with farmers, self-help groups, primary health centres, and village panchayat, and familiarisation with the village scheme, a socio-economic survey by the participants, etc., said another officer cited above.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cvc-suggests-mentorship-scheme-in-govt-depts-101630694119929.html
04-09-2021||India||India, Russia tie-up can bring stability in energy market: PM Modi||The India-Russia energy partnership can bring stability to the global energy market, while the International North-South Transport Corridor will bring the two countries closer, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday. In a virtual address at the plenary session of the Eastern Economic Forum (EEF) being held in Vladivostok, Modi said the friendship between India and Russia has “stood the test of time”, as reflected by recent cooperation during the Covid-19 pandemic, including in the field of vaccines. EEF is an international meet held annually in Vladivostok to encourage foreign investments in Russia’s resource-rich but underdeveloped Far East. Russia has actively wooed India to invest in the region, and Modi had announced a $1-billion line of credit for the Far East while speaking as the chief guest at the last EEF meet in 2019. “Energy is another major pillar of our strategic partnership. India-Russia energy partnership can help bring stability to the global energy market,” Modi said in his address. Noting that petroleum and natural gas minister Hardeep Puri is in Vladivostok to represent India at EEF, Modi said Indian workers were participating in gas projects in the “Amur region, from Yamal to Vladivostok and onward to Chennai”. He added, “We envisage an energy and trade bridge. I am happy that the Chennai-Vladivostok maritime corridor is making headway. This connectivity project, along with the International North-South [Transport] Corridor will bring India and Russia physically closer to each other.” Modi said state-run Mazagon Docks Limited, one of India’s largest shipyards, will partner with the Russian ship-building facility at Zvezda to build “some of the most important commercial ships in the world”. India and Russia are partners in space exploration through the Gaganyaan programme, and the two sides will also partner in opening the Northern Sea Route for international trade, he said. Lauding President Vladimir Putin’s vision for developing the Far East, Modi reiterated India’s commitment to act as a reliable partner for Russia as part of the “Act East” policy. Modi stressed the importance of greater economic and commercial engagement between the two countries in line with their special and privileged strategic partnership. He highlighted the health and pharmaceutical sectors as important areas of collaboration that emerged during the pandemic, and referred to other potential areas of economic cooperation such as diamonds, coking coal and rare earth minerals. Puri is leading a delegation that includes representatives of leading Indian oil and gas companies to attend the India-Russia business dialogue within the EEF framework. A virtual meeting between Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani and the governor of Russia’s Sakha-Yakutia province was held on Thursday on the margins of EEF.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-russia-tie-up-can-bring-stability-in-energy-market-pm-modi-101630693820816.html
04-09-2021||India||Have right to raise voice for Muslims in Kashmir: Taliban||A Taliban spokesman has said the group reserves the right to speak out in support of Muslims in Jammu and Kashmir, remarks that run counter to senior Taliban leader Anas Haqqani’s contention that the organisation would not interfere in Kashmir.Taliban spokesman Suhail Shaheen was quoted by BBC Urdu, in a report published online on Thursday, as saying that the group does not have a policy of taking up arms against any country. In this context, he referred to the terms of the agreement signed by Taliban and the US in February 2020.However, Shaheen said the Taliban, as Muslims, have the right to raise their voice for Muslims in Kashmir, India or any other country. “We will raise our voice and say that Muslims are your own people, your own citizens. They are entitled to equal rights under your laws,” he was quoted as saying.Shaheen’s remarks are completely contrary to the stance taken by Haqqani Network leader Anas Haqqani, a member of the Taliban’s 14-member negotiating team, in an interview aired by News18 channel on Wednesday.Haqqani said in the interview that Kashmir was not an issue for Afghanistan. “We have a clear policy that when something is not an issue for our country, we cannot interfere in another country,” he said, speaking in Urdu.He also described reports about the Haqqani Network supporting Pakistan-based groups such as Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM), which are active in Kashmir, as “propaganda”.There was no immediate response from Indian officials to Shaheen’s remarks.As reported by Hindustan Times, Haqqani has been engaged in an outreach towards India, along with senior Taliban leader Sher Mohammed Abbas Stanekzai, who is expected to be given a senior position in the government to be formed by the Taliban.Haqqani said in the interview that the Taliban have a policy of not interfering in the internal matters of other countries. “Our desire is that we don’t negatively interfere in internal problems. Our doors are open to the whole world for political relations and humanitarian aid, we want good relations with all countries,” he said.He contended that the Indian government has supported the Taliban’s opponents in Afghanistan for 20 years, adding, “But we don’t want to remember the past and we want good relations with all countries, including India.”People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that the narrative being presented by Taliban leaders such as Shaheen and Anas Haqqani has to be seen in the context of the Taliban’s long-standing ties with Pakistan, and the channels of communication between India and the Taliban.“There is a constituency in Pakistan that the Taliban have to satisfy,” one of the people cited above said.On Tuesday, India’s ambassador to Qatar, Deepak Mittal, met Stanekzai, the head of the Taliban’s political office, at the Indian embassy in Doha following a request from the Taliban side.In his interview with BBC Urdu, Shaheen claimed the “propaganda” against the Haqqani Network was based on “mere claims”. “The Haqqanis are not a group. They are part of the Islamic emirate of Afghanistan.”Shaheen also raised the issue of the 1999 hijacking of Indian Airlines flight IC-814 from Kathmandu to Kandahar.The Taliban were then in power in Kabul and Indian officials have long contended that the Taliban helped the Pakistani terrorists who hijacked the airliner to force India to release three terrorists, including Masood Azhar, who went on to create the terror group, Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM).Shaheen contended the Taliban didn’t play a role in the hijacking and that the Indian government should be “grateful” for the help the group provided in Kandahar. The Indian side told the Taliban that the airliner was short on fuel and the group provided assistance for the release of the passengers, he claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/have-right-to-raise-voice-for-muslims-in-kashmir-taliban-101630693285120.html
04-09-2021||India||Cameras turned off before Tihar murder||Between 9.30am on August 3 and 4.50pm on August 4, the time when top Uttar Pradesh gangster Ankit Gujjar got into a scuffle with jail officers and was found unconscious in another part of the prison, CCTV cameras inside ward 1 and 5A of Tihar jail 3 were switched off for “maintenance work”, according to a prison report seen by HT.With allegations being aired that Gujjar, 29, was murdered because he was a whistle-blower and was providing information on an alleged extortion racket run by prison officials, the CCTV footage from the two wards could have been crucial evidence in establishing the sequence of events.Meanwhile, a prisoner in his statement to the police, which HT has seen, alleged that jail officers switched off CCTV cameras on the afternoon of August 3, after which around “50 guards armed with lathis” attacked Gujjar and two other prisoners.Delhi Police have registered a case of murder but are yet to arrest the main accused, deputy superintendent Narendra Meena. Suspended after the incident, Meena is currently in police protection. Last month, police claimed to have thwarted an attempt by Gujjar’s accomplices to murder him.In the past month, this is the third case in which the officials of the country’s biggest prison have come under probe for allegations of corruption, custodial torture, and helping prisoners access banned items. Delhi Police commissioner Rakesh Asthana is already conducting an inquiry on role of prison officers who allegedly helped two jailed builders run an underground office in south Delhi from inside the jail. In another case, police arrested two jail officers for helping conman Sukesh Chandrashekhar dupe the wife of a top businessman (who is currently in jail) by spoofing phone numbers and posing as a law ministry officer.In the Gujjar murder case, in a status report filed before the high court on Thursday, Delhi Police said that they sought CCTV footage as part of the murder probe, but that jail officers said there was none. The prison department wrote to the police that the cameras were switched off on the morning of August 3 until the afternoon of August 4, because there were technical problems faced during installing of cameras in other parts of jail 3. As part of increasing surveillance in jails, the prison department is installing CCTV cameras all across the prison compound.“As a result of such technical problems, the cameras between ward 1 and 5A were switched off,” reads the prison department’s report to the police.Ward 1 is the place where Gujjar was shifted to and later found dead after the scuffle with jail officers -- at around 6am on August 4 -- and ward 5A is where the scuffle happened the previous day. Prison officers said that they used “minimum force” to contain Gujjar and his two cell mates after they were caught with a cell phone, data cable, and a knife.The post-mortem report by a medical board, however, showed that Gujjar had at least 12 injuries on his head, neck and other parts of the body. The Delhi high court on Thursday noted that the injuries and absence of CCTV footage indicated that Gujjar’s death was a case of “custodial violence and torture”.The case of the missing CCTV footage assumes significance in the backdrop of a statement by an eyewitness Vikas alias Veeru (identified only by one name), also an inmate of jail number 3. Vikas has claimed to be a “sewadar” who was helping jail officers at the control room.Sewadars are prisoners chosen to help jail officers manage the prison.Vikas, in his statement, said that at around 5.10 pm, deputy superintendent Narendra Meena and other jail officers conducted a search inside Gujjar’s cell and found a cell phone and a data cable. He has claimed to be part of Meena’s search team. Vikas has alleged that during the search, Meena slapped Gujjar, after which Gujjar slapped him back. “Thereafter Narendra Meena, deputy superintendent turned off CCTV Cameras and called more staff. In few minutes other staff Vinod Meena, Dinesh Chhikara, Harful Meena, Line Officer Naveen, Deepak Dabas, assistant superintendent, Ram Avtar Meena and others came and they started beating all three under trial prisoners -- Ankit Guj jar, Gurpreet and Gurjeet -- due to which they sustained injuries. They were taken to jail hospital where Dr Devender referred them to DDU Hospital, but Narendra Meena, deputy superintendent did not take them to DDU Hospital and instead all three UTPs were lodged in separate cell in ward No 1 of Jail No- 3,” reads his statement.Until his arrest in August 2020, Gujjar was one of western Uttar Pradesh’s most wanted persons. Accused in at least eight murder cases, Gujjar carried a reward of ₹1.25 lakh on his head at the time of his arrest -- ₹1 lakh announced by Uttar Pradesh police and ₹25,000 by Delhi police.Gujjar’s mother Geeta Devi, said that the family has requested the High Court for a CBI-monitored probe. “A day before he was murdered, my son complained against the extortion attempt by the jail officers. He had told my daughter that while he paid ₹50,000 to the jail officers, he was unable to pay the remaining amount of ₹50,000. We have submitted the phone recording to the police. This is also part of the FIR.”Tihar jail officers declined to comment, saying that the investigation in the case is on and is being heard in courts.The Supreme Court on August 26 directed Delhi Police commissioner Rakesh Asthana to personally conduct an inquiry on how Unitech’s former promoters violated prison rules and in connivance with jail officers ran a “secret underground office” in south Delhi from inside Tihar jail. Delhi Police have started the probe and sought details of all officers who were posted in jail 7, where the Unitech promoters were lodged. The Supreme Court also ordered the transfer of the two builders to Arthur road jail and the Taloja jail in Maharashtra.Last month, Delhi Police also arrested a deputy superintendent of another sub jail for helping inmate Sukesh Chandrashekhar . Police have registered a case against Sukesh and two prison officers for allegedly duping the wife of Shivinder Singh, former promoter of Fortis and Religare Enterprises, who is currently in jail. Singh was arrested in October 2019 in a case pertaining to alleged misappropriation of funds at Religare Finvest Ltd (RFL), a subsidiary of Religare Enterprises. Police said his wife, Aditi Singh, was allegedly duped of an undisclosed amount by the conman, who posed as a senior government officer, and promised to bail Singh out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cameras-turned-off-before-tihar-murder-101630693039910.html
04-09-2021||India||Amrapali projects: Relief in sight for homebuyers as 6 banks form consortium to set aside funds for stalled projects||Over 40,000 homebuyers of Amrapali Group can expect relief as a consortium of six public sector banks has agreed to set apart substantial funds towards the stalled construction of the housing project being monitored by the Supreme Court and built by the National Buildings Construction Corporation (NBCC). The six banks forming the consortium are Bank of Baroda, Punjab National Bank, State Bank of India, Bank of India, UCO Bank, and Punjab & Sind Bank. Submitting this information to the Supreme Court on Friday, court-appointed receiver, senior advocate R Venkatraman, said, “Six public sector banks have agreed to form a consortium, the documentation of which will be completed this month and by Dussehra (which falls on October 15), the loan amount will be disbursed.” A bench of justices UU Lalit and Ajay Rastogi recorded the statement of the receiver and requested him to apprise the court of further developments. People familiar with the development said the amount expected to be released by the consortium will be “substantial”. In addition to this, funding of ₹650 crore has already been sanctioned from the Union government-sponsored SWAMIH (Special Window for Affordable & Mid-Income Housing) Investment Fund for six Amrapali projects. During a hearing on August 13, the top court had noted progress on funding by banks and addressed some of the concerns raised by them by passing suitable orders. The banks wanted the funds given to Amrapali to be categorized under the priority-funding sector with a reduced capital charge, among other conditions. Tapping further fund sources, the bench directed the receiver to engage an expert and conduct valuation of five properties of the Amrapali Group and its CMD Anil Kumar Sharma in Noida and Greater Noida. For the homebuyers, advocate ML Lahoty informed the court that five private persons have expressed interest in buying the said properties, estimated to be worth over ₹19 crore. The court directed the valuation exercise to be completed by the receiver in three weeks. The court asked the receiver whether homebuyers were paying their due instalments on time after Lahoty said the NBCC required nearly ₹200 crore to hand over possession of nearly 2,500 flats by this year-end. The bench was prompted to pass a direction asking homebuyers to clear their dues (except those at the time of handing over possession of flat) by October 15, failing which they could be defaulters and the flats could be put to sale. But the concern of the court was put to rest after Venkatraman said, “By and large, flat buyers attached with the Amrapali projects are paying up with the exception of some who have sought exemption under medical grounds.” However, the bench said, “Homebuyers should not be under the impression that courts will arrange the funds and we will consider putting in our money after NBCC has completed construction. They have to make payment and cannot be lethargic sitting on an armchair, thinking finances will be arranged from somewhere.” The bench, while dealing with the issue of ‘delay possession compensation’ urged by homebuyers on account of Amrapali’s delay in delivering possession, made it clear that homebuyers cannot ask for “malai” on “lassi”. The Court said, “We are trying to salvage something for you which is possible. Do not ask for malai on lassi.” On August 13, Venkatraman had told the court that owners of 15,748 units across Amrapali projects have not been paying their instalments. Of them, 9,538 flat buyers have not provided the customer data, a record of which is maintained by the receiver’s office.Following this order, Venkatraman informed that many homebuyers have come up to make payments. He said that on further scrutiny, some names out of the 9,538 have been weeded out as they have either applied for refund or taken possession of flats in existing projects. He said a public notice will be issued as a final opportunity for 9,000-odd homebuyers, following which the flats in question could be included in the unsold inventory.NBCC counsel and senior advocate Sidharth Dave informed the court that for the sale of unused/excess FAR and unsold inventory of Amrapali projects, it had floated tenders for appointing a channel partner to carry out aggressive marketing but that has been challenged before the Delhi high court. The bench allowed the NBCC to move a transfer petition to shift the petition from the high court to the Supreme Court.Lahoty also requested the court to consider resolving the cases of homebuyers stuck under subvention schemes entered between the developer, homebuyer and banks by which the developer was supposed to pay instalments on default of delivery of flats. As Amrapali defaulted on payment and arrears became substantial, some of the banks threatened homebuyers with recovery proceedings. The court directed the concerned banks to respond within a week failing which their objections will not be considered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amrapali-projects-relief-in-sight-for-over-40-000-homebuyers-as-six-banks-form-consortium-to-aside-funds-for-stalled-projects-101630692982941.html
04-09-2021||India||CBI files second chargesheet in Bengal post-poll violence, one held for murder||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Friday filed its second chargesheet in the ongoing probe into post-poll violence in Bengal and accused four people of murdering a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) worker at Bhatpara in North 24 Parganas on June 6, said lawyers aware of the development. The chargesheet was filed at the Barrackpore court. The CBI also arrested a man in connection with the murder of a BJP worker’s mother in the Jagaddal area of the same district. The victim, Shovarani Mondal, 64, was hit on the head by a stick, allegedly by Trinamool Congress (TMC) workers who came looking for her son on May 3, a day after the assembly polls results were announced. In a parallel development, the Calcutta high court on Friday said the probe into offences other than murder and rape will be supervised by retired Justice Manjula Chellur, former Chief Justice of the Calcutta and Bombay high courts. On July 19, the court ordered the CBI probe into alleged murders and rapes and a parallel probe by a special investigation team (SIT) comprising IPS officers posted in Bengal. On Thursday, the state government named 10 officers for the SIT. The CBI’s second chargesheet came within 24 hours of the first one filed at Rampurhat court in Birbhum district. The victim at Bhatpara, Jaiprakash Yadav, died in a bomb attack by motorcycle-borne assailants. One of the four CBI teams touring the state visited Yadav’s home thrice since August 26 and recorded statements given by members of his family and the neighbours. On August 27, CBI officers asked Yadav’s family to identify the victim’s blood-soaked clothes which were kept in the custody of Bhatpara police station. “This was done because Yadav’s face was mutilated beyond recognition. The bomb hit him on the head,” a CBI officer stationed in Kolkata said on condition of anonymity. Arjun Singh, the BJP Lok Sabha member from the local Barrackpore seat, has alleged that Yadav was murdered because he worked hard to ensure the victory of Singh’s son, Pawan, at the Bhatpara assembly seat in the recent polls. A CBI team on Friday talked to the family of BJP worker Debabrata Maity at Nandigram in East Midnapore district. Maity was attacked, allegedly by TMC workers on May 3. He died at SSKM Hospital in Kolkata on May 13. The CBI lodged a case in this connection on August 31. The TMC on Friday commented for the first time on the ongoing probe and called it “politically driven”. “The Calcutta high court ordered the probe on the basis of a report given by the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC). The report was politically biased. The CBI is only meeting families of BJP workers. It is not probing the deaths of the 13 TMC workers killed in violence,” said Sukhendu Sekhar Roy, a Rajya Sabha member. “The CBI and Enforcement Directorate are being used to target TMC leaders and ministers. They have not only targeted TMC national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee but his wife as well,” said Roy, referring to the summons sent by ED to the chief minister’s nephew and his wife in the coal smuggling case. BJP state president Dilip Ghosh countered Roy. “What was the state police doing all these months? Why were chargesheets not filed and arrests not made? The TMC leadership is rattled because the CBI is acting tough and fast.” On June 21, the five-judge bench of acting chief justice Bindal and Justices IP Mukerji, Harish Tandon, Soumen Sen and Subrata Talukdar dismissed the state’s petition seeking recall of its June 18 order that asked the NHRC to probe the allegations of violence. Dismissing the plea for recall, Justice Bindal observed that the conduct of the state did not inspire the confidence of the court. In its report, the NHRC panel slammed the state government saying the violence “shows a pernicious politico-bureaucratic-criminal nexus”. It recommended a CBI probe and said trials should be conducted outside Bengal. The NHRC report said at least 1,934 police complaints were lodged between May 2 and June 20. These included 29 murder charges, 12 complaints relating to rape and sexual assault and 940 complaints of loot and arson. The report said that out of the 9,304 people named as accused, less than 3% are currently in jail. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee dismissed the NHRC report, calling it distorted. The Calcutta high court on July 19 ordered a CBI probe into all allegations of post-poll murder and rape and asked the agency to file its report in six weeks. The CBI has so far registered more than 30 cases in the districts and one murder case in Kolkata. The CBI has formed four teams for the probe. Each team comprises deputy inspector generals and superintendents from Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Karnataka and other states. Every team is headed by a joint director. The Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) is providing security for the officers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-files-second-chargesheet-in-bengal-post-poll-violence-one-held-for-murder-101630690941770.html
04-09-2021||India||Modi likely to launch Sansad TV this month||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to launch Sansad TV, the integrated broadcaster of Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha TV, this month, nearly two years after the plan was conceptualised, senior parliamentary officials familiar with the matter said on Friday.The plan to set up Sansad TV was proposed by an expert committee headed by Prasar Bharati CEO Surya Prakash in 2019. It was aimed at cutting costs, streamlining channel management and rejigging content to make it attractive for viewers and advertisers. Both Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha TV are profit-making entities with advertisements primarily from public sector giants and central ministries.“There is a possibility of PM inaugurating the TV channels as early as September 15. But definitely the channels will start running before October 2,” said a senior Lok Sabha official.Sansad TV will have two channels to ensure live streaming of both Houses when Parliament is in session. A Rajya Sabha official said, “The preparations for the channels are over and these are ready for launch. The authorities are waiting for time from the PM to launch the new channels.”Officials said the Rajya Sabha TV establishment—that runs from a rented public property adjacent to the Talkatora stadium—will be merged with LSTV’s infrastructure to create the new entity.Former textiles secretary Ravi Kapoor has been appointed as the CEO of the new entity on contract for a period of one year, an internal order of the Lok Sabha secretariat said.“During the recess, the two channels would run current affairs programmes in English and Hindi as well as other programmes,” said a senior official involved in the plan.“The integrated plan would be a major cost-saving exercise as RSTV shells out ₹10-12 crore on rent alone for its office and studio on Talkatora Road,” a senior official of the Rajya Sabha said.Sansad TV will operate from a small bungalow at Mahadev Road, managed by the Lok Sabha secretariat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-likely-to-launch-sansad-tv-this-month-101630689923940.html
04-09-2021||India||101 sterilisations within 8 hrs: Chhattisgarh orders probe||One doctor, eight hours from late evening to well into the night, 101 sterilisation procedures on poor tribal women.The Chhattisgarh health department has served notices to two doctors, one of whom allegedly conducted over a hundred tubectomy surgeries in a matter of eight hours in the Surguja district of Chhattisgarh, in violation of government norms. The mass sterilisation reportedly took place at the Narmadapur community health centre between 7 pm and 3 am on August 26.Two days later, the district Chief Medical and Health Officer(CMHO) of the district, Poonam Singh Sisodia sent a show-cause notice to Dr Jibnus Ekta who allegedly conducted the surgeries, and Dr RS Singh, the block medical officer of Mainpat district, who was present.“We have issued a show-cause notice to two doctors, including the surgeon, and are waiting for their formal reply. Due to a one-day strike called by nurses under the banner of the Chhattisgarh Adhikari Karamachari Federation, protesting an increase in dearness allowance, the reply is taking a little longer. If they are found guilty, strict action will be taken,” the CMHO said.On Friday, the health secretary of the state took cognisance of the matter and ordered an enquiry. “ It is a fact there were 101 sterilisation operations that were carried out by one surgeon who is currently posted in Surguja. Fortunately, all women are healthy and sound but because the number of sterilization operations has crossed the stipulated guidelines, I am ordering an inquiry into the matter,” said Alok Shukla, health secretary, Chhattisgarh said.Under the central government’s guidelines for the National Family Welfare Programme, a doctor can conduct a maximum of 30 sterilisations in a day.Health department officials said that the women, mostly tribals, were from the Mainpat block of the district. Ram Kumar Ravi, who was with his wife when she was operated on in the camp said, “I did not count the women who were at the camp ... My wife is healthy and has no issues after the sterilization operation till now.” His wife told HT she was operated on at around 10 pm in the night. None of the sterilisations was forced.The state health secretary said that the surgeon had indeed sent him a written response. When asked to explain how so many surgeries had been conducted in such a short span, Dr Ekta, the minister said, explained that he had been asked to do so by the villagers themselves. “He claimed he was pressurised by the villagers who told him that they had travelled long distances and it would be difficult for them to come again. This, however, doesn’t mean that the surgeon should flout government guidelines and therefore an inquiry has been ordered into the case,” Shukla said.Asked why the surgeries were done in the middle of the night, Shukla said that the surgeon has denied this thus far, and claimed that the surgeries took place between 12 noon and 6:30 pm in the evening. Despite repeated attempts, both Dr Ekta and Dr RS Singh were not available for comment.District officials said that there have been a total of 30 camps held in Surguja this year, the home district of health minister TS Singh Deo, which have together seen 821 sterilisations.The incident is a hark back to a botched sterilization camp at Sakri in Bilaspur in 2013, when 13 women died, in a case that caused a national furore. At the time, Dr RK Gupta, the Block Medical Officer of Sakri conducted 83 surgeries in six hours in an unused and unsanitary health centre and was arrested a year later, after going on the run. Gupta alleged pressure to meet targets and suggested that substandard medicines were behind the deaths.Health activists believe that Chhattisgarh has not learnt from previous tragedies and the same violations are occurring again. “What has happened in Narmadapur is a clear violation of both government and court orders on quality standards to be maintained during female and male sterilisation. The Supreme Court banned such sterilisation camps in 2016,” said Dr Sulakshana Nandi, joint national convener, Jan Swasthya Abhiyan.The Supreme Court judgment, dated September 14, 2016, and issued by a bench led by Justice Madan Lokur called sterilisation camps “perverse products of the Centre’s population control campaigns driven by informal targets and incentives”.The Chhattisgarh health secretary said that government regulations state that ₹1,800 is transferred to the account of women who undergo sterilisation surgery, under the National Family Welfare Programme.Nandi further said that the Chhattisgarh government must take strict action against the officials and doctors who took the decision to go ahead with such a camp, and against the District Quality Assurance Committee (DQAC) members whose responsibility it is to monitor and ensure the guidelines are followed.“There is always a demand for family planning in rural Chhattisgarh but due to COVID, the demand has increased. In last one-and-a-half years, women could not reach health centres for sterilisation surgeries and now want the surgery done due to family pressure or other reasons. The government must chalk out a plan for accumulated sterilization surgeries in rural areas,” said Dr Nandi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/101-sterilisations-within-8-hrs-chhattisgarh-orders-probe-101630689140359.html
04-09-2021||India||‘Abuse of process’: SC junks Bengal plea on DGP appointment||The Supreme Court on Friday dismissed the West Bengal government’s plea to allow it to circumvent the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) for appointing a new director-general of police (DGP), terming the request an “abuse of the process”.A bench headed by Justice L Nageswara Rao observed that the state government was “wasting so much of its time” in filing applications such as this and that states must refrain from flooding courts with such pleas.“We can’t permit this [application]. This is an abuse of the process. You are forcing us to say all this... Let us be very frank about this. Please, do not file applications repeatedly, especially since you are the state,” the bench, which also included justices BR Gavai and BV Nagarathna, told senior counsel Sidharth Luthra, who was representing the Mamata Banerjee government.Luthra, on behalf of the state government, asserted the state’s right to appoint its DGP by modifying the court’s 2018 order in the Prakash Singh case on police reforms, which made it mandatory for the state governments to appoint the DGP from a panel of three most senior police officers forwarded to them by UPSC.But the court pointed out that it had by an order in January 2019 rejected the same plea by various states, including West Bengal, and therefore, the current endeavour was a repeat of the previous application.“Your application was already rejected in 2019. The points you are making in this application are exactly the same that you made then. Why are you wasting so much time on an application like this? This is improper,” the bench told Luthra.The state’s lawyer, on his part, tried to persuade the bench that the 2019 order had left open the points regarding the authority of a state to appoint DGP in terms of their power of superintendence over police officials.But the bench remained unimpressed. “What’s left open? The point you urged has already been rejected. There is nothing left open... Our pain is this. As it is, we have individuals filing petitions which should not be filed. If states are also going to file petitions like this, it will be a problem. When will we have the time to hear the important cases?” it asked Luthra.At this, Luthra agreed not to press the application any further but requested the bench to allow the state to appear and argue in public interest litigation initiated in 2013 at the instance of amicus curiae and senior advocate Harish Salve, challenging the validity of various laws passed by states allegedly to overcome the Supreme Court’s directions in the Prakash Singh case. The bench accepted this request and said that the West Bengal government will be heard in that case.Advocate Prashant Bhushan appeared for petitioner and former DGP of Uttar Pradesh and Assam, Prakash Singh. Bhushan complained that the court’s repeated directions, in that case, were not implemented by the states and the top court should take up this matter to monitor compliance. “Due to the pandemic, this case has not been heard in the last two years. Unfortunately, most of the states haven’t complied with the directions of this court,” submitted Bhushan.Agreeing with Bhushan, the bench remarked: “You are right. This has to be heard. We are aware that despite directions passed in 2007, those have not been implemented. We will hear this case in October.”Under the 2018 order, states need to send names of DGP candidates to UPSC, which picks three candidates from the eligible names based on seniority, experience, service record and other criteria. The state government then selects any of the top three candidates, provided that the candidate has a minimum of six months of service left.The developments come amid a stalemate over the appointment of a new DGP in West Bengal, which named Manoj Malviya, the most senior officer in the Indian Police Service cadre in the state, as interim DGP on Tuesday. On July 2, UPSC wrote to Bengal chief secretary HK Dwivedi seeking a list of eligible officers for the post. Roughly 10 days later, the West Bengal government prepared a list of 21 names for UPSC.In its application filed before the top court while the appointment of the police chief remained in limbo, the West Bengal government emphasised that police and public order are subjects exclusively within the jurisdiction of the state, and hence UPSC had neither the jurisdiction nor the expertise to consider and appoint the DGP.“Each state has, therefore, the exclusive power to legislate in regard to its police system and also have full administrative control over the police in the state...the direct involvement of the UPSC in the appointment process of the DGP of a state would tantamount to curtailment of the legislative powers of a state,” stated the plea.It added that the Constitution of India does not vest UPSC with the power to assess the respective merit of the officers holding the rank of DGP for determining the fitness since it is the state government that can have the proximate opportunity to assess the fitness of officers of that rank who had rendered service to the state in the state cadre.The application also comes against the backdrop of a near-complete breakdown in relations between the Centre and West Bengal. The Bharatiya Janata Party, which heads the Union government, and the Trinamool Congress, fought a bitter battle in the assembly elections earlier this year. The BJP hoped to wrest the state but it was the TMC that won by a landslide. Since then, the BJP has accused the TMC of unleashing violence on the former’s supporters, something the latter has denied, but which is now being investigated under court supervision by two teams, including one from the Central Bureau of Investigation. The TMC, meanwhile, has accused the BJP of being a sore loser and using central agencies such as CBI and the Enforcement Directorate to target its leaders.The West Bengal government highlighted that even the Supreme Court should not curtail the legislative powers of a state under the principles of judicial review or in the exercise of the court’s extraordinary authority under Article 142 (power to issue orders for doing complete justice).“The state government has the autonomy to select and appoint the DGP in the state without having to refer the names for empanelment to the UPSC, and to resultantly appoint the DGP from the panel prepared by the UPSC...the ultimate power to therefore exercise superintendence, extended to the selection of the DGP is therefore vested with the state government and cannot be taken away,” stated the application.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/abuse-of-process-sc-junks-bengal-plea-on-dgp-appointment-101630688960458.html
04-09-2021||India||SC tells Centre to frame guidelines for Covid-19 death certificates by Sept 11||The Supreme Court on Friday gave the Union government a “last opportunity” till September 11 to report compliance on the issuance of death certificates for Covid-linked fatalities and to frame a national insurance scheme for disaster-related deaths.The two directions mentioned above were part of a landmark June 30 top court order that entitled people who died after being infected with Covid-19 to an ex-gratia amount under the Disaster Management Act, 2005. The court, at the time, granted the Centre six weeks then to fix the amount. This period was extended by four weeks on August 16, when the court also gave the Union government two weeks to report compliance on its other directions.Appearing for the Centre, solicitor general (SG) Tushar Mehta told the court on Friday that the Centre was in the process of complying with the June 30 order, and required another week to file its response.To this, a bench of justices MR Shah and Aniruddha Bose remarked: “By the time you will take steps, even the third wave [of Covid cases] will be over. Our orders directing correction of death certificates was passed long back. You agreed to file a response on our directions by today. We will now grant you a last opportunity.”The court asked that the affidavit be filed by September 11, and posted the matter for hearing on September 13.Advocate Gaurav Kumar Bansal, who filed the public interest litigation (PIL) resulting in the June 30 order, told the court that the Centre should respect the court’s verdict. “It is unfortunate that the Centre is delaying compliance,” Bansal said.An intervention application, filed by people seeking benefit of ex-gratia payment for Covid deaths, informed the court that the last date for framing the ex-gratia scheme was September 8. “As regards ex-gratia, we had extended time on the last occasion (August 16). It is up to the Centre to comply with our orders,” the bench said.The June 30 judgment held that the kin of people who died due to Covid would be entitled to ex-gratia compensation under Section 12(iii) of the DMA 2005 since the coronavirus disease was declared a notified disaster under the Act. Although the family members of people killed in notified disasters are entitled to a sum of ₹4 lakh ex-gratia according to an April 8, 2015 letter issued by the Union home ministry, the court did not fix the quantum of compensation in this case, leaving it for the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA).Two other key directions passed by the Court included simplified guidelines for the issuance of death certificate, stating that the cause of death in such cases should specify “due to Covid-19”; and the court said that people who died within two to three months after being found Covid-positive must be included in the ‘Covid deaths’ category . For those who already obtained death certificates, the court directed the Centre to provide a mechanism for affected family members to get corrections done.The court also directed the Centre to take appropriate steps in line with the recommendations of the 15th Finance Commission by providing for a National Insurance Scheme for disaster-related deaths. According to the Finance Commission, such programmes could work as social protection scheme without increasing the financial burden on the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-tells-centre-to-frame-guidelines-for-covid-19-death-certificates-by-sept-11-101630688840429.html
04-09-2021||India||Covid vaccines’ export may not resume before 2022||Covid-19 vaccine exports from India are unlikely to be resumed before the end of the year when most of the country’s adult population is expected to have been covered, people aware of developments have said. India was among the biggest exporters of coronavirus vaccines till April, dispatching 66.4 million doses as part of commercial commitments and grants. But it then prohibited doses from being sent abroad as a second wave of infections swept across the country.“It is still some time before India again starts exporting Covid-19 vaccine doses; does not look like it will happen before the year-end. Though the situation is far better now and looks like the new cases are somewhat stabilizing, still, there is no question of dropping our guard,” said a senior official from the central government, asking not to be named.“The question of resuming Covid-19 vaccine exports has cropped up in government meetings; but with the fear of the third Covid-19 wave looming and a significant at-risk population, it makes sense to cover a substantial portion of the country’s population first before thinking of resuming exports,” added the official. The Union secretary for health and family welfare, Rajesh Bhushan, in a press conference on Covid-19 updates on Thursday, also said that preference will be given to the country’s at-risk population first before exports are resumed. He, however, clarified there was no ban on vaccine exports as neither the health ministry, commerce and industry ministry, department of promotion of industry and internal trade, nor the directorate general of foreign trade has issued any formal orders asking to bar the export of Covid-19 vaccines from the country. “There has been no trade embargo in place as such; however, each country functions with the aim to ensure that it keeps its population, economy, and social system safe. Therefore, public health response with respect to Covid-19 is also governed by these factors. Once these targets are met we will look into what is the best time to share our vaccine doses with the other countries,” said Bhushan. The Indian government earlier announced that India was going to vaccinate all its adult population by end of this year. India has close to 940 million people in the category.As of Friday, India has administered 676,500,301 doses, almost all of which are from the Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech – two Indian companies.Vaccine doses exported by India have been shipped to as many as 93 countries as well as for health care workers with the United Nations and their peacekeepers, as per the ministry of external affairs data. Vaccine manufacturers such as SII have been in talks with the government regarding the resumption of exports since they have supply commitments. To meet the demand, and with limited supplies, the government had to make use of supplies meant for exports. In SII’s case, for example, close to 5 million Covishield doses meant to be exported to the UK were utilised to vaccinate the country’s own population. “The risk isn’t still over so it makes sense to tread cautiously. It sure is a topic of debate whether countries are doing the right thing to give preference to their own population for Covid vaccination, but everyone seems to be doing the same, including the big countries such as US,” said a public health expert, on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-vaccines-export-may-not-resume-before-2022-101630688785979.html
04-09-2021||India||Top court stays Kerala’s offline Class 11 exams amid ‘alarming’ Covid-19 crisis||Not willing to compromise with the safety of children in Kerala amid an “alarming” Covid-19 situation, the Supreme Court on Friday stayed the decision to hold physical examinations for Class 11 students beginning Monday and demanded that the state government explain what scientific study was undertaken before putting children of tender age at such risk. “There is an alarming situation in Kerala. With over 30,000 cases reported daily, the state alone accounts for nearly 70 per cent of Covid-19 cases reported in the country. Children of tender age cannot be exposed to any risk in this situation,” remarked a bench of Justices AM Khanwilkar, Hrishikesh Roy and CT Ravikumar. The bench was hearing an appeal by a lawyer A Rasoolshan who lost before the Kerala High Court on August 27 and had approached the top court to stay the examination amid the prevailing Covid-19 situation in the state. The exams are scheduled from September 6 to 27. The concern of the petitioner was acknowledged by the bench. It said, “Prima facie, we find force in the submission made by the petitioner that the state government has not seriously considered the prevailing situation before deciding to conduct physical examination (for Class 11).” The Court issued notice on the petition to the Kerala government and put the examination on hold till September 13, the next date of hearing. The state has been battling a serious crisis on the Covid-19 front with the past seven-day average of the test positivity rate (TPR) in Kerala recorded at over 18.5 per cent. More than 21,000 people have died so far in the state due to Covid-19 and in the past three days, the state has recorded more than 30,000 Covid-19 cases daily. The Kerala government represented by advocate CK Sasi submitted that offline examinations for Class 10 and 12 students were successfully conducted in April. Recently, he pointed out that entrance examinations for professional courses were also held in the state. “Is the TPR then in April and now the same,” the bench asked, putting further questions to the state counsel on whether any scientific study was conducted before taking this decision. “Can you assure us that not a single child will be infected? Even if one case gets reported, we will hold you accountable,” the bench remarked. Advocate Sasi said that such an assurance cannot be given. The bench in its order said, “As we could not get any satisfactory response from the state government, we grant interim relief staying the offline examination till the next date of hearing.” The bench directed the state government to file its response before September 13. Advocate Prashant Padmanabhan who appeared for the petitioner informed the Court that children were under mental stress of appearing physically for the examinations. He stated that there was no vaccination yet for this age group. On the bench were two judges having first-hand experience of serving in the Kerala High Court. Justice Ravikumar was a judge of Kerala High Court till his recent elevation to the Supreme Court on August 31. Justice Roy served as Chief Justice of the Kerala High Court from August 8, 2018 till his elevation to the Supreme Court in September 2019. The bench remarked, “Kerala has one of the best medical infrastructures in the country. Despite this, the state has not been able to contain the number of cases (due to Covid-19).” The Court felt that allowing children from different parts of the state, who are yet to be vaccinated, to gather together at the examination centre could be a potential “super spreader” of the Covid-19 pandemic. This is not the first instance where Kerala has been hauled up by the top court for its potentially dangerous decisions to spread Covid-19. In July, the state government’s decision to relax lockdown restrictions in view of Bakrid festivities was challenged before the top court. The Court slammed the state’s decision as “extremely alarming” and said that if the decision of the state resulted in any untoward spread of the Covid-19 infection, any member of the public would be free to approach the Court after which action will be accordingly taken. As two days of restrictions got over by the date when the order was passed, the state government decided not to continue with further relaxation of lockdown curbs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-court-stays-kerala-s-offline-class-11-exams-amid-alarming-covid-19-crisis-101630685720846.html
