05-09-2021||India||Sachin Pilot loyalists plan drive to show ‘support’ he enjoys in Rajasthan||Jaipur, Sep 5 (PTI) Former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot’s supporters plan to plant 10 lakh saplings on Monday ahead of his birthday, in a drive which is also meant to convey that the Congress leader enjoys the support of people throughout Rajasthan. The Congress leader turns 44 on Tuesday. His supporters claimed that it will be a record-breaking exercise, surpassing the single-day record of 6.11 lakh saplings, which were planted in 2009 in Dungarpur by a team of volunteers led by the then district collector. Last year, a massive blood donation drive was conducted and around 45,000 units were collected in 400 camps. The drive is being seen by many as an attempt to convey the message that Pilot enjoys the support of people throughout the state. Pilot and the MLAs supporting him had revolted against Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot last year, after which the Congress leader was removed from the posts of the state party chief and the Rajasthan deputy chief minister. “We planned this massive state-level drive, arranged saplings and water tankers in just a few days and this shows the level of support Pilot gets across Rajasthan. The drive will be carried out successfully tomorrow,” said a leader who looked after the preparations. He said at least 5,000 saplings will be planted in each of the 200 Assembly constituencies. “The plantation drive will be conducted across the state. However, in Jaipur, Bharatpur, Kota and Ajmer divisions, the plantation is expected to be more than the target,” the leader said. “Preparations for the massive plantation drive have been going for the past several days and saplings have been purchased from across the state. A few trucks of plants have been called from Maharashtra and Karnataka,” said Mahesh Sharma, former PCC general secretary. “The campaign is inspired by Pilot’s concerns for the environment, therefore, we planned to materialise it. The entire exercise will be conducted scientifically and records of all plants will be collected,” he said. Several party MLAs and senior leaders will participate in the plantation drive. PCC vice-president and former minister Rajendra Chaudhary said all preparations have been completed in all seven divisions of the state. Congress MLA from Ladnun (Nagaur) Mukesh Bhakar said the plantation drive will be carried out at public places, on land of local bodies, schools and parks. “Party workers and youngsters will break the single-day record of Dungarpur. From senior leaders to youngsters, all are excited for the drive tomorrow,” he said. “We expect that the number of plants would cross the 10 lakh mark,” Bhakar said. PTI SDA RDK RDK||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sachin-pilot-loyalists-plan-drive-to-show-support-he-enjoys-in-rajasthan-101630866278070.html
05-09-2021||India||Massive show of strength at farmers’ UP mahapanchayat||Hundreds of thousands of farmers from Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Haryana, Rajasthan and Maharashtra gathered for a kisan mahapanchayat in Muzaffarnagar on Sunday, months ahead of assembly polls in the first three states, demanding that the central government roll back three contentious farm laws passed by Parliament a year ago.Addressing the event organised by protesting farmers’ umbrella body Samyukt Kisan Morcha, Bhartiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait said the Morcha would take the movement against the three farm laws to the entire country and seek a legal guarantee on minimum support prices for crops.Speaking in Bengaluru, Union minister Anurag Thakur said the central government not only increased the MSP and procurement but also built more mandis and is working towards increasing the income of the farmers. He said the Centre held discussions with farm union leaders on the new laws but no consensus could be reached because of their hard stance.Also read | Will discuss strategies to continue stir: Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait in UP“Senior ministers of the government of India held not one but 11 rounds of meetings with farmers. Detailed discussions were held on the issue,” he said.Tikait called upon farmers to “keep their tractors ready as they could be needed any time”.“These meetings will be held across the country. We have to stop the country from getting sold. Farmers should be saved, the country should be saved; businesses, employees and youth should be saved — that is the aim.”“The struggle for independence continued for 90 years, so I have no idea for how long this movement will go on,” he said. On the issue of further discussions with the government, Tikait said: “We will go when the central government invites us for talks.”Invoking communal amity, he raised the slogan “Allahu Akbar” from the stage and the participants responded with “Har Har Mahadev”. He said his father Mahendra Singh Tikait often used these two slogans from the stage to infuse a joint sense of purpose. “They will divide but we will unite people,” he said, hitting out at the ruling BJP.Underlining the political significance of the event, Tikait said “Mission UP” had begun with the mahapanchayat.The state BJP termed the mahapanchayat an “election meeting”. The BJP’s Kisan Morcha head and MP Rajkumar Chahar said in a statement that it was politics and not concern for farmers that drove those behind the mahapanchayat.“This was very much a political and election meeting. The opposition and these farmer union leaders have been using the shoulders of farmers to engage in politics,” he said.Tikait criticised the recently announced monetisation scheme and accused the BJP government of selling the country’s assets. “This will lead to an acute crisis of employment for the youth,” he said, adding that it was getting difficult for farmers to protect their land and crops.Only khap chaudharis (clan leaders) and farmer leaders were allowed to share the stage at the mahapanchayat from which leaders of political parties were kept away. Morcha leaders Yogendra Yadav, Darshan Pal, Gurnam Singh Chadhuni, Balbeer Singh Rajewal, Satnam Singh, and social activist Medha Patkar were among those who addressed the gathering.BJP MP Varun Gandhi described farmers as “our own flesh and blood” and suggested that the government should re-engage with them in reaching common ground. His remarks drew support from RLD leader Jayant Chaudhary.The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) demanded the Centre to accept the demands of farmers who have been protesting for nearly nine months against the three farm laws. BSP spokesperson Sudhindra Bhadoria supported the kisan mahapanchayat and said it is a democratic right of every citizen to have a peaceful protest.Large langars (free food stalls) were organised to feed the crowds that started forming by 9am, transforming the area into a sea of white Gandhi caps with strips of green, Muslim skullcaps and Sikh turbans. Muslim volunteers could be seen distributing food and water to people arriving from outside. The show of religious unity put up by the protesters was a political statement in the western UP belt that bore the brunt of bloody communal riots in 2013 between Hindu Jats and Muslims, the scars of which have not healed but were willingly put aside for a common purpose.“Things really went bad after the riots. Even though there was no violence reported as such, one could still feel differences in the way people of the two communities behaved with each other. However, it looks like the protest has brought people together,” said Salim Baliyan, a farmer from Hasoli village in Muzaffarnagar.Raghunath Singh, a farmer from Mimlana village, said: “At the end of the day we are all farmers and we have shared economic interests. The protest has made people realise that.”Farmers in attendance said the problem of stray cattle damaging crops, pending sugarcane payment dues, and heavy electricity bills were their other big worries.“Stray cattle has become a major menace and the government must do something about it. The protest should take up the issue especially in the light of the election ahead. It will definitely make an impact,” said Ankur Panwar, a Jat farmer who had come to the congregation from Fikheda village, around 10km from Muzaffarnagar town.Punitive action over stubble burning was another sore point. On August 25, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath announced that the government would withdraw cases against farmers and revoke fines imposed on them for burning crop residue in the fields.“The Haryana government had done that too ahead of the assembly elections in the state but now they have started fining farmers again,” said Rajan Singh, a farmer from Uttar Pradesh’s Meerut.Several groups of farmers from faraway states such as Tamil Nadu and West Bengal were also part of the event.“This event has the potential to revive the ongoing protest. Western Uttar Pradesh is a highly polarised region and the choice of Muzaffarnagar for a congregation like this is clearly symbolic. There is a possibility that some farmer leaders are testing the waters ahead of the assembly polls,” said Rahul Verma, a fellow with the Centre for Policy Research.Praveen Rai, a political analyst with the Centre for Study of Developing Societies, said: “The event could signify the revival of the social coalition for political purpose, but religious divide in the region is too deep to be bridged in such a short time. Religious solidarity is a fragile thing in this region and may witness A rupture as political campaigns get charged up ahead of the assembly polls. So it is a bit early to draw concrete conclusions on that at this point.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/massive-show-of-strength-at-farmers-up-mahapanchayat-101630865442038.html
05-09-2021||India||Chhattisgarh pastor beaten up at police station on conversion allegation||A pastor and two others, including an officer-bearer of a Christian outfit, were allegedly manhandled and abused inside a police station at Raipur on Sunday by members of a right-wing organisation, a senior official said.The group of right-wing activists accused pastor Harish Sahu of indulging in religious conversion and manhandled him as well as Ankush Bariyekar, general secretary of Chhattisgarh Christian Forum, and one Prakash Masih, inside Purani Basti police station, he said. “Sahu had been called to the police station after a right-wing organisation submitted a complaint against him that he is indulging in religious conversions. Accordingly, he came to the police station today along with Bariyekar and Masih. But a group of right-wing activists present there manhandled and abused the trio inside the chamber of the station house officer (SHO),” he said.A video of the incident went viral on social media. After the incident, Purani Basti station house officer (SHO) Yadumani Sidar was attached to the police lines by Senior Superintendent of Police Ajay Yadav, the official added.Bariyekar lodged a complaint in this regard, after which several people were booked under IPC sections 147 (rioting), 294 (obscene acts and songs), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 506 (criminal intimidation), he said.The incident occurred exactly a week after a 25-year-old pastor, Kawalsingh Paraste, was allegedly beaten up in his house in Polmi village in the state’s Kabirdham district by a mob of over 100 people, accusing him of indulging in religious conversions||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-pastor-beaten-up-at-police-station-on-conversion-allegation-101630865198269.html
05-09-2021||India||The Week Ahead: Mumbai battles Covid surge; Delhi to decide on reopening more classes||India’s two primary cities have important questions to answer this week. Mumbai is staring at a minor surge in cases over the last 10 days, with Sunday ending at 495 positives, its highest since July 15 (528 cases), and with the city’s test positivity rate consistently topping 1% over nearly two weeks, concerns are being raised in both the state government and BMC war rooms. Is there a lockdown coming? Is this the beginning of a third wave? The answer to both, officials said on Sunday, is no. “However, we cannot be complacent,” a state government health official said. “If we get through this week without any major surge, we should be able to hold off the anticipated third wave. This is a crucial week.”In Delhi, which has been able to keep both its cases and positivity rate low over the last two months after a horrific second wave, the disaster management authority shall meet this week to decide if more classes in schools can be allowed to reopen from September 15.The government has begun drafting a plan concerning vaccination of children which it will propose to the Central government soon after the Centre announces the date of opening the vaccine drive for minors.The government allowed schools to resume physical classes for grades 9 to 12 from September 1. It also allowed colleges and universities to resume physical classes and coaching centres to function for classes 9 and above from September 1.Not that Delhi is not wary of the third wave. The Delhi government’s preparation committee that was set up to focus on a potential third wave, will start working on a new plan regarding number of hospital beds that have to be kept ready, based on suggestions from the central government committee on Covid-19 preparations led by Dr VK Paul. The Central committee had told the state government that its current plan could prove inadequate in case another wave strikes.Both Mumbai and Delhi are key to India’s resilience against a possible third wave. Experts have often pointed out that brisk immunisation is key to keep another surge at bay. Mumbai crossed 10 million inoculations last week and so did Delhi. But it is the consistent supply of doses that is the key.While the third wave is top of mind for many, the country’s para athletes made us forget it for a while on Sunday when India returned with 19 medals at the Tokyo Paralympics, the country’s highest ever haul, including five golds. With most of them returning home this week, expect a massive reception for them, perhaps even bigger than the one for the medal winners at the summer Games.In England, though, today’s Day 5 action at the Kia Oval Test won’t be good for people with hypertension issues. India has been making a habit of Day 5 finishes in recent Tests, and today is no different, a day when, literally, any result is possible.A good day, therefore to look at more mundane things such as political developments through the country. The Jharkhand government could bring in a bill this week to provide jobs in private sector up to a certain salary bracket. The state’s parties could also bring in a resolution in favour of caste census. In West Bengal, candidates including chief minister Mamata Banerjee will file their nominations for Bhabanipur assembly seat next week even as CBI will continue its probe into post poll violence. And the Enforcement Directorate has summoned Abhishek Banerjee on Monday in connection with a coal smuggling case. Interesting week ahead for the eastern state.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi is likely to reach Chhattisgarh for a two-day visit to Bastar and northern Chhattisgarh.As infighting in Kerala Congress intensifies, party general secretary Tariq Anwar is reaching the state on on Wednesday. He will meet sulking senior leaders Oommen Chandy and Ramesh Chennithala. President Ram Nath Kovind will visit Indian Navy base INS Hansa today to confer the President’s Colours to Indian Naval Aviation. The President’s Colour is the highest honour bestowed on a military unit in recognition of its exceptional service to the nation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-week-ahead-mumbai-battles-covid-surge-delhi-to-decide-on-reopening-more-classes-101630865155659.html
05-09-2021||India||TMC officially fields Mamata from Bhabanipur home turf||The Trinamool Congress (TMC) on Sunday evening named chief minister Mamata Banerjee as its candidate for the assembly by-poll in south Kolkata’s Bhabanipur from where she had won in the past. For the Murshidabad district’s Samsergunj and Jangipur seats – where elections could not be held in March-April because the ruling party’s candidates died of Covid-19 – the TMC fielded Amirul Islam and former minister Jakir Hossain respectively. The latter was injured in a bomb blast in February this year. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on August 24 filed a charge sheet in the Nimtita railway station bomb blast case, saying the target of the February 17 IED (improvised explosive device) attack was Hossain, who was then the state’s deputy labour minister. The NIA said the blast was carried out to derail the local poll. “People of Jangipur are facing problems as they have no legislator to represent them. The election is necessary,” said Hossain. Although polls and by-polls are to be held in seven seats in Bengal, the Election Commission of India (ECI) on Saturday announced elections in only three seats. Though the TMC demanded early polls in all seven, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the state’s principal opposition force, claimed that the situation is not conducive as the pandemic situation is not under control in any part of Bengal. Since the Congress and the Left parties could not win a single seat for the first time since Independence, the contest in the coming elections is likely to be bi-polar. The BJP did not name its candidates for the three seats till Sunday evening. Its leaders said the decision will be taken after consultation with national leaders. “Of course, we will contest these seats,” said Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh. Banerjee is contesting again as she lost to her aide-turned adversary Suvendu Adhikari at Nandigram in East Midnapore district where polls were held in the second phase on April 1. To continue as chief minister, she needs to get elected before November 21. While addressing a rally in Nandigram before the polls, Banerjee surprised everyone when she announced that she would not contest from Bhawanipore and face Adhikari instead. She was injured in the left leg during the campaign and addressed all rallies from a wheelchair. Adhikari won the Nandigram seat in 2016 and was made a cabinet minister by Banerjee. He joined the BJP in December last year. State power minister Sovandeb Chattopadhyay contested the Bhawanipore seat and defeated the BJP candidate, actor Rudranil Ghosh. However, Chattopadhyay stepped down so that Banerjee could contest again. In the March-April polls, the BJP bagged 77 seats while the TMC won 213. The polls were held in 292 of the state’s 294 seats as the two TMC candidates died in Murshidabad. Two TMC candidates from North 24 Parganas and South 24 Parganas died of Covid-19 after the polls, and it was found that they had won. These seats are lying vacant. Though the BJP wrested 77 seats, its score came down to 75 as two legislators resigned from the assembly to retain their Lok Sabha seats. One of them is Nisith Pramanik who took oath as Union minister of state for home affairs during the cabinet reshuffle on July 7. Also, four BJP legislators have returned to the TMC although none have officially resigned from the party. Among them is Krishnanagar North MLA Mukul Roy, a founder-member of the TMC who switched sides in 2017 and was made a BJP national vice-president last year. The BJP has sought Roy’s disqualification under anti-defection law and has sought an explanation from the other three who left last week. Roy is still a BJP legislator on paper and has been appointed as chairman of the assembly’s public accounts committee. Top TMC leaders started a campaign on Sunday itself. Minister Firhad Hakim held a party workers’ meeting. “People of Bhawanipore are ready to welcome the festive season. They will welcome Mamata Banerjee before Goddess Durga arrives. Nothing can be more auspicious.” TMC legislator from Kamarhati, Madan Mitra, who lives in Bhawanipore, also campaigned on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmcofficially-fields-mamata-from-bhabanipur-home-turf-101630864238031.html
05-09-2021||India||Former Union health secretary Keshav Desiraju dead||Keshav Desiraju, former Union Health Secretary and grandson of former President S Radhakrishnan passed away here on Sunday.He was about 66 and died at a private hospital. Tamil Nadu chief minister M K Stalin expressed grief over Desiraju’s death due to heart attack.In his message, the chief minister extended his condolences to the bereaved family and friends and said Desiraju passed away on the very same day that marked his grandfather Radhakrishnan’s birth anniversary. The retired bureaucrat excelled in his work and played a key role in the nation’s growth, Stalin said and recalled his biography of renowned Carnatic singer M S Subbulakshmi (of gifted voice). Desiraju, a great humanist who showed special concern for differently-abled children and the mentally challenged people and he was keenly interested in their welfare, Stalin said. Congress leader Jairam Ramesh was among others who have condoled the death of Desiraju. He tweeted:”My dear, dear friend for 57 years, Keshav Desiraju, a most outstanding civil servant has just passed away. What a tragic irony that he left us on the day the country marks the birthday of his grandfather. Keshav has written the definitive biography of M S Subbalaksmi.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-union-health-secretary-keshav-desiraju-dead-101630864058000.html
05-09-2021||India||Daylight robbery’: Chidambaram criticises National Monetisation Pipeline scheme||Former finance minister P Chidambaram on Sunday criticised the National Monetisation Pipeline scheme and called the project an act of ‘daylight robbery’. Chidambaram’s comments came at the two-day national executive meeting of the Indian Youth Congress in Panaji. The former finance minister was appointed the Congress election observer for Goa assembly elections which are scheduled to be held next year.“The National Monetisation Pipeline scheme of the Central Government is daylight robbery. Whatever has been created by the governments of the country in the last 70 years is being given in the hands of a select few. People should be aware of this menace and oppose it,” Chidambaram was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Chidambaram also said that no consultation was held with other parties before introducing this policy. He said that there was no debate in the Parliament and said that the government would have never allowed a discussion on the issue.Congress leaders along with leaders from other opposition parties like the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) and the Trinamool Congress (TMC) opposed the National Monetisation Pipeline scheme. They accused the government of selling India’s ‘prized assets’ in the public sector. They also claim that the scheme will not benefit common people and affect reservations in jobs and create unemployment. Congress’ Ajay Maken on Friday called the National Monetisation Pipeline scheme and the demonetisation exercise of 2016, Centre’s ‘twin babies’ to ‘loot’ Indians.“In the name of development, the Modi government gave birth to twin babies, one was demonetisation and the other one is the (National) Monetisation (Scheme). Both are of the same nature,” Maken was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/daylight-robbery-chidambaram-criticises-national-monetisation-pipeline-scheme-101630863088576.html
05-09-2021||India||In slight relief for Kerala, Covid-19 cases register marginal dip||There is some relief for Kerala as the state reported 26,701 new Covid-19 cases with a test positivity rate (TPR) of 17.17 per cent after 1,55,543 tests were held, the state health ministry indicated in a statement. Kerala has consistently been reporting more than 30,000 cases daily over the last few days. When compared with the last seven days, new cases, TPR, deaths and active cases have all registered a slight dip. The state reported 74 deaths taking total fatalities to 21,496. The state’s active case load is 2,47, 79. Kozhikode district topped the table on Sunday with 3,336 fresh Covid-19 cases, followed by Thrissur with 3,214 and Ernakulam with 2,915 cases. A look at the last seven days’ average TPR shows four districts reported more than 20 per cent -- Thrissur 23.37%, Palakkad 22.10%, Kozhikode 21.48% and Wayanad 20.65%. In some of the worst-affected districts earlier like Malappuram and Ernakulam, cases subsided a bit and TPR came down to the 15-20 per cent bracket. The lowest TPR is in Kasaragod in north Kerala, 12.91%. The worst affected Thrissur reported less than 20 per cent only on a single day, 19.57% on August 31 and least affected Kasaragod is consistent with its low volume and once it even dipped to 6.28% on August 30, statistics shows. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research guidelines, TPR should be below 5 per cent if an area has to be declared out of the critical zone. A majority of the districts in the state claim three to four times higher than that rate explaining the intensity of the infection. In the last 24 hours, the country reported 42,766 new cases, 308 deaths with a TPR below 3%. Statistics show Kerala’s high caseload is the prime reason for the national surge. With Covid-19 cases showing no signs of relenting, the government has decided to adopt tough steps against home quarantine violators. Those who violate norms will be booked, fined and they will be shifted to institutional quarantine centres by the police. The violators will have to bear the expenses of shifting also. Many experts have blamed lax home quarantine for the persistent surge in cases though there is set norms for home quarantine like separate washroom and no contact with others at home. Many people, however, interact with others as usual giving them the infection. In north Kerala, many houses still have the joint family system which results in all members getting infected. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday said the situation was under control and that there was no big spike in infections after the Onam festival as was feared adding that the health situation will subside by the second week of September. The second wave has been continuing in the state for more than three months-- June to September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-slight-relief-for-kerala-covid-19-cases-register-marginal-dip-101630862497760.html
05-09-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: Sept 6, 1997— Mother Teresa passes away after cardiac arrest||Calcutta Mother Teresa, apostle of love and peace, who lived each moment of her life to wipe away the tears of the deprived and the destitute, is no more. The Mother breathed her last at 9.30 p.m. today at her home at the headquarters of the Missionaries of Charity. The 87-vear-old Nobel laureate died of a cardiac arrest. As soon as her death was announced, the entire nation plunged into mourning. People came out in large numbers and gathered at the Missionaries of Charity in central Calcutta to mourn the “living saints” death. The Mother complained of chest pain, and several doctors were called but she breathed her last a few minutes later, the announcement said. Baptised in 1929, the Albanian born nun chose to make Calcutta her home where she set up the Missionaries of Charity in 1949 to serve the ailing members of the humanity. The Mother, who was twice hospitalised last year, had a bypass surgery and was also on a permanent pace maker. She was due to attend an all faith prayer meeting in the city to pay respects to Princess Diana. The Missionary Order which plunged into grief was praying for the peace of Mother’s soul at a mass. The Mother, who stepped down as the head of the Order on March 13 this year after repeated health problems, paved the way for election of Sister Nirmala as the new head of the organisation. Her Order founded in 1947 has 4,000 nuns running orphanages, homes of the poor and other charity centres worldwide. The Mother stepped out of the confines of a convent 50 years ago to “serve God among the poorest of the poor” and had been a guardian angel for the sick and dying the world over since then. Though bent with age and a host of ailments, her spirit and faith remained unbroken as she brought succour to the sick and dying of Kalighat’ , the gas victim of Bhopal, the flood striken in Bangladesh, the starving in Ethiopia and the earthquake victims of Armenia. After being named for the Nobel Peace Prize in 1979, the “living saint” had said “I accept in the name of the poor because I believe that by giving me this prize, they are recognising the presence of the poor in the world.” In 1990, when Mother Teresa was hospitalised, the world had prayed for her. Fitted with a pace maker, she resumed her work. Mother Teresa had rarely talked about herself. Her visitors to the Missionaires of Charity headquarters in Calcutta which included Presidents and Prime Ministers, millionaires, kings and kingmakers were baffled by her reticence. Her humility was illustrated in a published interview, asked if she had taken her name after St Teresa of Avila who also left her convent and founded an order she laughed, “Oh no, I have not called myself after the big Teresa but the little one - teresa of Lisieux.” On the very first day of the home which opened in 1952, Mother Teresa literally picked up a woman half eaten by and ants and carried her to the dharamshala. As she began to cleanse her, the woman’s skin came off her flesh to the gentlest of touches. The warmth of human care and affection could not save her. Slightly built and diminutive, Mother Teresa eschewed public notice, working in the obscurity of the slums. But her humble approach could not hide the greatness of her work. She herself had no personal property or savings. But her real wealth was Himalayan in size the millions of destitutes orphaned and abandoned sufferers around the world. In all her work both in India and abroad, she adopted the Indian tradition in service. She seemed to have assiduously cultivated the Indian outlook and through her it was for the first time that the Catholic order adopted an Indian dress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htthisday-sept-6-1997-mother-teresa-passes-away-after-cardiac-arrest-101630860998192.html
05-09-2021||India||ISRO truck blocked in Kerala; trade union members seek ‘gawking charge’||A truck laden with heavy equipment and headed towards the Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre (VSSC), a key wing of the Indian Space Research Organisation was blocked on Sunday by a group of workers and local people in Thiruvananthapuram demanding “gawking charge”. Interestingly, this happened three days after the Kerala High Court pulled up the state government for not effectively implementing the law to get rid of the strange practice called ‘nokku kooli,’ in local parlance which means gawking wages. In 2018 the Kerala government had abolished the practice of charging people by licenced members of the head load workers by not doing any work. Affiliated to militant trade unions, the practice is still continuing in many parts of the state. Fearing violence and intimidation many end up paying charges sought by them. It is better known as extortion by registered trade unions. The VSSC officials said their truck was stranded for more than four hours after workers sought ₹10 lakh. Later they informed the CM’s office about this and labour minister V Sivankutty intervened and the truck was allowed to go inside the high security premises after several rounds of talks and protest. A labour ministry official said action will be taken against labour leaders who provoked workers and local people. The issue has invited enough embarrassment for the Left Front government. Among trade unions the CPI(M)-controlled CITU (Centre of Indian Trade Unions) is prominent. The Kerala High Court while hearing a plea of a businessman from Kollam last week over the issue said rights of head load workers should be protected but petitions against ‘nokku kooli’ were on the rise and asked the government why it was not effectively intervening in such issues. “The practice is damaging the image of Kerala. It should be eradicated. It gives a wrong perception about the state. It should be corrected,” observed Justice Devan Ramachandran.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/isro-truck-blocked-in-kerala-trade-union-members-seek-gawking-charge-101630858177288.html
05-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: Taliban say old men of good character can teach women students and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Old men of ‘good character’ can teach women in Afghan universities: ReportAs some private universities in Afghanistan are planning to resume classes on Monday, the Taliban have issued a detailed diktat specifying how women attending universities should dress, news agency AFP reported. Earlier, the Taliban ordered that women will be allowed access to higher education, but there will be no provision of co-education and male teachers will not be allowed to teach female students. In the recent order, it has been mentioned that old men of good character can teach female students if there are not enough female teachers in universities. Read more.Can both Nipah and Covid infect patients? Doctors explainKerala is at the receiving end of a double whammy after the state confirmed the death of a 12-year-old from the Nipah virus. The state is already amid a spiralling Covid situation with over 25,000 cases being recorded every day. Can both Nipah and Covid infect the same person? Read more.Coal scam case: TMC’s Abhishek Banerjee to appear in front of ED on MondayTrinamool Congress national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee is scheduled to appear before the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in Delhi on Monday, news agency ANI reported. The lawmaker was summoned along with his wife, Rujira Banerjee, for questioning in connection to a money laundering case linked to an alleged coal scam. Read more.‘No jeans, sleeveless tops’: New dress code for MPs ahead of UK House of CommonsBefore the British members of Parliament return to the House of Commons on Monday, Sir Lindsay Hoyle, the Commons Speaker, has directed them to dress appropriately in “business attire.” Read more.CJI pitches new corporation for judicial infra, cites women lawyers' problemsChief Justice of India NV Ramana listed the problems faced by the judiciary in India. Apart from shortage of administrative staff and vacancies in judicial posts, CJI Ramana said that infrastructure is a huge hurdle. Watch here.Four Team India support staff members in isolation after head coach Ravi Shastri's positive lateral flow testFour of Team India's support staff members including head coach Ravi Shastri were sent in isolation as Covid-19 fears gripped the Indian cricket team in England on Sunday. Read more.Shah Rukh Khan poses with Pune Metro staff amid reports of him shooting for Atlee’s next, see picAlthough Shah Rukh Khan is yet to confirm, photos from Pune have hinted that the actor is in the city and filming for his upcoming film with Tamil director Atlee. Earlier this week, reports began doing the rounds that Shah Rukh is headed for Pune to shoot for the movie. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-taliban-say-old-men-of-good-character-can-teach-women-101630852896342.html
05-09-2021||India||Deadly Nipah virus returns to hound Kerala, 12-year-old boy dies||A 12-year-old boy died after contracting the Nipah virus in north Kerala’s Kozhikode on Sunday, triggering fear of a possible outbreak of another deadly virus while the state is still struggling to contain the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. State health minister Veena George said all three samples of the boy were found to be positive for Nipah virus by the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune. At least 18 close contacts, mainly relatives and health workers, of the boy and 150 secondary contacts were identified and quarantined. Among the first group two health workers later showed symptoms of Nipah, the minister said. “There is no need to panic. But strict vigil is the need of the hour. We have a strict Nipah protocol and we will go by that,” said the minister in Kozhikode after attending a high-powered meeting also attended by two other ministers, A K Saseendran and Mohamad Riyaz. The minister said the boy was initially admitted to a government hospital but later shifted to a private hospital with high fever a week ago. In the beginning he was suspected to be suffering from brain fever but later samples were rushed to the NIV for further testing. The boy died in the early hours of Sunday. She said all relatives of the boy and all those involved in his treatment were put under quarantine. Some of the relatives of the boy later complained that though the victim showed symptoms for many days, medical college authorities failed to test his samples. When the fever did not subside they shifted him to a private hospital which sent samples for testing immediately. The minister said the government will inquire into the possible lapse. The Union Health Ministry has also rushed a team from the National Centre for Diseases Control, Delhi and NIV Pune has decided to set up a virology laboratory at the Kozhikode medical college hospital to speed up tests. A control room has also been set up in the city. The minister said she will camp in the city and the route map of the boy will be published soon. Later the deceased was buried under strict Nipah protocol in a public burial ground in the city. State health authorities said they have no idea about the source of infection but like earlier cases fruit bats are suspected. Like Coivd-19, isolation and quarantine are the best options to contain Nipah virus but its fatality rate is very high, said experts. A zoonotic disease triggered by a pathogen (an infectious agent of virus) it can be transmitted from animals to humans through body fluid and human to humans through fluids, said experts. “The situation is not like 2018 when we were totally in the dark. Since a majority of people are observing physical distance and masking it can be contained effectively,” said critical care expert Dr A S Anoop Kumar, who played a key role during the 2018 outbreak which claimed 17 lives in Kozhikode but later it was localised and contained effectively. Following the fresh detection of another virus, a high alert has been sounded in two neighbouring districts, Kannur and Malappuram. Former health minister K K Shailaja also said contact tracing is the key in containing the virus. An unknown virus with no medicine or history of treatment and very little information about the carrier, made health experts hit a blind alley in the initial stages of the outbreak in 2018. But they fought back and contained its secondary infection and nursed back two Nipah-positive persons (Ajanya, a nursing student and Ubeesh, a male nurse) back to life, though the deadly virus claimed 17 lives in a span of ten days. Lini, a young nurse who treated the initial patient, was among the dead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deadly-nipah-virus-returns-to-hound-kerala-12-year-old-boy-dies-101630850016686.html
05-09-2021||India||Can both Nipah and Covid infect patients? Doctors explain||Kerala is at the receiving end of a double whammy after the state confirmed the death of a 12-year-old from the Nipah virus. The state is already amid a spiralling Covid situation with over 25,000 cases being recorded every day. Can both Nipah and Covid infect the same person? Kerala doctors said the likelihood of both Nipah and Covid-19 infecting patients is less, news agency PTI reported. This is because Nipah does not spread far and wide and it remains confined to smaller areas or clusters, Dr T S Anish told PTI. The number of Nipah cases hardly ever crosses even 50, the doctor said.This is not the first time that the state is dealing with Nipah. The state health ministry has already handled Nipah cases in 2018 and 2019. Kerala also reported some Zika cases amid the ongoing pandemic. In July, Kerala saw a localised outbreak of the Zika virus.After the death of the 12-year-old, two healthcare workers developed Nipah symptoms. The government confirmed that these two were among the 20 high-risk contacts of the deceased boy.Also Read | Nipah death in Kerala: Symptoms, prevention, treatment. All you need to knowWill Nipah be a challenge for Kerala?Doctors said there is less cause for concern at present for many reasons. First, the state has enough experience in handling Nipah in 2018 and 2019. Second, because of Covid, there are already some protective measures like wearing of maks and PPE kits, So the transmission will be less this time, experts opine.Risk of transmission is higher when patients' condition is severeNipah is such a virus that can transmit from animals to humans and from human to human. Dr Amar Fettle, the nodal officer for H1N1, said that the infection is more likely to spread once the patient's condition becomes severe-- when he/she is hospitalised. So the risk of transmission is more in hospitals than in community levels.Kannur and Malappuram have been put on the alert for any cases of Nipah. Tamil Nadu has also stepped up monitoring people arriving from Kerala in nine bordering districts. In 2018, there were 17 deaths and 18 confirmed cases and in 2019 only one case of Nipah was reported from Kochi.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-both-nipah-and-covid-infect-patients-doctors-explain-101630848328225.html
05-09-2021||India||Coal scam case: TMC’s Abhishek Banerjee to appear in front of ED on Monday||Trinamool Congress national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee is scheduled to appear before the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in Delhi on Monday, news agency ANI reported. The lawmaker was summoned along with his wife, Rujira Banerjee, for questioning in connection to a money laundering case linked to an alleged coal scam.The probe led by the ED is based on an FIR registered by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) over alleged mass coal pilferage in Eastern Coalfields Ltd mines in West Bengal’s Kunustoria and Kajora collieries.ED summons Mamata’s nephew, his wife over money laundering caseEarlier this year, the ED told a Delhi court that the Lok Sabha MP from Diamond Harbour, who is also chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew, allegedly received funds obtained from the illegal mining. The agency also said that ahead of the Bengal elections, earlier this year, illegal coal mining was 'flourishing in the state under the “patronage” of the political party in power’, according to a report by HT.The ED officials say that proceeds of the scam, which allegedly amounted to ₹1,352 crore, was generated and collected by Majhi in two years in connivance with police officers and also were sent to political leaders in West Bengal. It claims the money was then laundered in India and abroad.Coal smuggling case: Abhishek Banerjee’s wife asks ED to question her in KolkataRujira Banerjee, Abhishek Banerjee’s wife, did not appear before the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in New Delhi on Wednesday citing the Covid-19 pandemic as a reason for her absence. She, however, asked the ED officials to visit her residence in Kolkata and assured of ‘every cooperation.’The Trinamool Congress claims that investigating agencies are ‘harassing’ its leaders at the behest of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which is at the helm in the Centre. West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee reacted sharply to the summons and said that the Centre was ‘letting loose central agencies’ on the MPs of her party. She called the move an ‘attempt to bulldoze the federal structure’ and snatch away the rights of the states while speaking to reporters last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coal-scam-case-tmc-s-abhishek-banerjee-to-appear-in-front-of-ed-on-monday-101630844180385.html
05-09-2021||India||BJP’s Varun Gandhi lends support to agitating farmers, calls for ‘re-engagement’||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Varun Gandhi voiced his support for the ongoing farmers’ protests. The parliamentarian representing Pilibhit Lok Sabha constituency called for “re-engagement” with the protesting farmers, urging for the inclusion of their point of view in working out a common ground. Calling farmers “our own flesh and blood”, Gandhi insisted their hardships should be taken into consideration.“Lakhs of farmers have gathered in protest today, in Muzaffarnagar. They are our own flesh and blood. We need to start re-engaging with them in a respectful manner: understand their pain, their point of view and work with them in reaching common ground,” Gandhi tweeted on Sunday.The BJP leader also shared a video recording of hundreds and thousands of farmers gathered at Muzaffarnagar for the Kisan Mahapanchayat on Sunday. Gandhi had earlier criticised Karnal Karnal sub-divisional magistrate Ayush Sinha for instructing on-duty police personnel last week to “break heads” of protesting farmers if they breach the barricade. “I hope this video is edited and the DM did not say this… Otherwise, this is unacceptable in democratic India to do to our own citizens,” Gandhi said in a tweet on August 28.The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) had called for a Kisan Mahapanchayat in Muzaffarnagar on Sunday to protest against the three controversial farm laws. Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait declared at Sunday’s Mahapanchayat that the agitations would continue till their demands are met.Varun Gandhi did not directly mention the NDA government in his tweets but he is the first leader from the ruling dispensation to voice his support for the ongoing farmers’ agitation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjps-varun-gandhi-lends-support-to-agitating-farmers-calls-for-reengagement-101630841888725.html
05-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: Two Indian-origin individuals die in flash floods in US and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Two Indian-origin people die in flash floods in US: ReportAt least two people of Indian-origin died during flash floods triggered by Hurricane Ida in New Jersey, news agency PTI reported quoting local news agencies. Read MoreAgitations to continue till demands are met: Rakesh Tikait at Kisan MahapanchayatBharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait told reporters on Sunday that the farmers' agitation would continue for the foreseeable future until their demands are fulfilled by the government. Read MoreCancer patient ‘Maoist’ Uppuganti asked to seek bail, shifting to hospiceThe Bombay high court on Thursday asked Maoist leader Nirmala Uppuganti, who is suffering from stage 4 of breast cancer, to amend her petition to include bail as final relief and transfer from prison to a palliative care hospice to spend her final days as an interim relief. Read MoreFour Team India support staff members in isolation after head coach Ravi Shastri's positive lateral flow testFour of Team India's support staff members including head coach Ravi Shastri were sent in isolation as Covid-19 fears gripped the Indian cricket team in England on Sunday. Read MoreDrashti Dhami catches Karan Johar off guard with her reply featuring Kangana Ranaut on Koffee Shots with Karan. WatchFilmmaker Karan Johar will soon be seen in conversation with the lead cast of the web series The Empire Kunal Kapoor, Dino Morea and Drashti Dhami. Read MorePilot flies through two road tunnels, incredible viral video stuns peopleAn incredible video showcasing a pilot flying through two road tunnels has left people in awe. Energy drink company Red Bull took to Twitter to share the video which has now gone viral. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-two-indian-origin-individuals-die-in-flash-floods-in-us-and-all-the-latest-news-101630839716707.html
05-09-2021||India||Suvendu Adhikari summoned for questioning in bodyguard death case||The Crime Investigation Department (CID) of the West Bengal government on Sunday summoned BJP MLA Suvendu Adhikari for questioning in connection with a case related to the probe into the unnatural death of his personal security guard three years ago.The CID asked the BJP's Nandigram MLA to appear before its investigating officers in Kolkata on Monday. Adhikari's personal security guard Subhabrata Chakraborty had alleged shot him using his service revolver in 2018 at a police barrack in East Medinipur. A state armed police personnel, Chakraborty was part of the minister's security detail from the time became a parliamentarian.The CID set up a team to investigate Chakraborty's death after his wife filed a complaint seeking a probe. Earlier in June, a four-member team of CID sleuths visited Adhikari's home in East Medinipur as part of the ongoing investigation, in which at least 15 people, including some police personnel, have been questioned.The CID also summoned Adhikari's driver Sambhu Maity and his close associate Sanjeev Shukla for questioning in the case on Tuesday.The summoning of Adhikari comes days after the Enforcement Directorate summoned Trinamool Congress general secretary and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee's nephew, Abhishek Banerjee, and his wife Rujira Banerjee, in an alleged money laundering case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/suvendu-adhikari-cid-probe-bodyguard-death-case-west-bengal-101630837725962.html
05-09-2021||India||Cancer patient ‘Maoist’ Uppuganti asked to seek bail, shifting to hospice||The Bombay high court on Thursday asked Maoist leader Nirmala Uppuganti, who is suffering from stage 4 of breast cancer, to amend her petition to include bail as final relief and transfer from prison to a palliative care hospice to spend her final days as an interim relief.Uppuganti, who was arrested in 2019 along with her husband for alleged role in the death of 15 policemen and a civilian in the Gadchiroli Maoist attack, is terminally ill with breast cancer and is taken to Tata Memorial hospital for treatment every alternate day from Byculla prison. However, she has sought shifting to a palliative hospice claiming the facilities at Byculla Women’s prison were not conducive for her care. The division bench of justice S S Shinde and justice N J Jamadar, while hearing Uppuganti’s petition, was informed by advocates Dr Yug Choudhry and Payoshi Roy that the alleged leader of the banned CPI (Maoist) organisation was diagnosed with breast cancer in 2018 and underwent chemotherapy for the same. However, after her arrest in 2019, she had to miss her therapy and the cancer spread in her body. The court was further informed that Uppuganti had reached stage four of the cancer and was suffering from multiple skeletal and lung metastases (secondary malignant growths) and hence sought shifting to a hospice for palliative care during her final days. The petition further submitted that the Byculla prison, where Uppuganti was presently housed, did not have proper facilities for a patient like her, as she had to sleep on the floor in packed cells and was not even provided hot water, which was having an adverse effect on her health. Public prosecutor Sangeeta Shinde opposed the petition saying that Uppuganti was being taken to the TATA Memorial Care Centre every alternate day as per her doctors’ advice and was able to move around the prison. After hearing the submissions, the bench sought to know why Uppuganti had not applied for bail along with her plea for being shifted to a hospice. “There is no prayer for bail, even though we come to a conclusion that she needs medical care, how can we release her since there is no bail application. You could have applied for bail with the alternative of palliative care,” observed the bench. In response, Roy submitted that the accused did not have anyone except her husband, who was being held at Arthur Road prison, and since all her assets and belongings had been seized, she had nowhere to go even if she was given bail. Further, there was no one to take care of bail formalities and hence she only sought shifting to a hospice. The court then asked the lawyer to amend the petition to include a prayer for bail or at least include a submission on why bail was not sought for with the grounds that were orally presented before the court. In the meantime, the court directed the prison authorities to take Uppuganti to TATA memorial as per her fixed schedule and then inform the court about her condition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cancer-patient-maoist-uppuganti-asked-to-seek-bail-shifting-to-hospice-101630839095433.html
05-09-2021||India||Agitations to continue till demands are met: Rakesh Tikait at Kisan Mahapanchayat||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait told reporters on Sunday that the farmers' agitation would continue for the foreseeable future until their demands are fulfilled by the government. Drawing a parallel between the farmers' agitation and the struggle for Independence, Tikait said “the struggle for Independence continued for 90 years so I have no idea for how long this agitation will run.”“When the government of India will invite us for talks, we will go. The farmers' agitation will continue until the government fulfils our demands,” the BKU leader added.The farmers unions announced during Sunday's Mahapanchayat in Muzaffarnagar that the upcoming Bharat Bandh will be observed on September 27 instead of September 25, reported Live Hindustan. Tikait reiterated his pledged to continue the protests at Delhi border till their demands are met. “We take a pledge that we will not leave the protest site there (at Delhi borders) even if our graveyard is made there. We will lay down our lives if needed, but will not leave the protest site until we emerge victorious,” he told the gathering at Kisan Mahapanchayat in Muzaffarnagar.Also Read: Will discuss strategies to continue stir: Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait in UPBKU and Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), the umbrella body of farmers’ unions protesting against the Centre's farm laws, had called for a Mahapanchayat in Muzaffarnagar on Sunday. Thousands of farmers from all over the country had gathered at government inter-college ground responding to SKM’s call for ‘Mission Uttar Pradesh’ to continue discussions around the three farm laws as the state gears up for assembly elections next year."The Kisan Mahapanchayat of September 5 in Muzaffarnagar will be historic. Let us go to Muzaffarnagar on September 5. All of you are invited to the Kisan Mahapanchayat," Tikait tweeted on Saturday.Around 32 farmers unions from Punjab have set September 8 as the deadline for the government to withdraw the three contentious laws; failure to do so will invite bigger protests across the country, SKM told news agency PTI. A total of 10 rounds of talks have been held between farmers union and the government since the agitation started last year.Meanwhile, the authorities in Muzaffarnagar had ordered the closure of all wine shops from 6pm on Saturday till the Mahapanchayat was over, district magistrate Chandra Bhushan Singh told reporters that it was done to maintain law and order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/agitations-to-continue-till-demands-are-met-rakesh-tikait-at-kisan-mahapanchayat-101630837146816.html
05-09-2021||India||Nipah death in Kerala: Symptoms, prevention, treatment. All you need to know||After a 12-year-old boy died of Nipah near Kozhikode in Kerala and two health workers exhibited symptoms of the infection, Kerala, already battered by theCovid pandemic, is on alert. Rigorous contact tracing has been ordered to check the spread of the virus. Kerala has a history of Nipah and 17 were killed in the last outbreak of the virus in the state in 2018. But how does Nipah spread? Is it fatal? What precautions are to take? Here is everything you need to know.What is the Nipah virus?Nipah virus is one such virus that can spread between animals and people. Such a virus is officially known as a zoonotic virus. So, the virus can cause illness among animals and humans alike.How does the Nipah virus spread?The virus spread from contact with an infected animal and person. The contact can be anything like eating a fruit contaminated by infected animals -- either their bodily fluid has been mixed with it or they have eaten the fruit.Direct contact with Nipah-infected animals is also a source of transmission.Also Read: Nipah virus kills 12-year-old in Kerala. Here’s how Centre, state govt are handling situationClose contact with a person infected with the virus through exposure to their body fluids can also spread the infection.Infected pigs and bats are the primary sources of Nipah infection.SymptomsFever, headache, cough, sore throat, difficulty on breathing and vomiting are the mild symptoms of the infection, while severe symptoms may include encephalitis (brain swelling), coma, seizures, disorientation.How to prevent NipahAvoiding direct contact with infected animals is the first step to prevent Nipah. Frequent handwashing with soap and water can also prevent the spread of the infection. Since it is a highly contagious disease, contact tracing and isolation are essential.Treatment of NipahThere is no licensed treatment for the Nipah virus but there are treatments for the symptoms that a patient may exhibit. Proper rest, hydration is vital for the well-being of Nipah patients.Nipah not new in Keralain both 2018 and 2019, Kerala handled Nipah cases and health experts think that this time around the threat will be lesser as the state already has medical infrastructure like PPE kits, isolation practices, because of its ongoing fight with Covid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nipah-death-in-kerala-symptoms-prevention-treatment-all-you-need-to-know-101630836947242.html
05-09-2021||India||Soren govt allots namaz hall in Jharkhand Assembly, BJP wants Hanuman temple||A controversy has erupted in Jharkhand after the Hemant Soren-led Jharkhand government ordered the allotment of a “namaz hall” on the Assembly premises. The order was issued by speaker Rabindra Nath Mahto on September 2 and became public two days later.A notification, signed by the Jharkhand legislative assembly deputy secretary Naveen Kumar by order of the speaker, read, "Allotment of room number TW 348 as Namaz Hall for offering Namaz in the new Assembly Building."Soon after the BJP demanded a Hanuman temple on the Assembly premises be built and worship halls be earmarked for people of other religions, while the ruling Jharkhand Mukti Morcha and Congress welcomed the move.BJP leader Raghubar Das said the BJP will launch an agitation if the speaker's decision of allotment of a separate namaz hall was not withdrawn. Stating that MLAs in the ruling camp openly support the Taliban, Das said the latest move was a result of this ideology. “Otherwise any person who believes in democracy would not commit such an act. The Soren government is also tarnishing the dignity of constitutional institutions for appeasement and vote bank politics. This is not a good sign for Jharkhand," he added.The former chief minister threatened to sit on a hunger strike if the speaker's order was not withdrawn.BJP chief whip Viranchi Narayan has written to the speaker demanding he withdraws the order as he is "expected to protect constitutional values".BJP leader Babulal Marandi said this was an unconstitutional step. “If the speaker of the Assembly had to take it then he should build a grand Hanuman temple in the Assembly premises for Hindus. Worship halls must be earmarked for people of other religions. The temple of democracy should remain so," the former chief minister said.BJP leader CP Singh said, "The speaker should immediately get a grand Hanuman temple constructed on the assembly premises so that Hindu devotees can recite Hanuman Chalisa there."In his letter, Narayan wrote, "You cancel your order of September 2 and take the trouble of withdrawing this unconstitutional, unparliamentary and irreligious order of Muslim appeasement while protecting the constitutional values, standards. If you are unable to set aside this order due to any pressure or appeasement, then I will be compelled to approach the court in this matter."Marandi said, "The temple of democracy should remain the temple of democracy. We are against any such order."Earlier, the ruling Congress and JMM issued a statement welcoming the Speaker's move. Congress MLA Irfan Ansari, who had recently courted controversy by welcoming the Taliban occupation of Afghanistan in the Assembly, said, "The BJP has a habit of doing politics of religion. It just keeps on talking nonsense."JMM general secretary Divya Kumar welcoming the speaker's decision said earlier too such an arrangement was made in Bihar assembly. ''There is nothing new in alloting a namaz hall in the Jharkhand House Assembly," he added.Meanwhile, the speaker said there was nothing new about the latest and there was a practice of adjourning the House half an hour before the usual time so that Muslim legislators can offer Friday prayers.Mahato said, "We respect everyone. This is a matter of faith. Why should we put a hindrance in it? And this is not a new thing. There is a practice in the Assembly that the House is adjourned half an hour before to offer Friday prayers."Responding to a question on the BJP's accusations that the speaker is acting on political instructions, he said, "What can I do if someone speaks like this. Everyone has the right and freedom to express their views. There's no constitutional provision that one has to ask me before saying anything. It's their view."(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/soren-govt-allots-namaz-hall-in-jharkhand-assembly-bjp-wants-hanuman-temple-101630835836721.html
05-09-2021||India||2 Kerala health workers develop Nipah virus symptoms; one 12-year-old dead||Kerala health minister Veena George on Sunday said that two more people were identified with symptoms of Nipah virus, news agency PTI reported. George said that the two are healthcare workers who were among the high-risk contacts of the 12-year-old boy who died from the disease on Sunday.“We have identified 188 contacts till now. The surveillance team have marked 20 of them as high risk contacts. Two of these high risk contacts have symptoms. Both are health workers,” George was quoted as saying by news agency PTI. She further added that one of the health workers is employed at a private hospital while the other is a staff of Kozhikode Medical College hospital.George added that the 20 high-risk contacts of the 12-year-old deceased will be shifted to the Kozhikode Medical College by Sunday evening. The other contacts of the deceased were told to remain in isolation in an attempt to curb the spread of the virus. “The pay ward at the Medical College Hospital has been completely converted into a dedicated Nipah ward,” the Kerala health minister said.The last rites of the 12-year-old boy was done following complete health protocol by the health department officials. The National Institute of Virology, Pune, which tested the boy’s samples confirmed the presence of the virus earlier in the day.Meanwhile, the Centre rushed a team of experts to provide technical support to Kerala. A team of the National Centre for Disease Control will assist Kerala healthcare workers to stop the spread of the virus.Nipah virusThe saliva of fruit bats spreads the Nipah virus. Bat-bitten fruits are considered to be a major spreader of the disease in humans. Humans can spread the disease to other humans through body fluids. Once infected the person will show symptoms like fever, headache and vomiting. Some patients may also have signs similar to people suffering from epilepsy. If the disease aggravates, unchecked the patient could become unconscious and brain fever could also trigger death. The case fatality rate of Nipah virus is 40-80%. The incubation period of Nipah is two weeks.Nipah was detected first among farmers in Malaysia in 1999 when 60 people died in the outbreak. It was detected for the first time in India in Siliguri in 2001, when 45 people died due to the outbreak.(with inputs from Ramesh Babu)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-kerala-health-workers-develop-nipah-virus-symptoms-one-12-year-old-dead-101630834648322.html
05-09-2021||India||Views on Infosys cannot be attributed to the RSS: Ambekar||The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh or the RSS on Sunday chose to distance itself from a piece criticising Infosys that appeared in a magazine associated with the organisation. In a tweet, Sunil Ambekar, the all India Prachar Pramukh of the RSS said the views about the company in the Panchjanya article cannot be attributed to the organisation, nor was the weekly magazine a Sangh mouthpiece. He said, as an Indian company, Infosys has made a significant contribution in the progress of India.”There may be some issues regarding the portal operated by Infosys, but the article published in this context in Panchjanya are the personal views of the author... and Panchjanya was not a Sangh mouthpiece,” he tweeted. A piece accusing Infosys of trying to destabilise the Indian economy and helping those with anti-national sentiments had appeared in the magazine in a story titled Saakh Aur Aghaat meaning “reputation and affront”. It blamed the company for the problems faced by users of the Central government’s Goods and Service Tax (GST) and the income tax portals, developed by the internationally-acclaimed IT firm.The article invited criticism from Opposition leaders with Congress leader Jayaram Ramesh calling it “scurrilous” and “anti-national”.Last month, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had expressed “deep disappointment and concerns” to Infosys chief executive officer and managing director Salil Parekh over the “continuing glitches” in the e-filing portal of the income-tax (I-T) department even after two-and-a-half months of its launch.A finance ministry statement had then said that Sitharaman sought an explanation from Infosys for the “repeated issues” faced by taxpayers months after the site’s launch on June 7. The ministry quoted Parekh as saying that Infosys was working expeditiously to ensure a glitch-free experience to the taxpayers on the portal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/views-on-infosys-cannot-be-attributed-to-the-rss-ambekar-101630833035020.html
05-09-2021||India||How to identify fake Covid-19 vaccines? Centre issues guidelines||The Centre has issued guidelines to help people identify whether they are being given authentic vaccines against Covid-19, days after the World Health Organization (WHO) said it has identified counterfeit versions of Covishield in South-East Asia and Africa, reports said on Sunday. India is administering the Serum Institute of India's (SII) Covishield, Bharat Biotech's Covaxin and the Russian vaccine Sputnik V to those eligible during the ongoing vaccination drive in the country. According to reports, the Centre has shared a list of parameters based on their label, colour and other details to identify the authenticity of the Covid vaccines being used in the country.According to the Union ministry of health and family welfare, 684.6 million vaccine doses against Covid-19 have been administered so far in the country. "With the administration of 71,61,760 vaccine doses in the last 24 hours, India's COVID-19 vaccination coverage has surpassed the cumulative figure of 68.46 Crore (68,46,69,521) on Sunday," the health ministry said.Here are the various parameters to identify if a Covid-19 vaccine is original:How to check whether the Covishield vaccine is original?* The SII product’s label shade is dark green and the colour of the aluminium flip-off seal is dark green.* The brand name with the trademark is mentioned on the original vaccineAlso read | 180 mn vaccine doses administered in India in Aug, more than all G7 states: Govt* The lettering is printed in special white ink to be more clear and readable.* The text font of the Generic name is in un-bold* Overprinted with “CGS NOT FOR SALE”.* The SII logo is printed at a unique angle and position which can be identified by only a select few who are aware of the exact details.* The lettering is printed in special white ink to be more clear and readable.* The entire label has been given a special honeycomb effect, which is visible only at a specific angleAlso read | Surplus Covid-19 vaccines with rich nations to hit 1.2 billion doses* The honeycomb design has been altered slightly at strategic locations and certain additional special elements added to the texture design. They are not visible to people in general but those who know about the subtle changes can easily check and verify the authenticity of the label and vial.How to check Covaxin’s authenticity?* There is an invisible UV helix or a DNA-like structure on the Covaxin label. It is only visible under UV light* The micro text hidden in the label claims Dots, which is written as Covaxin* There is a green foil effect in X of CovaxinAlso read | Mumbai becomes first district to administer 1 crore Covid vaccine doses * There is a holographic effect on CovaxinHow to find out if Sputnik V vaccine is not fake?* There are different labels for the two bulk manufacturing sites where the Russian Covid-19 vaccine is produced. All other information and design are the same except the manufacturer’s name.* The English label is available only on the front and back of the carton of 5 ampoule pack for all the imported products so far. All other sides, including the primary label on the vaccine ampoule, is in Russian script.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-to-identify-fake-covid-19-vaccines-centre-issues-guidelines-101630831462696.html
05-09-2021||India||Cong will join hands only with smaller parties for UP polls: Ajay Kumar Lallu||Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee president Ajay Kumar Lallu said on Sunday that his party would tie up with only smaller regional parties for the assembly elections in the state next year. “We will not even think about joining hands with big parties for the assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh,” Ajay Kumar Lallu was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.The Congress leader expressed confidence that his party is set for a “comeback” in the state, as he said that the earlier governments headed by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Samajwadi Party (SP) and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) “failed to live up to people's trust.”Lallu, however, did not go into any details of the plan the Congress has in mind.Calling the Congress the “main challenger” to the BJP when Uttar Pradesh goes to the polls early next year, Lallu said his party is confident of forming the government in the state after contesting the elections under the leadership of Priyanka Gandhi Vadra.  "We are moving forward as a strong opposition force and under the leadership of Priyanka Gandhi, we will win the polls, and form the government in 2022,” Lallu told PTI.ALSO READ | Cong gears up for UP polls with camps, public contact driveEven the BSP and the SP have so far ruled out any alliance with the Congress. While Akhilesh Singh of the SP said the party would tie up with smaller parties, BSP supremo Mayawati hinted that her party would fight the elections solo.However, in July, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had said that her party would have an open mind on forging alliance for the assemnly elections, with the objective of stopping the BJP from returning to power.  Earlier in the day, Lallu extended his support for the farmers protesting against the Centre's contentious agricultural laws as they gathered at Muzaffarnagar in the state for the Kisan Mahapanchayat called by the Bharatiya Kisan Union.Taking to Twitter, Lallu said the clarion call by the farmers would script the future of the arrogant government. अहंकारी सत्ता के खिलाफकिसान की यह हुंकारबदलाव कीमुस्तकबिल लिखेगा #मुजफ्फरनगर_किसान_महापंचायतThe Congress leader stressed that the issues plaguing the farmers would be part of their agenda in the assembly polls.  He added that the people are “angry” at BJP over its failure to control price rise, unemployment, poverty and address the issues of farmers' plight and reservation. Lallu exuded confidence that this anger would manifest itself in the assembly polls and the people would support the Congress. “There is a strong undercurrent in favour of the Congress which will be visible in the elections,” he said.ALSO READ | In UP, Opposition flays BJP for Jan Ashirwad Yatras by ministersIn the 2017 Uttar Pradesh assembly elections, the Congress managed to bag only seven seats while its ally SP secured 47 seats; the BSP won 19 constituencies. The BJP, meanwhile, won the elections with a thumping majority as it clinched 312 seats in the 403-member legislative assembly to form the government for the second consecutive term.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ajay-kumar-lallu-congress-uttar-pradesh-assembly-elections-poll-coalition-101630827865204.html
05-09-2021||India||Shiv Sena says Modi needs to thank Nehru for creating national assets||Shiv Sena parliamentarian Sanjay Raut, in his weekly column Rokthok in party mouthpiece Saamana, has said that the Narendra Modi government at the Centre should be thankful to India’s first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru for creating the assets which were being “monetised” by the current government. The column has also criticised the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) ideological fount, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and Jan Sangh, saying they did not play any role in the Quit India movement whereas Nehru was at its forefront and spent years in prison for India’s freedom.Raut questioned whether the history of the freedom struggle was being tweaked by the current government. “India is celebrating the 75th year of freedom. In this context, the Indian Council of Historical Research (ICHR) omitted the picture of Nehru from its poster ‘Azadi Ke Amrit Mahotsav’. This poster had the pictures of Mahatma Gandhi, Subhash Chandra Bose, Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar, Sardar Patel, Bhagat Singh, Rajendra Prasad, Pandit Madan Mohan Malviya and Veer Savarkar. It excluded Pandit Nehru and Maulana Abul Kalam Azad. However, the government should remember that the history of the freedom struggle cannot be completed by excluding these two people. This only shows the pettiness of this government,” Raut wrote.He added, “You may have differences with Nehru’s and Congress party’s policies but trying to erase them from history is an insult to every freedom fighter.” Raut then wrote of Nehru’s political journey from 1912 and how he rose through the ranks of the Congress party. “Nehru suffered long-term imprisonment during the Quit India movement and at that time the founders of RSS and Jan Sangh (previous avatar of the BJP) were nowhere in sight,” said Raut.Raut said that after independence, it was Nehru who created national assets. “These institutions were responsible for creating employment for citizens. The current government should be forever thankful for Nehru for creating these assets. However, the current government is practising the politics of revenge and bent on wiping off Nehru’s role from the independence of India,” he added.Raut asked the Central government to learn a lesson from DMK chief and Tamil Nadu chief minister M K Stalin, who allowed the distribution of 6.5 million school bags carrying photos of political rivals former chief ministers J Jayalalitha and E Palinaswami of the AIADMK, to ensure the money spent on procurement of bags doesn’t go waste for political vendetta.“Stalin ordered his officers not to change the bags as it would have cost ₹15 crore to the state exchequer. He said he would use that amount for fighting the Covid-19 menace. This was despite the fact that Stalin’s late father K Karunanidhi in 2001 was roughed up and arrested at midnight on orders of J Jayalalitha,” said Raut.BJP spokesperson Keshav Upadhyay dismissed Raut's comments, saying, "The Shiv Sena is so drunk on power that it is now always praising the Congress that it was opposed to for years. Hence, the Saamana article does not deserve any comment per se."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shiv-sena-says-modi-needs-to-thank-nehru-for-creating-national-assets-101630829614672.html
05-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: BJP MLA blames Taliban for fuel price rise in India and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 1pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Rising fuel prices? A BJP MLA blames Taliban takeover of AfghanistanBJP MLA from Karnataka Arvind Bellad has blamed the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan for the skyrocketing prices of gas, petrol and diesel in India. Read more180 million Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in India in August, more than in all G7 states together: CentreFigures shared by the Union government show that total 101 million vaccine doses were administered in the G7 nations last month. Read moreKolkata welcomes Durand Cup but Bagan, East Bengal skip itFive ISL teams, defending champions Gokulam Kerala FC, Mohammedan Sporting among 16-teams in 130th edition which begins on Sunday. Read moreNeetu Kapoor, friends celebrate Rishi Kapoor's birthday with his cutout, cake that shows his love for whiskey, TwitterNeetu Kapoor celebrated her husband, late actor Rishi Kapoor's 69th birth anniversary on Saturday in a unique fashion. Read moreWant to challenge your core and fix posture? Try 5 Plank exercises by Yasmin KarachiwalaYasmin Karachiwala shares five intense Plank variations to challenge the core muscles and fix posture. Read moreMercedes-Benz set to introduce its first all-electric AMG modelThe luxury automaker now has teased an all-electric AMG model that is also all set to grab attention at the motor show. Read moreProud son shares post about mother working as a teacher, tweet wins heartsTeachers’ Day 2021: The post is shared by IRS officer Naveed Trumboo on Twitter. Read moreModi makeover & losing a loved one: Shashi Tharoor on politics, personal lifeCongress leader Shashi Tharoor describes the ordeal of being an accused in the case regarding the death of his wife Sunanda Pushkar. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-bjp-mla-says-taliban-takever-in-afghanistan-led-to-fuel-price-rise-in-india-and-all-the-latest-news-101630824664801.html
05-09-2021||India||Rising fuel prices? A BJP MLA blames Taliban takeover of Afghanistan||A Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator from Karnataka has blamed the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan behind the global fuel supply problems and skyrocketing prices of gas, petrol and diesel in India.The BJP’s MLA from Hubli-Dharwad West Arvind Bellad said since the beginning of the Taliban issue in Afghanistan, there were problems regarding fuel supply across the world. “This has led to an increase in the price of gas, diesel and petrol in India,” he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Karnataka | Since the beginning of the Taliban issue in Afghanistan, there have been problems regarding fuel supply across the world. This has led to an increase in the price of gas, diesel & petrol in India: BJP MLA from Hubli-Dharwad West Arvind Bellad (03.09) pic.twitter.com/KL5gLuGor6Petrol prices have crossed the ₹100-mark in several states across the country in July as state-run fuel oil companies on multiple occasions since July.A litre of petrol cost 101.34 per litre in Delhi, while diesel was ₹88.77 a litre. In Mumbai, petrol was selling at ₹107.39 per litre and diesel at ₹96.33 for the same quantity. The Monsoon session of Parliament had seen several Opposition-led disruptions with MPs seeking discussions on inflation and rising fuel prices in the country.This is not the first time that politicians, mostly from the ruling camp, have dragged the crisis in war-torn Afghanistan to describe or speak about issues concerning India over the past few days.Recently, a BJP leader from Madhya Pradesh had advised a journalist to go to the neighbouring country following its seizure by the Islamic militants when asked about high inflation and high fuel prices in India. A district unit chief, Ramratan Payal, further said questions were being asked about petrol prices at a time when the third wave of the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic was about to hit the country.His party colleague in Bihar, Haribhushan Thakur, had also urged everyone who felt any sort of fear in India to go to the war-ravaged state, while adding petrol and diesel prices were cheaper there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rising-fuel-prices-a-bjp-mla-blames-taliban-takeover-of-afghanistan-101630824495249.html
05-09-2021||India||IMD forecasts very heavy rain in Goa, authorities on alert||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast "very heavy rainfall” in Goa prompting the coastal state’s administration to put a high alert on Sunday. Control rooms have been activated and people were asked to remain alert in case there was flooding in their areas, a senior official from the North Goa district administration was cited as saying by news agency PTI. “After the experience of last month, when several places were flooded (due to heavy rains), we are leaving nothing to chance,” the official said, according to PTI.On Saturday, Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant said the state administration was put on high alert in the wake of the possibility of very heavy showers in the coastal state. Sawant also gave out helpline numbers for people to contact in case of any emergency caused by rains. "In view of the warning issued by IMD, Goa, regarding heavy rainfall in the state over the next 48 hours. I have directed the state administration to be on high alert and to immediately spring into action for taking all precautionary measures and prepare for the oncoming showers," the Goa chief minister tweeted.Request to all people to be on alert and contact local authorities in case of any emergencies. Collector Helpline- North: 08322225383 | South: 08322794100. 2/2IMD said on Saturday monsoon activity may get strengthened over south Konkan and Goa in the coming days with the likely formation of a low-pressure area over north and adjoining central Bay of Bengal during the next 48 hours. “Very heavy rainfall (exceeding 11.5 cm in 24 hours) is very likely at one or two places over the districts of Goa on September 5, 6 and 7. Likelihood of heavy rainfall (64.5-115.5 mm in 24 hours) continues over North and South Goa districts for about a week from 4th September, with scattered and isolated spatial distributions,” the IMD said.The weather bureau also predicted that intense spells of showers for a short duration are very likely over the North and South Goa districts during this period. “Winds with speed around 40 kmph are likely to occur along with rain spells. With increased rainfall activity to continue, the areas vulnerable for landslide and flooding may be kept under monitoring,” the IMD said.Water levels in rivers and reservoirs should be monitored and necessary precautions must be taken, the IMD also alerted theGoa government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-forecasts-very-heavy-rain-in-goa-authorities-on-alert-101630823285895.html
05-09-2021||India||180 million Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in India in August, more than in all G7 states together: Centre||The Union government informed on Sunday that in August, India administered more doses of vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) than all G7 countries put together. Sharing the data, the Centre said that more than 180 million vaccine doses were administered in the country last month, while the G7 states administered only 101 million doses.“Yet another achievement! With more than 180 million vaccine doses administered in the month of August, India leaves a mark on the global map of leading its way in vaccinating its population on priority,” the official MyGovIndia Twitter handle said, sharing the data. Yet another achievement! With more than 180 million vaccine doses administered in the month of August, India leaves a mark on the Global map of leading its way in vaccinating its population on priority. #LargestVaccineDrive pic.twitter.com/ftvdHVIWMkThe figures show that Canada, at 3 million, administered the least number of Covid-19 vaccine doses within the G7, with the United Kingdom, Italy and Germany next on the list with 5 million, 8 million and 9 million doses respectively. Within the bloc, only Japan, the United States and France delivered more than 10 million shots, with the Asian nation topping the chart at 40 million. The US and France, meanwhile, administered 23 million and 13 million doses, respectively.In India, where the nationwide inoculation drive began on January 16, more than 684 million doses have been administered thus far, including nearly 7.2 million in the last 24 hours, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHW). Nearly 160 million beneficiaries have been fully vaccinated (received both doses), while 523 million people have taken their first shot.Thus far, six vaccines have received Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA) from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI). Among these, Covaxin and ZyCoV-D are both indigenously developed jabs, the other four (Covishield, Sputnik V, Moderna and Johnson & Johnson) are foreign made. Covaxin and Covishield were the first two vaccines authorised by the DCGI, while ZyCoV-D is the latest.Currently, only those aged 18 and above are eligible to get vaccinated against Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/180-mn-vaccine-doses-administered-in-india-in-aug-more-than-all-g7-states-govt-101630823243145.html
05-09-2021||India||Will discuss strategies to continue stir: Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait in UP||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait on Sunday said the farmers' groups would discuss strategies on continuing the agitation against the three contentious farm laws at the Kisan Mahapanchayat in Muzaffarnagar.Thousands of farmers from across the country have gathered at GIC ground in Uttar Pradesh's Muzaffarnagar, responding to the call of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farmers' unions leading the protests against the amended farm laws introduced by the Centre in November 2020. SKM leaders said Sunday's gathering in Muzaffarnagar would set the stage for ‘Mission Uttar Pradesh’ to continue discussions on issues concerning the farmers. They said they were expecting around a lakh participants at the gathering. Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra took to Twitter in support of the protesting farmers at the Kisan Mahapanchayat. किसान इस देश की आवाज हैं।किसान देश का गौरव हैं।किसानों की हुंकार के सामने किसी भी सत्ता का अहंकार नहीं चलता। खेती-किसानी को बचाने और अपनी मेहनत का हक मांगने की लड़ाई में पूरा देश किसानों के साथ है।#मुजफ्फरनगर_किसान_महापंचायतProminent social activists such as Yogendra Yadav and Medha Patkar shared the dias at the Muzaffarnagar gathering with Rakesh Tikait and his brother Naresh Tikait as well as khaps and farmer leaders.BKU state president Rajbeer Singh Jadaun said that similar Kisan Mahapanchayats would be organised in 18 divisions of Uttar Pradesh in months to come. The BKU leader is expecting around five lakh farmers to attend the gathering. The district administration made elaborate security arrangements given the mega-gathering. It has deployed six companies of the provincial armed constabulary (PAC) and two companies of rapid action force (RAF) other than police forces from various districts in and around the venue.The district administration turned down the request of Rashtriya Lok Dal chief Jayant Chowdhary to shower flowers on farmers from a helicopter preempting any stampede-like situation. Last week, Haryana police personnel baton-charged a group of protesting farmers in Karnal. The incident drew flak from several quarters after videos of Karnal sub-divisional magistrate Ayush Sinha ordering to “break the heads” of any protesters who "cross the barricades" went viral on social media.  Several protesters were injured in the incident, following which SKM leaders sought the resignation of Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar. The IAS officer has since been transferred.ALSO READ | Farmers broaden agenda, it’s no longer just about farm lawsExpressing their solidarity for the farmers different khap panchayats have arranged for community feasts for the protesting farmers even as local gurdwaras are organising langars while members of the Muslim community have distributed sweets among the participants in the morning.National convenor of Jan Kisan Andolan Avik Saha called the Kisan Mahapanchayat in Muzaffarnagar a “history in the making” as he tweeted visiuals from the gathering, terming it a “march towards the future.”Kisan MahapanchayatMuzaffarnagar, Uttar Pradesh5th September 2021History made again new beginning towards the future.A Better Future for All Indians Because India Deserves Better#मुज़फ्फरनगर_किसान_महापंचायत #किसान_महापंचायत pic.twitter.com/uyn8FdM7v3Farmers from across the country have been seeking the repeal of three controversial agriculture-related laws — Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 — which they say will do away with minimum support price for their produce and expose them to exploitations by corporates, even as the Centre claim these laws will bring "reforms" in the agriculture sector through private-sector investment and create supply chains for the produce in the national and global markets. Several rounds of talks between the farmer leaders and the government remained inconclusive in the past 10 months, prompting the BKU to move the Supreme Court against the three laws. After hearing the petitions, the apex court had in January stayed the implementation of the three laws, and set up a four-member panel to make recommendations on the legislations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-discuss-strategies-to-continue-stir-farmer-leader-rakesh-tikait-in-up-101630819175714.html
05-09-2021||India||Centre says new IT rules deal with unlawful content, don’t stifle free speech||The Union ministry of information and broadcasting (MIB) and the ministry of electronics and information technology (MeitY) have filed two counter-affidavits before the Madras high court defending the constitutional validity of the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 or IT Rules.This is in response to two different petitions challenging the IT rules filed in HC by Carnatic vocalist and Ramon Magsaysay awardee T M Krishna, and Digital News Publishers Association (DNPA), made up of 13 media outlets, along with journalist Mukund Padmanabhan.The Madras high court had disapproved of the delay in filing the counter affidavits by the Centre and given it an extension. On August 25, the MeitY filed the counter stating it was delayed since the Centre had to frame a “consistent defence” on the matter given the several cases challenging IT rules filed in different high courts across the country. In some cases, Part II, relating to “intermediary due diligence”, had been challenged while in others, Part III, relating to “Digital Media and Code of Ethics” had been questioned, it said.Presently there are a total of 19 writ petitions pending across high courts and each emanate out of a unique set of circumstances, the MEITY submitted. But all cases commonly seek to declare the IT Rules 2021 ultra vires the Constitution and the IT Act, 2000, the ministry noted. “Therefore, there was an overbearing need for the Union to present a consistent, uniform stand before all high courts,” MeitY stated.MeitY defended the new rules while the MIB filed a separate 115-page counter-affidavit on August 26, seeking to dismiss the petitions.The petition by the information technology ministry said the new rules have no chilling effect on speech and expression as it does not impose any penalties on users who post content in contravention of the IT Rules. The only ramification is the removal of such content or the termination of user’s access by the intermediary, which may be challenged by the user under the grievance redressal mechanism specifically set out in the IT Rules or by way of judicial review, the affidavit read. “In the absence of additional civil or criminal liability, mere removal of content or blocking of access of users vis a vis information which is in any case unlawful will not tantamount to creating a chilling effect on speech and expression,” it said.Speaking of safeguards against abuse, the affidavit added that content can be removed only if it is unlawful and following a court order and after being notified by the authorised agency. “No other executive other than the appropriate government or its agency is empowered to issue an order for removal of content,” it assured.It said that the IT Rules 2021 were meant to empower ordinary digital users of any intermediary platform to seek accountability given the misuse of social media and spread of fake news. It spoke of the necessity to eliminate child pornography and rape on digital platforms. The counter stated that a framework was necessary to deal with viral messages that had led to riots, mob lynching and sexual abuse of children in the past. The new rules, it said, focused on the online safety of women and children, to report cases such as revenge porn and violation of privacy. It further added that the rules were formed after public consultation.Expanding on this, the ministry of information and broadcasting submitted that it’s well within the scope of the Information Technology Act (IT Act), 2000 and the Constitution.The Madras HC’s first bench of chief justice Sanjib Banerjee and justice P D Audikesavalu posted the next hearing in the case for September 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-says-new-it-rules-deal-with-unlawful-content-don-t-stifle-free-speech-101630820013326.html
05-09-2021||India||Nipah virus kills 12-year-old in Kerala. Here’s how Centre, state govt are handling situation||Nipah virus has claimed the life of a 12-year-old boy in the Kozhikode of Kerala, prompting the Centre to rush a health team to the district with the state government saying there is no need to panic. A team of the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has been sent to provide technical support to the state, the Union ministry of health and family welfare said.Kerala health minister Veena George said the infection was confirmed by the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune on Saturday night. "Three samples—plasma, CSF and serum—were found infected. He was admitted to the hospital with a heavy fever four days ago. But on Saturday, his condition became worse. We had sent his samples for testing the day before yesterday," the minister was quoted as saying by news agency PTI."We had a meeting with the ministers from the district along with concerned officials about the Nipah virus. A team will be formed to handle the situation. We have initiated the contact tracing measures,” she also said. "As of now, there is no need to panic, but we need to exercise caution," she said, adding that no one from the boy’s family or other contacts has any symptoms of the Nipah virus.1. Active case search in the family, families, village and areas with similar topography, especially Malappuram2. Active contact tracing during the past 12 daysAlso read | How the Nipah virus outbreak devastated a family in a Kerala3. Strict quarantine of the contacts and isolation of any suspects4. Collection and transportation of samples for laboratory testing1. George said none of the close contacts of the boy is showing any symptoms as of now and that the health department has already traced all those who came in contact with the child.2. “The patient was first taken to a private hospital, then to the medical college and from there again shifted to a private hospital. So we have traced all his contacts. The friends he played within his locality, his cousins and others, the health department had completed the identification and tracing of all these contacts," George said.Also read | All you need to know about Nipah virus infection3. Police have cordoned off an area of a three-kilometre radius around the boy’s house. They have said all their basic needs will be met by authorities.4. A high alert has been sounded in the neighbouring Malappuram and Kannur districts.The first Nipah virus disease outbreak in south India was reported in the Kozhikode district of Kerala on May 19, 2018—there have been 17 deaths and 18 confirmed cases as of June 1, 2018. World Health Organization (WHO) said that theNipah virus is caused by fruit bats and is potentially fatal to humans as well as animals. It is also known to cause fever, muscular pain, headache, fever, dizziness, and nausea along with respiratory illness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nipah-virus-kills-kerala-boy-here-s-how-centre-state-are-handling-situation-101630819257123.html
05-09-2021||India||Assam: Man accused in murder of college student injured in police shooting||The main accused in the brutal murder of a college student in Assam last month sustained a bullet injury in police firing while he allegedly attempted to escape from police custody on Saturday night, officers said. “One Rintu Sarma, accused of killing Nandita Saikia of Moridhal College, Dhemaji tried to snatch a police weapon this evening and escape custody. He was injured in police firing in self-defence and to prevent his escape,” special director general of police (DGP), GP Singh, tweeted at 11:00 pm on Saturday. Giving details of the incident, a senior police officer said on condition of anonymity that Sarma tried to escape while being transferred to police custody. “He was released from judicial custody on Saturday and sent to police remand. When we were taking him for routine medical examination around 10 pm,when he asked for the vehicle to be stopped as he needed to urinate. When he got down, Rintu tried to snatch the weapon of the constable who was accompanying him and tried to flee. He was injured when the police team fired to prevent his escape,” he said.Rintu Sarma, an employee of Moridhal College in Dhemaji district, was arrested last month for murdering Nandita Saikia, a student of the same college on August 21. He attacked the victim, her friend and the friend’s father, while they were waiting at a bus stop, with a machete. Saikia, who sustained severe head injuries, died on August 26. The other two sustained minor injuries and were recovering. According to reports quoting Saikia’s friends, both the accused and the victim were in a relationship and Sarma was upset since Saikia had started to avoid him. The accused was arrested within minutes of the incident. The incident led to demonstrations by student bodies and residents demanding strictest punishment for Sarma. Opposition parties, Congress and All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF), accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government of failing to protect women in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-man-accused-in-murder-of-college-student-injured-in-police-shooting-101630816592972.html
05-09-2021||India||Covid-19: India sees mild rise in fresh cases, positivity rate at 2.45%||India on Sunday registered 42,766 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours taking the active caseload to 4,10,048 comprising 1.24 per cent of the total infections. This was a slight rise from Saturday’s figures at 42,618.According to the latest update from the Union ministry of health and family welfare, the daily positivity rate stood at 2.45 per cent while the weekly positivity rate (2.62 per cent) remained less three per cent for the last 72 days.With 38,091 patients recovering from the disease, the recovery rate currently stood at 97.42 per cent. This took the total number of people successfully being treated from the virus 3,21,38,092.As many as 17,47,476 samples were tests for the infection during the day. Also read | Ramp up 1st Covid vaccine dose coverage of 18+: Centre to N-E, hill statesSo far, 68.46 crore vaccines have been administered against the virus since the rollout of the vaccination drive on January 16 this year, the Union Health Ministry said."In a landmark milestone, India's COVID-19 vaccination coverage has crossed 68 Crore landmark milestone (68, 37, 29,058) today," a press release of the ministry read.Further, it was informed that over 62.25 lakh (62, 25,922) vaccine doses were administered during the day. Also read | Covid R-value rises amid threat of third wave: All you need to knowThe ministry said over 66.89 crore vaccine doses had been provided to states and Union territories so far, with more than 1.56 crore doses in the pipeline. “More than 4.37 crore vaccine doses are still available with the states/UTs,” the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-india-sees-mild-fall-in-fresh-cases-positivity-rate-at-245-101630815630882.html
05-09-2021||India||On Teachers' Day, PM Modi thanks educators for nurturing young minds||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday took to Twitter to extend his greetings on Teachers’ Day, and pay his respects to Dr Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan, whose birth anniversary is observed annually as Teachers’ Day. “Greetings to the entire teaching fraternity, which has always played a pivotal role in nurturing young minds. It is commendable how teachers have innovated and ensured that the education journey of students in the Covid-19 times,” PM Modi tweeted.Also Read | Teachers Day 2021: Know all about Dr Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan“I pay my respects to Dr S Radhakrishnan on his Jayanti and recall his distinguished leadership as well as contributions to our nation,” he added. I pay my respects to Dr. S. Radhakrishnan on his Jayanti and recall his distinguished scholarship as well as contributions to our nation.Union home minister Amit Shah, too, extended his greetings on the occasion. “I remember and pay tribute to a great philosopher and excellent teacher, former president Dr S Radhakrishnan on his birth anniversary. I salute our hardworking teachers who have contributed remarkably in the building of our nation by enriching the lives of our students with the light of education,” a rough translation of Shah’s tweet, posted in Hindi, read.
05-09-2021||India||Nipah virus returns to hound Kerala, boy dies, 30 others under observation||A 12-year-old boy died of Nipah virus in north Kerala’s Kozhikode on Sunday morning, triggering concerns of a possible outbreak of another deadly virus while the state administration struggles to contain the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic. State health minister Veena George said all three samples of the boy were found to be positive for Nipah virus by the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune.The minister said the boy was admitted to a private hospital with high fever a few days ago, and initially he was suspected to be suffering from brain fever but later samples were rushed to the NIV for further testing. She said all relatives of the boy and all those involved in his treatment were put under quarantine. Authorities have put a total of 30 persons linked to the boy’s case under observation and sent 17 samples for testing. The health authorities have said that they suspect the virus to have spread through bats, as was the case earlier.“No need to panic. But high vigil is the need of the hour. I am also leaving for Kozhikode. We have a Nipah protocol and we will go by this,” said the minister in Thrissur. Two other ministers, A K Saseendran and Mohamad Riyza are camping in the north Kerala city to evaluate the situation. There are reports that the Union health ministry has also rushed a team to Kozhikode. Like Coivd-19, isolation and quarantine are the best options to contain Nipah virus but its fatality rate is very high, above 80%, said experts.The boy died at 5 in the morning and his cremation will be held at 10 am under strict protocol. As precautionary measures, the Mavoor panchayat area in Kozhikode district, from where the boy belonged, has been sealed.In 2018, the deadly virus had claimed 17 lives in Kozhikode but later it was localised and contained effectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nipah-virus-returns-to-hound-kerala-boy-dies-30-others-under-observation-101630812873187.html
05-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: Delhi heads for wettest monsoon in a decade and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.IMD forecasts more intense rains, Delhi headed for wettest monsoon in a decadeCompared to the normal monsoon rain 552.6mm, Delhi has already had a 79% surplus -- 988.4mm rain so far, shows IMD data. Read moreRajasthan Panchayat Elections 2021: Congress wins 670 Samiti seats; BJP victorious on 551Meanwhile, in the Zila Parishad, the two parties won 99 and 90 seats respectively. as per data shared by the state Election Commission. Read moreTokyo Paralympics: Suhas Yathiraj wins silver medal in men's singles badminton SL4 eventYathiraj lost to France's Lucas Mazur 21-15, 17-21, 15-21. India have now extended its medal tally to 18 at the ongoing Paralympic Games. Read moreVidyut Jammwal and Nandita Mahtani spark engagement rumours with diamond ring, Taj Mahal picsIn the photos, Vidyut and Nandita are seen standing in front of the Taj Mahal, holding hands and posing for the camera. Read moreKareena Kapoor in ₹61k print top and pants is chic for lunch date with Taimur, Jeh and familyKareena Kapoor Khan took her sons Taimur and Jehangir for a get-together at her father Randhir Kapoor's home in Mumbai on Saturday. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-delhi-heads-for-wettest-monsoon-in-a-decade-and-all-the-latest-news-101630810398126.html
05-09-2021||India||Paralympics: Prez, PM congratulate Noida DM Suhas LY on historic silver||Top leaders of the country extended their wishes to India's Suhas Lalinakere Yathiraj as he bagged a historic silver after going down fighting against top seed Lucas Mazur of France in the men's singles SL4 class final at the Tokyo Paralympics on Sunday.Prime Minister Narendra Modi said the 38-year-old Noida district magistrate, who has an impairment in one of his ankles, “has captured the imagination of our entire nation thanks to his exceptional sporting performance”. Calling him a fantastic confluence of sports and service, Modi wished Yathiraj the best for his future endeavours.A fantastic confluence of service and sports! @dmgbnagar Suhas Yathiraj has captured the imagination of our entire nation thanks to his exceptional sporting performance. Congratulations to him on winning the Silver medal in Badminton. Best wishes to him for his future endeavours. pic.twitter.com/bFM9707VhZPresident Ram Nath Kovind said Yathiraj’s dedication in pursuing sports while discharging duties as a civil servant is exceptional.Also read | Millions in cash, government jobs: How Haryana is honouring Paralympics stars“Congratulations to Suhas Yathiraj who gave a tough fight to world 1 and won silver medal in badminton at Paralympics. Your dedication in pursuing sports while discharging duties as a civil servant is exceptional. Best wishes for a future full of accomplishments,” the President wrote on Twitter.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath also congratulated him. “On earlier occasions too he won many medals. Along with efficiently discharging his administrative duties, he has been successful in Paralympics,” Adityanath said.The Noida DM produced an entertaining performance before narrowly going down 21-15 17-21 15-21 to two-time world champion Mazur in a 62-minute summit clash.Suhas had lost to Mazur, who has won three gold medals in European Championships as well, in the qualifying group A match, but the Indian made a tremendous effort in the final to challenge his world No. 1 rival.The district magistrate of Gautam Buddh Nagar (Noida) thus also became the first-ever IAS officer to win a medal at the Paralympics.Suhas had earlier outwitted Indonesia's Fredy Setiawan 21-9 21-15 in the semifinal.A computer engineer, Suhas went on to become an IAS officer and has been posted as a district magistrate of Noida since 2020, a role that saw him at the forefront of the fight against coronavirus pandemic.On court, he has won gold medals at 2017 BWF Turkish Para badminton championship in men's singles and men's doubles. He also won gold in 2016 Asia championships, besides a bronze at 2018 Asian Para Games.More medals are in store for India as Krishna Nagar also sailed into the men's singles SH6 class final.Pramod Bhagat, 33, and his partner Palak Kohli, 19, will meet Japanese pair of Daisuke Fujihara and Akiko Sugino in the bronze medal play off in mixed doubles SL3-SU5 class later on Sunday.They lost the semifinals 3-21 15-21 to Indonesian combination of Hary Susanto and Leani Ratri Oktila.Bhagat on Saturday had claimed India's first gold at the Paralympics in men's singles SL3 class.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/paralympics-prez-pm-congratulate-noida-dm-suhas-ly-on-historic-silver-101630810933420.html
05-09-2021||India||Kerala: 12-year-old boy dies of Nipah virus in Kozhikode||A 12-year-old boy died on Sunday morning from Nipah virus infection after undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Kozhikode district of Kerala.A high-level meeting of the health department was reportedly held late on Saturday night over the case of the virus that had an outbreak in 2018 and claimed a number of deaths in the southern state. Another meeting will be held in a while in Kozhikode.The samples had been sent to the lab of the National Institute of Virology in Pune and they have confirmed presence of the virus. The boy died on 5am on Sunday.Also read | Amid Delta variant spread, Nipah virus antibodies in bats concern expertsHealth minister Veena George has left for Kozhikode on Sunday morning to take stock of the situation.The victim's relatives and all those who treated him have been put under quarantine. Strict vigil has been imposed in Kozhikode. The Union health ministry is also rushing a team to Kozhikode.Already reeling under an unrelenting spread of the coronavirus outbreak, report of the Nipah virus death has only added to the state's worries. The first Nipah virus disease outbreak in south India was reported in the Kozhikode district on May 19, 2018. The state had witnessed 17 deaths and 18 confirmed cases till June 1, 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-12-year-old-boy-dies-of-nipah-virus-in-kozhikode-101630808942984.html
05-09-2021||India||Teachers Day 2021: Know all about Dr Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan||Teachers Day is celebrated every year on September 5 to mark the birth anniversary of Dr Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan, who was the first vice president of India (1952-1962) and also a teacher and philosopher. This day is observed to honour the bond between the children and their mentors who influence their lives in several ways.Dr Radhakrishnan was also the second president of India (1962-1967). Despite all his accomplishments and contributions, Dr Radhakrishnan remained a teacher throughout his life. He believed that true teachers are those who help us think for ourselves, so they should be the best minds in the nation.In India, September 5 is marked as Teacher's Day, whereas Worlds Teacher's Day is celebrated every year on October 5. This day is an important event in both teachers' and students' lives. This is a day to honour and show gratitude to all mentors and teachers. Across India, schools and higher educational institutions celebrate this day by paying a tribute to Dr Radhakrishnan.Know all about Dr Sarvapalli Radhakrishnan1. Dr Radhakrishnan was born to a Brahmin family in Tiruttani of Andhra Pradesh on September 5, 1888. He was considered an incredible student and also an exemplary teacher who dedicated his life to education.2. Dr Radhakrishnan was a popular teacher among his students during his teaching career. In his later period of life, he served as a vice chancellor of Andhra University and Banaras Hindu University.3. The beliefs of Dr Radhakrishnan have motivated thousands to take up education.4. When Dr Radhakrishan took the office of the second president of India in 1962, his students sought his permission to celebrate September 5 as a special day. Dr Radhakrishnan instead made a request to observe September 5 as Teachers’ Day to recognise the contribution of teachers to society. He said, "Instead of celebrating my birthday, it would be my proud privilege if September 5 is observed as Teacher's Day." Since then, his birthday is celebrated as Teacher's Day.5. Dr Radhakrishnan was posthumously awarded the Bharat Ratna, the nation's highest civilian honour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/teachers-day-2021-know-all-about-dr-sarvepalli-radhakrishnan-101630801598409.html
05-09-2021||India||J-K police file case after videos show Syed Ali Shah Geelani's body in Pak flag||Jammu and Kashmir police have registered a case under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act after videos surfaced showing the body of hardline separatist leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani wrapped in a Pakistani flag and the alleged raising of "anti-national" slogans after his death, PTI reported citing officials.According to the news agency, the Budgam Police registered the first information report (FIR) against unnamed people under various provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Police took cognisance of a video that showed Geelani's body draped in a Pakistani flag.Geelani, 91, died on Wednesday night at his residence after a prolonged illness. He was buried in a quiet funeral at a graveyard in a nearby mosque in Srinagar’s Hyderpora early on Thursday. Police allowed only close relatives and neighbours to participate in the funeral at the graveyard that was completely sealed by the forces. Geelani’s family told reporters that the police forcibly took away his body and carried out the burial even before their relatives could reach Srinagar. They also accused the police of misbehaving with them.Also read | With Geelani’s death, Hurriyat stares at a leadership voidThe situation across Kashmir remained peaceful on Saturday following Geelani’s death, even as several people were taken into preventive detention to maintain law and order, police said. "Today, the situation across Kashmir valley remained peaceful and no untoward incident was reported from anywhere except one minor pelting in Narkara area of Budgam," a police spokesperson was quoted as saying by PTI.Also read | SAS Geelani: The man central to the separatist story in Kashmir departsThe spokesperson said several preventive measures have been taken to maintain law and order situations, including preventive arrests.“People are yet again requested not to pay any heed to the rumours being maliciously spread by the anti-national elements especially across the border with an objective to disturb the prevalent peaceful atmosphere in the valley,” Vijay Kumar, inspector general of police (Kashmir), said.The clampdown imposed on communications and movement following Geelani’s death was eased on Saturday. Mobile calling and broadband internet services were restored while other restrictions were partially removed in parts of Kashmir. Internet services on mobile phones were yet to be restored.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jk-police-file-case-after-videos-show-syed-ali-shah-geelani-s-body-in-pak-flag-101630802544064.html
05-09-2021||India||International Day of Charity: Know its history and significance||Mother Teresa's death anniversary is observed as International Day of Charity on September 5 every year. Mother Teresa, who is known for her dedication towards the downtrodden, died on September 5, 1997, at the age of 87. Mother Teresa’s followers in many parts of the world, including the Philippines, will commemorate Sunday (September 5), as her 24th death anniversary.After her death, Mother Teresa was granted a state funeral by the government in recognition of her services to the poor of all religions in India. She was sanctified by Saint John Paul II in 2003. Pope Francis canonised her on the eve of her death anniversary on September 4, 2016.Widely known during her lifetime as the ‘living saint,’ Mother Teresa founded the Missionaries of Charity in 1950, which today has spread to different countries.On August 12 this year, the United Nations issued a commemorative stamp honouring Mother Teresa. On the right side of the stamp appears one of Mother Teresa’s most celebrated quotes: “Not all of us can do great things. But we can do small things with great love.”History of International Day of CharityThe International Day of Charity was officially declared by the United Nations General Assembly in 2012. This day also got the support of the Hungarian Civil society with the support of the Hungarian parliament and government.Significance of International Day of CharityIn 2015, during the United Nations Sustainable Development Summit, the idea of International Day of Charity was conceptualised as a way to help bridge the gap between the rich and poor and also to help the poor nations with finance to meet the sustainable development goals set for the world to achieve by 2030. September 5 was chosen as the International Day of Charity to observe the death anniversary of Mother Teresa.Every year on her death anniversary, Mother Teresa's devotees gather at her gravesite in Kolkata, for the special thanksgiving masses and prayers, and also to offer flowers, candles and sing hymns.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/international-day-of-charity-know-its-history-and-significance-101630798488693.html
05-09-2021||India||Teachers' Day 2021: President Kovind to honour 44 meritorious teachers today||President Ram Nath Kovind will on Sunday, September 5, virtually honour 44 meritorious teachers on the occasion of Teacher’s Day, as announced by RC Meena, joint secretary in the Ministry of Education earlier this week. The ceremony will take place virtually due to the ongoing pandemic of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Also Read | Teachers’ Day 2021: Date, history, significance and celebration in India“The function will begin at 10:30am, and will go on for an hour. 44 teachers, who have done remarkable work in the field of education, will be honoured with the National Teacher’s Award. The selection has been made by the jury in their respective fields,” Meena had told news agency ANI on the day of the announcement. “I would like to inform that the selection for National Teacher’s Award begins at the district level, and then it takes place at the state level. Finally, meritorious teachers are selected at the national level and all selected teachers will be awarded on Teachers’ Day,” he had further said.Also Read | Happy Teachers' Day 2021: Best wishes, quotes, images, messages to celebrate your teacherLast year, a total of 47 awardees were honoured by President Kovind on September 5. The National Award to Teachers, which was instituted in 1958, aims to celebrate the unique contribution of the finest teachers in the country, and honour those who have not only improved the quality of schoold education but also enriched their students’ lives.Sunday will also mark the beginning of Shikshak Parv-2021 under the Ministry of Education. The programme will be held in online mode and continue till September 17.Teachers’ Day is observed annually on the birth anniversary of Dr. Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan, who was born on this day in 1888. He was also the first vice president and, later on, the second president of India. The first Teachers’ Day was observed in 1962.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/teachers-day-2021-president-kovind-to-honour-44-meritorious-teachers-today-101630800526769.html
05-09-2021||NA||Breaking news: Afghan resistance leader Massoud says ready for talks if Taliban withdraw from Panjshir, reports Reuters||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.India reported 42,766 new Covid-19 cases and 308 deaths, according to data shared by the the Union health ministry on Sunday. Today's date, September 5, also marks the birth anniversary of former president Dr S Radhakrishnan and is observed annually as Teachers' Day.Also, a mega "Kisan Mahapanchayat' is taking place in Uttar Pradesh's Muzaffarnagar in protest against the three central agricultural laws.Follow all the updates here:Assam reports 321 Covid-19 cases, 6 deathsAssam reports 321 new #COVID19 infections, 372 recoveries and 6 deaths in the last 24 hoursActive cases: 4,999Total recoveries: 5,79,935Death toll: 5,699 pic.twitter.com/qvDxUsV1DPHealth minister Mansukh Mandaviya meets his Brazilian counterpart Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya met his Brazilian counterpart Marcelo Queiroga in Italy on Sunday. "We spoke about One Health & the introduction of Nano-Urea for better results. Also, offered India's full support to aid Brazil's fight against TB," Mandaviya tweeted after the meeting.Taliban meet UN under-secretary general in KabulTaliban leader Mullah Baradar met with Martin Griffiths, UN under-secretary general for humanitarian affairs, on Sunday at the foreign ministry in Kabul, TOLO news reported.Guinea govt dissolved, President ‘taken’ #BREAKING Guinea putschists say president 'taken' and govt dissolved pic.twitter.com/zoYId2pGOaMaharashtra records 4,057 Covid-19 cases, 67 deathsMaharashtra reported 4,057 Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the total number of cases to 6,486,174. In the last 24 hours 67 deaths were also recorded, the death toll in the state now stands at 137,774.TMC candidates Jakir Hossain & Amirul Islam to contest bypolls Trinamool Congress (TMC) candidates Jakir Hossain and Amirul Islam will be contesting from the Jangipur and Samserganj seats respectively in the upcoming Assembly bypolls, which are scheduled to be held on September 30. 4 killed, 17 injured after tractor-trolley overturns in MPFour people were killed and 17 were injured in a road mishap on Sunday in Jhabua district of Madhya Pradesh, after the tractor-trolley they were travelling in overturned, police told news agency ANI.Kerala reports 26,701 Covid-19 cases, 74 deathsKerala reported 26,701 Covid-19 cases on Sunday. The state's total tally of active cases now stands at 2,47,791. In the last 24 hours, 74 deaths have also been recorded, the death toll now stands at 21,496.Varavara Rao seeks extension of bail due to health related complications Elgar Parishad accused P Varavara Rao while seeking an extension of his medical bail by another six months told the Bombay high court that the neurological problems he started facing while incarcerated has gotten worse, and he is suffering from memory loss. The urinary tract infection he was diagnosed with in prison has also not gotten better and he will be needing surgery soon for another condition. Rao was granted bail due to his failing health in February and released in March for a period of six months. S Jaishankar meets Denmark PM Mette FrederiksenExternal Affairs Minister S Jaishankar meets Denmark PM Mette Frederiksen"Appreciate her leadership in taking forward our Green Strategic Partnership. Conveyed greetings & good wishes of PM Modi. Valued her insights & assessments on the key issues of our day," he tweets pic.twitter.com/EJnWPVGRicTMC leader Abhishek Banerjee to appear before ED on MondayTrinamool Congress (TMC )leader Abhishek Banerjee will be appearing before the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Monday, reported ANI. ED has summoned Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee's nephew and TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee and his wife for interrogation in an alleged multi-crore coal pilferage scam. PM Modi congratulates winners of Tokyo ParalympicsThe historic number of medals India won has filled our hearts with joy. I would like to appreciate the coaches, support staff and families of our athletes for their constant support to the players. We hope to build on our successes to ensure greater participation in sports.Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted in support of the winners in Tokyo Paralympics on Sunday. Voicing his appreciation for the "coaches, support staff and families of our athletes for their constant support to players". Kerala reports 2 more cases of Nipah virusKerala has reported 2 more cases of the Nipah virus on Sunday, state health minister Veena George said. A central team has been rushed to the state after an individual succumbed to the virus on Sunday. "National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune has confirmed a sample of a 12-year-old boy from Kerala has turned Nipah positive. The patient passed away on Sunday morning," George told reporters. Rahul Gandhi to visit Jammu in September Congress leader Rahul Gandhi will be undertaking a visit to Jammu on September 9 and 10. The Member of Parliament is also likely to offer prayers at Vaishno Devi temple, reported news agency ANI.Kisan Mahapanchayat underway in Muzaffarnagar#WATCH | Farmers gathered in large number in Muzaffarnagar to attend Kisan Mahapanchayat, demanding repeal of three farm laws pic.twitter.com/RoITYBBI0gFarmers gathered in large number in Muzaffarnagar to attend Kisan Mahapanchayat, demanding repeal of three farm lawsSuicide blast in Pakistan's Quetta kills 3As many as three people killed and 20 others wounded in a suicide bomb blast at a check-post located at Quetta in Pakistan's Balochistan.Unknown miscreants loot shop in Delhi's Khera Khurd#UPDATE | Search for three accused seen in the CCTV footage is underway. We are also looking into history-sheeters. Accused had also fired bullet. Probe on: Delhi PoliceTwo unknown miscreants looted a hardware shop at gunpoint in Delhi's Khera Khurd area on Saturday. “Search for three accused seen in the CCTV footage is underway. We are also looking into history-sheeters. Accused had also fired bullet. Probe on,” says Delhi Police.Rakesh Tikait arrives at Kisan MahapanchayatBKU spokesperson Rakesh Tikait arrives at Kisan Mahapanchayat in Muzaffarnagar, shares stage with elder brother and BKU chief Naresh Tikait for first time in nine months.180 million Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in August: GovtYet another achievement! With more than 180 million vaccine doses administered in the month of August, India leaves a mark on the Global map of leading its way in vaccinating its population on priority. #LargestVaccineDrive pic.twitter.com/ftvdHVIWMkIn August, India administered more vaccine doses than all G7 nations put together: CentreMumbai: Man held for alleged rape of minorMumbai Police arrest 24-year-old man for the alleged rape of a minor girl under Colaba police station limits. Case registered under section 376 IPC and POCSO Act.Will discuss strategy to continue agitation, says Rakesh Tikait“We will be discussing strategies to continue the agitation across the country,” says BKU leader Rakesh Tikait ahead of Kisan Mahapanchayat on his home turf of Muzaffarnagar.Australia logs 1684 new Covid-19 cases Australia records 1684 new Covid-19 cases. The country has, thus far, seen just under 62,000 infections of Covid-19 and 1040 deaths due to it.India reports 42,766 new Covid-19 cases and 308 deathsIndia logs 42,766 fresh Covid-19 infections, as against 42,618 from a day ago. Active caseload rises to 410,048. 38,091 recoveries and 308 fatalities take recovered cases and death toll to 32,138,092 and 440,533 respectively. Total tally rises to 32,988,673.President Kovind congratulates Noida DM for silver at ParalympicsCongratulations to Suhas Yathiraj who gave a tough fight to world #1 and won silver medal in badminton at #Paralympics. Your dedication in pursuing sports while discharging duties as a civil servant is exceptional. Best wishes for a future full of accomplishments.“Congratulations to Suhas Yathiraj who gave a tough fight to world #1 and won silver medal in badminton at Paralympics,” tweets President Ram Nath Kovind.PM Modi greets on Teachers' DayI pay my respects to Dr. S. Radhakrishnan on his Jayanti and recall his distinguished scholarship as well as contributions to our nation.On Teachers' Day, greetings to the entire teaching fraternity, which has always played a pivotal role in nurturing young minds. It is commendable how teachers have innovated and ensured the education journey of students continues in the Covid-19 times. I pay my respects to Dr. S. Radhakrishnan on his Jayanti and recall his distinguished scholarship as well as contributions to our nation: PM Narendra ModiNIV confirms Nipah virus case in Kerala; patient succumbsKerala health minister Veenu George announces National Institute of Virology, Pune confirmed Nipah case in Kozhikode. Patient succumbed at 5am today, says George.Suspected case of Nipah reported in KozhikodeHigh alert announced in Kerala's Kozhikode after suspected case of Nipah virus reported. The patient, a 12-year-old boy, reported to be critical. Senior health officials, including state health minister Veena George, leave for Kozhikode.28 new Covid-19 cases in ChinaChina reported 28 new Covid-19 cases on September 4, the same as a day earlier. Total cases reach 95,010 while death toll unchanged at 4636.AAP's ‘Kisan Mazdoor Khet Bachao Yatra’ in Haryana from todayThe AAP will begin its week-long “Kisan Mazdoor Khet Bachao Yatra” in Haryana from today. It will begin from Rohtak and conclude on September 13 in Palwal.US president, First Lady to travel to all 3 sites of 9/11 attacks: White HouseOn Saturday, September 11, president Joe Biden and the First Lady will honor and pay respects to the lives lost 20 years ago with travel to all three sites of the 9/11 attacks - New York City, Shanksville, and the Pentagon: White HouseFarmers to hold ‘mahapanchayat’ in Muzaffarnagar todayFarmers protesting against the three central farm laws will hold a mahapanchayat in Uttar Pradesh's Muzaffarnagar today. According to organisers, lakhs of farmers will attend the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-september-05-2021-101630798650701.html
05-09-2021||India||Assembly bypolls to Mamata’s home seat, 3 others to be held on Sept 30||Bypolls to four assembly seats, including West Bengal’s Bhabanipur where Mamata Banerjee is expected to contest as she needs to get elected to the state assembly by November to continue as the chief minister, will be held on September 30, the Election Commission of India (ECI) announced on Saturday.Banerjee took oath as the chief minister on May 5 and requires getting elected within six months to retain the post. Her Trinamool Congress (TMC) party swept to power for the third time this summer by winning 213 out of the 292 seats, for which elections were held in eight phases in March and April. But Banerjee lost the poll from Nandigram to her protégé-turned-adversary Suvendu Adhikari of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) by a narrow margin of 1,956 votes.TMC has been pressing for holding the bypolls as soon as possible. It has been critical of the ECI over the delay in announcing the schedule for them. In June, Banerjee said the election watchdog was awaiting Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s instructions to hold the by-elections. A delegation of TMC parliamentarians met the ECI on July 15, seeking the bypolls at the earliest. The bypoll schedule was announced days after the ECI sought inputs on 30 constituencies across the country from concerned chief secretaries and disaster management authorities in view of Covid pandemic.“The chief secretary of West Bengal informed that in view of the administrative exigencies and public interest and to avoid (a) vacuum in state, by-elections for Bhabanipur from where Mamata Banerjee intends to contest elections may be conducted,” ECI said in statement.Apart from Bhabanipur, the bypolls will be held to Jangipur, Samerganj (West Bengal), and Pipli (Odisha) assembly seats.The ECI has allowed 14-day campaigning in Bhabanipur while curtailing the electioneering in other constituencies as per the pandemic situation. “Campaigning is allowed but it has been notified according to the pandemic (situation)...,” a person familiar with the matter said on the condition of anonymity.Banerjee, who was scheduled to leave for a three-day tour of north Bengal on Sunday, postponed the visit as the ECI declared the bypoll schedule.The ECI said public gatherings will be prohibited during the nomination process. “Only three vehicles (will be) permitted within a periphery of 100 meters of RO’s (returning officer) office. No procession for nomination shall be permitted,” the ECI said in an order. For indoor campaigns, 30% of the allowed capacity or 200 persons, whichever is less, will be permitted.The results of the bypolls will be announced on October 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assembly-bypolls-to-mamata-s-home-seat-3-others-to-be-held-on-sept-30-101630788522816.html
05-09-2021||India||India, US keeping close watch on Pakistan’s actions in Afghanistan: Harsh Shringla||India and the US are carefully watching Pakistan’s actions in Afghanistan in light of Islamabad’s role in backing the Taliban, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla said as he wound up a three-day visit to Washington during which the situation in the war-torn country was a key part of discussions. Shringla also told reporters in Washington on Friday that India has had a “limited” engagement with the Taliban, during which the group indicated it would be “reasonable in the way they handle things”. His remarks came against the backdrop of the rapidly evolving situation in Afghanistan, where the Taliban is set to form government after sweeping to power in Kabul on August 15. Shringla spoke hours before Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) chief, Lt Gen Faiz Hameed, became the first senior Pakistani leader to fly into Kabul for talks with the Taliban. Shringla noted Pakistan has extended backing to the Taliban, and said India and the US will assess Pakistan’s actions in Afghanistan with a “fine-tooth comb”. “They (US) will obviously see how different players get engaged in the situation in Afghanistan. Pakistan is a neighbour of Afghanistan. They have supported and nurtured the Taliban. There are various elements there that Pakistan supported, so its role has to be seen in that context,” he said. India is closely engaged with the US on developments in Afghanistan, and both sides have adopted a wait and watch policy towards the Taliban and are calibrating their actions in response to the evolving situation, he added. Shringla contended that India’s concerns related to Afghanistan, especially the use of Afghan soil for terrorism, had been addressed in a UN resolution adopted last month. This resolution, he said, mentioned UN-designated terror groups such as Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) and Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT). “So we do have concerns about the free ingress that these two terrorist groups have had in Afghanistan, their role and we will watch that carefully,” he said. Shringla acknowledged that India currently has no immediate substantial engagement with Afghanistan, and described New Delhi’s contacts with the Taliban as limited. “Our engagement with them (Taliban) has been limited. It’s not that we have a robust conversation. But from whatever conversations we’ve had so far, the Taliban seem to indicate they will be reasonable in the way they handle things,” he said. “I don’t see members of the international community being passive over the situation in Afghanistan. We are not there on the ground, [we] have no assets there. It’s not like we are not doing anything, we are in touch with every country that has an interest in Afghanistan,” he added. After months of informal contacts with the group, India’s ambassador to Qatar, Deepak Mittal, held talks with senior Taliban leader Sher Mohammed Abbas Stanekzai on Tuesday, the first officially acknowledged contact between the two sides. During the meeting held at the Taliban’s request, the India side raised its concerns about Afghan soil being used for anti-India activities and terror. Shringla met US secretary of state Antony Blinken and other senior American officials during his visit, and the situation in Afghanistan figured prominently in discussions. The ISI chief arrived in Kabul with a high-level delegation for talks with the top Taliban leadership on security and other issues. Unnamed Pakistani military officials told the media in Islamabad on Thursday that the ISI chief would work with the Taliban to help reorganise the Afghan Army. Unlike a low-key visit to Kabul by the CIA chief, Lt Gen Hameed was spotted in the lobby of a hotel along with the Pakistani ambassador and even spoke to Pakistani journalists. The ISI chief’s visit coincided with reports of divisions within the Taliban over government formation and the allocation of powers. The reports said there were differences between the camp of senior leader Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar and the Haqqani Network, which has long-standing and close ties with Pakistan’s military establishment. There were also reports of differences between the leaders from the political office in Doha, such as Baradar, and the commanders on the ground, including Mullah Mohammad Yaqoob, the son of Taliban founder Mullah Mohammad Omar, over the allocation of powers in the new set-up. People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that the ISI is working to ensure security-related departments, such as intelligence, defence and interior, are retained by the Haqqani Network. The ISI chief’s visit to Kabul is being seen in the context of these differences and efforts to protect the interests of the Haqqani Network, the people said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-us-keeping-close-watch-on-pakistan-s-actions-in-afghanistan-harsh-shringla-101630786885165.html
05-09-2021||India||Fissures emerge in Maharashtra as Raju Shetti hits out at NCP over MLC names||The ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi’s (MVA) ties with the Swabhimani Paksha, led by Raju Shetti, appear to be souring, with Shetti saying on Saturday that it was up to the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) to fulfill the promise of giving one seat in the state legislative council to his party “or stab him in the back”.In response, NCP chief Sharad Pawar expressed surprise and rejected the speculation that the MVA has requested governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari to drop Shetti’s name from the list of 12 people recommended to be appointed as MLC. The NCP is one of the allies in the MVA government along with the Shiv Sena and Congress.“The decision has to be taken by the NCP over fulfilling the promise or stab (me) in the back. I don’t care. I didn’t go to them begging for the position. I am in no position for the last over two years but respect for me among the people has not reduced. I will do a correct program at an appropriate time,” Shetti said on Saturday. The term “correct program” was used by BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis at a rally for dislodging the Uddhav Thackeray-led MVA government in the state.Shetti is considered a strong farmer leader with good grassroots support. He is currently holding a five-day long march against the MVA government, demanding more relief to the people affected by flooding.“Based on his contribution in the field of agriculture and cooperation, Raju Shetti’s name was part of the list submitted to the governor by CM and deputy CM. The decision (to appoint him as a MLC) was taken by us but the final decision has to be made by the governor. I am surprised how come he can make such a statement. We have honestly done our work. I have fulfilled the promise made (to him) and am waiting for the governor’s decision,” Pawar said, responding to remarks by the Swabhimani Paksha leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fissures-emerge-in-maharashtra-as-raju-shetti-hits-out-at-ncp-over-mlc-names-101630786165101.html
05-09-2021||India||Bihar first state to simplify road accident claims||Bihar will be the first state to simplify claims of road traffic accident (RTA) by removing the victim or their dependents from the litigation process and paying them an interim ex-gratia amount of ₹5 lakh within 15 days in event of death, officials driving the change have said.The state will also take the onus to contest the case in court, on behalf of the victim, if the insurance firm of the accused vehicle owner, decides to challenge the order.Come September 15, and the state will implement the new amendment to the Bihar Motor Vehicle Rules that empowers the state transport appellate tribunal to settle all such accident claims within 60 days. The new amendment was notified in the Bihar gazette on August 11 after a cabinet order.So far, road traffic accident claims are tried in the civil court and linger for years.“This is the first of its kind initiative in India to simplify accident claims,” said Bihar’s transport secretary, Sanjay Kumar Agarwal.The new rules allow immediate payment of ₹5 lakh as interim compensation for death and ₹50,000 for grievous injury to dependents or victims of road traffic accidents, involving vehicles that are insured, uninsured or involved in hit-and-run case. The compensation for grievous injury is proposed to be increased from ₹50,000 to ₹2.5 lakh.As part of the new rules, victims or their relatives will not have to run from pillar to post for settlement of claim. The state will pay the interim compensation and also take the responsibility of fighting a legal suit on behalf of the victim if an insurance firm were to challenge its order.“We have set up a revolving corpus of ₹50 crore under the Bihar motor vehicle accident assistance fund through which such payments will be made,” said Agarwal.In case of insured vehicles, the state will pay the compensation to the victim or their dependents through the corpus fund and recover the amount from the insurance firm after the tribunal settles the case within the stipulated 60 days, he added.For uninsured vehicles, the state will recover the compensation amount by auctioning the vehicle if its vehicle owner is unable to pay the compensation to the victim’s family. Should the amount realised through auction be less than the compensation fixed, the state will bear the difference amount through the Bihar motor vehicle accident assistance fund, said Agarwal.Nearly 20% of the 13.60 lakh registered vehicles in the state till 2019-20 do not renew their insurance. “We will start a special drive to check for insurance of motor vehicles soon,” he added.For hit-and-run case, the compensation amount will be borne through the corpus fund and replenished partially by the Centre through insurance companies, which pay  ₹50,000. The state will bear the remaining  ₹4,50,000 in deaths involving hit-and-run cases.Under the changed rules, all sub-divisional officers (SDO) will be the accident claim inquiry officer and district magistrates (DM) the accident claims assessment officer. The SDO conducts the inquiry on the basis of site inspection done by the police and the motor vehicle inspector.“The changed rules do not mandate any site inspection or examination of witness at the trial stage. If challenged, the case will be adjudicated on the basis of a summary trial based on the petition of the victim or their relatives, deposition by the insurance firm and reports by the police, the SDO and DM,” said Agarwal.In case the tribunal or a higher court awards a higher compensation, the difference of the amount already paid as interim compensation would be credited into the bank account of the victim’s family. However, in case of an adverse order for the government, the interim amount already paid as compensation to the family of the victim will not be taken back but adjusted through the Bihar motor vehicle accident assistance fund.Bihar ranks 15th in India in terms of road accidents and ninth in terms of fatalities arising out of them, as per the latest data released by the ministry of road transport and highways (MoRT&H) in 2019.Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Kerala, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh and Gujarat are among states which rank higher than Bihar both in terms of number of road accidents and deaths.Bihar had only 9.3 recorded cases of road accidents against the national average of 34.2 per lakh population in 2019.With a score of 11.7, it ranked 22nd in terms of accidents per 10,000 vehicles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-first-state-to-simplify-road-accident-claims-to-give-rs-4-5-lakh-within-15-days-101630784605191.html
05-09-2021||India||Preparations underway for PM’s possible visit to US this month||A visit to the US by Prime Minister Narendra Modi this month is being linked to clarity on the holding of the first in-person summit of Quad leaders following Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga’s decision to step down, people familiar with developments said on Saturday.The first face-to-face meeting of leaders of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue, after their maiden virtual summit in March, was being seen as the centrepiece of a visit to the US by Modi. However, Suga’s surprise move led to confusion and uncertainty about the Quad meet to be hosted by Washington, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity.The Indian side has begun advance preparations for a possible visit by the prime minister, and some of the grounds were laid during foreign secretary Harsh Shringla’s three-day visit to Washington this week. There has been no formal announcement from the Indian side, though dates between September 22 and 27 were being looked at for the visit.If the visit does go ahead, Modi is also expected to address the annual UN General Assembly in New York and hold his first bilateral meeting with US President Joe Biden.“There is some amount of confusion and lack of clarity on whether the Japanese PM will travel to the US following his decision to step down. The Indian side has begun the spade work but a call will have to be made at a higher level,” one of the people cited above said.The people said the latest reports from the Japanese side indicated that Suga is not expected to visit the US. Earlier, Japan had proposed holding the Quad Summit in a hybrid format, with Suga joining virtually. There were also suggestions to hold the summit after the election of a new Japanese prime minister. It is learnt that not all Quad members were keen on holding the summit in a hybrid format.Asked about the possibility of the political developments in Japan affecting the Quad Summit, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla told reporters in Washington on Friday: “If there is a summit, Prime Minister Modi has already said he would be happy to attend that summit. I think other leaders have also said that they will be ready. So, it’s all a question of...getting the leaders together and going ahead.”The people also noted the US recently asked more than 150 countries planning to send a leader or a minister to speak in person at the UN General Assembly to consider giving a video address in order to prevent the meeting from becoming a super-spreader event.The Quad comprises India, Australia, Japan and the US. Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison is expected to travel to the US in September to join Biden for events commemorating the 70th anniversary of the Australia, New Zealand and US Security Treaty, or ANZUS Treaty.On Friday, Suga announced his decision not to seek re-election as leader of the ruling Liberal Democrat Party (LDP) in the face of mounting criticism over his handling of the Covid-19 crisis. Suga took over just under a year ago after Shinzo Abe resigned citing ill health.Opposition to his leadership among LDP lawmakers has diminished his chances of winning a second term in the LDP’s presidential election on September 29. Suga is also expected to be preoccupied with campaigning for the party election, which will begin on September 17.The political developments in Japan have also raised the possibility of the annual bilateral summit with India being cancelled for the third straight year. The meet couldn’t be held in 2019 because of violent protests against the amended citizenship law in Guwahati, the proposed venue, and it wasn’t held last year because of the pandemic.The planned Quad Summit was aimed at giving fresh impetus to several key initiatives, including the grouping’s vaccine partnership and measures to ensure an open and free Indo-Pacific. The four countries plan to distribute one billion doses of US-developed vaccines produced in India across the Indo-Pacific but the move hit a road block after India was hit by a devastating second wave of infections.In March, Biden hosted the first virtual Quad leaders summit that pledged to work for an open and inclusive Indo-Pacific anchored by democratic values and unconstrained by coercion, an apparent signal to China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/preparations-underway-for-pm-s-possible-visit-to-us-this-month-101630784004915.html
05-09-2021||India||Farmers to hold mahapanchayat in Muzaffarnagar today||Security has been stepped up in Uttar Pradesh’s Muzaffarnagar ahead of Sunday’s ‘Kisan Mahapanchayat’ in the district, with the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of 40 farmer unions, saying that thousands of people from across the country were set to take part in the meeting.The SKM, which is at the forefront of the protest against the three contentious farm laws, said that gathering will prove that their agitation has the support of “all castes, religions, states, classes, small traders and all sections of the society”.“The mahapanchayat of September 5 will make the Yogi-Modi governments realize the power of farmers, farm labourers, and supporters of the farm movement. The Muzaffarnagar mahapanchayat will be the biggest ever in the last nine months,” the SKM said in a statement. Muzzafarnagar is the home district of Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait, who is scheduled to share the stage with SKM leaders Gurnam Singh Chadhuni, Balbeer Singh Rajowal and Yogendra Yadav.Hundreds of farmers have been camping at Delhi’s borders since November last year, seeking a repeal of the new farm laws, which they say will erode their bargaining power, weaken a system of assured prices, and leave them vulnerable to exploitation by agri businesses. The government has maintained that the laws aim to ease restrictions on farm trade by setting up free markets, allow traders to stockpile large stocks of food for future sales and lay down a framework for contract farming.Six companies of the provincial armed constabulary (PAC) and two companies of rapid action force (RAF) will be deployed at the farmers’ gathering to maintain law and order, officials familiar with the matter said. DIG of Saharanpur range Preetinder Singh said that the event will be videographed and five SSPs, seven ASPs and 40 police inspectors will be posted on security duty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-to-hold-mahapanchayat-in-muzaffarnagar-today-101630783707581.html
05-09-2021||India||Centre signs tripartite Karbi Anglong agreement, announces funds for development||The Centre signed the tripartite Karbi Anglong agreement on Saturday promising to fulfil all the conditions for development of the Karbi people within the stipulated time. The agreement was signed in the presence of Union Home Minister Amit Shah, Union Minister of Shipping and Waterways, Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and the representatives of Karbi Anglong Autonomous Council in New Delhi. “Signing of the historic Karbi Anglong Agreement: Modi government is committed to resolving the decades-old crisis, ensuring the territorial integrity of Assam,” Shah tweeted.The agreement mainly promised to invest ₹1,000 crore by the Assam government for development of the Karbi Anglong area in the next five years, provide reservation for the people of Karbi for the first time, rehabilitation for the surrendered militants, setting up of Karbi Welfare Council by the Assam government, supplementing resources of Karbi Autonomous Council by augmenting consolidated fund of the state, along with protection of their language and culture etc. After signing the agreement, Amit Shah said that the agreement would be written in golden words in the history of Assam and Karbi region as over 1,000 cadres of five different organizations have laid down their arms to join the mainstream. “Both the Central government and Assam government are fully committed to their rehabilitation,” said Shah. He added that Narendra Modi, after becoming Prime Minister, has not only set his focus on the Northeast Region but was also working towards a developed, peaceful and progressive Northeast. It is the Modi government’s policy that we talk more politely to those who shunned their arms and give more to them than they ask for. After following this policy, we have resolved all pending problems one by one, the minister said. Referring to previous agreements, Shah said that they had signed the Bodoland Peace Accord (Assam), Bru Rehabilitation Agreement and National Liberation Front of Tripura (Tripura) and 80 per cent of the conditions mentioned in those agreements have been fulfilled. A total of 1,040 militants of five militant groups surrendered along with their weapons during an event at Guwahati in Assam on February 25. The five groups are Karbi Longri NC Hills Liberation Front (KLNLF), People’s Democratic Council of Karbi Longri (PDCK), Kuki Liberation Front ( KLF), United Peoples Liberation Army (UPLA) and Karbi People’s Liberation Tiger (KPLT). A major ethnic community of Assam--- Karbis are dotted by many factions, and marked by ethnic violence, killings, abductions, taxation since the late 1980s.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-signs-tripartite-karbi-anglong-agreement-announces-funds-for-development-101630783704985.html
05-09-2021||India||Govt signs peace accord with 5 insurgent groups of Assam||New Delhi: A tripartite agreement among five insurgent groups of Assam, the Centre and the state government was signed on Saturday to end years of violence in the Karbi Anglong region.Union Home Minister Amit Shah, who was present on the occasion, said the accord will bring lasting peace and all round development in Karbi Anglong.The insurgent groups which signed the peace accord include Karbi Longri North Cachar Hills Liberation Front, People’s Democratic Council of Karbi Longri, United People’s Liberation Army and Karbi People’s Liberation Tigers factions.About 1,000 militants belonging to these groups have surrendered along with their arms and have joined the mainstream.Shah said the signing of the Karbi-Anglong Agreement is another milestone in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision of “insurgency-free prosperous Northeast”.“Over 1000 armed cadres have abjured violence and joined the mainstream of society, which reflects their trust in Modi ji’s leadership,” he said.Shah said that a ₹1,000 crore development package will be given to Karbi Anglong.“I want to assure everyone that we will implement this accord in a time-bound manner,” he said.The home minister said the central and state governments are committed to all round development of Karbi Anglong and there will be peace in the region.“We not only sign peace accords but implement them within our time too,” he said, citing the example of similar peace pacts earlier signed with other insurgent groups of the Northeast -- the NDFB, NLFT and Bru groups.Shah said ever since the Modi government came to power, its focus in the Northeast is not only to ensure peace but also overall development.“We have ensured that there is all round peace, no violence, no blast, no firing in the Northeast,” he said.Shah said it is the policy of the Modi government that those who give up arms are brought into mainstream and we talk to them even more politely and give them more than they ask for.He said due to this policy only, the country is getting rid of old problems one by one that the Modi government had inherited.The accord is significant as Karbi Anglong, which is the territory of ethnic Karbi tribals, has seen years of violence, killings and abduction in the rebels’ fight for a separate homeland.Union minister and former Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal, who was present on the occasion, appreciated the efforts of the prime minister and the home minister in bringing peace in Assam and the Northeast.Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said it was a historic day as the militants of these five insurgent groups will now join mainstream and work for the development of Karbi Anglong.The peace agreement will ensure greater devolution of autonomy to the Karbi Anglong Autonomous Council (KACC), protection of identity, language, culture of Karbi people and focussed development of the council area, without affecting the territorial and administrative integrity of Assam.​​​​​​​ The Karbi armed groups have agreed to abjure violence and join the peaceful democratic process as established by law of the land.The agreement also provides for rehabilitation of cadres of the armed groups.The government of Assam shall set up a Karbi Welfare Council for focussed development of Karbi people living outside KAAC area.The consolidated fund of the state will be augmented to supplement the resources of KAAC.Overall, the present settlement proposes to give more legislative, executive, administrative and financial powers to KAAC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-signs-peace-accord-with-5-insurgent-groups-of-assam-101630783407585.html
05-09-2021||India||17-year-old girl held captive, raped by 3 in Uttar Pradesh: Police||Mahoba (UP): A 17-year-old girl was allegedly gangraped by three men who kept her locked in a room for a day, police here said on Saturday. The teen, who works in a private company, was sexually assaulted on Thursday and made her escape on Friday while she was being taken to another place, police said. Efforts are on to nab the accused who fled the area. On Thursday, she was taken by a man, an employee at a nearby dak bungalow, to a room in a deserted area where she was raped by him and two of his friends, Station House Officer at Mahoba’s Kotwali police station Balram Singh said. The girl also alleged that they made a video of her, he said. The men locked her inside after raping her and went out, he said. On Friday, they came back. While one of them was taking her to another place on a motorcycle, she jumped off and shouted for help. Police registered a case on Friday on the complaint of the girl and her family members, Singh said. The girl has been sent for medical examination. PTI CORR VN VN MIN MIN||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/17yearold-girl-held-captive-raped-by-3-in-uttar-pradesh-police-101630783164967.html
05-09-2021||India||Independence, freedom of expression of citizens crucial in democracy; good policing must: Shah||New Delhi: Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday said the most important thing in a democracy is a citizen’s independence and freedom of expression which is directly linked to good policing, and this needs to be continuously improved.He said ‘beat constable’ deployed at the lowest level of the police system makes the “biggest contribution” towards making a democracy successful by protecting the common man.Delivering the keynote speech during the 51st foundation day event of the Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPR&D), the minister said democracy cannot be successful if law and order is not good.“Democracy is our nature... this was our character even before independence and we accepted this after gaining freedom. This is the nature of our people. The biggest thing in a democracy is a person’s independence and freedom of expression,” he said.When it comes to freedom of expression of a person, it is directly linked to law and order, he noted. “Democracy is not just about voting for parties and forming a government... this is just a part of the system. What is the success or fruit of democracy? The fruit is that 130 crore people of the country, according to their capabilities and intelligence, get to develop themselves and the country gets the benefit of this cumulative effect for its development,” Shah said.He emphasised that democracy cannot prosper if law and order in a country is not good. “This work is done by police and forces that guard our borders. It is very important for a successful democracy that the security of a person is ensured. The citizen should keep getting his legal rights in an uninterrupted manner. A citizen should be able to discharge his duties as per the spirit of the constitution,” the Union minister stated.And hence, he said, upgrading and improving police force is the work of BPR&D.Shah noted that the image of police, at certain times, is maligned by certain quarters.“I do not know why a campaign has been run to damage the image of police. Some incidents are hyped and shown, while good incidents are not popularised,” he said.The home minister said while various other institutions like the parliament, state assemblies, judiciary, election commission, CAG and vigilance commission have made democracy successful, the beat constable of police deserved a far greater appreciation in this context.“Not because I am the home minister, but I have had this thinking since my childhood that to make democracy successful, the biggest contribution is of the beat constable,” he said.Without reviving beat policing, basic policing cannot be good and this has to be updated which requires technology upgradation and BPR&D needs to work on that, the minister noted. “I want to say it again that the most difficult job in the government service is that of a policeman,” he reiterated. During all festivals, whether it is Holi, Deepwali or Eid, policemen are on duty, he said.“There are no fixed work hours, neither a definite scope of work for a policeman. I have seen that all this takes a toll on their health and there is no acknowledgement of these things.... the sacrifices made by police personnel is not mentioned much,” the minister rued.He asked the BPR&D to give “special focus” and work on the image building of police.The police should change their work style as per the challenge, he said, counting cyber attacks, drone attacks, narcotics smuggling, fake currency and hawala rackets as the “biggest” challenges for the security establishment.“For all this, you (BPR&D) should prepare our forces and also study the best practices across the globe,” he said.The skills of the cops should be sharpened, Shah said.The minister also talked about reforms done by the Modi government and various steps taken to empower the law enforcement agencies.“The home ministry is doing a number of things to bring about radical changes in the IPC, CrPC and the Evidence Act,” he said.Interaction has been held in this context with at least 14 states, three UTs, eight central police organisations, six CAPFs and 7 NGOs; and they have sent in their suggestions.“This is a work in progress...this is a big work,” he added.The minister said his government has brought in necessary “radical changes” in the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) to check funds sent to “destabilise” the country.Addressing officers and personnel from various central, state and Union Territory police forces, Shah said the next decade is going to be very important from the point of internal security as the country under Prime Minister Narendra Modi was taking giant leaps in becoming a strong nation and economy, and we should “not think that some forces will try to stop this.” He added that as many as 3,700 armed cadres of various insurgent groups have surrendered with their weapons before the Union government in the last two years.  Whosoever will shun weapons, we will take steps to bring them to the mainstream, he said.The minister finally asked the BPR&D, a central government think tank, to prepare the police forces as smart and strong units. PTI NES SRY||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/independence-freedom-of-expression-of-citizens-crucial-in-democracy-good-policing-must-shah-101630782867306.html
05-09-2021||India||Textile bodies welcome tn’s move to remove 1% cotton cess||Textile trade bodies have welcomed the announcement of the Tamil Nadu government on the withdrawal of one per cent cess on purchase of cotton and cotton waste. Chairman of Confederation of Indian Textile Industry T Rajkumar told reporters here on Saturday that the scrapping of cess, which was a long-pending demand, would benefit cotton farmers and the industry across the cotton textile value chain.The Southern India Mills’ Association lauded the decision on the revoking of the tax as it would benefit 200k farmers and help increase cotton production from 500k bales to 2.5 million bales by 2030.This would also encourage farmers to switch over to cotton crop from other cash crops and may benefit 1 million farmers in the long run, the trade body said.The removal of the cess would attract several private cotton traders and the Cotton Corporation of India to open depots in the state and sell the cotton on a daily basis to small spinning mills, the trade bodies said, adding that this would reduce the working capital requirements and also the cost, time and transportation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/textile-bodies-welcome-tn-s-move-to-remove-1-cotton-cess-101630781010830.html
05-09-2021||India||Migrations and their effect on Bengaluru’s lingual diversity||A recent analysis of the 2011 Census suggested, with over 107 languages spoken, Bengaluru is one of the most linguistically diverse cities in India.The analysis, conducted by Shamika Ravi, a non-resident senior fellow of Brookings Institution, and Mudit Kapoor, an associate professor of economics at Indian Statistical Institute, pointed out that these 107 languages include 22 scheduled and 84 non-scheduled languages.The analysis also said that Kannada, which is the official language of the city, was listed as the mother tongue by 44.62% of the city’s population. Other major languages include Tamil (15%), Telugu (14%), Urdu (12%), Hindi (6%), and Malayalam (3%). Apart from them, the residents of the city also speak Maithili, Odia, Punjabi, Kashmiri, Sindhi, Konkani, Santali, Marathi, Manipuri and Nepali. The non-scheduled languages include English, Kabuli, Pashto, Tibetan, Arabic, Nishi, Mundari, Lushai, Nicobarese, Sherpa, languages from Nagaland, among others.Historians and experts attribute this diversity in languages to the multiple waves of migrations the city has seen over centuries, especially three particular incidents in history.In Census 2001, inter-district and inter-state migrants constituted 30.27% of the city’s population. Over the next decade, the migrant population increased by more than 12%, making them the fastest-growing community in the city. Historian Suresh Moona said that soon after Bengaluru’s formation, there was a call made for people to come to the city for trade. “When Kempegowda built his mud fort in 1537, a call was made for traders and other craftsmen to move to the new city. He knew that unless there is no thriving trade, a city can’t grow. Many areas in Bengaluru were named after occupations such Akkipet (rice), Ragipet (millet), among others.”He said the tradition continued with Tipu Sultan, who invited craftsmen from different parts of the country to live in Bengaluru. Most of these skilled labourers migrated to Bengaluru to support Tipu’s military industry. The remanence of the Tipu era migration remains in Bengaluru, the Kalasipalaya areas in the heart of the city, was a settlement of Kalsi, the expert tent-pitchers and organisers of military camps of Tipu’s army. But the first big migration that changed the linguistic character of the city happened during the British India era. After the military engineers found Bengaluru’s topography and proximity to other cities to be good for developing a cantonment, manpower was required. “When the British started constructing the cantonment area since they had a base in the Madras presidency, they brought in skilled labourers and traders as part of the development of the cantonment. This is one of the reasons why the cantonment area in Bengaluru has a large Tamil speaking population,” said Moona. “While the migration before independence was limited largely to the Tamil speaking region, post-independence the emergence of industry and public sector undertakings changed the patterns of migrations,” said Janaki Nair, a professor of modern Indian history at the Centre for Historical Studies at Jawaharlal Nehru University. After Independence, Bengaluru became the ideal location for strategic industries as it was away from international borders and its proximity to other major cities. The next big wave of migrants hit Bengaluru in the 1950s and 60s when major public sector undertakings — such as Bharat Electronics and Hindustan Aeronautics — made the city their base.Research carried out by Times Research Foundation in the 1980s, shows during the peak of the Bengaluru industrial era in the 1980s, 14% of the population was engaged in industrial work associated with the large-scale manufacturing economy led by the public sector undertakings.Both Moona and Nair agreed that from having a large migration of Tamil speaking areas, the emergence of the industries resulted in a wider pool of migrants, especially from Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and Odisha. The linguist influences in the city, too, changed during this period.Decades later, the open markets and globalisation made Bengaluru the world’s back office. The city, which has an ecosystem developed by the industries and the institutes of science and technology, soon became the hub of Information Technology, finding itself a spot among the global cities known for innovative technologies.As Bengaluru became the Silicon Valley of India, the migration patterns in the city too changed. “From having a large Tamil population post-independence, the service industry now witnesses a large migration of the citizens from north-east India,” added Nair. “Bengaluru is one of the few cities where you could survive without knowing the local language or with your mother tongue. That is because migration has made the city a multilingual and multicultural city. These concepts are common in the new globalised worlds, but Bengaluru had such a culture even before many other cities,” said Moona.ENDS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/migrations-and-their-effect-on-bengaluru-s-lingual-diversity-101630781009634.html
05-09-2021||India||Tamil Nadu reports 1.5k Covid cases, 19 deaths in 24 hrs||Tamil Nadu recorded a marginal rise in fresh COVID-19 infections for the second consecutive day, adding 1,568 cases, including five returnees from Kerala, pushing the overall caseload to 26.19 lakh till date. The fatality count mounted to 34,980, with 19 people succumbing to the virus, a health department bulletin said.After witnessing a declining trend over the past few weeks, the number of cases have gone up since Thursday.Meanwhile, recoveries eclipsed new infections with 1,657 people getting discharged in the last 24 hours, aggregating to 2,568,161, leaving 16,370 active cases.A total of 160,742 samples were tested in the last 24 hours, pushing the cumulative number of specimens examined to 42,793,906 till date.Coimbatore, with 239 cases, Chennai 162, Erode 125 and Thanjavur 108, accounted for the bulk of the cases, while the remaining were scattered across other districts.Seven districts reported cases below double digits, while there were no fresh deaths in 25 districts. Ramanathapuram and Virudhunagar recorded the least number of cases with three each.Among the 19 fatalities, one person did not have any pre-existing illness, the bulletin said .Minister for medical and family welfare Ma Subramanian earlier in the day called on Union health minister Mansukh Mandviya in New Delhi along with top officials and discussed various issues pertaining to Tamil Nadu, including allocating vaccines based on the size of the state’s population, expediting construction work to set up the All India Institute of Medical Sciences hospital near Madurai and setting up of 11 medical colleges in the state. Briefing reporters later, Subramanian said that during the previous meeting with the Union minister in June, the state had requested allocation of more vaccines, based on which the Centre increased supply in June, July and August. The minister said Mandviya was also requested to step up vaccine supply to nine districts bordering Kerala as that state had been reporting high number of cases and added that all the residents in these areas would be inoculated. Subramanian said during the meeting with Mandviya, a request was also made to set up an AIIMS Medical College in Coimbatore, which he said he would consider. Noting that new Primary Health Centres had not been sanctioned to Tamil Nadu in the last three years, Subramanian said “we reiterated our earlier demand that we need 25 new PHCs in Tamil Nadu”. To a query about some students and teachers in districts like Ariyalur and Cuddalore having tested positive after schools reopened on September 1, he said they might have contracted the virus earlier.“They would have contracted the contagion much earlier and then come to the schools without knowing of it. They were identified due to the efforts of health department officials, who will now conduct a probe,” he said. The minister said there was no need for anyone to panic and the department was taking all efforts to break the virus chain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-reports-1-5k-covid-cases-19-deaths-in-24-hrs-101630781008441.html
05-09-2021||India||Anwar to visit Kerala amid Cong infighting||Amid the simmering dissension in the Kerala Congress unit over the selection of district Congress committee (DCC) chiefs by the new leadership, party general secretary Tariq Anwar will arrive in the state next week to placate sulking senior leaders Oommen Chandy and Ramesh Chennithala. A party leader, who did not want to be named, said Anwar will reach the state capital on September 8 to talk to the two senior leaders. Amid the growing differences, Chandy said on Saturday that he is ready to talk to anyone to settle the present crisis. He said in Kottayam that lack of proper discussion before finalising the district office-bearers’ list led to the present stalemate and it can be settled if someone takes the lead. “There are no big issues as portrayed and they can be settled through talks,” Chandy said. The party leader mentioned above said Anwar’s visit comes in the wake of several complaints to Congress president Sonia Gandhi alleging that the new leadership was enforcing discipline without meeting party guidelines and that it will further drain the party. Two days back while inaugurating the new party office in Kannur virtually, party leader Rahul Gandhi, also a member of parliament from Kerala, reminded the state leadership about the “spirit of collective leadership.” Meanwhile, PCC secretary P S Prashant, who was expelled last week, joined the ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist) on Friday. Desperate to widen its base, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is also eying some of the disgruntled Congress leaders. “So the party is desperate to check further damage and is rushing the general secretary,” the senior Congress leader said. State Congress president K Sudhakaran expressed confidence that everything will be settled soon, but insisted that discipline is paramount. He took a dig at the CPI(M), saying “it turned a waste bin” by accepting those thrown out by the Congress. Chennithala gave a clear message on Friday that he is not ready for a truce. “When I and Chandy led the party, we never used the language of arrogance. We led the party for 17 years and we notched up many victories. A good leadership will have to take everyone along. If the track record of those enforcing discipline is examined, they would not have been in the party by now,” Chennithala said, taking a dig at Sudhakaran. Another leader, K C Joseph, also said disciplinary action was selective and taken in a hurry. The DCC list that was announced on August 28 triggered public outbursts by Congress leaders. Two senior leaders K Sivadasan Nair and KP Anil Kumar were suspended and PCC secretary Prashant was expelled. Another senior leader, A V Gopinathan, quit the party. Chandy and Chennithala publicly expressed their differences with the new leadership of the state unit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anwar-to-visit-kerala-amid-cong-infighting-101630781006969.html
05-09-2021||India||Covid situation is under control, says Kerala CM||Even as Kerala continues to report the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the country, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Saturday that the situation is under control and that there is no big jump in infections after the Onam festival as was feared. The state recorded 29,682 Covid cases on Saturday with a test positivity rate (TPR) of 17.54% after 169,237 samples were tested. It also reported 142 deaths, pushing the toll to 21,422, according to the health ministry data. Talking to newsmen in the state capital, Vijayan said though the number of patients increased, hospital admissions came down in the last three weeks and that situation will stabilise soon. In mid-August hospitalisation rate was 5.99% of active cases, but it came down to 5.23% between August 28 and September 3, he said. “There is no big hike (in Covid cases), as we feared, after Onam. Hospitalisation rate is coming down slowly. Even in the recent experts’ meeting, all lauded the state’s containment strategy,” he said. The state government had called a meeting of experts on September 1. The CM said the night curfew and Sunday lockdown will continue till the situation gets stabilised. Many experts have criticised the night curfew, saying movement was minimum during night hours. Vijayan said the state has vaccinated 75% of the eligible population and out of this 27.4% got both the doses. The CM also flagged off a new campaign, ‘Be the Warrior’, exhorting youngsters and volunteers to participate in a big way in the fight against the pandemic. The opposition Congress and BJP, however, said the government’s containment measures remained only in slogans and public relations exercises. “Now the government is taking refuge in the experts’ meeting to paint a rosy picture. Instead of admitting that its containment strategy was an utter failure, it is searching for alibis,” said BJP leader S Suresh. Active Covid cases in the state now stand at 250,065. According the state health ministry bulletin, Thrissur district reported the maximum Covid cases, 3,474, followed by Ernakulam with 3,456 and Malappuram with 3,156. North Kerala’s Wayanad and Kasaragod districts reported less than 1,000 cases. In the last 24 hours, the country reported 42,618 cases and 330 deaths. The national TPR is below 3% and active caseload stands at 405,681, according to the Union health ministry data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-situation-is-under-control-says-kerala-cm-101630781005126.html
05-09-2021||India||K’taka bans all forms of online gambling||Karnataka became the third state to ban online gambling on Saturday after the state cabinet approved the decision. However, the decision does not include a ban on lottery and horse racing. Talking to reporters after the cabinet meeting, Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister JC Madhuswamy said: “We are amending the Karnataka Police Act, intending to put an end to online gambling, based on the High Court directions. The cabinet has approved the amendments, it will be placed before the assembly.” He added that a draft bill proposing the ban is ready. “The draft Bill defines online games as, games involving all forms of wagering or betting including in the form of tokens valued in terms of the money paid before or after the issue of it or electronic means and virtual currency, also electronic transfer of currency in connection with any game of chance,” the minister said. The amendment bill to this effect will be tabled in the upcoming session of the legislature starting September 13. In July, the state government informed the High Court, which is hearing a petition seeking a ban on all forms of online betting and gambling, that it had drafted a Bill. A Public Interest Litigation (PIL) filed by D R Sharada, a resident of Davanagere, in July, sought a direction to ban all forms of online gambling and online betting of any nature until an appropriate regulatory regime is established and regulations are framed. In the affidavit filed before the HC in July, the state had said that the home department will take immediate measures to place it before the state legislature after getting approval from the cabinet. The chief secretary stated that the stand of the government on the issue will be placed before the court after the approval of the cabinet and the legislature. Last November, Tamil Nadu had promulgated an ordinance banning online gambling, and earlier this year, Kerala had imposed a ban on online rummy games. (With input from the PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ktaka-bans-all-forms-of-online-gambling-101630780947168.html
05-09-2021||India||4 yrs on, trial in Lankesh case yet to begin; SC to hear sister’s plea||September 5 will mark four years since Gauri Lankesh, a journalist turned activist, was murdered in front of her house. Even though the Special Investigation Team (SIT) filed a charge sheet in the case on March 10, 2018, the trial is yet to begin. On September 8, the Supreme Court is expected to hear the plea filed by Kavitha Lankesh, challenging the dropping of charges under the Karnataka Control of Organised Crime Act 2000 (KCOCA) against one of the accused in the murder case. A bench led by Justice AM Khanwilkar had issued notice to the Karnataka government on the petition filed by Kavitha, in which she appealed against the state high court’s decision in April to quash charges against Mohan Nayak. KCOCA is a law enacted by the state since 2000 to combat organised crime and terrorism. The Act was modelled on the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act, 1999 (MCOCA). According to the police, if the charges of KCOCA are dropped against Nayak, it could set precedence for charges to be dropped against other accused in the case. There are a total of xx accused in the case, including the shooter Parashuram Waghmore and the mastermind of the crime Amol Kale.The hearing in the case is expected to start following this hearing, which the SIT said is crucial for the investigations on other rationalist murders. During the investigation, the SIT found that a nameless organisation that recruited right-wing activists from various Hindutva organisations was behind the murder. The investigation into the Lankesh murder case also unearthed a link between the murders of four rationalists – MM Kalburgi, Govind Pansare, Narendra Dhabolkar, and Lankesh. During the initial days of the investigation, the SIT found a connection between the murders of Lankesh and professor Kalburgi, who was killed on August 30, 2015. The four bullet slugs and cartridges recovered from Lankesh’s house matched with the slugs and cartridges of the Kalburgi murder case. The forensic labs found that both bullets were fired from the same gun. The Maharashtra SIT, which is probing the murder of another rationalist, Govind Pansare, also found that the same was used in Lankesh and Pansare murders. The link between the murders of Lankesh and Narendra Dhabolkar, another Maharashtra-based rationalist, murdered on August 20, 2013, emerged during the later stages of the investigation. It was found that fifty-year-old Rajesh Bangera, a second division assistant in the Education Department, who was the tenth person arrested by Karnataka SIT, provided weapons training to the killers of Dhabolkar and Lankesh. According to SIT officials, the trial of the Gauri Lankesh case will have a severe impact on the investigations into other rationalists’ murders, which have become cold cases. “We hope that after the SC hearing on September 8, the trial in the case will begin,” said senior SIT officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-yrs-on-trial-in-lankesh-case-yet-to-begin-sc-to-hear-sister-s-plea-101630780886366.html
05-09-2021||India||Mumbai reports Covid spike, registers 413 new infections||With over 400 coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases being reported in Mumbai daily over the last three days, the city has witnessed a 20% spike in weekly caseload in the last seven days as compared to the week before, according to data from the Maharashtra health department.However, experts said it cannot yet be termed as the start of the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.While Mumbai reported over 1,893 daily Covid-19 cases between August 21 and 27, it went up to 2,279 in the last seven days between August 28 and September 3, as per the state data.According to the data, between August 21 and 27, the case tally went up from 740,870 to 742,763. The city also reported 22 deaths in the same period. However, between August 28 and September 3, the case tally increased from 743,154 to 745,433. Mumbai also reported 15 deaths in the period, taking the toll to 15,987. While the weekly cases have gone up, the number of Covid-19 deaths in the city has gone down, as per the state data.The last seven days has also seen city testing more individuals for Covid-19. According to the data of Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), between August 21 and 27, 210,140 tests were conducted in the city, of which 1,893 tested positive at test positivity rate (TPR) of around 0.90%. Between August 28 and September 3, the city conducted 256,214 tests, of which 2,279 reported positive for the infection at TPR of 0.88%. Overall, 9.3 million tests have been conducted in the city between February 3 last year and Friday. The overall positivity rate throughout the two waves stood at 7.94%.Dr Rahul Pandit of Fortis Hospital, Mulund who is also a member of the state’s Covid-19 task force, said, “We have opened up (relaxed Covid-19 restrictions) since August 15, and with this opening up there some spike expected in the number of cases. But we still have a chance to control this figure around 400. If we do not adhere to Covid protocols, there will be further increase. Also, we cannot yet say it is the start of a third wave. But I will say that the third wave is at the door knocking on us. It is for us to remain cautious now.”Meanwhile on Saturday, the city reported 413 new Covid-19 cases and four deaths, taking the case tally to 745,846 and toll to 15,991. Mumbai’s recovery rate is 96% with 723,386 recoveries. There are 4,031 active cases in the city and the fatality rate is 2.14%, according to the state health department.So far, 9,802,995 beneficiaries have been given at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine in Mumbai and another 2,769,355 have been fully vaccinated, according to Mumbai civic body data..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-reports-covid-spike-registers-413-new-infections-101630780224213.html
05-09-2021||India||BJP plans events to mark PM Narendra Modi’s 20 years in public life||The Narendra Modi government and the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) are preparing to celebrate a milestone next month. On October 7, it will be 20 years since Modi took public office as the chief minister of Gujarat and to mark the occasion special events have been planned starting with his birthday on the 17th of this month and culminating on the anniversary day.The drive has been named “Sewa Aur Samarpan Abhiyan”, which means a campaign in tribute to service and dedication. While the government’s information and broadcasting ministry held a meeting on Thursday on how to mark the occasion, the party wrote a letter to all office bearers to conduct activities to celebrate the feat “which very few leaders in a democracy have managed to obtain”.“Since there is unique confluence of two important dates this year, the Honourable President of BJP Shri Jagat Prakash Naddaji has directed to observe these 20 days as Sewa Aur Samarpan Abhiyan. While the PM’s birthday reminds us of the importance of service, October 7 reminds us of the importance of complete dedication to our country and its people,” wrote the party’s national general secretary Arun Singh.The BJP has appointed a four-member team led by Kailash Vijaywargiya to plan activities for party workers throughout the campaign. “Our focus will be to showcase the way Modi ji has worked to uplift the deprived sections of society. We will focus on his values of service and sacrifice,” Vijaywargiya said.Another member Vinod Sonkar told HT that he was still in Tripura and would take a briefing on the activities on his return to Delhi. However, a senior official of the information and broadcasting ministry confirmed that the government was also planning events around both those dates.“It is very early to talk about this,” said the official. “The idea is to pay tribute to Prime Minister Modi and to highlight his key moments from the way he transformed Gujarat to his role since 2014 when he came to the national stage.” Cabinet minister Anurag Thakur has asked ministry officials and those from Prasar Bharati to come up with ideas for the 20 days.Meanwhile, the party has told all workers to host exhibitions on the PM’s life and achievements at every district office. The NaMo app will also be showing a virtual version of this exhibit while equipment and aid will be given to the disabled, ration bags to the poor and blood donation camps will be held to mark the campaign. Party workers have been told to encourage those who are NaMo fans “and looking for an opportunity to express affection” to be recruited for this campaign.The letter said since the BJP has a presence across the country, workers should generate 50 million postcards from booths spread across the country. Workers have been encouraged to take care of Covid orphans and the party plans to auction any gifts that the PM receives, with funds to be directed to the Namami Gange project.“Honourable PM in these 20 years has embodied the spirit of Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabhka Vishwas, Sabka Prayas,” the letter said, urging workers to give testimonials of how this has changed people’s lives.Asked for a comment, a PMO official said there was no plan finalised yet. However, the government’s publicity department had started preliminary work on this months ago. For instance, in a celebration of the PM, the campaign will focus on how the journey in 2001 was fraught with challenges as Modi had to handle the aftermath of the Bhuj earthquake. Despite that, officials say, he managed to create brands such as the Gujarat Model and Vibrant Gujarat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-plans-eventsto-mark-pm-narendra-modi-s-20-years-in-public-life-101630780104763.html
05-09-2021||India||India, US will hold 2+2 talks in November||The next round of India-US 2+2 ministerial dialogue is expected to take place in November this year and there is possibility of a meeting between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and US President Joe Biden later this month although there is no confirmation from the Indian government as yet. Foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla told reporters on Friday, at the end of two days of meetings with American officials and business leaders, that the dates for the 2+2 dialogue are still being discussed. He also spoke of the tentative bilateral summit and said it was under discussion.“We are looking at the 2+2, which will happen in November. The exact dates are not yet worked out,” Shringla told reporters at the conclusion of his visit in Washington.It is the US’s turn to host the 2+2 annual meeting of the foreign and defence ministers of the two countries and it will be the first meeting of this format for the Biden administration. The last meeting was held in New Delhi last October with Mike Pompeo and Mark Esper, secretaries of state and defence in the Trump administration.The upcoming meeting will be between India’s external affairs minister S Jaishankar and defence minister Rajnath Singh, and US secretary of state Antony Blinken and defence secretary Lloyd Austin.The Indian side has also begun advance preparations for a possible visit to the US by Prime Minister Narendra Modi by the end of September, people aware of the matter said. Though there has been no formal announcement from the Indian side, the dates between September 22 and 27 were being looked at for the visit, they added. An in-person summit of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue (Quad) -- a grouping of the US, India, Japan and Australia -- was also being discussed for the end of September after leaders of the four countries held a virtual meeting in March this year, the people said. However, there is a lack of clarity on holding the face-to-face Quad summit after Japan’s Yoshihide Suga announced he will step down as Prime Minister. The foreign secretary also said President Biden’s special envoy on climate, John Kerry, will visit India soon for a second time in this capacity. Kerry was the US secretary of state in the Obama administration. During his visit to Washington, Shringla met senior leaders of the US State Department, including secretary of state Blinken and deputy secretary of state Wendy Sherman, along with top leaders at the US Department of Defense and the National Security Council at the White House.The situation in Afghanistan predictably made its way into conversations with American officials, with the foreign secretary saying that the US’s position of “wait and watch” tracked closely with India’s own approach on the issue. Shringla said the US has adopted a “wait and watch policy” and that they will calibrate their actions depending on how the situation evolves in Kabul, which has been taken over by the Taliban as western forces pulled out their troops from the country to end a 20-year war in chaos. “That’s also similar to what we ourselves conveyed in the parliamentary briefing that was held a few days ago. We said we will have a wait-and-watch policy, which does not mean you don’t do anything,” Shringla said, adding, “It simply means… the situation is very fluid on the ground, you have to allow it to see how it evolves. You have to see whether the assurances that were made publicly are maintained on the ground.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-us-will-hold-2-2-talks-in-november-101630779444158.html
05-09-2021||India||CID summons BJP’s Suvendu Adhikari for questioning in suicide case||Kolkata: The West Bengal Crime Investigation Department (CID) has summoned Leader of Opposition in the state assembly, Suvendu Adhikari, to appear before it on Monday in connection with the alleged suicide of his security guard in 2018, officials familiar with the matter said on Saturday. The development comes days after chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew and Trinamool Congress MP, Abhishek Banerjee, was summoned to appear before the Enforcement Directorate on Monday in an alleged money laundering case involving coal smuggling. The Diamond Harbour MP’s wife, Rujira Banerjee, too, was earlier asked to appear before the agency in New Delhi on September 1.While Adhikari didn’t respond to calls and messages for a comment, a Bharatiya Janata Party spokesperson termed the notice “vendetta politics”. Protégé-turned-adversary Adhikari had defeated Mamata Banerjee from Nandigram by a narrow margin of 1,956 votes in the recently-concluded assembly elections. “When the security guard died, Adhikari was a minister in the TMC government. Back then he was God. Now that he has joined the BJP, and has defeated Mamata Banerjee, he has become a demon. The TMC is not being able to digest the defeat of Mamata Banerjee. This is nothing but vendetta politics,” said Samik Bhattacharya, BJP spokesperson. Earlier in July, a four-member CID delegation visited Purba Medinipur to probe into the death of Adhikari’s security guard who reportedly died by suicide in October 2018. According to the police, the deceased allegedly shot himself with his service revolver. In July, after the TMC came to power for the third time, the victim’s wife lodged a three-page complaint with the local police in the East Midnapore district demanding a fresh probe into her husband’s death. “BJP is continuously resorting to vindictive politics. The way, Abhishek Banerjee and a few others are being attacked in the name of investigation, people of West Bengal won’t accept it. It has been proved that such steps are not above vindictive politics,” Partha Chatterjee, state minister and Trinamool Congress’ secretary general had told the media when ED had summoned the CM’s nephew.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cid-summons-bjp-s-suvendu-adhikari-for-questioning-in-suicide-case-101630779385693.html
05-09-2021||India||Taliban ‘reasonable’ to our concerns: India||India and the US are carefully watching Pakistan’s actions in Afghanistan in light of Islamabad’s role in backing the Taliban, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla said as he wound up a three-day visit to Washington during which the situation in the war-torn country was a key part of discussions.Shringla also told reporters in Washington on Friday that India has had a “limited” engagement with the Taliban, during which the group indicated it would be “reasonable in the way they handle things”.His remarks came against the backdrop of the rapidly evolving situation in Afghanistan, where the Taliban are set to form government after sweeping to power in Kabul on August 15. Shringla spoke hours before Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) chief, Lt Gen Faiz Hameed, became the first senior Pakistani leader to fly into Kabul for talks with the Taliban.Shringla noted Pakistan has extended backing to the Taliban, and said India and the US will assess Pakistan’s actions in Afghanistan with a “fine-tooth comb”.“They (US) will obviously see how different players get engaged in the situation in Afghanistan. Pakistan is a neighbour of Afghanistan. They have supported and nurtured the Taliban. There are various elements there that Pakistan supported, so its role has to be seen in that context,” he said.India is closely engaged with the US on developments in Afghanistan, and both sides have adopted a wait and watch policy towards the Taliban and are calibrating their actions in response to the evolving situation, he added.Shringla contended that India’s concerns related to Afghanistan, especially the use of Afghan soil for terrorism, had been addressed in a UN resolution adopted last month. This resolution, he said, mentioned UN-designated terror groups such as Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) and Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT).“So we do have concerns about the free ingress that these two terrorist groups have had in Afghanistan, their role and we will watch that carefully,” he said.Shringla acknowledged that India currently has no immediate substantial engagement with Afghanistan, and described New Delhi’s contacts with the Taliban as limited.“Our engagement with them (Taliban) has been limited. It’s not that we have a robust conversation. But from whatever conversations we’ve had so far, the Taliban seem to indicate they will be reasonable in the way they handle things,” he said.“I don’t see members of the international community being passive over the situation in Afghanistan. We are not there on the ground, [we] have no assets there. It’s not like we are not doing anything, we are in touch with every country that has an interest in Afghanistan,” he added.After months of informal contacts with the group, India’s ambassador to Qatar, Deepak Mittal, held talks with senior Taliban leader Sher Mohammed Abbas Stanekzai on Tuesday, the first officially acknowledged contact between the two sides. During the meeting held at the Taliban’s request, the India side raised its concerns about Afghan soil being used for anti-India activities and terror.Shringla met US secretary of state Antony Blinken and other senior American officials during his visit, and the situation in Afghanistan figured prominently in discussions.The ISI chief arrived in Kabul with a high-level delegation for talks with the top Taliban leadership on security and other issues. Unnamed Pakistani military officials told the media in Islamabad on Thursday that the ISI chief would work with the Taliban to help reorganise the Afghan Army.Unlike a low-key visit to Kabul by the CIA chief, Lt Gen Hameed was spotted in the lobby of a hotel along with the Pakistani ambassador and even spoke to Pakistani journalists.The ISI chief’s visit coincided with reports of divisions within the Taliban over government formation and the allocation of powers. The reports said there were differences between the camp of senior leader Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar and the Haqqani Network, which has long-standing and close ties with Pakistan’s military establishment.There were also reports of differences between the leaders from the political office in Doha, such as Baradar, and the commanders on the ground, including Mullah Mohammad Yaqoob, the son of Taliban founder Mullah Mohammad Omar, over the allocation of powers in the new set-up.People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that the ISI is working to ensure security-related departments, such as intelligence, defence and interior, are retained by the Haqqani Network. The ISI chief’s visit to Kabul is being seen in the context of these differences and efforts to protect the interests of the Haqqani Network, the people said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/taliban-reasonable-to-our-concerns-india-101630779384157.html
05-09-2021||India||Case pendency has become a challenge, says law minister Kiren Rijiju||Pendency of cases has become a “challenge”, Union law minister Kiren Rijiju said on Saturday as he called for effective delivery of justice to the common man.The minister also pointed out that it is the subordinate judiciary where the issue of pendency requires to be looked into with urgency as when a person from a humble background expects justice, he/she gives up everything for the sake of justice.“And if that justice gets delayed, then it is a big question mark on all of us...So, we have to ensure that last mile person, the common man, must be given the priority when we talk about justice delivery mechanism in our country,” said Rijiju at an event organised by the Bar Council of India to felicitate Chief Justice of India NV Ramana. During the event, the law minister also commended the Supreme Court and the judiciary for taking up several important cases and delivering judgments despite the challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic.Rijiju said that in the last Cabinet meeting, the government took some important decisions for supporting infrastructure building, especially in the lower courts, and sanctioned at one go for the creation of critical infrastructure for courtrooms, lawyers’ halls, toilets, digital rooms and others. “The government will always try to ensure not only the independence of the judiciary but also to support, to strengthen the Indian judiciary,” he said.Apart from the CJI and Rijiju, several sitting apex court judges, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, office-bearers and members of several bar bodies from across the country were present at the function.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/case-pendency-has-become-a-challenge-says-law-minister-kiren-rijiju-101630779279498.html
05-09-2021||India||Prefer 50% women at all judicial levels: CJI Ramana||Days after the collegium headed by him paved the way for a woman judge to head the judiciary in 2027, Chief Justice of India, NV Ramana, on Saturday said that he would prefer at least 50% representation of women in the judiciary at all levels.Lamenting the inadequate number of women judges across the courts in the country, the CJI was of the view that the legal profession still has to welcome women into its fold since a majority of women advocates struggled within the profession.“Very few women find representation at the top. Even when they do, they continue to face significant challenges. After 75 years of independence, one would expect at least 50% representation for women at all levels, but I must admit, with great difficulty we have now achieved a mere 11% representation of women on the bench of the Supreme Court,” said justice Ramana.Speaking at a function organised by the Bar Council of India (BCI) to felicitate him, the CJI emphasised that the issue pertaining to the representation of women in the judiciary must be highlighted and deliberated upon.Out of the sanctioned strength of 34 judges, the Supreme Court currently has four women judges — justices Indira Banerjee, Hima Kohli, BV Nagarathna and Bela M Trivedi — which is the highest ever number in its history. Other than justice Banerjee, three judges were appointed on August 31, taking the total number of women judges appointed in the top court to date to 11. Justice Nagarathna is in line to become the first woman CJI in September 2027, and she will have a tenure of a little over a month.According to data from the Union ministry of law and justice, out of 677 sitting judges in both the Supreme Court and high courts, only 81 are women. This makes out the representation of women judges in the total working strength to a mere 12%.Among the 25 high courts, only the Madras high court has women judges in double digits. Out of the working strength of 58 judges, the Madras HC has 13 women, which is more than 22% representation. At least five high courts — Manipur, Meghalaya, Bihar, Tripura and Uttarakhand — do not have even a single woman judge while seven other high courts have just one woman judge each.The sanctioned strength of judges across 25 high courts in India is 1,098. Of these, 465 posts (more than 42% of the total strength) were vacant, as of September 1.In his speech, CJI Ramana highlighted how the collegium, which also includes justices Uday Lalit, AM Khanwilkar, Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and L Nageswara Rao, is attempting to address the issue of vacancies in the higher judiciary on an urgent basis.Putting on record his appreciation for the other members of the collegium, justice Ramana said that it is only due to the collective efforts that the vacancy in the Supreme Court has been reduced to one judge while 82 names have been recommended for appointment in various high courts since the CJI took the helm in April this year.“I hope the Government will ensure that the names are cleared at the earliest just the way the 9 names were cleared for the apex court. It is an ongoing process. We hope to live up to the herculean challenge of filling nearly 41% vacancies existing in all the high courts,” added justice Ramana.In the last week, the collegium has recommended 68 names for appointment in total across 12 high courts. The numbers included nine names which were objected to by the Union government but have been reiterated by the collegium after overruling the opposition. The reiterations further included four names for the Calcutta high court; two for the Jammu & Kashmir high court; two for the Karnataka high court, and one for the Rajasthan high court.This is the highest number of names recommended for appointment as HC judges.Among the 68 names cleared, 44 are lawyers while 24 are serving judicial officers. There are 10 women among the recommendations. In yet another first, a woman judicial officer belonging to the Scheduled Tribes was recommended for appointment in the Gauhati high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prefer-50-women-at-all-judicial-levels-cji-ramana-101630779145103.html
05-09-2021||India||Centre using ED to ‘subdue’ Opposition parties: Sharad Pawar||Pune The BJP-led Union government is using the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to “subdue” opposition parties across the country, NCP president Sharad Pawar alleged on Saturday.Speaking to reporters here, Pawar said the misuse of the investigation agency was being seen not only in Maharashtra but in other states too. “Of late the (Union) government seems to be using this agency to subdue the opposition. This is happening not only in Maharashtra, but also in Punjab, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and in some southern states too,” he said. The Union government is also ignoring the farmers who have been protesting against the new farm laws for over a year, the former agriculture minister said. “It has been 14 months since farmers have sat in protest, leaving behind their homes. The government should have taken cognizance of these protesters who have been sitting there for so long, but it is unfortunate that they are being ignored,” he said.On the BJP’s demand that temples in Maharashtra be thrown open to the public, Pawar said the Centre itself has given instructions to the state government about taking extra precaution in view of the COVID-19 pandemic situation.“The chief minister (Uddhav Thackeray) and state government are following the Centre’s directive,” said Pawar whose party is part of the ruling combine in the state. He also cleared the air about Swabhimani Shetakari Sanghatana chief Raju Shetti’s name being recommended for appointment as a Member of Legislative Council from the governor’s quota.“We have kept our word. We have proposed that Shetti’s name be included in the list....We are waiting for the governor’s decision,” Pawar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-using-ed-to-subdue-opposition-parties-sharad-pawar-101630779024815.html
05-09-2021||India||5 ‘mystery deaths’ in Bihar trigger panic, docs rushed||A team of doctors was sent to Bihar’s East Champaran district on Saturday, after the deaths of five members of a family under mysterious circumstances over the last five days triggered panic and anger among local residents, officials familiar with the matter said. Dr Sharvan Paswan, in charge of Motihari public health centre, suspected it to be a case of food poisoning or snake bite. Dr Anil Sinha, deputy superintendent (in-charge) of Sadar hospital in Motihari said: “Blood clots were noticed on the nasal passage and mouth of deceased. An autopsy was inconclusive...” Family members of the deceased, however, alleged exorcism. Agitated villagers blocked the Motihari-Pakaridayal road for hours in protest.Police have identified the deceased as Ravindra Prasad (40), Deventi Kumari (12), Anshu Kumar (10), Kallu Kumar (6) and Priyanshu Kumar (5).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-mystery-deaths-in-bihar-trigger-panic-docs-rushed-101630778844794.html
05-09-2021||India||BRICS proposes vaccine access, consumer safety||The BRICS nations -- Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa – proposed to have a common action plan to ensure consumer protection amid growing usage of e-commerce while emphasising on the need for an early outcome of the Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) waiver for Covid-19 vaccines.At the 11th BRICS trade ministers meeting on Friday, which was held under the chairmanship of Indian commerce minister Piyush Goyal, members agreed to work on newer areas such as consumer protection, e-commerce, genetic resources, traditional knowledge and cooperation in professional services, a commerce ministry statement said.The members also agreed for a common approach towards the multilateral trading system, particularly in the forthcoming ministerial conference of World Trade Organisation (WTO), it said. The 12th ministerial conference (MC12) of WTO will take place from November 30 to December 3 this year in Geneva.India and South Africa lead the group of countries at WTO in seeking a waiver for certain provisions of the TRIPS agreement to provide universal access of Covid-19 vaccines to the poor countries.At the meeting, which was held in virtual format on Friday, Goyal raised developmental needs of developing and least developed countries (LDCs) and urged BRICS countries to work together for strengthening the multilateral system such as the WTO, the statement said.There was a consensus among BRICS members for jointly working towards protection of genetic resources, traditional knowledge and traditional cultural expressions so as to address the issue of its misappropriation through mandatory disclosure of source of origin of the resource, it said. “This will also help moving together in international forums on this issue,” it added.“In this era of exponential jump in the use of e-commerce and online electronic transactions, the convergence to draw a common action plan amongst BRICS countries will help in to promote exploring practical options for ensuring consumer protection,” the statement said. India in July last year proposed the Consumer Protection (e-Commerce) Rules to prevent unfair trade practices in e-commerce that harm the interest of consumers in the long run.At the meeting, Goyal stressed on the need for a permanent, adequate and equitable solution to the public stockholding programmes for food security purposes. The matter has been under discussion at the WTO. The issue of public stockholding programmes for food security purposes requires developing countries to purchase and stockpile food and distribute it to the poor. But, the scheme is also viewed by some as a trade distortion as it could be an indirect way to support farmers.Despite numerous challenges and constraints on account of the Covid-19 pandemic and the associated travel restriction, Goyal was successful in building consensus for new areas of work and cooperation amongst BRICS countries. Common understanding amongst BRICS countries was reached on a range of subjects for the first time such as consumer protection, e-commerce, genetic resources, traditional knowledge and cooperation in professional services, the statement said.The theme chosen by India for its BRICS chairship is ‘BRICS@15: Intra BRICS Cooperation for Continuity, Consolidation and Consensus’. The BRICS ministers acknowledged the importance of strengthening intra-BRICS cooperation in achieving the common goal of making their goods and services globally competitive and further integrating into the global value chain, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/brics-proposes-vaccine-access-consumer-safety-101630778668204.html
05-09-2021||India||National Nutrition Week: 8 spices to include in your diet||A sprinkle of cinnamon in your morning coffee. A handful of freshly chopped basil over pasta. Herbs and spices can make any food appetising. Don’t you just love how happy your taste buds feel when you use spices to season your foods? We all do. Spices are not only great for flavor, but they are great for health too!Spices do add colour and heighten the taste and aroma of food, but they can also do a lot to keep you well as well. This National Nutrition Week, let’s explore the therapeutic properties, protecting and alleviating properties of spices.“India has a variety of spices, the two ranges of spices are the grounded spices and the whole spice range from a vast assortment of spices. The grounded spice can be incorporated by adding them directly into the curries and gravies and they have proven to have health benefits including fighting chronic diseases and also thanks to the anti-inflammatory effects of the spice,” says Mr Shammi Agarwal, Managing Director, The Pansari group. Whole spices have health benefits of lowering your blood sugar levels and help to heal heart diseases.Turmeric, popularly referred to as the golden spice delivers some solid-gold benefits. That’s thanks to its high amounts of curcumin, a powerful antioxidant. “Curcumin found in Turmeric aka haldi found in almost every Indian household is one of the most potent ‘natural’ antioxidants and anti inflammatories we can find. Amazing for lowering inflammation, health, immunity and even joints,” says Yash Vardhan Swami online health and fitness educator , coach as well as a nutritionist.Star anise, a small flower like fruit, is a storehouse of some key ingredients and is also famous for its medicinal properties. “Chakra Phool is a rich source of antioxidants and vitamin A and C, which help fight free radicals that are responsible for early aging and diabetes,” says Mr. Amit Juneja, CEO and MD, Annakoot by ISKCON Bangalore.Zamurrud M. Patel, RD, Chief Dietician, Global Hospitals, Mumbai, believes curry leaves are rich in alkaloids and phenolic compounds which are protective and potent health substances. “Curry leaves have shown positive effects on Cholesterol and thereby Heart Health. It’s very effective in correcting gut issues too. Simple, inexpensive herbs which can be added to all meals.”A member of the mint family, rosemary is prized both for its flavour and its fragrance. “Rosemary, a scented herb with characteristics that strengthen sight and memory. Its usage dates back to ancient Greeks and Romans preparing a fragrant distilled water from the flower and inhaling its odour for best effects. A tea made from this herb is also very beneficial in relieving tiredness and fatigue. The oil of rosemary can also be used as a stimulant with few drops taken internally,” says Vikas Chawla, Founder and Director, Vedas Cure.Bay leaves are a fragrant leaf from the laurel tree used as an herb. The leaves are added to slow-cooked recipes, such as soups, sauces, and stews, and are removed before serving the dish. Bay leaves are a rich source of vitamin A, vitamin C, iron, potassium, calcium, and magnesium. Also regular inclusion of bay leaves in meals promotes general health. “Indian bay leaves are commonly known as “tej patta” and are used in dried form in curries, biryani and korma. Organic compounds like rutin and caffeic acid are found in the bay leaves which are good for heart health as they eliminate LDL or bad cholesterol from the cardiovascular system and strengthen the capillaries. They improve the insulin function , which is good for people suffering from diabetes,” says Dr Rohini Patil, dietitian and nutritionist, Nutracy Lifestyle.Sorrel or better known in India as Gongura is a garden herb cultivated in the North-East region of India. The leaves of this herb are closely similar to Spinachbut have a tangy taste like Kiwi fruit. “Single Cup of Sorrel enriches your body with 3g of Protein, 17 percent Iron, 4g of Fibre and 106 percent of regularly suggested Vitamin A and C with on 30 Calorie. It helps in boosting slow digestion, reduces stress and anxiety as it contains high value Magnesium and Vitamin B6 and possibly helps in cure of sinuses,” says Eshanka Wahi, a Dubai & Delhi-based Wellness Advocate & Nutrition Coach.Dr. Angeli Misra, Founder & Director, Lifeline Laboratory says,”There’s magic in your spice box! Herbs and spices commonly used in Indian cooking, in soups as a garnish, for tempering dals, added in gravy, or simply tossed up with salads, were recognized for their nutritional and medicinal uses thousands of years ago.”She suggests nutmeg, a popular spice used in cooking across the world and is also famous for its health benefits “Nutmeg contains a wide array of powerful anti-inflammatory compounds and acts as an antioxidant in your body. It has antibacterial properties to protect from harmful strains of bacteria,” she adds.The kalonji, or Nigella seeds, is used for tempering, and adds a beautiful aroma to the dishes, and a hint of flavour that you can’t quite nail.“Kalonji, also known as Nigella sativa, black seed, and black cumin. Its seeds have long been used in herbal medicine to treat a variety of diseases and conditions ranging from diabetes to arthritis, It’s suggested that the active components in kalonji seeds boost weight loss by affecting the expression of specific genes related to appetite control and fat loss,” says Rani Garg, Director, ZeoNutra||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/national-nutrition-week-8-spices-to-include-in-your-diet-101630769434319.html
