06-09-2021||India||Monkeys enter state-run hospital ward in Karnataka, patients and staff panic||In a bizarre incident on Sunday monkeys were seen strolling in a government-run hospital in Karnataka’s Gadag district. In videos circulated on social media, a group of monkeys were seen hopping from bed to bed and scaring patients and attendants in the healthcare centre.Gadag district officials told an online portal which reported about the incident first that a bunch of monkeys entered the children’s ward at the state-run maternity hospital at Gadag’s KC Rani Road and triggered panic among patients and staff. Residents of the area said despite repeated complaints to the forest department, the primates creating ruckus in the area have not been rehabilitated.The four-legged animals have been in the news frequently for creating ruckus in public places. The Mathura municipal board in Uttar Pradesh has started a 15-day programme to nab monkeys from Bankey Bihari temple area in Vrindavan, Chaubiapara and Dwarkadhish temple for creating menace for devotees. “Over half a dozen people lost their lives either due to attack or fear of monkeys in Vrindavan within (past) two years,” the head of an ashram in Mathura told PTI. The monkeys were captured and released in the wild after the forest department gave its nod.Earlier in June of this year, a monkey was spotted riding in a Delhi Metro coach from Yamuna Bank to Indraprastha station in the heart of the capital. The animal had boarded the train from Akshardham metro station and sauntered off before Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) officials could get a hold of it. Following the incident, the DMRC came up with a standard operating procedure for tackling such episodes, and advised passengers to not feed or encourage the animals under any circumstances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monkeys-enter-state-run-hospital-ward-in-karnataka-patients-and-staff-panic-101630952694666.html
06-09-2021||India||Eight held for minor’s gang rape in Pune||Pune Police on Monday arrested eight people, including two railway officials, in connection with the alleged gang-rape of a minor girl after she was abducted from Pune railway station on the night of August 31. A local court later remanded eight men to 10 days of police custody.The arrested were identified as Mashak Abdulmajid Kanyal (27), Akbar Amar Shaikh (32), Rafik Murtaja Shaikh (32), Azaruddin Islamuddin Ansari (27), Prashan Samuel Gaikwad (32), Rajkumar Ramangina PRasad (29), Noib Naim Khan (24) and Asif Feroz Pathan (36), all residents of Pune. The police are on the lookout for five others in the case. A case was registered under Sections 363 (kidnapping), 376(d)(a), 377 (unnatural sex), and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code along with Sections 4(2), 5(g), 6, 8, and 12 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offence Act at Wanowrie police station. While two of the eight arrested are workers at the railway station, five of them are autorickshaw drivers, according to Namrata Patil, deputy commissioner of police, Zone 5 of Pune police. One other person is an air conditioning repairman. “Whether they are contract workers or railway employees deployed for cleaning work is yet to be found out,” said Dipak Lagad, senior inspector of Wanowrie police station. The teenager had come to Pune railway station on the night of August 31 to meet a friend who was arriving at the station, according to the girl. “When her friend could not come, she was looking for an autorickshaw when one auto driver approached her and offered to take her back home. However, he took the autorickshaw in a different direction and picked one of his friends en route and both assaulted her at a secluded spot. Later, they threatened to hurt her parents if she raised an alarm and kept on passing her to different locations. Her parents had registered a missing person complaint, and a case of kidnapping was registered based on it on September 1,” read a statement issued by the Pune police. The complaint was lodged by the girl’s father while she is undergoing tests at Sassoon General Hospital. One of the places where the girl was taken was allegedly a railway office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eight-held-for-minor-s-gang-rape-in-pune-101630952807200.html
06-09-2021||India||'We have a Covid-19 third wave in Nagpur', says guardian minister||The third wave of Covid-19 has arrived in Nagpur, the city’s guardian minister Nitin Raut announced on Monday as the number of daily cases increased to double digits. The city recorded 12 cases in the past 24 hours, while the number of fatalities remained zero.This announcement comes after the minister chaired a review meeting with officials. Raut also said that the local administration may announce restrictions to curb the spread of the infection. "Today, after a long time, we have come down to twice as many positive cases. We have a third wave," news agency ANI quoted the minister as saying."A disaster management meeting will be held soon. It has been decided to impose some restrictions but we will take a final decision in consultation with the representatives of the people in this regard," he added."After a meeting with traders and other organisations in two to three days, enhanced restrictions will be announced," Raut also said.The Covid-19 tally in the city touched 4,93,072, while the death toll stood at 10,119, leaving the district with an active caseload of 56.The enhanced curb might include restaurants being allowed to remain open till 8pm instead of 10pm, Raut informed. The administration might also ask shops, other establishments to remain open till 4pm and a complete shutdown on weekends.Raut also informed that 78 samples have been sent for genome sequencing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-third-wave-entered-nagpur-says-minister-likely-to-announce-curbs-101630950756386.html
06-09-2021||India||Youth Congress passes resolution to reappoint Rahul Gandhi as party chief||The Indian Youth Congress (IYC) unanimously passed a resolution on Monday to reappoint senior party leader Rahul Gandhi as president of the All India Congress Committee (AICC). The move came at the conclusion of ICY’s two-day national executive meeting on Monday.Srinivas BV, president of the Indian Youth Congress, took to Twitter to share a copy of the resolution and said, “At the National Executive meeting of the Indian Youth Congress, IYC jointly passes a resolution that Rahul Gandhi should be appointed as AICC President as per the constitution of Indian National Congress. It is the wish of lakhs of workers to have him lead us at a time of great adversity.”All national office bearers and all state presidents were present in the meeting.“He (Srinivas BC) also said that in the coming days, the Youth Congress will fight on all burning issues in the interest of the country on the streets and will take this struggle to the people,” a statement from the party’s youth wing read.In the two-day national executive meeting of the IYC, which began on Sunday, the leaders discussed challenges before the organization and how success can be achieved on those challenges, major programs of the organization, internal elections, membership, all the major issues including the campaign were also discussed.“National In-charge of Indian Youth Congress and AICC Joint-Secretary Shri Krishna Allavaru ji said that every single worker of Indian Youth Congress will fight against this dictatorial government in the coming days and will work to take the ideology of Congress party and the message of Shri Rahul Gandhi ji to the people of the country,” the IYC statement added.Rahul Gandhi, who took over as Congress president from Sonia Gandhi in 2017, quit the post after the party’s flop show in the 2019 general elections.In his resignation letter, Rahul Gandhi had stated that a non-Gandhi should head the Congress, which has mostly been run by members of the Nehru-Gandhi family during its 135-year-long history.The political resolution, which was also passed unanimously by the IYC in Goa, sought to protest the Chinese illegal occupation of India’s sovereign land and demanded that India reclaim its sovereign territory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/youth-congress-passes-resolution-to-reappoint-rahul-gandhi-as-party-chief-101630950045666.html
06-09-2021||India||LJP denies speculation of Paswan family’s reluctance to vacate 12 Janpath bunglow||Chirag Paswan led Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) on Monday denied speculation that the family of the late Ram Vilas Paswan is reluctant to vacate the house that was allocated to the leader as his official residence.The clarification came in the wake of reports that a bust of the senior Paswan, who died in October last year, has been installed in the premises of the residence to indicate the family’s wish of establishing a memorial at the 12, Janpath residence.Paswan was the Union cabinet minister in the NDA government and had been living in the same accommodation for years. The house was recently allocated to Union railway minister, Ashwani Vaishnaw.According to a leader close to Chirag Paswan, the family had sought time from the government to vacate the house, which was agreed to. “The family has made it clear that they will vacate the house and take the bust with them as well. There is no controversy or disagreement over the issue,” the leader said.Chirag Paswan, who represents Jamui Lok Sabha constituency in Bihar, has been allotted a house in North Avenue and will be moving there soon, the leader said.“On September 13 there is a meeting of the senior party leaders in Patna where some crucial decisions will be taken, including on when the house will be vacated,” the leader said.In 2014, the Union cabinet had decided not to allow any government housing to be turned into a memorial.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ljp-denies-speculation-of-paswan-family-s-reluctance-to-vacate-12-janpath-bunglow-101630948607080.html
06-09-2021||India||India sets new record, administers over 1 crore jabs thrice in 11 days||India on Monday crossed the milestone of vaccinating more than 1 crore individuals, a feat the nation achieved thrice in the last eleven days. India administered 10,576,296 vaccines on Monday at the time of writing this report.With Monday’s vaccination tally, India has now vaccinated at least 69.72 crore people, out of which, 53.43 crore people have been vaccinated against Covid-19 with at least one dose and 16.29 crore people have been fully vaccinated with both doses.India administered more than 1 crore vaccines first on August 27 when 10,064,032 people got the shots. India’s health workers helped break this record once again when the nation recorded 1.09 crore vaccinated on August 31.The Prime Minister while addressing a virtual gathering earlier in the day said that the nation is administering a record 1.25 crore Covid-19 vaccine shots. PM Modi stressed that this figure is larger than the entire population of several nations.“India is creating a record by administering 1.25 crore vaccines every day. The number of vaccines administered in a single day by India is more than the entire population of several countries,” PM Modi said. He also lauded efforts undertaken by health workers and the nation’s Covid-19 warriors.Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya in a series of tweets congratulated PM Modi for leading the fight against Covid-19. “September has started on a high note as India touches 1 crore COVID-19 vaccinations today. Under PM Narendra Modi's leadership, the world's largest vaccination drive is scaling massive heights,” Mandaviya said.India’s health ministry as well as Union leaders and chief ministers of various states, however, have asked citizens to not abandon Covid-19 preventative measures ahead of the upcoming festive season. The health ministry has warned against mass gatherings and has also asked fully vaccinated citizens to participate in festivities, while strictly adhering to Covid-19 preventative measures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-sets-new-record-administers-over-1-crore-jabs-thrice-in-11-days-101630946589639.html
06-09-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: Sept 7, 1969 — PM, Kosygin discuss bilateral issues||New Delhi- Soviet Premier Alexei Kosygin and Prime Minister Indira Gandhi discussed world issues and Indo-Soviet relations at an hour-long meeting at Palam airport this morning. The talks were held at a secured first-floor room attached to the VIP lounge. There was no aide present with either leader barring Mr Kosygin’s language interpreter. The Soviet Premier, on way to Hanoi leading a high-power Soviet Communist Party and Government delegation to Dr Ho Chi Minh’s funeral, stopped over for an hour, altering his earlier plan to halt in Calcutta for refuelling. Foreign Minister Dinesh Singh was also at the airport, but did not join the talks. Readily agreeing to newsmen’s request, Mr Kosygin himself gave a brief account of the discussions. He said when Prime Ministers of two “great countries -India and the Soviet Union- meet they have quite a lot to talk about.” On bilateral relations, he said, the two Premiers had come to the “joint conclusion” after the talks that there were progressing in the direction of further strengthening. The discussions on international questions, he said, covered all those issues which were I “troubling the world.” The talks were “useful, important and necessary,” he added. Only clue Mr Kosygin did not list the specific subjects discussed at the meeting. Mrs Gandhi took off for Lucknow in a special IAF aircraft within minutes of the Soviet Premier’s departure without leaving a brief even for the officials. The only clue, therefore, is Mr Kosygin’s description that global issues included those “troubling the world.” These would evidently include Vietnam, West Asia and last but not the least, the, reports on the impending clash of arms between the Soviet Union and China. According to some observers here, the main significance of the Soviet Premier’s last-minute change of programme for a meeting with Mrs Gandhi lies in the delicate balance Moscow maintains in its relations with India and Pakistan. There are reports of new doubts assailing New Delhi on account of the recent Islamabad announcement on Pakistan President Yahya Khan’s visit to Moscow later this month. The members of the Soviet delegation, travelling with Mr Kosygin, included Party Secretary Katoshev and the President of the Russian Federation, Mr Yasnov. Also on the plane were two North Vietnamese, including the DRVN Ambassador to Moscow, Mr Nguyen Tho Chan. Among those who went to Palam airport to greet the Soviet Premier was DRVN Consul-General here, Mr Nguyen Hoa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htthisday-sept-7-1969-pm-kosygin-discuss-bilateral-issues-101630945425747.html
06-09-2021||India||'TMC won’t accept defeat like Congress': Abhishek Banerjee hits out at BJP after grilling by ED||Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Abhishek Banerjee hit out at Bharatiya Janata party (BJP) claiming that the party is trying to “frighten” TMC by bringing cases against its leader. “If BJP thinks it can frighten TMC by doing all this, if they think TMC will accept defeat like Congress and other parties, we will fight more vigorously. We'll go to every state where they've killed democracy,” the TMC general secretary told reporters on Monday.Abhishek Banerjee, who was in Delhi after being summoned by the Enforcement Directorate (ED), levelled allegations against BJP, adding that he has been questioned for the last eight hours. “Anyone who fights against the BJP is harassed. This case has arisen out of Kolkata, I've been summoned to Delhi. I have been asked questions non-stop for the last 8 hours. From day one, I've been asking to bring evidence, if any, against me into public domain,” the TMC leader said.“BJP's tyranny will be defeated. Let BJP put all its might, vigour, threat and resources, mind my words, their resources are going to fall flat. TMC will defeat BJP in next polls,” he added.Abhishek Banerjee is being investigated by ED in a money laundering case linked to an alleged coal pilferage scam in Bengal. His statement was recorded under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) on Monday in Delhi. His wife Rujira Banerjee had also been summoned to Delhi on September 1 by the investigative agency but she had asked the agency to reconsider, citing that as a mother of young children travelling during a pandemic puts her in risk.West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee had come to her nephew’s defence, alleging that BJP is “letting loose” central agencies on political opponents."The BJP and the Union government can't fight us politically. The party was defeated in the assembly polls, and now they are using central agencies against our leaders like Abhishek Banerjee and others. But let me tell them they can't bulldoze or intimidate us with such threats. We will continue our fight against them," the TMC supremo told party supporters on August 28. She also challenged BJP to fight them “politically” in the 2023 Tripura Assembly elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-won-t-accept-defeat-like-congress-abhishek-banerjee-hits-out-at-bjp-after-grilling-by-ed-101630944312793.html
06-09-2021||India||Majority of child deaths in UP's Firozabad 'due to dengue', says Centre||The Centre on Monday wrote a letter to the principal secretary (health) in Uttar Pradesh amid the dengue outbreak in Firozabad district. In the letter, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan also suggested containment measures as he confirmed that a team of experts have found that a majority of cases of viral fever and deaths among children in Firozabad are due to dengue, a few cases of scrub typhus and leptospirosis.The central team of experts included officials of the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and National Vector Borne Disease Control Programme (NVBDCP).Under the recommended measures, Bhushan asked the district administration to screen all patients with fever for dengue, malaria, scrub typhus and leptospirosis. The senior official also asked the administration to "strengthen ELISA based testing facilities.""Activities related to fever survey, vector control and fever camps to continue as per micro plan submitted by the central team," the health secretary also wrote in the letter.Meanwhile, the NCDC deputed two officials in the district for the next 14 days to assist the district administration in strengthening its outbreak response.This comes as the western part of Uttar Pradesh is battling a major outbreak of dengue. Firozabad and Mathura are the worst-affected districts in the region where more than 100 cases have been reported in the past two weeks. The viral disease has claimed 51 lives so far, most of them being children.The Firozabad district administration is releasing about 25,000 fish that eat larvae of dengue-breeding mosquitoes in ponds to check the spread of the disease, news agency PTI reported quoting a senior district official.The fishes, generically known as Gambusia, are reportedly being released in ponds in urban as well as rural areas of the district.Meanwhile, district magistrate Chandra Vijay Singh directed the health and municipal corporation officials to conduct a door-to-door survey to drain out stagnant water from coolers, pots and other utensils.What the Union health secretary suggested:1) Surveillance to be strengthened with the implementation of Integrated Health Information Platform in the district in coordination with Central Surveillance Unit, Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme, NCDC.2) Entomological activities to be strengthened and continued as per standard guidelines and standard operating protocols of the NVBDCP.3) Isolation beds and admission facilities in the district hospital of Firozabad and neighbouring districts to be augmented.4) He also asked the administration to organise a short reorientation of all doctors at primary health centres, community health centres and district hospital-cum-medical college of Firozabad and neighbouring districts on recent guidelines for the management of dengue, scrub typhus and leptospirosis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/majority-of-child-deaths-in-up-s-firozabad-due-to-dengue-says-centre-101630943015904.html
06-09-2021||India||Success of Muzaffarnagar Kisan Mahapanchayat caused BJP to run ‘helter skelter’: Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party (SP) leader Akhilesh Yadav hit out at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government on Monday claiming that the success of the Muzaffarnagar Kisan Mahapanchayat has caused the party to run “helter skelter”.“Seeing the anger of the farmers, all the drivers of the double engine (government) have disappeared. Bharatiya Janata Party has started running helter skelter,” the former UP chief minister tweeted.Yadav lauded the Kisan Mahapanchayat in Muzaffarnagar for birthing a “people’s revolution”as he said that it would help the country progress. “Uttar Pradesh's Muzaffarnagar has given birth to a 'people's revolution' which will take the country out of the darkness of BJP's hate politics and towards a new light of peace and progress,” he stated on the microblogging site.Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) and Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) had organised a Kisan Mahapanchayat in Muzaffarnagar on Sunday, which was attended by thousands of farmers from all over the country. BJP leader Varun Gandhi, too, extended his support to the protesting farmers after the Mahapanchayat concluded, becoming the first leader from the ruling party to do so.Farmers’ unions have also called for ‘Mission Uttar Pradesh’ to continue discussions on the three controversial farm laws as the state gears up for assembly elections next year.Yadav also criticized the Yogi Adityanath-led UP government for the rising number of dengue deaths in Firozabad, Mathura, Mainpuri, Kanpur and Farrukhabad, and Lucknow.“There is an outcry in the state due to dengue and viral fever. There are huge crowds in hospitals, and children are dying due to a lack of proper and timely treatment. The BJP government is, however, not paying attention to the collapsed health services in the state,” Yadav said in a party statement on Monday, alleging that the state government is ignoring it all and making false claims of “all is well”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/success-of-muzaffarnagar-kisan-mahapanchayat-caused-bjp-to-run-helter-skelter-akhilesh-yadav-101630943343123.html
06-09-2021||India||The opposition and BJP face a class-caste dilemma in politics||Two important political events in the past month highlight the ongoing political counter-strategizing against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) within the opposition ranks.
06-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: UK's largest aircraft carrier HMS Queen Elizabeth arrives in Japan and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.UK's largest aircraft carrier arrives in Japan for drill, aims to counter Chinese influence in Senkaku IslandsJapan defence minister Nobuo Kishi welcomed British aircraft carrier HMS Queen Elizabeth and said that involvement of European nations in the Indo-Pacific region is key to peace and stability as China grows its military strength and influence in the region, news agency Associated Press reported. Read more.London-bound Air India flight delayed after ants huddle at business classAn Air India flight about to depart from Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGI) at 2pm on Monday delayed its take off by more than three hours after a swarm of ants was noticed in the business class. Read more.Opposition’s agenda is only elections: U’khand CM Dhami at Jan Ashirvad YatraUttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami on Monday attacked the Opposition Congress for “not thinking about the development of Uttarakhand but only to defeat Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Prime Minister Narendra Modi”. Read more.No ‘specific treatment’ for Nipah virus: Aiims doctor says amid Kerala outbreakThere is no specific treatment for the Nipah Virus, a doctor of All India Institute of Medical Science (Aiims) informed on Monday amid an outbreak in the southern state of Kerala, news agency ANI reported. "Fruit bats live in a specific geographical territory. If they fly to other places, naturally this virus can be transmitted," Dr Ashutosh Biswas, a professor at the department of medicine at Aiims said. Read more.4th Test: Jasprit Bumrah breaks legendary Kapil Dev's long-standing record with 100th Test wicket for IndiaJasprit Bumrah etched his name on the history books by becoming the fastest Indian pacer to reach 100 Test wickets. Before this, Kapil Dev held the record, getting to the feat in 25 Tests, but the World Cup winning captain's record was bettered by Bumrah, who picked up his 100th Test scalp in his 24th game. Read more.Milind Soman's beast mode during kettlebell workout is the perfect fitness inspoGiving our drooping Monday energies a fantastic pump up is Milind Soman's kettlebell workout video that has rebooted our will to hit the gym this week. Giving a glimpse of his beast mode, Milind displayed jaw-dropping grip strength while playing throw and catch with a heavy kettlebell and that is all the fitness motivation we need to swing our rusted limbs and give them a much-needed workout. Read more.Ronit Roy says Amitabh Bachchan, Akshay Kumar, Karan Johar paid his security agency during pandemic, 'never even called'Actor Ronit Roy, who also runs a security agency, has revealed how Amitabh Bachchan, Akshay Kumar and Karan Johar never held back on payments during the pandemic. Ronit said that while others decided to discontinue the services, leaving his employees in a lurch, the three actors transferred the money without even asking for bills. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-uk-s-aircraft-carrier-hms-queen-elizabeth-arrives-in-japan-101630939886983.html
06-09-2021||India||We're ready for the farmers: Haryana's Anil Vij on Kisan Mahapanchayat in Karnal||Haryana's home minister Anil Vij on Monday said the state machinery is prepared for Tuesday's Kisan Mahapanchayat in Karnal, called by farmers unions protesting against the police action on protesters last week.“Let farmers hold it peacefully tomorrow. We've made all arrangements. Some routes have been diverted and sufficient security forces have been deployed,” Anil Vij was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. The traffic on National Highway 44, which connects Delhi to Chandigarh, will be diverted from Karnal district and internet and SMS services will be suspended in and around the protest venue from midnight on Monday.The state government has deployed around 40 companies of additional forces, five superintendent-rank officials and 25 deputy superintendent-rank officials along with thousands of police personnel in Karnal for the Kisan Mahapanchayat.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farmers unions protesting against the Centre's contentious agricultural laws, called the crucial Kisan Mahapanchayat on Tuesday in protest against police lathicharge on farmers on an expressway in Karnal on August 28.Hundreds and thousands of farmers plan to gherao the mini-secretariat in Karnal to demand action against sub-divisional magistrate Ayush Sinha over his “break the heads” order.Last week, Haryana police personnel baton-charged a group of protesting farmers in Karnal. The incident drew flak from several quarters after videos of Karnal sub-divisional magistrate Ayush Sinha ordering to “break the heads” of any protesters who "cross the barricades" went viral on social media.Several protesters were injured in the incident, following which SKM leaders sought the resignation of Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar. The IAS officer has since been transferred.The leaders of farmers unions from Haryana demanded registration of FIRs against Ayush Sinha and police personnel involved in the lathicharge, as well as financial assistance of ₹2 lakh for those injured in the incident.However, they called the Mahapanchayat after talks between Haryana Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) chief Gurnam Singh Charuni and Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar failed on Monday morning.A day ago, hundred and thousands of farmers from across the country gathered at Muzaffarnagar in Uttar Pradesh to set the stage for ‘Mission Uttar Pradesh’ and continue discussions on issues plaguing them.The gathering was attended by social activists such as Yogendra Yadav and Medha Patkar, who shared a dais with Bharatiya Kisan Union leaders Rakesh Tikait and his brother Naresh Tikait, as well as khaps and farmer leaders.Farmers from across the country have been seeking the repeal of three controversial agriculture-related laws — Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 — which they say will do away with minimum support price for their produce and expose them to exploitations by corporates, even as the Centre claim these laws will bring "reforms" in the agriculture sector through private-sector investment and create supply chains for the produce in the national and global markets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kisan-mahapanchayat-karnal-anil-vij-farmers-protest-haryana-101630939485409.html
06-09-2021||India||Nipah virus: Kerala reports another case from Kozhikode||Kerala recorded another case of Nipah virus on Monday in Kozhikode, news agency ANI reported citing Kozhikode district collector GS Sameeran. Earlier on Sunday, the state reported that two healthcare workers showed symptoms of the virus and a 12-year-old boy died due to Nipah.Kerala health minister Veena George earlier said that there were chances that the 12-year-old boy who succumbed to Nipah could have come in contact with a larger number of people. She also said that samples of 7 high-risk contacts were sent to the Pune’s National Institute of Virology for testing.“The most important job is to strengthen contact tracing. We are giving special training to our field workers. It is equally important to find the source of infection. Whether this child is the first to get infected or from where this child was infected,” George was quoted as saying by news agency PTI. She further added that 188 contacts were traced on Sunday and said that there are possibilities that there can be more contacts.A central team is currently in Kozhikode to monitor the Nipah virus spread and is working with the state health department in order to stop further transmission. The team inspected the house of the 12-year-old boy who died due to Nipah virus on Sunday. Kerala health minister Veena George on Sunday said that two healthcare workers also developed symptoms of Nipah virus.Kerala, earlier in 2018, witnessed an outbreak of the Nipah virus due to which 17 people died. Nipah is a zoonotic disease and fruit bats are considered as main vectors. Bat-bitten fruits often spread the disease when consumed by humans. Humans further spread the disease through bodily fluids.If infected a person will experience fever, headache and vomiting along with muscular pain, dizziness, and nausea Some patients may also have signs similar to people suffering from epilepsy. If the disease remains untreated it could trigger brain fever leading to fatalities. The case fatality rate of Nipah virus is 40-80%. The incubation period of Nipah is two weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nipah-virus-kerala-reports-another-case-from-kozhikode-101630938460406.html
06-09-2021||India||‘Too early’: Russian envoy to India on recognising Taliban as Afghanistan govt||Russian envoy to India, Nikolay Kudashev on Monday said that recognition of Islamist insurgents Taliban as the new government of Afghanistan is “too early to say” and that the situation is the war-torn country hasn’t “come as a surprise” to Russia.“Recognition (of government in Afghanistan) is too early to say. Is any government or any governing structure officially available in Kabul now? Not yet. It is admitted by Afghans themselves. After decades of war, it hasn't come as a surprise to us,” Kudashev told news agency ANI.He said that when it comes to the motives related to Afghanistan, Moscow’s position is “very close” to that of New Delhi with both Russia and India wanting an Afghan-owned government.“What the two of us need in Afghanistan is security, predictability, inclusive government, which will satisfy the needs of the Afghan people. Afghan-owned and Afghan built government. That’s the basics of the Indian position (which is) very close to us,” Kudashev noted.Addressing the growing worry that Afghanistan will once again become a safe haven for global terrorism, the Russian envoy expressed his concerns. “Whether we are concerned with the promise of the resurrection of terrorism? Yes, we are, same as you do,” he said, adding that the countries can give their best to “prevent the situation in and around Afghanistan.”Speaking about Pakistan-backed terrorism in Afghanistan, Kudashev said, “Let’s offer solutions better, more promising and more attractive than terrorists do.”Let's offer promising solutions than terrorists do. If you want to offer income sources, let's offer development programs. There're multiple platforms to unite our forces. Let's look for creative solutions:Nikolay Kudashev on fears of Pak-backed terrorists to be part Taliban govt pic.twitter.com/nOOFYwt6OvHowever, Kudashev pointed out that he is “optimistic” about the situation in the country improving in the days ahead. “Given them (Afghans) some time and a ray of hope. It’s early to say if there is complete understanding. Let us bring them on board and talk to them and bring our ideas closer to them,” the Russian envoy told ANI.Russia’s reluctance to immediately recognise the Taliban as the new government of Afghanistan comes after the US on Friday echoed similar views. “I want to be really clear: there’s no rush to recognition of any sort by the United States or any international partners we have talked to,” White House spokesperson Jen Psaki told reporters, according to AFP.As per recent reports, Taliban have said that they can announce the new government soon. This comes even as battle continues in Afghanistan’s Panjshir valley between Taliban fighters and the Northern Alliance force. In recent development, the National Resistance Front (NRF) spokesperson Ali Nazary said Ahmad Massoud is safe and that the valley is yet to fall – dismissing Taliban’s claim earlier on Monday that they have captured the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/too-early-russian-envoy-to-india-on-recognising-taliban-as-afghanistan-govt-101630936861102.html
06-09-2021||India||London-bound Air India flight delayed after ants huddle at business class||An Air India flight about to depart from Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGI) at 2pm on Monday delayed its take off by more than three hours after a swarm of ants was noticed in the business class.After the issue was addressed, the AI-111 flight departed from the airport at 5.20pm, people familiar with the development said.Ants were found in the business class section right before the flight was on the verge of taking off from the airport. Later, Air India changed the aircraft and substituted it with another Boeing 787-8.
06-09-2021||India||No ‘specific treatment’ for Nipah virus: Aiims doctor says amid Kerala outbreak||There is no specific treatment for the Nipah Virus, a doctor of All India Institute of Medical Science (Aiims) informed on Monday amid an outbreak in the southern state of Kerala, news agency ANI reported. "Fruit bats live in a specific geographical territory. If they fly to other places, naturally this virus can be transmitted," Dr Ashutosh Biswas, a professor at the department of medicine at Aiims said.According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), Nipah Virus is a respiratory illness that is also known to cause fever, muscular pain, dizziness and nausea. In case the disease aggravates, it can lead to a patient becoming unconscious and contract brain fever, which could be fatal.The virus spreads through the saliva of fruit bats and Bat-bitten fruits are considered to be a major spreader of the disease among humans. The disease can further transmit to other humans through body fluids.The fatality rate of the Nipah virus is 40-80% while its incubation period is two weeks.On Sunday, a 12-year-old boy succumbed to the infection in a first such incident three years after it wreaked havoc in parts of Kozhikode and Malappuram districts of Kerala.Following the child's death, the Centre rushed a team of experts to provide technical support to the southern state. The team also visited the child’s house and collected samples of Rambutan fruits from the vicinity to identify the source of the infection.Meanwhile, the Centre advised locals to follow immediate public health measures including contact tracing for any affected persons in the past 12 days after the infection is diagnosed. The Centre has also called for a strict quarantine of the contacts and isolation of any suspects. It had also asked to actively collect samples and transport them for lab testing for further research.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-specific-treatment-for-nipah-virus-aiims-doctor-says-amid-kerala-outbreak-101630935498535.html
06-09-2021||India||Opposition’s agenda is only elections: U’khand CM Dhami at Jan Ashirvad Yatra||Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami on Monday attacked the Opposition Congress for “not thinking about the development of Uttarakhand but only to defeat Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Prime Minister Narendra Modi”. Dhami was addressing a public meeting as a part of the BJP’s Jan Ashirvad Yatra in Almora ahead of the 2022 state assembly polls in the presence of party state president Madan Kaushik, Union minister of state for defence and tourism Ajay Bhatt, Cabinet minister Rekha Arya and other party leaders. “People ask me what is my agenda for the elections. I tell them, it will be there when elections will come, not now. Our overall agenda is the development of Uttarakhand unlike Congress which has only one agenda which is the elections with the sole aim to defeat PM Modi and BJP,” he said. Continuing his attack on Congress, he said, “In the last 70 years of the country, one party and a family has ruled for about 55 years in which it did only appeasement and no development. They never worked to eradicate illiteracy, injustice and poverty. But after PM Narendra Modi led government in 2014, the works of development started.” Also Read | Harish Rawat asks people to vote carefully in 2022During his address, Dhami also raised the issue of filling about 22,000 vacancies in government departments, saying that as soon as his government made the announcement, the Congress alleged that “it’s just an announcement, it’s not possible with just six months remaining before the next elections.” “They are wrong. We have made it possible with the recruitment process starting from August 15. We have the willpower to make it possible...We have also announced various development schemes but the Congress alleged that those are mere announcements as the government doesn’t have funds. They are wrong as the government has adequate funds,” he said. Earlier, Union minister of state Bhatt lauded PM Modi for working for the “welfare of every citizen, unlike Congress”. BJP state president Madan Kaushik said that “2022 assembly elections would be a different one from usual elections.” “It is so because the parties against us don’t talk of development but only of defeating Narendra Modi. One of the prime example of it was Bengal elections in which the BJP went from three seats to 78 but Congress came down from 100 to 0. Despite that, they are claiming that they have succeeded in stopping Modi from forming government in Bengal which is ridiculous,” said Kaushik. Attacking the previous Congress government in state, he added, “They never thought of the welfare of people. When the BJP came to power under the leadership of PM Modi, new development works have started in the state. Now, under the leadership of our young CM, the definition of development has changed. We are always determined to work for the development of state.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oppositions-agenda-is-only-elections-u-khand-cm-dhami-at-jan-ashirvad-yatra-101630934204313.html
06-09-2021||India||Kerala HC asks Centre to allow registration of Covishield for those who want it early||Kerala high court directed the Centre to allow scheduling of the second dose of Covishield on the CoWIN portal four weeks from the date of the first dose for those who want to vaccinate themselves earlier than the suggested gap of 84 days.A bench headed by Justice PB Suresh Kumar said that if the Centre and state governments can allow people travelling overseas to choose between early and better protection from Covid-19 similar privilege can be extended to people living here. He said that this provision can be allowed if it is needed by the beneficiary in connection with their employment or education.“The fourth respondent (Centre) is directed to make necessary provisions forthwith in the CoWIN portal, so as to enable scheduling of second dose of Covishield vaccine after four weeks of the first dose for those who want to accept the second dose after a period of four weeks in terms of the initial protocol of the vaccine,” the court said in its order.The court also highlighted that according to the policy made by the Union ministry of health, people shall have the choice to get early vaccination because of which vaccine is being distributed through private hospitals as well on payment basis.The court further added that according to rules set by the Centre, vaccination remains voluntary and there is no compulsion on the part of anyone to accept it. The court said that since there is no compulsion therefore the requirement to administer two doses of the vaccine and the time interval between them for better efficacy and protection from Covid-19 can only be seen as an ‘advisory’.It said since people have the right to refuse to accept vaccines, there can be absolutely no reason why the government should take the stand that they will not be permitted to accept the second dose after four weeks in terms of the original protocol, especially when they themselves are procuring Covid-19 vaccine by spending their own money.The court’s observation came after a plea was filed by Kitex Garments Ltd. The firm wanted its workers to administer the second dose of Covishield without having to wait for 84 days.Kitex in its plea said that 5,000 of its workers were vaccinated with the first dose and it made arrangements for vaccinating all of them with the second dose while bearing the entire cost, which was worth ₹93 lakh, but could not go ahead with the vaccination due to prevailing restrictions.Centre expressed its opposition to the plea by saying that the 84-day gap between two doses of Covishield was designated to increase the efficacy of the vaccine, as recommended by National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) and the technical inputs provided by the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation in India (NTAGI).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/court-asks-govt-to-allow-registration-of-covishield-for-those-who-want-it-early-101630933795240.html
06-09-2021||India||President commends Indian Navy for help during pandemic, Indian Ocean outreach||President Ram Nath Kovind commended the Indian Navy for its role in helping the country in the early days of the pandemic with its Operation Samudra Setu. The operation was a part of the Vande Bharat evacuation mission under which the Navy brought back to India around 4,000 stranded Indians from Maldives, Sri Lanka and Iran.Speaking at the ceremony in Goa at INS Hansa, the Navy’s largest airbase, where he awarded the President’s colour to the Indian Naval Aviation Wing, Kovind also commended the Navy for inducting a large number of women in its aviation wing saying that such a trend needs to be encouraged. “The Indian Navy has invested significant effort in meeting all regional commitments and furthering our diplomatic engagements with friends and partners in the Indo-Pacific. With missions like Operation Samudra Setu and Mission Sagar, the Navy was a key instrument of India’s Covid outreach, delivering assistance and support to our maritime neighbours and partners in the Indian Ocean Region. The prompt and effective deployment of the Indian Navy in the time of crisis, has underscored India’s vision of being the ‘preferred security partner and first responder in the Indian Ocean Region,” the President said. Also Watch | Naval Aviation gets President’s Colour I All you need to know about the honourNaval Aviation is the application of air power by aircraft on warships or operating from bases ashore. Award of the President’s Colour to Indian Naval Aviation is in recognition of its service, both during peace and combat. The arm came into being with the acquisition of the first Sealand aircraft on January 13, 1951, and commissioning of INS Garuda, at Kochi on May 11, 1953. To mark the occasion, a ceremonial parade with a 150-men Guard of Honour was presented to the President. PS Sreedharan Pillai, the governor of Goa; chief minister Pramod Sawant; Shripad Yesso Naik, minister of state for tourism, ports shipping and waterways; Admiral Karambir Singh, Chief of Naval Staff; Vice Admiral R Hari Kumar, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief Western Naval Command and Rear Admiral Philipose G Pynumootil, Flag Officer Naval Aviation along with other civil and military dignitaries were in attendance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-commends-indian-navy-for-help-during-pandemic-indian-ocean-outreach-101630933303230.html
06-09-2021||India||Curbs lifted, J&K limps back to normalcy||Businesses opened partially and traffic started plying in Jammu-Kashmir on Monday, five days after separatist leader Syed Ali Geelani’s death. Restrictions were eased on Sunday evening. Markets and shops opened partially in Srinagar, particularly in the business hub of Lal Chowk, while public transport also resumed in many parts.“Many markets opened partially in Lal Chowk by the afternoon. Transport services have also resumed,” said Javaid Ahmad, a shopkeeper in the city centre.In the Old City, some areas continued to remain shut. “Normal life is still affected. From Nawhatta, Hawal and Eidgah side, the shops are mostly closed while most of them on Khanyar, Rainawari and Khayam side opened today,” said Muzaffar Ahmad, a resident of Downtown.Security forces are still deployed in good numbers on the roads. Also Read | J&K administration allows reopening of schools for classes 10, 12“In Anantnag, Pulwama and Shopian towns in south Kashmir, shops and transport were open. However, Kulgam district observed a shutdown,” said an Anantnag resident.Authorities imposed a clampdown across Kashmir after Geelani’s death on Wednesday. Streets were barricaded and key roads sealed to restrict the movement of people in the clampdown. Internet connections and mobile networks were snapped and only the post-paid mobiles of Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited and its broadband services were allowed to work.Geelani, the face of separatism in Kashmir for over three decades, died at 91 after a prolonged illness. The leader was largely confined to his residence because of ill-health since 2010. He was buried on Thursday in a quiet funeral at a graveyard near his residence in Srinagar’s Hyderpora with his family alleging that the police forcibly took away his body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/curbs-lifted-j-k-limps-back-to-normalcy-101630931563004.html
06-09-2021||India||Days of unilateralism are over: What Jaishankar said on Quad||Union external affairs minister S Jaishankar on Monday said the Quad grouping is the solution to resistance towards reformation of international organisations.“Days of unilateralism are over, bilateralism has its own limits and multilateralism is simply not working well enough,” Jaishankar was quoted as saying by news agency ANI as he delivered a keynote address at the JG Crawford Oration in Australian National University.S Jaishankar was speaking on India's perspective on the Indo-Pacific and India-Australia relations in the face of global security challenges and rising economic and human toll from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.He stressed that Asia and the Indo-Pacific are vast expanses, with greater diversity and less collective persona.“The focus of Asian sub-regions on growth and modernisation led them to take a relatively minimalistic view of political accompaniment of their economic journey,” the foreign minister was quoted as saying.The Quad, or the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue, is a strategic group comprising the United States, Japan, Australia and India. Its first inklings go back to 2007 but a recent resurgence is largely seen as a strategy to counter China's growing influence in the Indo-Pacific region.“As we seek to discern outlines of what emerges next, there's no question that Indo-Pacific would be very much at its core. Even though Asia has been more dynamic than Europe in the last few decades, its regional architecture is far more conservative,” Jaishankar added.ALSO READ | Vaccine partnerships, climate change on agenda of Quad key officials meetPrime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to discuss bilateral ties, the security situation in Afghanistan, counter-terrorism and the Indo-Pacific region with US President Joe Biden during his visit to Washington, DC on September 23.This will be followed by a physical summit of Quad partners on September 24, and Modi's address at the UN General Assembly on September 25.Speaking further on the security challenges in the Asia-Pacific region, Jaishankar said, “Where the US is understandably struggling as an entrenched power in respect of new manifestations of exerting influence and wielding power. It not only has inherent vulnerabilities but also structural constraints while engaging in contemporary forms of competition.”The Indian foreign minister said we have entered a new phase of international relations and the full impact of China's re-emergence will be felt more than those of major powers. “Let's be clear, this is not just about the rise of another power, however major,” he said.Elaborating on Indo-China relations, Jaishankar narrated how former Indian Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi went to China in 1988 to boost New Delhi's relationship with Beijing predicated on the fact that the border would be peaceful and tranquil. “We did that by a series of agreements which built confidence, which said don't bring your military to the border,” Jaishankar was quoted as saying.“After 1975 when we had a relatively small clash, we actually had no fatalities on the border. Yet what we saw last year was a complete departure. There was a very large Chinese military presence in very operational mode at the border without a good reason,” Jaishankar further saidHe mentioned the Galwan Valley clash in Eastern Ladakh in June last year, and how it led to the loss of lives on both sides of the Line of Actual Control between India and China. “It has taken the relationship in a completely different direction,” Jaishankar said, adding, “In India, the challenge of how to manage our relationship with China ranks very very high.While China calls the Quad security dialogue as the new NATO framed against Beijing, the Quad partners view it as a grouping where democratic countries can get together and cooperate to build up resilient supply chains, health architecture, disaster management and security to the shipping lanes handling the trade of the world, particularly in the Indo-Pacific.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/days-of-unilateralism-are-over-what-jaishankar-said-on-quad-101630928538606.html
06-09-2021||India||UP exports goods worth ₹21,500 crore in April-May, records jump of 152%||Uttar Pradesh is fast emerging as an export hub of India. According to data released by the central government, Uttar Pradesh exported goods worth ₹21,500.85 crore in April and May this year, up 152.67 per cent compared to corresponding period previous year.Last year, goods worth ₹8,511.34 crore were exported between April and May, 2020. The major exports from Uttar Pradesh include leather, textile and glassware products.These products were exported to different parts of the world even during the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, giving a major push to the Centre's 'Make in India' initiative.Buoyed by the response Uttar Pradesh's products are receiving from countries across the world, the state government has decided to set up overseas trade promotion and facilitation centres in all the 75 districts.The MSME department also plans to set up a centralised facilitation centre for better coordination among various hubs. The Adityanath government has claimed that these centres will increase the worth of exports by at least ₹400 crore and provide employment opportunities to 4,000 people.Uttar Pradesh is the sixth major exporting states of the country, after Gujarat, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka, according to Centre's data.This year, a lot of goods like carpets, rugs, textile fabric, oven fabric, man made staple fabric, footwear, glassware, iron, steel, aluminum, rice, sugar, milk, flour, plastic products, silk, artificial flowers have been exported to different parts of the world. Nepal, Bangladesh and countries of Southeast Asia imported a large number of products from UP during the Covid-19 pandemic.According to state government, footwear and toys exports shot up from ₹147.04 crore and ₹26.19 crore in April-May last year to ₹742.47 crore and ₹120.83 crore respectively this year. Similarly, glassware exports increased from ₹39.99 crore during the same period last year to ₹310.77 crore this year.Furthermore, carpets and textile fabrics worth ₹744.15 crore were exported this year as against ₹247.63 crore last year. The export of leather products also saw massive increase from ₹79.21 crore last year to ₹493.80 crore this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-exports-goods-worth-rs-21-500-crore-in-april-may-records-jump-of-152-101630930344857.html
06-09-2021||India||Cochin Shipyard gets threat of attack on INS Vikrant||The Cochin Shipyard Limited on Monday received an anonymous email threatening to bomb the INS Vikrant, the country’s first indigenously- built aircraft carrier which recently conducted its experimental voyage. The Kerala Police have registered a case under Section 358 of the Indian Penal Code. The shipyard said it was cooperating with the investigation by central agencies but refused to give further details, saying the matter was under investigation. Also Watch | After Navy, Indian Army, Air Force sign deal with DRDO for anti-drone systemIn July, an Afghan national, with an expired visa, was held at the shipyard. In 2019, two employees engaged in painting work at the ship were arrested on charges of stealing electronic components. Now the National Investigation Agency is probing the case. The keel of INS Vikrant was laid in 2009 and sea trials began last month. The total cost of the project was ₹230 billion and it is expected to be fully operational by next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cochin-shipyard-gets-threat-of-attack-on-ins-vikrant-101630928985020.html
06-09-2021||India||Sri Lankan refugees hope for citizenship after Tamil Nadu CM Stalin’s support||A 55-year-old Sri Lankan refugee in Chennai, who was a member of the militant Tamil Eelam Liberation Organization (TELO), was among the many who came to Tamil Nadu for protection after the Indian Peace Keeping Force (IPKF) withdrew its troops from Sri Lanka between late 1980s and 1990. He built a life in the state, marrying another refugee from his camp and raising two sons in their mid-20s. “My children are of Indian origin being born in Tamil Nadu, they have no relationship with Sri Lanka and yet they are called refugees,” says the man, who doesn’t wish to be identified. His adult sons are neither Indian citizens nor Sri Lankan citizens or of any other country but this nation-state (India) is the only one they know of. “Since we live outside of the camp, my sons and I have to register at the local police station. It’s a scar to live like this.”TELO was a separatist militant organisation like the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) that fought for an independent Tamil statehood in Sri Lanka but much of their cadre was wiped out by the latter. TELO organised itself as a political party and has two members in the Sri Lankan parliament. Since the 55-year-old fled alone at that time, much of his family still lives in the island nation.But there is new hope among Sri Lankan Tamil refugees like him in the state that they will be able to attain Indian citizenship in the light of chief minister MK Stalin’s slew of announcements for the community who are not covered under the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA), 2019. The controversial CAA allows India citizenship for persecuted immigrants except Muslims from three neighbouring countries -- Pakistan, Afghanistan and Bangladesh -- but leaves out Sri Lanka.Though the DMK has been against the CAA, it is their election promise to help ensure citizenship for Sri Lankan Tamils. On August 27, MK Stalin in the assembly said that his government will soon set up a high-level committee under the chairmanship of minorities and non-resident Tamils’ welfare minister K S Masthan for granting dual citizenship to Sri Lankan Tamils as well as uplifting their living conditions.He announced a ₹317-crore package for the welfare of refugees and ₹231.54 crore for reconstructing more than 7,000 new houses in refugee camps, providing free gas stoves and cylinders. He increased subsidies and scholarships and introduced training to make them employable. A day later, he renamed them as rehabilitation camps. “They are not orphans to be called refugees. We Tamils are with them and in that spirit, the government has renamed the refugee camps as rehabilitation camps for Sri Lankan Tamils,” Stalin said in the assembly on August 28. “This brought a lot of joy. We have been here for three decades so why still look at us as refugees?” said a refugee in a camp in Gummidipoondi. They distributed sweets and posters of Stalin came up welcoming the funds allocated for infrastructure development. There are presently 58,822 refugees in 822 camps in 29 districts, while 34,087 refugees live outside the camps. Activists say that this is the first time such a large-scale allocation has been made for Sri Lankan Tamil refugees in the state. “These are homes that were built at least three decades ago,” said a refugee now working in an NGO for the rehabilitation of people like him. He adds that if there were about 50 people at that time, their families have grown and now 100 people live in the same 10x10 square feet space. “But the new announcements aren’t just about infrastructure, it also provides for comprehensive growth for education and employment,” he said. However, a few leaders from refugee groups who are in the forefront of rallying for citizenship have a different worry. “By providing us with better housing facilities, it raises doubts if our fighting for citizenship will ever happen,” wonders a refugee living in a camp in Sivaganga district who came to the state with his family in the 1980s.In the past few years, Sri Lankan Tamils who lived in refugee camps in Tamil Nadu and returned to their homes have warned others not to return because they haven’t been able to rebuild their lives on the island. The Rajapaksas who were in power during the end of the war in Sri Lanka in 2009 and the return of their dynastic rule to the island have added to the factor for some to return to their homeland judging it would be safer in the camps. “Some of them have come back and they have been allowed to live in the camps but they cannot avail of any of the state government’s benefits,” said the activist quoted above. Some of the camps are also of Indian Tamil origin who were sent to work in the tea plantations in Sri Lanka during the British colonial rule. Experts say Sri Lankan Tamil refugees are treated like illegal immigrants. “There is no paradigm of human rights. Legally there is no status for refugees in India and the CAA exploits the situation for geopolitical interests. So the Sri Lankan refugees are solely taken care of by the state government in Tamil Nadu and they are treated like people who are out on bail,” says Thiyagu (who goes only by a first name), general secretary, Tamil National Liberation Movement. He says while the new announcements would help the community it isn’t enough.“We have to move beyond mere concession and look at granting them political and civil rights. About 2 lakh Sri Lankan Tamil refugees live in Canada and so many of them are now politicians. Their refugee passports in Europe are in effect as good as a citizen’s passport. But for Lankan Tamils here, they can’t even get into medical courses, they can study law but not practice in Indian courts, they cannot avail government jobs. These issues haven’t been addressed by the state.”Political analysts say that Stalin is addressing the issue of Sri Lankan Tamils given the fact that the Naam Tamilar Katchi (NTK) founded by Tamil nationalist S Seeman soon after the war with LTTE chief V Prabhakaran as their idol has garnered 6.7% votes in the last assembly elections. NTK is now the third largest party in Tamil Nadu which is a huge leap from the 1% vote share it received in the 2016 assembly elections. NTK and Vaiko’s Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (MDMK) have grown solely maintaining the Sri Lankan Tamils issue as their core ideology. “Based on only the Eelam cause, NTK has scored so much so Stalin is also focussing on it,” says political commentator Raveendran Duraisamy. “Regarding dual citizenship, it is in the hands of the NDA government, but they will not look into it now.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sri-lankan-refugees-hope-for-citizenship-after-tamil-nadu-cm-stalin-s-support-101630927602713.html
06-09-2021||India||What’s next for farmers’ protests||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, a large platform of farm unions, hopes to mount a countrywide opposition to the Modi government’s economic policies by setting up units in every state, two of its leaders said after a huge rally in Uttar Pradesh’s Muzaffarnagar on Sunday. Tens of thousands of farmers thronged the town of Muzaffarnagar, where they formally launched “Mission Uttar Pradesh”, a programme to propel their protests into the political bellwether state.Farmer unions had launched their agitation in November 2020, demanding a repeal of three controversial farm laws--the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act--but leaders of the movement have now broadened their agenda to oppose the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its economic policies.Also Read | Talks fail, Karnal prepares for Mahapanchayat tomorrowOn the face of it, the farmers have had little success in convincing the government to scrap laws that provide for freer agricultural markets and allow big supermarkets and food businesses to skirt regulated markets. The legislations also permit traders to stock large quantities of food for future sales and lay down a new format for contract farming.The unions declared they will oppose the move by the Modi government to monetise state-owned assets over the next four years to earn ₹6 lakh crore and boost infrastructure spending to spur economic growth.“India is now on sale to Adani and Ambani. We will not allow that to happen. We will hurt them in elections to teach them a lesson,” Rakesh Tikait, a leader of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Indian farmers’ union) or BKU said.The farm leader claimed the plan to lease out assets, such as food warehouses, roads and railways, will benefit a few big corporations. The farmers are especially directing their anger at “(Mukesh) Ambani and (Gautam) Adani”, a reference to the owners of two of India’s biggest business conglomerates which operate everything from seaports to airports.Farm leaders have called a nationwide strike on September 27. “Sunday’s rally has given us new energy as well as direction. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha will set up units in every state and in all of Uttar Pradesh, from Gazipur on Delhi’s border to Ghazipur in the eastern-most part of Uttar Pradesh,” said Yogendra Yadav, a key leader of the farmers’ platform.Assembly elections are due in Uttar Pradesh next year. Tikait said farmers would work to defeat Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s BJP, which governs the state.Farmers are also demanding a law to guarantee minimum prices for their produce. India’s farm economy, supported by broad subsidies, tends to swing from one crisis to another and farmers often suffer negative returns. The Modi government has repeatedly said the new reforms were necessary to boost farm earnings.The Tikaits belong to the influential Baliyan khap, a dominant farming clan among the Jat agrarian community in western UP, most of which is made up of sugarcane growers. They voted overwhelmingly for the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the 2014 and 2019 Lok Sabha, and the 2017 assembly elections.Tikait also called for Hindu-Muslim unity on Sunday. The Muzaffarnagar region saw Hindu-Muslim clashes in 2013. “We will not allow anybody to divide farmers into Hindus and Muslims,” Yadav said.The BJP had won by a landslide in the 2017 assembly election. “Steps taken by the government to improve farm incomes, cash transfers for farmers, linking of markets, building of warehouses, expansion of procurement, funding for agricultural markets known as mandis…all these together will counter any negative fallout,” said Gopal Aggarwal, the BJP’s national spokesperson overseeing economic affairs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/whats-next-for-farmers-protests-101630927542607.html
06-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: University classes resume in Afghanistan with a 'curtain of separation' and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 5pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.University classes resume in Afghanistan with a 'curtain of separation'A local news agency in Afghanistan reported on Monday that university classes started in the country but with a "curtain of separation". Read MoreCalcutta HC offers interim relief to Suvendu Akhikari from CID summonsIn an interim relief, the Calcutta High Court on Monday said leader of Opposition in Bengal Assembly and BJP MLA Suvendu Adhikari would not have to take any action in connection with summons received from the Criminal Investigation Department (CID). Read MoreKerala’s spike a dangerous signal: Maharashtra CM urges citizens, political parties to avoid crowding during festivalsMaharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray urged the citizens and political parties to avoid crowds during the upcoming Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations in the wake of rising coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the state. Read MorePiaggio, KTM, Honda, Yamaha set up swappable batteries consortium for EVsPiaggio Group announced on Monday that it has set up a swappable batteries consortium with Honda Motor, KTM and Yamaha Motor to promote the use of swappable batteries for electric motorcycles and light electric vehicles. Read MoreRhea Kapoor lounges in the pool on honeymoon in Maldives, leaves fans confused as she talks about ‘kids’Newlyweds Rhea Kapoor and Karan Boolani are enjoying a honeymoon in the Maldives. Read MoreSaif Ali Khan says he did not re-buy Pataudi Palace but had to clear a lease: ‘Money has not come easy’Saif Ali Khan talked about the expenses he incurred for his ancestral home, Pataudi Palace. He said that while he did not have to buy it back from a hotel chain, as reported, he had to clear a lease. Read MoreWatch: BJP warns Javed Akhtar over Taliban-RSS comparison; Shiv Sena backs Sangh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-university-classes-resume-in-afghanistan-with-a-curtain-of-separation-and-all-the-latest-news-101630926776471.html
06-09-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi political 'cuckoo', seeks others' shoulder for politics: BJP||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) spokesperson Sambit Patra on Monday dubbed senior Congress leader Rahul Gandhi as a "political cuckoo" who uses the shoulder of others for his own political agenda. The national spokesperson also accused Rahul Gandhi of posting an old picture of farmers' protest while referring to their Sunday mahapanchayat in Uttar Pradesh's Muzaffarnagar district, and said it is part of his politics of "spreading confusion and lies."This comes as the Congress party is leading criticism against the ruling BJP over the farmers' protest which is continuing for more than 100 days now. Patra was speaking at a press conference in Delhi."The Congress party is incapable of raising ground issues," said, adding, "this is why Sonia Gandhi (interim president of Congress) holds virtual meetings with leaders of other parties while Rahul Gandhi relies on old photographs in his attempt to spread confusion for politics."“As a cuckoo does not build her nest and seeks comfort in the nests of other birds, Rahul Gandhi also works in a similar manner,” he further said, adding, he "does not work to build his party's organisation". "It has become his habit to use others' shoulders for politics," Patra also said.With protesting farmer unions slamming the government for not paying heed to their demands, Patra also claimed that the Modi government is dedicated to farmers and it will remain so in the future.At the conference, Patra also took shots at the Gandhi scion over his earlier criticism against the slow pace of inoculation drive against the Covid-19. After initial hurdles, the vaccination drive in India is now gaining pace and administering millions of doses in a single day.Over 68.75 crore people have received at least one dose of vaccination, which has reached an average daily figure of 85 lakh, he said. "Now Rahul Gandhi is not seen posting any tweet on the vaccination drive," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-political-cuckoo-seeks-others-shoulder-for-politics-bjp-101630926019444.html
06-09-2021||India||Calcutta HC offers interim relief to Suvendu Akhikari from CID summons||In an interim relief, the Calcutta High Court on Monday said leader of Opposition in Bengal Assembly and BJP MLA Suvendu Adhikari would not have to take any action in connection with summons received from the Criminal Investigation Department (CID). The court passed the order verbally in the case in connection with the investigation into the death of his bodyguard Subhobrata Chakraborty.Earlier in the day, the Nandigram MLA did not appear before the investigating agency stating he was busy, an officer said. Adhikari was summoned by the CID to its headquarters in Bhabani Bhawan.West Bengal | Calcutta High Court gives interim relief to LoP and BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari; Court hearing at 2pm again He does not need to take any action right now in the context of the CID summons, the court said in its verbal order.In an interim relief, the Calcutta High Court on Monday said leader of Opposition in Bengal Assembly and BJP MLA Suvendu Adhikari would not have to take any action in connection with summons received from the Criminal Investigation Department (CID). The court passed the order verbally in the case in connection with the investigation into the death of his bodyguard Subhobrata Chakraborty.Earlier in the day, the Nandigram MLA did not appear before the investigating agency stating he was busy, an officer said. Adhikari was summoned by the CID to its headquarters in Bhabani Bhawan.|#+|"He mailed us around 9.30 am, mentioning some political engagements due to which he was unable to come and meet our officers," a CID officer was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.The CID held a meeting after receiving Adhikari's mail to chalk out the possible next steps into the investigation, including whether another summons would be sent to him, a source in the agency said.Adhikari was not immediately available for comments. A CID team has already visited his Kanthi residence in connection with the probe.Chakraborty had allegedly shot himself with his service revolver at the security camp outside Adhikari's Kanthi residence in October 2018, according to police.The CID has so far questioned over 15 people, including 11 policemen.Chakraborty, a personnel of the State Armed Police, was a part of Adhikari's security team since he became an MP. He continued in the team after Adhikari was made a minister in the Mamata Banerjee government.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/calcutta-hc-offers-interim-relief-to-suvendu-akhikari-from-cid-summons-101630926067747.html
06-09-2021||India||Security beefed up as farmers||The Haryana government on Monday ordered suspension of mobile internet and SMS services in Karnal district till Tuesday midnight while police tightened security arrangements and imposed section 144 in the district, a day ahead of a massive gherao planned by farmers at the mini-secretariat over the August 28 lathicharge, officials familiar with the developments said.“As a precautionary measure, we have written to the government to suspend the internet service in the district for 24 hours as to maintain law and order situation and Section 144 has been imposed till further orders,” said the Karnal district magistrate, Nishant Yadav.The precautionary measures and arrangements came as the Haryana Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) announced no changes in the plan after talks with Karnal deputy commissioner, seeking action against those involved in the lathicharge and relief for the injured, failed earlier in the day. Over 40 farmers were injured in the clashes last month.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, a platform of farm unions spearheading the protests against the farm laws since November, had threatened to lay siege to the secretariat if its demands for action were not met by September 6. “The deputy commissioner could not give any satisfactory response on the demands raised by the morcha leaders and we will go ahead with our panchayat and gherao of the mini secretariat as per the schedule as the deadline of our ultimatum will expire this evening,” Haryana BKU chief Gurnam Singh Charuni asserted. “The government may also prevent us from reaching the grain market but we will protest wherever we are stopped and we will cross their barricades,” he added.According to the people cited above, at least 40 companies of additional forces, five superintendent rank officials and 25 deputy superintendent rank officials along with thousands of policemen will be deployed to oversee the law and order situation in the district. The district administration also issued traffic advisory with planned route diversions. The traffic on National Highway-44, which connects Delhi to Chandigarh, will also be diverted, the people added. “We are prepared to deal with any situation and nobody will be allowed to disturb law and order and gherao the mini secretariat,” Yadav said, adding that the administration is not ready to meet any of the “illegal” demands of the farmers. Officials in the district administration said that efforts will be made to stop the movement of farmers from Punjab and Uttar Pradesh after Charuni urged protesters from the two states to arrive at the Karnal grain market at 10 am.“We request farmers to come on tractor-trolleys and in groups, and break the barricades without causing any violence,” he said. “Let the police beat you, but don’t attack them as it may damage the andolan,” he added.Karnal superintendent of police Ganga Ram Punia said 10 companies of central forces have also been summoned to manage the situation. A local court has also passed an order and directions have been issued to eight farmers’ leaders, asking them not to block any highway. “The primary objective of these arrangements is to maintain public peace and order, prevent any kind of violence, facilitate the functioning of traffic and public transport systems and to safeguard the public property across the state in general, and Karnal in particular,” Haryana additional director general of police (law and order) Navdeep Singh Virk said. Several protesters were lathicharged on August 28 while heading towards Karnal to protest against a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) meeting. On September 1, the state government transferred Karnal sub-divisional magistrate (SDM-civil) Ayush Sinha, who was caught on camera directing police to hit protesting farmers on their head if they breached the security cordon.The farm union leaders have demanded registration of FIRs against Sinha and police officials involved in the lathicharge, a compensation of ₹25 lakh and a government job to the kin of farmer Sushil Kajal, who they claimed died due to police action, and financial assistance of ₹2 lakh each to the injured farmers besides free treatment in government hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/talks-fail-karnal-prepares-for-mahapanchayat-tomorrow-101630925802657.html
06-09-2021||India||‘Focus first on managing pandemic in India’: SC dismisses plea for setting global task force on Covid-19 origin||The Supreme Court declined to entertain a public interest litigation (PIL) on Monday seeking directions to the Centre to set up an international task force of experts to find out the origin of the second wave of Covid-19 virus which led to a large number of deaths and hospitalisation in the country.The bench headed by Justice DY Chandrachud asked the petitioner to approach the Centre and said that it cannot enter into conspiracy theories. Justice Chndrachud said that everyone is focusing on managing the pandemic in India and trying to not ‘delve into conspiracy theories.’“We will rather focus on managing the pandemic in our country than delving into conspiracy theories involving other nations, on which we don't even have a jurisdiction,” Justice Chandrachud said according to a report by news agency ANI.The petition was filed by Mumbai-based Pankaj Phadnis, a researcher and a trustee of Abhinav Bharat Congress, who later withdrew it.“We have no jurisdiction over Chinese or American citizens. The government is there to hear you. Plea dismissed as withdrawn,” the Supreme Court said.The plea also sought direction to the Union of India to keep track of any further mutation so that it is not caught unaware if cases surge. “A recent report co-authored by the former chief economic advisor to the government of India confirms the existence of a war-like situation by suggesting that as many 3.9 million Indians have been killed in the last three months by the second wave of the pandemic. The monumental tragedy is not yet over,” the plea, accessed by ANI, said.The plea said that the international task force should also include Chinese nationals and added that the origins of the ‘Wuhan’ virus needs to be known as well as the Delta variant.The plea claimed that the Delta variant of Covid-19 is ‘bringing opprobrium upon India in the eyes of the world’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-dismisses-plea-for-setting-global-task-force-on-covid-19-origins-101630923949976.html
06-09-2021||India||BJP looks set to take control of Belagavi corporation for first time||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday secured control over the Belagavi city corporation for the first time in the history of Karnataka border district that has so far voted on language as the main election agenda in the local polls.The BJP was leading in at least 35 wards out of the total 58 in the district, relegating the Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti (MES) and Congress to the Opposition benches.“The voters have put their confidence in us. Last time we got low results (in Belagavi),” Basavaraj Bommai said on Monday. He added that the results prove that the border district has backed a stable administration under the BJP.“Coming as it did within one month of our government, this election was the first sign of approval and support. And this will also show the direction (of future elections),” he added.Also Read | Will Karnataka reopen schools for primary classes? Minister weighs inA total of 1,105 candidates contested the elections in the three urban local body polls (ULB) that took place on September 3.The Congress was hopeful of a better show in Belagavi where it managed to bring down the huge margin of difference between the BJP’s Mangala Angadi in the Lok Sabha bypolls in April this year.The BJP was also leading in Hubballi-Dharwad which Bommai said was a “stronghold” of the party .However, it remains unclear which way the results are moving in Kalaburagi district where the Congress has a better footprint. “In Belagavi we may have lost or not gotten good numbers but it has become a good beginning,” DK Shivakumar, the president of the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) said on Monday.He said that even in Hubbali-Dharwad, the numbers of the party have improved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-looks-set-to-take-control-of-belagavi-corporation-for-first-time-101630924122744.html
06-09-2021||India||Centuries old textile designs, natural dyes archived digitally||Cities like Kabul and Herat in war-torn Afghanistan may no longer be accessible for cultural exploration, but centuries old textile designs and natural dyes that were once used in these cities and other countries such as Iran and Uzbekistan in the west to Singapore and Thailand in the east, along with those in India in the 19th century, are now just a click away. The Botanical Survey of India (BSI), which is the custodian of this largest repository of centuries old textile designs, natural dyes and plant drawings, has digitally archived all its collections preserved till date. “It is a huge repository. Paintings of plants, textile designs from various countries and even natural dyes that have remained hidden for centuries are now accessible with a single click. They will be very useful not just for botanists but also professionals working in the field of fashion and garment technology,” said AA Mao, director of BSI. The collection contains the original set of 15 volumes of 19th century British businessman Thomas Wardle’s specimens of Fabrics dyed with Indian Dyes. It has information on 4,100 samples of dye patterns, extracted from 64 plants, depicting Indian dying traditions, compiled by Wardle in 19th century and is considered one of the most comprehensive and complete documentation, said senior BSI officials The archive also contains 18 volumes of textile designs comprising 1,700 samples, starting with turbans, saree, dhoti, trouser, carpet, mosquito curtain, coat, shawl, tent cloth, gowns and even saddle cloths among others, compiled by John Forbes Watson between 1866 and 1874. “You may find the design of a choga (long-sleeved robe) worn in Afghanistan’s Herat province in the 19th century, design of a Cashmere shawl woven by artisans at Kangra in Himachal Pradesh in the 1850s or the design on a gown made of camel hair known as Burruch and worn by Europeans and natives of Mashhad province of Iran almost 200 years ago,” said SS Dash, in-charge of BSI’s technical section. It also has some of the finest designs, from various parts of India, made out of cotton, silk, muslin and wool, woven with gold and silver threads dating back to the same time or even earlier. “Historical evidences suggest that since ancient times, India has been known to traditionally use natural dyes such as Indigo, Madder and Kermes, extracted both from plants and animals including lac- a red dye extract from the scale insect Laccifer lacca and cochineal- a scale insect from which the natural dye carmine is derived. The archive also contains information on such dyes that were not only used for colouring garments, but also in medicines and for camouflaging during battle,” said a BSI official. The BSI has also digitised the original set of 2,532 plant drawings made by William Roxburgh, a Scottish botanist and physician who was known as ‘Father of Indian Botany’. The drawings were preserved in the Central National Herbarium at Howrah near Kolkata. “India is the second country after the United Kingdom which made Roxburgh’s drawing online for the public. The digitised materials of the archives are the most accurate means of recording natural specimens and also easier to store and transport. There are 3,280 life-size botanical paintings other than Roxburgh paintings drawn by Indian artists,” said Mao. India is now the second Asian country after China to provide open access to its huge collections of type specimens (original specimens collected by scientists and stored in the BSI).“The archive is extremely innovative. I have never seen such a thing. It is very interesting. It has designs for various types of garments, on various materials, for various uses and from various countries. It’s a huge collection and would be very useful for fashion designers and textile designers from around the world,” said Agnimitra Paul, noted fashion designer turned politician.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centuries-old-textile-designs-natural-dyes-archived-digitally-101630923822776.html
06-09-2021||India||‘No RT-PCR test required for fully vaccinated people visiting Kerala’: Air India||People who want to visit Kerala and have received both the shots of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine, are no longer required to undergo an RT-PCR test. This was communicated by national carrier Air India on Twitter.In its tweet with "Important update for Domestic Passengers" message, Air India said that no RT-PCR test report is required for those who are fully vaccinated. "Fully vaccinated passengers are required to carry valid vaccination certificate for both doses," the tweet on Sunday further said.#FlyAI : Important update for Domestic Passengers. For more details, visit https://t.co/T1SVjRD6o5 pic.twitter.com/v1vZfIkkKQThis comes even as the southern state is reporting a huge number of daily Covid-19 cases. On Sunday, Kerala reported 26,701 new Covid-19 cases and 74 deaths in a 24-hour span.It is still the largest contributor in the over all Covid-19 tally of India, which recorded 38,948 fresh cases on Monday, according to Union health ministry data.As per the office of Kerala health minister, the total death toll in the state reached 21,496 and the active caseload stands at 2,47,791.As many as 28,900 patients recovered from the disease in the last 24 hours, taking cumulative recoveries to 39,37,996, the health department said. It added that 1,55,543 samples were tested between Saturday and Sunday with a test positivity rate of 17.17 per cent.On September 4, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan had said that Kerala will continue with its night curfew and Sunday lockdowns.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-rt-pcr-test-required-for-fully-vaccinated-people-visiting-kerala-air-india-101630920261433.html
06-09-2021||India||Bhopal farmer grows ladyfinger priced ₹800 a kg. Why the crop is so special?||Okra (also known as ladyfinger) is one of the popular vegetables for foodies. Known as a rich source of antioxidants, and vitamins A and C, the humble bhindi is on the menu of almost every restaurant in the country.But now, a farmer in Madhya Pradesh's capital Bhopal has given a twist to the green vegetable. Misrilal Rajput is growing red okra in his garden, and claims it is healthier than the existing natural variety."The ladyfinger that I grow is red in colour instead of its usual green colour. It is more beneficial and nutritious than green ladyfinger. It is extremely beneficial for people who are facing heart and blood pressure issues, diabetes, high cholesterol," Rajput told news agency ANI.The highlight of this crop is its price. While normal okra is available around ₹40 per kg in Delhi, the red ladyfinger commands a premium. "This ladyfinger is 5-7 times more expensive than ordinary ladyfingers. It is being sold from ₹75-80 to ₹300-400 per 250 gram/500 gram in some malls," said Rajput.The farmer from Khajuri Kalan area in Bhopal district said he purchased 1 kg seeds from an agricultural research institute in Varanasi. "In around 40 days, it started growing," said Rajput.He added that no harmful pesticides were used during the cultivation of red ladyfinger. Rajput said that a minimum of 40-50 quintals and a maximum of 70-80 quintals could be grown on an acre of land.A similar story had emerged from Madhya Pradesh's Jabalpur in June, where orchardist couple Rani and Sankalp Parihar grew unusual ruby-coloured mangoes. To the couple’s pleasant surprise, the mangoes turned out to be Japanese Miyazaki.Miyazaki mangoes are among the most expensive in the world and sold at ₹2.70 lakh per kilogram in the international market last year, according to the Japanese media reports.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhopal-farmer-grows-rs-800-a-kg-ladyfinger-why-is-it-so-special-101630917953479.html
06-09-2021||India||Sedition case against ex-guv Aziz Qureshi over ‘derogatory’ remarks on Yogi govt||A case of sedition has been lodged against former Uttar Pradesh governor Aziz Qureshi for his alleged derogatory remarks against the Yogi Adityanath government.Police said an FIR was lodged based on a complaint from BJP leader Akash Kumar Saxena at the Civil Lines Police Station in Rampur district on Sunday.In his complaint, Saxena said Qureshi compared the BJP government in the state with a "blood-sucking demon" following a visit to Samajwadi Party leader Azam Khan’s house where he met the jailed parliamentarian's wife Tazeen Fatma,"The statement can create tension between two communities and create unrest in society," Saxena said in his complaint, a PTI report said.Later, Qureshi said his words were being misquoted to politically harm him and mislead the public. “I had said that there haven't been as much atrocities in earlier days as today. I haven't made any remarks against anyone,” Qureshi was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The BJP leader also handed over to police a pen drive containing Qureshi’s alleged statement which was aired by various news channels.Qureshi was booked under sections 153A (promoting enmity between two groups on grounds of religion, race), 153B (imputations, assertions prejudicial to national integration), 124A (sedition), and 505(1)(B) (intent to cause fear or alarm to the public), a senior police officer said.Qureshi (81), is a senior Congress leader and had served as the governor of Mizoram and Uttarakhand. He was also in charge of Uttar Pradesh for some time.Police said action will be taken according to the law.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sedition-case-on-ex-guv-aziz-qureshi-over-derogatory-remarks-against-yogi-govt-101630916907383.html
06-09-2021||India||DCGI approves Hetero’s version of Tocilizumab for treatment of adults hospitalised due to Covid-19||Hyderabad-based Hetero announced on Monday it has received Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA) from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) to use its generic version of anti-arthritis drug, Tocilizumab, for treatment of adults hospitalised due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), according to news agency ANI. The World Health Organization (WHO), in July, recommended that the drug can be used for critically ill Covid-19 patients.Also Read | Arthritis drugs tocilizumab and sarilumab lower deaths by Covid-19, says studyIn a statement, Dr P Sarathi Reddy, chairman, Hetero Group, said that the approval was “extremely crucial” to ensure supply security in India due to a global shortage of Tocilizumab. “We are pleased with the approval of Hetero’s Toilizumab. This demonstrates our technical capabilities and commitment towards bringing important therapeutics relevant to Covid-19 care. We will work closely with the government to ensure equitable distribution,” Dr Reddy noted.The emergency use approval for TOCIRA, the pharmaceutical firm’s version of Tocilizumab, will ensure that medical practitioners can use it to treat adult Covid-19 patients, who are hospitalised, and require supplemental oxygen, mechanical ventilation, or extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (EMO), the company said. TOCIRA will be marketed by Hetero Healthcare, an associate company under the Hetero Group, with support from distribution networks from across the country. Its manufacturing, meanwhile, will be the responsibility of the group’s biologics arm, Hetero Biopharma, which will be done at its dedicated biologics facility located at Jadcherla in Hyderabad. The 400 mg drug, which will be available from the end of this month, is a biosimilar version of Roche’s Actemra/RoActemra.Hetero is among several Hyderabad-based companies which are involved in India’s fight against the contagious disease, Bharat Biotech International Limited and Dr Reddy’s Labs being the other two. It is engaged in research and development, manufacturing and marketing of chemical and biologic medicines. It is a among the largest producers globally of active pharmaceutical ingredients (API).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dcgi-approves-hetero-s-version-of-tocilizumab-for-treatment-of-adults-hospitalised-due-to-covid19-101630916742794.html
06-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: Efforts on to trace source of Nipah virus outbreak in Kerala and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 1pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Kerala Nipah outbreak: Efforts on to trace source of infectionState health minister expressed Veena George on Monday expressed confidence that the latest outbreak will be localised and contained like that of 2018. Read moreKarnataka municipal polls 2021: Counting of votes underwayVotes are being counted on Monday in Hubballi-Dharwad, Kalaburagi and Belagavi city municipal corporations in Karnataka, which went to polls on September 3. Read more'No Shami, no Ishant, no Ashwin': Atherton on whether England can chase down 368Former England captain Michael Atherton weighed in on England's chances of going 2-1 up and whether the pitch will turn up to assist Indian bowlers on the final day. Read moreSidharth Shukla’s family issues first statement after his death: ‘It definitely doesn’t end here’Sidharth Shukla’s family, in a statement, urged everyone to respect their privacy and allow them to grieve. They also thanked fans and well-wishers for their ‘unconditional love’. Read moreMaruti Suzuki cars become more expensive starting today: Know moreMaruti Suzuki on Monday has announced that its select models' pricing has been increased by 1.9%. The increased pricing of these models will be effective from September 6, 2021. Read moreAnkita Konwar's Monday is all about active recovery, says to be healthy listen to the bodyAnkita Konwar took to Instagram to reveal that after doing the power-packed 30k run and 30 Surya Namaskars last Monday, today will be all about active recovery. Read morePanjshir: Pak Air Force dropped bombs via drones to help Taliban, say reportsWith Panjshir continuing to be a thorn in the Taliban's side, the Pakistani military is reportedly helping the extremist group fight the Resistance. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-efforts-on-to-trace-source-of-nipah-virus-outbreak-in-kerala-and-all-the-latest-news-101630911163522.html
06-09-2021||India||Testing our patience: SC slams Centre over Tribunals Reforms Act||The Supreme Court on Monday expressed its displeasure over the way the Union government enacted the Tribunals Reforms Act calling it "a virtual replica of the provisions struck down by the court". The bench, comprising Chief Justice NV Ramana and justices DY Chandrachud and L Nagendra Rao, also slammed the Centre over the delay in filling up vacancies in the tribunals.The apex court posted the matter to next Monday and said it expected appointments to be done by then.  Supreme Court expresses its displeasure over the way the Centre enacted the Tribunals Reforms Act 2021. The CJI says we are not interested in or inviting any confrontation (with the govt), we are listing the matter for further hearing till next Monday. pic.twitter.com/4T6XX6wI9AA Livelaw report quoted CJI Ramana as saying, "There is no respect to judgments of this court. You are testing our patience. How many persons were appointed? You said some persons were appointed. Where are the appointments?"Also read | Tribunal Reforms Bill passed in Lok Sabha amid Oppn’s demand for discussionJustice Chandrachud said the functioning of tribunals like NCLT and NCLAT was affected because of lack of adequate members. Stating the court was "extremely upset" with the situation, the CJI said, "We have only three options. One we stay the legislation. Two, we close down the tribunals and give the powers to the high court. Three, we ourselves make the appointments."   Justice Chandrachud said the Tribunals Act was “virtually a replica of the provisions struck down by the court in the Madras Bar Association.”He further said that while the legislature cannot take away the basis of a judgment, adding it cannot pass a judgement which is contrary to a judgment.  The court also issued a notice on a writ petition filed by Congress MP Jairam Ramesh challenging the Act.  The report said solicitor general Tushar Mehta sought two-three days to get back to the court over the matter.   The CJI further said, "We are not interested in or inviting any confrontation (with the government), we are listing the matter for further hearing till next Monday."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-slams-centre-over-passing-of-tribunals-reforms-act-101630909965752.html
06-09-2021||India||India has administered at least 680 million Covid vaccine doses till now||India had administered at least 680 million Covid vaccine doses by Sunday, September 5. By the day, the Centre has provided 668,980,635 vaccine doses to the states and Union Territories. Another 15,696,450 doses are in the pipeline.Meanwhile, by 7am on Sunday, 684,669,521 vaccine doses were given across the states and UTs. As many as 7,161,760 doses were administered on the day.In the 18-45 age group, 270,412,926 people have been given the first dose while 33,697,606 have got their second shot as well.Also Read | Schools reopen for Classes 6 to 8 in KarnatakaAmong the healthcare workers, 10,360,742 have been given the first dose while 8,473,611 have got their second dose as well. Among the frontline workers, 18,329,504 have got their first dose and 13,542,999 have got their second dose too.India reported 38,948 new cases in the last 24 hours, taking the overall tally to 33,027,621, said the ministry of health and family welfare on Monday.
06-09-2021||India||‘Himachal emerged as champion’: In interaction with health workers, PM Modi lauds state for 100% first dose vaccination||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday held a virtual interaction with healthcare workers of Himachal Pradesh, as well as beneficiaries of the vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Himachal Pradesh is the first state in the country where every single beneficiary has received the first dose of a Covid-19 vaccine.Also Read | PM Modi to interact with health workers, vaccine beneficiaries in Himachal todayPrime Minister Modi congratulated the hill state for this achievement, saying that it achieved this feat by working as a team. “Himachal Pradesh came out as a champion in the fight against this once in a century pandemic,” PM Modi said.He also mentioned how twice in the last few days, India created a record by vaccinating more than 10 million people in a single-day, noting that this is way more than the total population of several countries. “Sikkim and Dadar & Nagar Haveli have also partially vaccinated cent percent eligible beneficiaries, and other states are catching up too. Now, we should focus on completing full vaccination,” he remarked.PM Modi further lauded the state government for ensuring that first dose was administered to all eligible beneficiaries despite Himachal being a hill state. He also praised people for not believing in any misinformation pertaining to Covid-19 vaccines.“Fast paced vaccination will also be beneficial for the tourism sector here,” the Prime Minister said. He also spoke about how the recently announced changes in drone technology will benefit Himachal. The new rules, he said, are not only simple, but will also lead to new opportunities in fields such as health and agriculture.Prime Minister Modi concluded his speech by urging everyone to remain cautious against Covid-19 and strictly comply with “do gaj ki doori.” Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jairam Thakur also spoke on the occasion. Thakur promised that all beneficiaries in the state will be fully vaccinated by November 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/himachal-emerged-as-champion-pm-lauds-state-for-100-1st-dose-vaccination-101630906067210.html
06-09-2021||India||Karnataka municipal polls 2021: Counting of votes underway||Votes are being counted on Monday in Hubballi-Dharwad, Kalaburagi and Belagavi city municipal corporations in Karnataka, which went to polls on September 3, amid tight security and adherence to Covid-19 protocol. There were 1,318 candidates in the fray from various political parties for 252 wards across seven urban local bodies and 59 for the 21 wards in the by-polls. As many as 300 candidates are in the fray in Kalaburagi for 55 seats, 420  in Hubballi-Dharwad with 82 wards and 519 candidates are contesting in Belagavi with 58 wards, according to State Election Commission officials.Voting also took place across the Doddaballapur City Municipal Council (31), Tarikere Town Municipal Council (23), Bidar City Municipal Council (2) and Bhadravathi City Municipal Council (1). There were 21 wards of various urban local bodies in the state, which fell vacant due to various reasons, also went for the by-polls on the same day.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Congress, Janata Dal(Secular), Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) have fielded their nominees. In Belagavi, members of the Shiv Sena and Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti have also contested as Independent candidates.Voting for the elections of Belagavi, Hubballi-Dharwad and Kalaburagi, along with bypolls to a few other urban local bodies were held "peacefully" on September 3. The Hubballi-Dharwad Municipal Corporation saw the highest polling with a voter turnout of 53.81 per cent, followed by Belagavi at 50.41 per cent and Kalaburagi at 49.40 per cent, the State Election Commission said on Friday. It was 75.80 per cent in the Doddaballapur City Municipal Council, followed by 74.22 per cent in the Tarikere Town Municipal Council, 68.13 per cent in the Bidar City Municipal Council and 64.27 per cent in the Bhadravathi City Municipal Council.According to the State Election Commission, there were more than 14 lakh eligible voters in 252 wards, with the highest in Hubballi-Dharwad at 811,000.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-municipal-polls-2021-counting-of-votes-underway-101630909089432.html
06-09-2021||India||Kerala Nipah outbreak: Efforts on to trace source of infection||Hectic efforts are on to trace the source of Nipah infection in north Kerala’s Kozhikode which claimed the life of a 12-year-old boy on Sunday even as more samples of quarantined people were sent to the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune for tests. Three people, including the boy’s mother, were shifted to Nipah ward in Kozhikode medical college hospitals after they showed symptoms of the infection. Two of them are health workers. Twenty primary contacts and 158 secondary contacts of the deceased were quarantined soon after Nipah was confirmed. The boy’s route map was also released. High alert has been sounded in two neighbouring districts of Kannur and Malappuram. State health minister Veena George said on Monday that the coming week is crucial for the state and expressed confidence that the latest outbreak will be localised and contained like that of 2018. “We have traced all contacts of the boy and quarantined. The next week is crucial for us. We have to keep utmost vigil,” said the minister, adding the health department will also look at some of the earlier deaths if they had similar symptoms. “Different teams are working to find out the source of infection. If needed, more experts will be deployed. Since the whole state is following strict physical distancing and masking, chances of high transmission are low. But we can’t lower our guard,” she said. The team from the National Centre for Disease Control, which is camping in the city, visited the deceased boy’s house in Chathamangalam on Sunday. The state animal husbandry department has also started examining domestic animals and pets in the area. The area within 3km radius of the deceased’s house has been sealed. The NIV is planning to open a lab on the premises of the medical college hospital to facilitate speedy testing. The health department is also planning to start a mobile application to monitor the Nipah situation. Kozhikode has reported Nipah infection for the second time in three years. In 2018, it claimed 17 lives in the district. Two persons also survived the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-nipah-outbreak-efforts-on-to-trace-source-of-infection-101630909002598.html
06-09-2021||India||India records 219 Covid-19 fatalities, lowest in 167 days||India on Monday recorded 219 fresh fatalities due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) - the lowest 24-hour count in 167 days (or over five months). With the addition of latest death toll, the overall fatality count rose to 4,40,752, according to Union health ministry data.The 219 new fatalities include 74 from Kerala, and 67 from Maharashtra.The case fatality rate has declined to 1.33 per cent after 48 days, according to ministry's data updated at 8am.India had reported 199 deaths in a single day on March 23.Meanwhile, the country recorded 38,948 new Covid-19 infections - 4,000 less from Sunday's tally - the health ministry data further showed.The active cases declined to 4,04,874 and now comprise 1.23 per cent of the total infections while the national Covid-19 recovery rate stands at 97.44 per cent, the ministry said.A decrease of 5,174 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. Less than 50,000 daily cases are being reported for 71 consecutive days, the ministry said.As many as 14,10,649 tests were conducted on Sunday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 53,14,68,867.India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-219-covid-19-fatalities-lowest-in-167-days-101630905934954.html
06-09-2021||India||105 fresh cases of dengue, viral fever in Firozabad; east UP affected too||The western part of Uttar Pradesh is battling a huge spike in cases of dengue, a mosquito-borne viral disease. Firozabad and Mathura are the worst affected districts in the region where more than 100 cases have been reported in past two weeks, and most of them are children. The disease is now spreading to the eastern part of the state as well.Western Uttar Pradesh:In worst affected Firozabad district, as many as 105 fresh cases of dengue and viral fever surfaced in Sunday and the patients were admitted to the government medical college. No death was reported during the day; 51 people have died so far in the district due to dengue and viral fever.Nodal officer Sudhir Kumar Bobde visited affected areas such as Sudama Nagar and Ailan Nagar, where he enquired about people's well-being and urged them to inform the health department in case of dengue and viral fever.Bobde also asked the public to refrain from storing excess water.Apart from informing people about keeping their homes and surroundings clean, the district administration is also using some novel techniques to keep a check on the spread of the disease. On Monday, district health department released Gambusia fish, which feeds on mosquito larvae, in several ponds around Firozabad to curb the menace of dengue."We have brought about 25,000 of these fish and released them in several ponds," said Dinesh Kumar, chief medical officer, Firozabad. Schools have been advised to not hold classes for students of Class 1-8 till September 16.In Mathura district too, four more villages have reported dengue-like fever, though no fatality has been reported.Dr Bhudeo Singh, in-charge of the rapid response team, said on Sunday that new cases were reported from Ram Nagar, Fulgarhi, Chaumuha and Daghenta. Koh, Jachaunda, Pipraut, Junsuti, Sakarva villages have already reported cases of fever, he added.Eastern Uttar Pradesh:After wreaking havoc, dengue and viral fever are expanding in eastern part of the state. The cases of viral fever in Ballia have increased by 25 per cent over the past 10 days, a doctor at the district hospital said on Sunday. Medical superintendent of the hospital Dr VP Singh said the children's ward is fully occupied with patients.In Prayagraj, 170 children were admitted to Motilal Nehru Hospital on Sunday with viral fever. Many of these patients require oxygen support. According to local reports, more than 30 cases of dengue have been reported in Prayagraj so far. At least a dozen of these are in rural areas.Cases of viral fever have also been reported from Varanasi and Basti - two other key cities in eastern Uttar Pradesh.The district administration has said that these cases are the result of widespread rain and floods and there is nothing new.The Yogi Adityanath government has instructed health officials in all the districts to ensure there is no scarcity of medicine and other medical equipment. A five-member central team visited Firozabad on Friday and conducted door-to-door inspection, informing people about the do's and dont's to curb the spread of dengue in the district.According to World Health Organization (WHO), dengue virus is transmitted by female mosquitoes mainly of the species Aedes aegypti and, to a lesser extent, Ae. albopictus. These mosquitoes are also vectors of chikungunya, yellow fever and Zika viruses.Dengue is widespread throughout the tropics, with local variations in risk influenced by rainfall, temperature, relative humidity and rapid urbanisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/105-fresh-cases-of-dengue-viral-fever-in-firozabad-east-up-affected-too-101630905098692.html
06-09-2021||India||Unable to return to China, MBBS students worry about belongings, experience||Indian medical students enrolled in Chinese universities have not returned to their campuses due to travel restrictions for past 20 months and are now worried about their belongings left behind in hostels amid reports that it was being dumped out to make room for fresh students.“There are several videos doing the rounds among the student community of piles of luggage dumped outside hostel rooms. It’s been close to two years since we left and have no idea as to what is happening to our belongings,” said a third-year medical student, on the condition of anonymity.Indian students of Chinese universities returned last year following the outbreak of the pandemic-- first detected among humans in China in December 2019-- leading to complete lockdown of Chinese cities and varsities in early 2020. Many left their belongings behind hoping to return soon, which has not materialised due to a continuous travel ban imposed by China on international students. Only those from South Korea and the United States of America have been allowed to return so far.In June, the ministry of external affairs (MEA) issued a notice asking Indian students studying in international universities, stuck in India due to the pandemic, to write to its overseas Indian affairs (OIA) office about difficulties in reaching their universities along with their contact details.Thereafter, affected students urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi in an open letter to intervene and facilitate students’ return. However, there’s been no response yet.Ishwari Chandran, who recently graduated from the Zhejiang University at Hangzhou, China, completed her internship online. Fortunately, Chandran’s university continues to store the belongings of foreign students. “My university has let us keep all our things. They haven’t charged any dorm fee either. In fact, they refunded a part of it for the days we weren’t there,” she said.Meanwhile, students attending lectures online are under mental stress and anxiety. Neha, a fourth year MBBS student at Jianghan University, Wuhan, China, said, “The MBBS course requires students to gain practical experience. For almost two years we’ve been bereft of that. It’s starting to bother my confidence.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unable-to-return-to-china-mbbs-students-worry-about-belongings-experience-101630904741047.html
06-09-2021||India||Covid: India's fresh tally falls to 38,948; Kerala remains top contributor||Coronavirus cases in the country witnessed a drop in fresh infections with 38,948 people testing positive for Covid-19 on Monday taking the active caseload to 4,04,874. Of these, Kerala contributed 26,701 infections in the last 24 hours.With 219 patients dying from the disease, this became the lowest in 167 days or a little more than five months. India had reported 199 deaths in a single day on March 23.As far as the fresh infections are concerned, the tally was about 4,000 less than Sunday’s figures when 42,766 new infections were recorded. However, the daily positivity rate went up to 2.76 per cent from Sunday’s 2.45 per cent.Also read | Surplus Covid-19 vaccines with rich nations to hit 1.2 billion dosesThe daily positivity rate has remained below three per cent for the last seven days and below five per cent for 91 straight days.According to latest updates from the Union ministry of health and family welfare, 219 patients died from the viral disease and 43,903 people recovered during the same period, pushing the fatality and recovery tallies to 4,40,752 and 3,21,81,995, respectively.At present, active cases comprise 1.23 per cent of the total cases registered so far at 3,30,27,621.Meanwhile, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said 14,10,649 were tested for the virus during the day, while a total of 53,14,68,867 samples have been tested across the country.So far, 68,75,41,762 vaccine doses against the virus have been administered against the viral disease across the country under the nationwide inoculation drive launched earlier this year of which 25,23,089 jabs were given in the last 24 hours.  The government said more than 5.08 crore doses were still available with states and Union territories, while another 1.44 crore jabs were in pipeline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-india-s-fresh-tally-falls-to-38-948-kerala-continues-to-add-most-cases-101630902018898.html
06-09-2021||India||Afghanistan, terrorism, Indo-Pacific, climate change on Modi's US trip agenda||Cementing bilateral ties, stabilisation of Afghanistan, counterterrorism, Indo-Pacific and climate change are expected to be on the agenda when Prime Minister Narendra Modi goes on a three-day visit to the US this month.While the scheduling of programs and engagements of PM Modi will be worked out by the advance team, which is expected to reach the US on September 9, the visit will begin with a bilateral with US President Joe Biden in Washington on September 23 followed by a physical summit meeting of QUAD partners the next day. PM Modi is expected to address UN General Assembly on September 25 before flying back to India. This is the first international visit of PM Modi after he travelled to Bangladesh in March 2021.Apart from strengthening bilateral ties, the security and diplomatic ramifications of Taliban controlled Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan and the Indo-Pacific will be on top of the diplomatic agenda as PM Modi will hold his first physical meeting with Joe Biden after he took over as President this year. This will also be the first QUAD physical summit with Australian and Japanese heads of government even though there is a question mark on the physical availability of Japanese PM Yoshihide Suga as he has decided to step down. Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison has confirmed his availability for the QUAD summit.Also read | India has good reason to worry over Taliban's rise: Ex-CIA officialAfghanistan and the role of regional players like China, Russia, and Iran will be priority agenda with Pakistan openly playing cards in the formation of the government in Kabul. While countries like UK and Germany are seeking Pakistan Army’s support in engaging the Taliban, Lt General Faiz Hameed, DG, ISI, is parked in Kabul for the past two days to ensure that a pro-Pakistan government is formed and ensuring that resistance in Panjshir is eliminated with the help of Pakistani commandoes in mufti. Amrullah Saleh, the face of Panjshir resistance, is the principal target of ISI as the former first vice president of Afghanistan has always blocked the grandiose plans of the Pakistani intelligence agency. It is a matter of concern that despite Pakistani ISI, which runs the terror factory in the Af-Pak region, running the show in Kabul with a tired international community watching the events silently.Also read | As Taliban sends conflicting signals, India maintains studied silenceThe QUAD summit will not only discuss the regional security of the Af-Pak region but also the Indo-Pacific as China will be a net gainer of the ascent of Taliban in Afghanistan via its client state Pakistan. The bilateral engagement and QUAD summit will pave the way for the decision on the legitimisation of the Taliban regime for the concerned countries individually. Despite the Taliban claiming that it will not allow Afghanistan to be used against a third country, the Sunni Pashtun Islamists refuse to disavow the al Qaeda terrorist group and are virtually run by the pro-Pakistan Haqqani Network terrorist group. The Taliban are a votary of global jihad till the world turns into Dar-ul-Islam.Also read | Haqqani and Baradar fight it out for power in KabulAt the meeting of the QUAD, the architecture of the four-nation grouping could be announced, a sort of rules of engagement that have been worked out by the foreign ministers of the participating countries.PM Modi will address the UNGA with India a non-permanent member of the UNSC on September 25. While he is expected to address the core issues facing the world, the speech will be forward-looking with a focus on climate change and terrorism. It is another matter, that the UN has been found to be performing below par when it comes to critical issues including Afghanistan or terrorism.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afghanistan-terrorism-indo-pacific-climate-change-on-modi-s-us-trip-agenda-101630901342281.html
06-09-2021||India||Nipah virus in Kerala: Central team meets boy's family, advises extra vigilance||A health team from the Centre visited Kerala's Kozhikode district on Sunday, where a 12-year-old boy died after getting infected by the Nipah virus and collected samples of Rambutan fruits from the area. The sample could help identify the source of the infection and confirm whether the origin of the infection was through a bat, according to a statement by the government.The team from Delhi's National Centre for Diseases Control also interacted with the family and those close to the boy to identify the food he ate and the animals he may have come in contact with. At least 18 close contacts, mainly relatives and health workers, of the boy and 150 secondary contacts have been identified and quarantined. Two health workers later showed symptoms of Nipah.It also advised everyone to be extra vigilant and inform health professionals as soon as possible if they have similar symptoms of the disease, which has a case fatality rate of 40 per cent to 80 per cent. Local residents must follow protocol at their homes and surroundings, as the state government imposed restrictions within a three-kilometre radius of the Nipah victim's house and declared it as a containment zone, the central officials said. Similar cautionary steps have been issued in nearby areas of Kozhikode, Malappuram and Kannur districts.Also read | Tamil Nadu on alert after Kerala Nipah deathA Nipah virus outbreak was reported in the Kozhikode and Malappuram districts of Kerala in 2018. Nipah virus disease is caused by fruit bats and is potentially fatal to humans as well as animals, according to the World Health Organization (WHO).Also watch | Nipah virus in Kerala: High alert after 12-year-old boy dies
06-09-2021||India||Rural service for doctors should be mandatory, says V-P Naidu||Vice-President Venkaiah Naidu on Sunday said that serving in rural areas should be mandatory for doctors before their first promotion in the government sector.Speaking at the 11th annual Medical Teachers’ Day Awards function, Naidu said that three-to-five years’ service in the rural areas for young doctors was essential while pointing out that 60% of the country’s population lives in the villages. “It (serving in rural areas) must be made mandatory. I know that it will not be liked by many. But, I feel that is needed,” Naidu said.Calling for creating state-of-the-art health infrastructure across the country, particularly in the rural areas, the Vice-President said Covid-19 pandemic has accentuated the need for better health infrastructure and advised the state governments to give special attention to this aspect.He also stressed the need to increase the number of medical colleges while referring to the government’s efforts to bridge the gap in the doctor-patient ratio in the country. He said the doctor-patient ratio in the country was 1:1,456 as against the World Health Organisation norm of 1:1000.Also Read | President Kovind honours 44 teachers for outstanding workExpressing his appreciation of the government’s plan to establish at least one medical college in each district, he pointed out that the urban-rural ratio of doctors was also highly skewed with more medical professionals opting to work in urban areas.Naidu further emphasised that both medical education and treatment should be affordable and within the reach of the common man. He said that top priority should be accorded to education and health sectors with a greater allocation of budget.Referring to the fast-changing technological world, the Vice President urged medical colleges to ensure that those graduating stay abreast of the latest diagnostic and treatment systems. “This has become all the more imperative in the wake of the pandemic as everything about the novel coronavirus is new learning to all -- from scientists to doctors,” he said.The Vice President also paid his homage to former President Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan in whose memory his birth anniversary is celebrated as Teachers Day in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rural-service-for-doctors-should-be-mandatory-saysvpnaidu-101630899280057.html
06-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: PM to interact with health workers, vaccine beneficiaries in Himachal today and the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9AM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PM Modi to interact with health workers, vaccine beneficiaries in Himachal todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will virtually interact with healthcare workers and beneficiaries of the government’s Covid-19 vaccination programme in Himachal Pradesh on Monday. Read moreMaharashtra aims to vaccinate 20mn in September to ‘prevent or delay’ 3rd waveAfter administering a record-breaking 1,225,541 doses of Covid vaccine on Saturday, Maharashtra has set a target to inoculate over 20 million people in September, requiring a raise in the average number of doses administered daily from 482,695 in August to 700,000 if the state has to achieve the landmark. Read moreBigg Boss OTT: Karan Johar fights back tears during tribute to Sidharth Shukla, says ‘I am numb’. WatchBigg Boss OTT host Karan Johar paid tribute to late actor Sidharth Shukla during the Sunday Ka Vaar episode. Sidharth, who won Bigg Boss 13, died on Thursday. Read moreDeepika Padukone's dreamy organza saree and sleeveless blouse is season's hottest must-haveOrganza sarees are one of the biggest IT trends in Bollywood, and the most stylish divas from the industry are adding this ethereal piece to their wardrobe. Read more'Rohit Sharma makes an 85mph delivery look like it was bowled at 3mph': Michael VaughanFormer England captain Michael Vaughan said Rohit Sharma makes an 85 miles per hour (mph) delivery look like it was bowled at 3mph when he plays a forward defence. Vaughan’s comments came after Rohit struck his eighth Test hundred and first in overseas conditions to take India to a comfortable position in the fourth Test match against England at The Oval. Read morePak Hindus return home after being stuck in India for over a year due to CovidAfter being stranded in India for over a year due to Covid, as many as 98 Pakistani Hindus returned home via Attari-Wagah in Punjab's Amritsar on Sunday. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9am-pm-modi-to-interact-with-health-workers-vaccine-beneficiaries-in-himachal-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101630895373206.html
06-09-2021||India||Muzaffarnagar Mahapanchayat invokes sharp reactions: Who said what||Thousands of farmers from Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Haryana, Rajasthan and Maharashtra gathered at Muzaffarnagar in Uttar Pradesh for Kisan Mahapanchayat on Sunday in protest against the Centre’s controversial farm laws. The event was organised by Samyukt Kisan Morcha at the Government Inter College grounds. Farmers have also been protesting at different Delhi borders over the same since November last year.The Mahapanchat has garnered support from politicians from across the spectrum. Here are some of the reactions it invoked:Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday said the Mahapanchayat echoed the “call of truth” that an “unjust government” must listen to. Supporting the protesters, Gandhi tweeted in Hindi, “The call of truth is echoing. You have to listen, unjust government!” Several other Congress leaders also threw their weight behind the Mahapanchayat.Also Read | Massive show of strength at farmers’ UP mahapanchayatCongress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said that the “arrogance of power” cannot withstand the roar of the farmers. “Farmers are the voice of this country. Farmers are the pride of the country. Arrogance of any power cannot withstand the roar of the farmers,” she said.“The huge crowd gathered in the Kisan Mahapanchayat of Muzaffarnagar shows that the farmers of Uttar Pradesh and the country are fed up with the BJP,” said Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot. He said the farmers of the country won’t lag in teaching the saffron party a lesson at the right time. The farmers are fed up with the BJP, he claimed.“They are our “annadatas”. They keep us alive and the government does not care to listen to them,” said CPI (M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury. While urging the government to listen to the farmers’ demand, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) spokesperson Sudhinder Bhadoria said, “It’s a democratic right of every citizen to have a peaceful protest and it should not be stopped by the police.”Bhadoria termed the security arrangements as an “insult” to the farmers. He said, “This kind of security arrangement would make the Kisan Mahapanchayat look like the India-Pakistan border.”BJP MP Varun Gandhi said, “We need to start re-engaging with them in a respectful manner.” The Pilibhit MP called farmers “our own flesh and blood”, and insisted their hardships be taken into consideration. “Lakhs of farmers have gathered in protest today, in Muzaffarnagar. They are our own flesh and blood. We need to start re-engaging with them in a respectful manner: understand their pain, their point of view and work with them in reaching common ground,” he tweeted on Sunday.Meanwhile, BJP’s Kisan Morchahead and MP Rajkumar Chahar claimed in a statement that it is politics and not concerns for farmers which have been on the agenda of those behind the Mahapanchayat. “This was very much a political and election meeting. The Opposition and these farmer union leaders have been using the shoulders of farmers to engage in politics,” he said.Union minister Anurag Thakur pointed out that the government has held 11 rounds of talks with farmers. He also said that the government has increased the minimum support price for the benefit of farmers.Taking a veiled dig at Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait, who is spearheading the farmers’ protest, Thakur asked how many mandis have been shut down in the last two years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/muzaffarnagar-mahapanchayat-invokes-sharp-reactions-who-said-what-101630898140494.html
06-09-2021||India||ED issues lookout notice against former Maharashtra minister Anil Deshmukh||A lookout notice has been issued by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh in a money laundering case worth ₹100 crore.The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader has skipped several summons issued by the agency. The circular has been reportedly issued to prevent Deshmukh from leaving the country.Enforcement Directorate issued a lookout notice against former Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh in connection with a money laundering case(File pic) pic.twitter.com/Eg0le4cR4yOn September 3, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) arrested a member of Deshmukh’s legal team, Anand Daga, after day-long questioning for allegedly trying to influence the agency’s probe into the corruption charges against his client.Earlier, the former minister had said he would appear before the ED only "after the legal process is completed", claiming the Supreme Court had accepted his plea on the matter and the case would be heard soon. He had, however, offered to make himself available for recording his statement by electronic medium of the agency’s choice.The apex court had refused to offer him interim relief from coercive action in the lawsuit last month.On August 23, the federal agency filed a charge sheet against two of his aides in the case. Kundan Shinde, who was Deshmukh's assistant, and his personal secretary Sanjeev Paland have been chargesheeted in the case, according to the news agency. Both were arrested by the federal agency on June 26 for their alleged role in the laundering of money on Deshmukh’s directions.Also read | The travails of former Maharashtra home minister Anil DeshmukhThe ED had registered the money laundering case against Deshmukh after the CBI filed a first information report (FIR) against him on April 21. Deshmukh had in the past said that the allegations against him are false.The central agency has alleged that while serving as the Maharashtra home minister, Deshmukh misused his position, and through assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze – who has now been dismissed and is in Taloja jail for his alleged role in the Antilia explosives scare and Mansukh Hiran murder case – collected ₹4.7 crore from Mumbai’s bars for their “smooth functioning”.Later, through hawala channels, this money was sent to two brothers in Delhi who operated bogus companies, said the agency. It claimed that at the behest of Deshmukh’s son, Hrishikesh, the two brothers diverted the money as donations to Nagpur-based Shri Sai Shikshan Sansthan, an educational trust controlled by the Deshmukhs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-issues-lookout-notice-against-former-maharashtra-minister-anil-deshmukh-101630896403893.html
06-09-2021||India||Central, west and northwest India to receive fresh spell of rain||A wet spell has commenced over central, west and parts of northwest India in association with a low pressure area that has formed over west central Bay of Bengal on Monday, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Monday. A low-pressure area has formed over northwest and adjoining westcentral Bay of Bengal, off south Odisha-north Andhra Pradesh coasts. The low-pressure area and its remnant is very likely to move west-north-westwards during the next 4-5 days. The monsoon trough is lying south of its normal position which is very likely to be south of its normal position during the next 4-5 days.A shear zone, a zone of change in wind speed and direction, is likely to persist over south Peninsular India during the next 4-5 days. Due to these meteorological conditions, widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy rain is likely over Odisha, Coastal Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka, Vidarbha and Chhattisgarh on Monday and Tuesday and Marathawada, Madhya Maharashtra, Konkan, Gujarat till Saturday. Isolated extremely heavy rain (over 20cm) is also likely over coastal Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Madhya Maharashtra, north Konkan and Gujarat till Wednesday.Rainfall activity is also likely to increase over most parts of northwest India with isolated heavy rain over Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Haryana, Jammu region and East Rajasthan till Friday. Very heavy rain is likely over Uttarakhand and East Rajasthan between Wednesday and Friday.“A low-pressure area has already formed off south Odisha-north Andhra Pradesh which will move inland and travel in the west northwestwards direction bringing heavy rain in its track. We are expecting widespread and heavy rains over central India and the west coast during the next 3-4 days. The system will also bring rain to northwest India because easterly winds will set in. There are scattered rains over northwest India mainly due to the monsoon trough but this will enhance further by around September 8. Even after the low pressure system weakens its cyclonic circulation will continue to bring rains,” said K Sathi Devi, head, national weather forecasting centre, IMD. There is also likelihood of another low pressure area forming over Bay of Bengal next week. “Development of that low pressure area is being monitored. Some models are indicating that another low-pressure area will form,” she added.Between 8.30am on Sunday and 8.30am on Monday, certain stations in coastal Andhra Pradesh recorded heavy rain including Vizianagaram -18cm, Srikakulam -13cm, Visakhapatnam -7cm; In West Madhya Pradesh: Khargone-12cm; Sehore-10cm; In Uttarakhand: Chamoli- 9cm; In East Rajasthan: Rajsamand-8cm; and in Kerala: Vaikom-7cm.There is a 9% rainfall deficiency over the country with 13% deficiency over central India; 13% over northwest India; 10% deficiency over east and northeast India and 10% excess over peninsular India. Over northwest India, while Delhi and Haryana have recorded 26% and 20% excess rains respectively; Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir have over 20% deficiency; Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh have 7% and 9% deficiency respectively.There is likely to be above normal rainfall activity at over 110% of the so-called long period average or LPA in September, and while this will reduce the current monsoon rain deficiency of 9% over the country, overall monsoon rain (June 1 to September 30) will still be in the “lower end of normal category,” the IMD said in its monsoon monthly forecast last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-west-and-northwest-india-to-receive-fresh-spell-of-rain-101630895860012.html
06-09-2021||India||Maharashtra aims to vaccinate 20mn in September to ‘prevent or delay’ 3rd wave||After administering a record-breaking 1,225,541 doses of Covid vaccine on Saturday, Maharashtra has set a target to inoculate over 20 million people in September, requiring a raise in the average number of doses administered daily from 482,695 in August to 700,000 if the state has to achieve the landmark.Currently, Maharashtra has 17,261,027 fully-vaccinated people- the highest among all states in the country. The state has administered a total of 62,940,932 doses, including over 2.8 crore residents who have received at least the first dose of a Covid vaccine, officials said.Dr Pradeep Vyas, additional chief secretary of Maharashtra public health department, said their target for September was based on assurance of adequate supply. “We expect to administer more than 20 million doses of Covid vaccines in September. We have been assured of adequate supply by the Central government, and if the vaccine production increases, the numbers may go up even further. Private hospitals have also contributed significantly to the vaccination drive,” said Dr Vyas.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray described vaccines as the shield against Covid-19 virus. “We need to stop the third wave or at least postpone it. Citizens should fully support the vaccination drive. Doctors need to educate citizens that they should take both the doses. There can be cases where people take both the doses and still get Covid-19. However, the severity of the virus will be less,” he added.Maharashtra on Sunday recorded 4,057 new Covid-19 cases and 67 related deaths. Mumbai’s tally of new cases was 495 and the city also reported two Covid deaths, pushing its toll to 15,993. The total number of Covid-19 patients registered so far in the state has now reached 6,486,174.On Sunday, 193,193 Covid tests were done and the number of recoveries from the viral infection clocked 5,916. The total number of active Covid-19 patients in Maharashtra stood at 50,095. Pune has the most number of active cases at 12,325, followed by Thane with 7,273 and Satara with 6,603. The state-wide Covid death toll has reached 137,774 and most of these deaths have been registered in Pune (19,303), followed by 15,993 in Mumbai and 11,324 deaths in Thane..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-aims-to-vaccinate-20m-in-september-to-prevent-or-delay-3rd-wave-101630894179730.html
06-09-2021||India||Bodyguard death probe: Will Suvendu Adhikari appear before Bengal CID today?||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Suvendu Adhikari, the Leader of the Opposition in the West Bengal assembly, is on Monday scheduled to apper before the West Bengal Crime Investigation Department (CID) after being summoned by it for questioning in connection with the death of his personal security guard in 2018.Also Read | CID summons BJP’s Suvendu Adhikari for questioning in suicide caseSummoning the BJP’s Nandigram MLA, the agency had asked him to appear at its office in Kolkata. While it is not yet known whether he will, in fact, appear before the CID or not, his party has termed the notice as “vendetta politics.”The case pertains to the death of Subhabrata Chakraborty, Adhikari’s personal security guard, who allegedly died by suicide on October 13, 2018. Chakraborty, a state armed police personnel, was part of the BJP leader’s security detail from the time the latter became a parliamentarian. At the time of Chakraborty’s death, Adhikari was a leader of the Mamata Banerjee-led ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) and was serving as the transport minister in her cabinet. However, in December last year, he joined the BJP and defeated his former boss from Nandigram in the assembly elections earlier this year though the TMC won the polls comprehensively, coming to power for a third straight term.On July 12, the CID constituted a four-member team to probe Chakraborty’s death after a complaint was filed by his wife seeking fresh inquiry into her husband’s demise. On July 22, Adhikari filed a petition in the Calcutta high court seeking transfer of all criminal cases registered against him to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).Also Read | Suvendu Adhikari files petition; Calcutta HC to transfer criminal cases to CBIAlso summoned for questioning are Adhikari’s driver Sambhu Maity and close associate Sanjeev Shukla. Their questioning, however, is scheduled for Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bodyguard-death-probe-will-suvendu-adhikari-appear-before-bengal-cid-today-101630890117239.html
06-09-2021||India||Assam to reopen schools, colleges in a phased manner from today: Check SOPs here||Assam will reopen schools and colleges in a phased manner from Monday. The direction in this regard was issued on Friday for the final year students of higher secondary, graduation and post-graduation. Classes 1 to 11, the first seven semesters of graduation and first-year students of post-graduation will continue with their online classes.The Assam government issued a supplementary standard operating procedure (SOP) and said that for reopening, the institutions are focusing on two criteria—the willingness of the students to attend the classes and the Covid-19 positivity rate in particular districts, reported news agency PTI.The Assam government said the supplementary SOP has been necessitated “considering the importance of continuous education and improvement in the Covid-19 situation in the state as on date.” It further said that the online mode of education will continue for students who prefer to attend online classes rather than physically attend school, adding that physical attendance in schools is optional and not mandatory.Assam closed its schools and colleges in April when the second wave of coronavirus pandemic was reported. Assam on Sunday reported 321 new Covid-19 cases and 6 deaths during the last 24 hours, according to a bulletin issued by the state government.Here's the complete SOP:1. If the positivity rate goes above 2 per cent on a particular day, the deputy commissioner of the concerned district will close the educational institutions till the positivity rate goes below 2 per cent.2. The first three days of the opening of schools are allotted only for the vaccination of students above 18 years along with the teaching and non-teaching staff members.3. Each section will have only 30 students and the class teachers will have to form new sections if there are more students in each section.4. Hostels will be kept open for only those students attending physical classes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-to-reopen-schools-colleges-in-a-phased-manner-from-today-check-sops-here-101630886599253.html
06-09-2021||NA||Breaking news: French actor Jean-Paul Belmondo dies at 88||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:Assam reports 636 Covid-19 cases, 11 deathsAssam reports 636 new COVID cases, 556 recoveries, and 11 deaths today Active cases: 5,068Total recoveries: 5,80,491Death toll: 5,710PM Narendra Modi tweets to commemorate India's test win and vaccination milestone PM Narendra Modi took to Twitter on Monday to commemorate India's win against England and vaccination coverage. “Great day (again) on the vaccination front and on the cricket pitch. As always, #TeamIndia wins!” he said. French actor Jean-Paul Belmondo dies at 88#UPDATE French actor Jean-Paul #Belmondo, one of the biggest stars of the country's postwar cinema, has died aged 88, his lawyer told AFP on Monday https://t.co/YFKw9I8X4U pic.twitter.com/zPrjBmOonX'BJP's tyranny will be defeated', says TMC's Abhishek Banerjee Trinamool Congress leader Abhishek Banerjee told reporters in Delhi that TMC will defeat BJP in the upcoming elections. “BJP's tyranny will be defeated. Let BJP put all its might, vigour, threat & resources, mind my words, their resources are going to fall flat. TMC will defeat BJP in next polls,” ANI said quoting Banerjee.India has vaccinated 696.8 million beneficiaries so farThe Union health ministry said India has vaccinated 696.8 million beneficiaries till date, adding that the country has been administering 1 crore doses a day thrice in the last 11 days.‘Let farmers hold Kisan Mahapanchayat’, says Anil VijHaryana home minister Anil Vij told news agency ANI that farmers will be allowed to hold Kisan Mahapanchayat in Karnal as all necessary arrangements have been made by the administration, and routes have also been diverted. Farmers are protesting the lathicharge by administration on August 28 which injured many and one individual succumbed.Maharashtra records 3,626 Covid-19 cases, 37 deathsMaharashtra recorded 3,626 Covid-19 cases on Monday, taking the total number of cases to 6,489,800. In the last 24 hours 37 deaths were also reported and the death toll now stands at 137,811, according to the state's health bulletin. Mobile internet to be restored in Kashmir valley todayMobile internet service will be restored in Kashmir valley today, IGP Kashmir told news agency ANI.  The order is not applicable in Budgam and Srinagar districts where internet services will not be available. Delhi reports 32 Covid-19 cases, zero fatalitiesDelhi reported 32 Covid-19 cases on Monday, taking the tally of cases to 1,437,991. In the last 24 hours the national capital also recorded zero new fatalities and 16 recoveries, according to the government health bulletin.Allow second Covishield dose after 4 weeks from first for those who want it early: Ker HC to CentreKerala high court directed Centre to allow scheduling of the second dose of Covishield on CoWIN portal after four weeks from the first for those who do not want to wait for the required 84 days.Uttarakhand extends Covid-19 curfew till September 14Uttarakhand Government extends COVID curfew in the state till 14th September.Internet, SMS services to remain suspended in KarnalAhead of the Kisan Mahapanchayat in Karnal the administration has suspended internet and SMS services in the area. Along with this 40 companies of additional forces, 5 superintendent of police and 25 deputy Superintendent of police have been deployed to monitor the law and order situation. Belarus protest leader Maria Kolesnikova jailed for 11 years#BREAKING Belarus protest leader Kolesnikova jailed for 11 years on national security charges: reports pic.twitter.com/Ak9vu4zp4WBangladesh I&B minister inaugurates Bangabandhu media centre at Press Club of IndiaBangladesh Information and Broadcasting minister Dr Hasan Mahmud inaugurated the Bangabandhu media centre at Press Club of India on Monday. "This will definitely strengthen the relationship between Bangladesh & India.... It has taken new height under the leadership of PM Modi & PM Sheikh Hasina," he told reporters at the event.‘My words misquoted’: Ex-UP governor on sedition caseMy words are being misquoted to politically harm me and mislead the public. I had said that there haven't been as much atrocities in earlier days as today. I haven't made any remarks against anyone: Former UP governor Aziz Qureshi on sedition case against him for remarks against CM Yogi Adityanath.Taliban warn against ‘any insurgency against our rule’Taliban spokesperson says any insurgency against their rule 'will be hit hard', reports AFP.SC refuses to hear plea over blockade of Singhu borderSupreme Court refuses to hear a plea filed by residents of Sonipat, Haryana, facing difficulties due to the Singhu border being blocked by farmers and asks them to approach the Punjab and Haryana High Court for relief.Australia announces naval drill with India'AUSINDEX' maritime warfare exercises between Royal Australian Navy and Indian Navy will be held between 5-13 September. Commander Australian Fleet, Rear Admiral Mark Hammond, said that the exercise will deepen the defence relationship between the two nations: Australian GovernmentBJP protests against allotment of room for Namaz in Jharkhand assemblyRanchi | BJP MLAs protest at the entrance of the Jharkhand Legislative Assembly over allotment of room for offering 'Namaz' in the state Assembly pic.twitter.com/0mONPlPvp6BJP MLAs protest at the entrance of the Jharkhand Legislative Assembly in Ranchi against allotment of room for offering 'Namaz' in the state Assembly.Fight against Taliban will continue: National Resistance FrontNational Resistance Front denies Taliban claims of capturing Panjshir Valley. “Fight against the Taliban will continue,” says the front.Suvendu Adhikari to skip CID summonsBJP's Suvendu Adhikari will not appear before CID today. Adhikari was summoned by the agency in connection with the unnatural death case of his guard Subhabrata Chakraborty.Panjshir valley ‘completely captured,’ claim TalibanTaliban say they have ‘completely captured’ Panjshir valley, reports emerge.India's daily Covid-19 cases drop to 38,948India reports 38,948 new Covid-19 cases and 219 deaths, as tally tops 33 million to reach 33,027,621. Recoveries rise to 32,181,995 while toll rises to 440,752. Active cases at 404,874.531,468,867 samples tested for Covid-19 in India: ICMR531,468,867 samples tested for Covid-19 up to 5th September 2021. Of these, 1,410,649 samples tested yesterday: Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)ED issues lookout notice against Anil DeshmukhThe Enforcement Directorate (ED) has issued a lookout notice against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh in an alleged money laundering case worth ₹100 crore.Panjshir resistance calls for ceasefire: ReportsPanjshir resistance calls for ceasefire, Taliban withdrawal, as per statement, reports AFP.New Zealand logs 20 new Covid-19 cases for 3rd straight dayNew Zealand reported 20 new Covid-19 cases for third straight day on Monday, all from Auckland, taking the total number of infections to 821, the country's health ministry said in a statement.US Navy sailors, missing after chopper crash, declared deadThe US Navy has announced that five missing navy sailors have been declared dead after days of search operation following a helicopter crash off the coast of San Diego last Tuesday.PM Modi to interact with healthcare workers from Himachal PradeshAt 11am today, prime minister Narendra Modi will interact virtually with healthcare workers and beneficiaries of Covid-19 vaccination drive in Himachal Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-september-06-2021-101630885068804.html
06-09-2021||India||Prayagraj-Jaipur Express to run with Railways' new AC-3 tier 'economy' coaches from today||The Prayagraj-Jaipur Express, operated by the North Central Railway (NCR) zone, will, on Monday, September 6, become the first train in the country to run with new AC-3 tier economy coaches of the Indian Railways. Two such coaches will be connected to the train in place of an equal number of standard sleeper class compartments, officials said.Also Read | Indian Railways to roll out over 800 new 'economy' AC 3-tier coaches soonAfter the Prayagraj-Jaipur Daily Special, numbered 02403 from Prayagraj to Jaipur and 02404 in the reverse direction, these will be installed in Lokmanya Tilak Terminus-Kochuveli, Visakahapatnam-Amritsar and Lucknow-Mumbai Pushpak Express trains. At present, the NCR zone has seven new AC coaches available.In order to travel in these new compartments, total 806 of which will be rolled out, passengers will have to shell out 8 per cent less than the fare which they will have to pay to travel in the normal AC-3 tier class. For this specific train, a fare of ₹1,085 will be charged for the new air-conditioned coaches while travelling from Prayagraj to Jaipur, as against ₹1175 for the regular ones.Also Read | Indian Railways: Economy AC 3-tier fares to be 8% less than regular AC fareEquipped with several modern facilities, the new AC-3 tier coaches have 83 berths as against 72 in their regular counterparts. These have services such as seats with an improved and modular design with foldable snack tables, individual AC vents for each berth, individual reading points and mobile charging points for each berth, increased headroom for both lower and upper berths, improved fire safety system etc.These have been conceptualised by the Rail Coach Factory (RCF) and will be rolled out from RCF, Kapurthala; Chennai-based Integrated Coach Factory (ICF) and the Modern Coach Factory (MCF) in Rae Bareilly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prayagrajjaipur-express-to-run-with-railways-new-ac-3-tier-economy-coaches-from-today-101630887010232.html
06-09-2021||India||PM Modi to interact with health workers, vaccine beneficiaries in Himachal today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will virtually interact with healthcare workers and beneficiaries of the government’s Covid-19 vaccination programme in Himachal Pradesh on Monday. "Himachal Pradesh has set a benchmark in the fight against Covid-19 by giving the first dose of vaccine to all eligible people. Will have the privilege of interacting with many such beneficiaries and health workers of the state through video conferencing tomorrow at 11 am," PM Modi tweeted in Hindi on Sunday.Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jairam Thakur will be present during the event, a statement from the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said. According to the statement, Himachal Pradesh has successfully covered its entire population with the first dose of Covid-19 vaccination. The efforts by the state included geographical prioritisation to focus on difficult terrains, initiatives to ensure mass awareness, and door to door visits by ASHA workers, among others.Himachal Pradesh gave special attention to women, the elderly, disabled people, industrial workers, daily wagers etc. and undertook special campaigns like “Suraksha ki Yukti – Corona se Mukti” to attain this milestone, the statement added.On May 5, PM Modi praised healthcare workers and nurses for setting an example in reducing Covid-19 vaccine wastage. Quoting a tweet from the Chief Minister of Kerala, Pinarayi Vijayan, the Prime Minister tweeted, “Good to see our healthcare workers and nurses set an example in reducing vaccine wastage. Reducing vaccine wastage is important in strengthening the fight against COVID-19.”During his monthly Mann Ki Baat radio programme on May 30, PM Modi lauded doctors, nurses, and frontline workers for their contribution to the fight against Covid-19. "The Seva Bhav of countrymen have put the country out of all storms. Recently we saw how doctors, nurses, and front lines workers have worked day and night are still doing," he said.In June, PM Modi launched a crash course programme for Covid-19 frontline workers. It trained frontline workers in six customised roles - sample collection support, medical equipment support, home care support, basic-care support, advanced care support and emergency care support.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-interact-with-health-workers-vaccine-beneficiaries-in-himachal-today-101630884921632.html
06-09-2021||India||If you have evidence against me, make it public: Abhishek Banerjee before facing ED||Trinamool Congress (TMC) national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee on Sunday threw a challenge at the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) saying if central probe agencies had any evidence against him in any case they should make it public. “TMC will never bow before you (BJP). Do whatever you can. If the ED has any evidence against me, make it public. Why don’t you do that? If anybody can prove that I have accepted even ten paisa from anyone I will voluntarily walk to the gallows and hang myself,” the chief minister’s nephew said at the Kolkata airport before flying to Delhi where he had been summoned to the ED’s office on Monday for questioning in the coal smuggling case. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is also probing the case. “I said at a public meeting in November that I am ready to face any probe. They have called me to Delhi although the case is relevant to Kolkata. They (BJP) lost the polls and are now using the agencies to carry out vengeance. Let any BJP national leader face me on a live television show. Let them choose the time and place. I will prove what they have done to the nation,” said the young TMC Lok Sabha member. His wife Rujira Banerjee on Wednesday did not go to the ED’s office in Delhi where she was summoned in the same case. Citing the risk a mother of two infants faces while travelling during the Covid-19 pandemic, she wrote a letter to the agency saying it will be convenient for her if ED officers come to her Kolkata residence. Focusing his attack on Suvendu Adhikari, ex-TMC minister and leader of the opposition in the Bengal assembly, Abhishek Banerjee on Sunday said, “Why is no action being taken against the leader of the opposition who was caught on camera accepting bundles of money?” Banerjee was referring to the Narada sting operation that the CBI and the ED are probing. The ED was recently permitted by a special court in Kolkata to summon two ministers, Firhad Hakim and Subrata Mukherjee, TMC legislator Madan Mitra and former Kolkata mayor Sovan Chatterjee for questioning in the Narada case. They were all arrested by the CBI on My 17 and released on bail after days of judicial custody. A controversy erupted ahead of the 2016 assembly elections after the Narada News portal uploaded a series of videos purportedly showing several high-profile TMC leaders, including Adhikari, receiving money in exchange for favours to a fictitious company. Adhikari joined the BJP in December last year. Adhikari, who, has been summoned for questioning by the state Criminal Investigation Department (CID) on Monday in connection with the unnatural death of one of his security personnel in 2018, refused to react to Banerjee’s remark on the Narada probe. “I do not want to say anything on this,” Adhikari said in Kolkata. However, while addressing a BJP event at Tamluk in East Midnapore district, he referred to the CID summons and said, “You (BJP workers) need not worry. They cannot do anything to me. I am a bachelor. I have nothing to look back at except my aging parents.” Adhikari, however, did not specify whether he will face CID officers on Monday. Dismissing Banerjee’s allegation that the CBI and ED were being used by the BJP and saffron camp leaders were not being touched, the party’s Bengal vice-president Jay Prakash Majumdar said, “The BJP is not conducting the probes. The agencies are doing their job following court orders. The CBI and ED decide who will be grilled and when.” The ED has also summoned three Indian Police Service officers, Shyam Singh, Gyanwant Singh and S Selvamurugan to Delhi on September 8, 9 and 10 respectively. Rujira Banerjee was questioned by the CBI in February in the coal smuggling case. The CBI team visited Abhishek Banerjee’s residence. In March, the CBI also questioned Rujira’s sister Maneka Gambhir and the latter’s husband Ankush Arora and father-in-law Pawan Arora. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee reacted sharply in February when a CBI team visited the south Kolkata residence of her nephew to serve notice to his wife. “A tiger cub is not scared of fighting cats and rats. Muscle flexing or threats of jail sentence cannot scare us. We have stood before guns in the past. I will not surrender as long as I am alive,” the chief minister said at a public event. The CBI registered the coal smuggling case in November last year. It is alleged that illegally mined coal, worth several thousand crores of rupees, have been sold in the black market over several years by a racket operating in the western parts of West Bengal where the Eastern Coalfields Limited runs several mines. Among the prime suspects is former TMC youth front general secretary and businessman Vinay Mishra who renounced his Indian citizenship in December and became a citizen of Vanuatu, a small island country in southwestern Pacific Ocean. In July, the state CID started a probe into the death of Adhikari’s bodyguard Shubabrata Chakraborty who died of a gunshot injury in 2018. His family has now alleged foul play. The complaint has been filed by Suparna Kanjilal Chakraborty, the wife of the deceased. A CID team visited Adhikari’s residence in July. They talked to members of the family, including Dibyendu Adhikari; the BJP leader’s bother who is also the TMC Lok Sabha member from the district’s Tamluk Lok Sabha seat. Their father, Sisir Adhikari, is the TMC Lok Sabha member from Contai. The TMC has sought Sisir Adhikari’s disqualification from the Lok Sabha as he shared the dais with Prime Minister Narendra Modi before the March-April polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/if-you-have-evidence-against-me-make-it-public-abhishek-banerjee-before-facing-ed-101630881818789.html
06-09-2021||India||In Chhattisgarh, right-wing leaders thrash pastor inside police station; SHO removed||The Chhattisgarh police removed the station house officer (SHO) of a police station in Raipur after a video went viral on social media, in which he was seen present, when a group of right-wing leaders manhandled a pastor on Sunday. “I am removing the SHO, Yadumani Sidar, after the video went viral since it happened inside the police station. He will be attached with the Raipur police headquarters for now,” said Superintendent of Police, Raipur, Ajay Yadav adding a case has been registered against eight people who manhandled the pastor. The SP further said that a group of right-wing members reached Purani Basti police station on Sunday and alleged that a few people of a community were involved in forceful conversion in their area. “The SHO took the complaint of the right-wing leaders but suddenly the pastor along with a few others also came inside the police station after which the right-wing leaders manhandled the pastor Harish Sahu,” said the SP adding that more arrests will follow in the case. However, a leader of one of the right-wing outfits claimed that no one was beaten inside the police station and they were only there to lodge a complaint. “We informed the police about religious conversion in the area earlier as well. Every weekend people are called in the name of the prayer and then are manipulated to accept another religion,” said a right-wing leader on condition of anonymity. He further said that people had gone to submit a complaint when the pastor and others provoked them continuously but they never reacted. Arun Pannalal, president of Chhattisgarh Christian Forum said one of the pastors went to the police station on Sunday morning when suddenly people from a Hindu group came inside the police station and started beating him up. “Our concern is not that these incidents are happening, what we are concerned about is the silence of the government and the administration,” he said. On August 30, a group of over 100 people allegedly beat up a 25-year-old pastor after barging into his house at a remote village in Kabirdham district during which they were heard raising slogans against religious conversion. The mob also vandalised his property and manhandled his family members before fleeing from the spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-chhattisgarh-right-wing-leaders-thrash-pastor-inside-police-station-sho-removed-101630881639076.html
06-09-2021||India||TMC fields CM Mamata as nominee from Bhawanipore for upcoming Bengal by-polls||The Trinamool Congress (TMC) on Sunday evening named chief minister Mamata Banerjee as its candidate for the assembly by-poll in south Kolkata’s Bhawanipore from where she had won in the past. For Murshidabad district’s Samsergunj and Jangipur seats - where elections could not be held in March-April because the ruling party’s candidates died of Covid-19 - the TMC on Sunday fielded Amirul Islam and former minister Jakir Hossain respectively. The latter was injured in a bomb blast in February this year. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on August 24 filed the chargesheet in the Nimtita railway station bomb blast case saying the target of the February 17 IED (improvised explosive device) attack was Hossain, who was then the state’s deputy labour minister. The NIA said the blast was carried out to derail the local poll. “People of Jangipur are facing problems as they have no legislator to represent them. The election is necessary,” said Hossain. Although polls and by-polls are to be held in seven seats in Bengal, the Election Commission of India (ECI) on Saturday announced elections in only three seats. Though the TMC demanded early polls in all seven, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the state’s principal opposition, claimed that the situation is not conducive as the pandemic is not under control in any part of Bengal. Since the Congress and the Left parties could not win a single seat for the first time since Independence, the contest in the coming elections is likely to be bi-polar. The BJP did not name its candidates for the three seats till Sunday evening. Its leaders said the decision will be taken after consultation with national leaders. “Of course, we will contest these seats,” said Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh. Banerjee is contesting again as she lost to her aide-turned adversary Suvendu Adhikari at Nandigram in East Midnapore district where polls were held in the second phase on April 1. To continue as chief minister, she needs to get elected before November 21. While addressing a rally in Nandigram prior to the polls, Banerjee surprised everyone when she announced that she would not contest from Bhawanipore and face Adhikari instead. She was injured in the left leg during the campaign and addressed all rallies from a wheelchair. Adhikari won the Nandigram seat in 2016 and was made a cabinet minister by Banerjee. He joined the BJP in December last year. State power minister Sovandeb Chattopadhyay contested the Bhawanipore seat and defeated the BJP candidate, actor Rudranil Ghosh. However, Chattopadhyay stepped down so that Banerjee could contest again. In the March-April polls, the BJP bagged 77 seats while the TMC won 213. The polls were held in 292 of the state’s 294 seats as the two TMC candidates died in Murshidabad. Two TMC candidates from North 24 Parganas and South 24 Parganas died of Covid-19 after the polls and it was found that they had won. These seats too are lying vacant. Though the BJP wrested 77 seats, its score came down to 75 as two legislators resigned from the assembly to retain their Lok Sabha seats. One of them is Nisith Pramanik who took oath as Union minister of state for home affairs during the cabinet reshuffle on July 7. Also, four BJP legislators have returned to the TMC although none have officially resigned from the party. Among them is Krishnanagar North MLA Mukul Roy, a founder-member of the TMC who switched sides in 2017 and was made a BJP national vice-president last year. The BJP has sought Roy’s disqualification under the anti-defection law and has sought explanation from the other three who left the party last week. Roy is still a BJP legislator on paper and has been appointed as chairman of the assembly’s public accounts committee. Top TMC leaders started campaigning on Sunday itself. Minister Firhad Hakim held a party workers’ meeting. “People of Bhawanipore are ready to welcome the festive season. They will welcome Mamata Banerjee before Goddess Durga arrives. Nothing can be more auspicious.” TMC legislator from Kamarhati, Madan Mitra, who lives in Bhawanipore, also campaigned on Sunday. BJP leaders, meanwhile, said they may move court challenging the ECI’s decision to hold elections. “We learnt that that the chief secretary wrote to the ECI that it will lead to a constitutional crisis if polls are not held in Bhawanipore. We want to know how the ECI is so sure that Mamata Banerjee will win the polls and how can it conclude that Bhawanipore is Covid-19 free and other constituencies such as Dinhata, are not?” said BJP state general secretary Sayantan Basu. Nisith Pramanik, who won from Dinhata in north Bengal, did not take oath to retain his Lok Sabha seat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-fields-cm-mamata-as-nominee-from-bhawanipore-for-upcoming-bengal-bypolls-101630871198187.html
06-09-2021||India||Deliveries started, but HAL yet to get contract for LCH||Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) is yet to get a contract from the defence ministry for supplying light combat helicopters (LCHs) to the Indian Air Force and the Indian Army, but that has not stopped the state-owned plane maker from manufacturing the helicopters and delivering them to the two services, people familiar with the developments said.HAL is awaiting a contract from the ministry for 15 limited series production (LSP) helicopters and expects follow-on orders as the IAF and the army have a combined projected requirement of 160 LCHs. Of the initial 15 LSP helicopters approved for purchase by the defence acquisition council (DAC) – India’s apex defence procurement body – 10 are for the IAF and five for the army.“HAL has already supplied three LCHs to the IAF. The first LCH for the army was completed last month. By the year-end, a total of 10 LCHs would have been delivered to the two services. We are retaining five LCHs for the next year’s programme to keep the production line operational,” a senior HAL official said.In a year-end review of its various activities, the defence ministry had said on January 1 that the case for procurement of LCH from HAL was in the final stage and the contract was likely to be signed in the first quarter of 2021. “We are delivering the helicopters prior to the finalisation of the contract as a proactive measure. That happens sometimes after getting approval from the board of directors,” said a second official.It is critical for HAL to get the LCH orders on time to keep the production line running. If it becomes inoperative because of lack of orders, the production line will have to be recertified, which is a time-consuming process, the second official said.The IAF and the army need the LCH, and HAL is likely to be awarded the contract soon, a defence ministry official said. “There has been some delay, but the acquisition is on track. It will provide a boost to the Make in India initiative,” he said.The LCH figures on the government’s negative import list that seeks to ban the import of different types of weapons, systems and ammunition over the next five years. In the last one year, the government has imposed a ban on the import of 209 defence items to boost self-reliance in the defence sector.“India’s military helicopter production capabilities have come of age, and we have reached a stage where we don’t need to import helicopters. LCH will be a potent and versatile platform for the IAF and the army, especially in a high-altitude role,” said Air Marshal Anil Chopra (retd), director general, Centre for Air Power Studies.Though not ordered yet, the twin-engine LCH was deployed in the Ladakh sector to support the IAF, in the midst of the border row with China last year. The deployment of the LCH in the Ladakh sector was symbolic in nature and an acknowledgement of the potential that the platform holds.Meanwhile, HAL has set a March 2022 deadline to carry out the first flight of the LCA (light combat aircraft) Mk-1A jet after wrapping up the necessary design activities, as previously reported by Hindustan Times. Last month, it signed a deal with US firm GE Aviation for 99 F404 engines to power India’s latest indigenous fighter.The defence ministry awarded a ₹48,000-crore contract to HAL for 83 LCA Mk-1A jets for the IAF in February. The first Mk-1A aircraft will be delivered to the air force by March 2024, with the rest slated to join its combat fleet by 2029.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deliveries-started-but-hal-yet-to-get-contract-for-lch-101630871035102.html
06-09-2021||India||Section 377, 3 years on: Walking down the aisle of history||Today is the 3rd anniversary of the Supreme Court decision in Navtej Johar, holding that sexual acts between consenting adults in private does not attract section 377 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). It is also 20 years after the Naz Foundation challenged the constitutional validity of Section 377, which we won in 2009.The long journey has been a roller coaster ride.Gay men starting to come to our (Lawyers Collective’s) office after a major victory in an HIV case in 1997. The pain of their stories of blackmail by the police, their casual partners, parents etc., was an impetus to find a solution. That quest led us to locating section 377 as the source of evil. The constitutionality of section 377 had to be challenged.The next step was getting the petition draft and settled and then trying to locate a petitioner. But no gay man, except Ashok Row Kavi, was willing to come forward to be a petitioner because of the extreme stigma.However, the petition had to be filed in Delhi as the AIDS BhedBhev Virodhi Andolan (ABVA) had already filed a petition there and if filed in the Bombay high court, the government would have got both transferred to the Supreme Court, which might have dismissed it and sealed our fate for a long time. At this juncture, Anjali Gopalan from Naz Foundation came forward.In the meantime, in 2001, there were arrests in Lucknow of the Bharosa Trust activists for reaching out to the gay community and making them aware of safe sex.The LGBTQI (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, intersex) community was in the throes of fear. We were able to respond to that in Mumbai by an exhibition at Flora Fountain on what the LGBTQI community was all about. The overwhelming support we got from ordinary people emboldened us.The petition was filed in the Delhi high court in 2001 on the basis of the ABVA petition that was pending there. Unknown to us, it had already been dismissed. Unfortunately, we faced a lot of criticism from the community for lack of consultation with them before filing it.We corrected course and proceeded to have consultations regularly from then on. The community got involved in a big way on decisions on the petition as it traversed through the labyrinth of the courts.The media also got involved. In television debates, mothers pointed out that their sons or daughters were gay or lesbians, who were perfectly normal and loving whom they loved, all with quiet dignity.They also spoke on how section 377 was unjust in providing for severe jail sentences just because they were engaged in acts perfectly normal to them. In one debate with me on Karan Thapar’s show, Ravi Shankar Prasad, till recently the Union law minister, claimed that section 377 was “part of our culture” and “will never go”. History rightly proved him wrong.In such debates, Saleem Kidwai and Ruth Vanita’s book, Same-Sex Love in India: Readings from Literature and History, was critical to show how India had a liberal culture on sexuality no matter which religion, before the British imposed their Victorian values on us.The first failure, the dismissal of the Naz petition in 2004 as well as the review petition arising out of it in the Delhi high court on technical grounds, was a big let-down; but not for long as the Supreme Court set aside the dismissal and remanded the matter back to the Delhi high court for a fresh hearing on merits.The Naz petition got a huge boost when Voices for Equality joined in to support it. There was fun too when the National Aids Control Organization filed an affidavit supporting us. It contradicted the government of India’s stand. But we also had to watch the sad spectacle of the additional solicitor general trying to defend section 377.There was euphoria when the judgment of the Delhi high court was pronounced in 2009. That was a second independence day for those still imprisoned by the chains of British Victorian morality. Those chains were now broken.But then Suresh Kumar Koushal and others approached the Supreme Court. We had to defend the Delhi high court judgment. There was a lot of fun on the way too.There was an extremely humorous interaction with justice Mukhopadhyaya and me on whether a mother putting her breast in her lactating child’s mouth would amount to penetration under section 377. Explaining to him that there was no sexual connotation in the mother putting her breast in her infant child’s mouth was no easy task.The Supreme Court dealt a devastating blow when on the last day of justice GS Singhvi’s tenure on December 11, 2013, it set aside the judgment of the Delhi high court in Naz and made the LGBTQI communities criminal again.I wrote a series of articles criticising the judgment and trying to boost the morale of the community by pointing out that the judgment will be set aside as justice is on our side. But the blow was too much for some. Faced with hopelessness, some gave up the fight.It was then a matter of taking the long road to win back the rights of the LGBTQI communities. We filed review petitions that were dismissed and then we filed curative petitions. We also filed writ petitions. They were taken up and the rest is history.Though it was a long and arduous road, it ensured that the victory that came from a constitutional bench was bound to stay. More particularly, because the communities were mobilised, the victory is now firmly entrenched in our society, especially amongst the young, who will see a different world.There is still a lot to be done. Same-sex marriage, change in rape laws, rights on inheritance and anti-discrimination law in the private sector. That will also come. For justice is on our side.(Anand Grover is a senior advocate practicing in the Supreme Court. He led the team of the Lawyers Collective in filing and arguing in the Naz, Koushal and Navtej Johar cases)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/section-377-3-years-on-walking-down-the-aisle-of-history-101630867190443.html
06-09-2021||India||As Taliban sends conflicting signals, India maintains studied silence||The Indian government has opted to maintain a studied silence as Taliban leaders and spokespersons have offered widely divergent views on issues such as Kashmir that have traditionally been red flags to the foreign policy establishment in New Delhi.Against the backdrop of a discreet outreach towards India by senior Taliban leaders ahead of the formation of a new dispensation in Kabul, Taliban spokesperson Suhail Shaheen caused consternation by telling BBC in an interview on Thursday that the Taliban intended to raise its voice for Muslims in Kashmir and India. Shaheen’s remarks ran counter to an assertion earlier this week by senior Taliban negotiator Anas Haqqani, also a senior leader of the terrorist group Haqqani Network, that the Taliban has a policy of not interfering in the internal matters of other countries, such as Kashmir, and looked forward to “positive” relations with India.In a lengthy video statement issued a week ago, senior Taliban leader Sher Mohammed Abbas Stanekzai, who is tipped for a senior position in the new set-up in Kabul, said the group wants to continue Afghanistan’s political, economic and cultural ties with India. In remarks that were generally perceived as conciliatory, Stanekzai described India as a “very important” player in the subcontinent and avoided any mention of touchy issues such as Kashmir.Stanekzai also met India’s ambassador to Qatar, Deepak Mittal, at the Indian embassy in Doha on Tuesday, the first officially acknowledged contact between the two sides.The external affairs ministry has said the meeting was held “on the request of the Taliban side” and that Stanekzai had assured Mittal that issues raised by the Indian side – including the safe return of Indians still in Afghanistan and Afghan soil being used for anti-Indian activities and terrorism – would be “positively addressed”.As reported by Hindustan Times, Stanekzai and Anas Haqqani are apparently spearheading the outreach towards India. Both have spoken to an Indian news channel, though it is rare for senior Taliban leaders to give interviews to the Indian media.While most of their comments have been measured and nuanced, the latest remarks by Shaheen have not been viewed positively in some quarters in New Delhi.In his interview with BBC, Shaheen said the Taliban don’t have a policy of launching armed operations against any country but added: “As Muslims, we also have a right to raise our voice for Muslims in Kashmir, India or any other country.”Shaheen’s other remarks, related to the Haqqani Network and the hijacking of Indian Airlines flight IC-814 from Kathmandu to Kandahar by five Pakistani terrorists, are also red flags for India’s security and foreign policy establishment, especially those sections which harbour deep-seated suspicions about the group and its long-standing relations with Pakistan.Indian, American and Afghan officials have blamed the Haqqani Network for carrying out a suicide car bombing outside the Indian embassy in Kabul in 2008. The attack killed nearly 60 people, including the Indian defence attaché and a diplomat. Shaheen contended allegations against the Haqqani Network are claims. “The Haqqanis are not a group. They are part of the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan. They are the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan,” he said.He also denied the Taliban had a role in the hijacking of IC-814 and the Indian government should be “thankful” to the group for the help it extended during the hijacking. “India had requested us [to allow the plane to land in Kandahar] because the jet had insufficient fuel and then we helped in the release of the hostages,” he said.Analysts in New Delhi have noted that the Taliban has so far not publicly acknowledged the meeting between Stanekzai and the Indian ambassador in Doha, especially at a time when Taliban spokesmen have been issuing statements or tweeting about meetings between Stanekzai and envoys of countries such as Pakistan, the United Kingdom (UK), Germany, Canada and France.The external affairs ministry has so far declined to comment on the Taliban’s lack of acknowledgement of the meeting in Doha and said it is too early to say anything on the possible recognition of a Taliban set-up in Kabul. Some of the reticence to speak publicly on such matters can be attributed to New Delhi’s focus on the safe repatriation of Indians still in Afghanistan, currently believed to number a few dozen though the government has declined to give specific figures. India, which has maintained channels of communication with some Taliban leaders since last year, has insisted that its main concern on Afghanistan as of now is the use of Afghan soil for terrorism or any anti-India activities. While setting aside questions about recognising a Taliban government at a news briefing on Thursday, external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said, “Let’s just treat the Doha meeting for what it is – it is just a meeting and I think these are still very early days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-taliban-sends-conflicting-signals-india-maintains-studied-silence-101630867059836.html
06-09-2021||India||France’s biggest trial to begin Wednesday||The biggest trial in France’s modern legal history begins on Wednesday over the November 2015 attacks on Paris that saw 130 people slaughtered at bars, restaurants and the Bataclan concert hall. The bombing and gun assault by three teams of jihadists, claimed by the Islamic State, was France’s worst post-war atrocity. A purpose-built facility at the historic court of justice on the Ile de la Cite in Paris will host the trial, with 14 of the 20 defendants present, including the only surviving attacker, Salah Abdeslam. “Everyone has their own expectations, but we know that this is an important milestone for our future lives,” said Arthur Denouveaux, a survivor of the Bataclan music venue attack and president of the Life for Paris victims’ association. The trial over the traumatic jihadist killings, which were planned from Syria, is on a scale unmatched in recent times. It will last nine months until late May 2022, with 145 days for hearings involving about 330 lawyers, 300 victims and former president Francois Hollande who will testify in November. The case file runs to a million pages in 542 volumes.Surviving gunman Abdeslam, a Belgium-born French-Moroccan, fled the scene of the carnage after abandoning his suicide belt, which investigators found to be defective. Abdeslam, now 31, was later captured in Brussels after four months on the run. He has resolutely refused to cooperate with the French investigation and remained largely silent throughout a separate trial in Belgium in 2018 that saw him declare only that he put his “trust in Allah” and that the court was biased. He is scheduled testify in mid-January 2022.Fourteen of the accused – who face a range of charges from providing logistical support, to planning and weapons offences – are expected to be present in court. Six are being tried in absentia. Five of them are presumed dead.The alleged coordinator, Belgian national Abdelhamid Abaaoud, was killed by French police five days after the attacks. The horror was unleashed late on November 13 when jihadists set off suicide belts outside the Stade de France stadium where President Hollande was in the crowd watching France play Germany. A group of gunmen then indiscriminately opened fire from a car on half a dozen restaurants in the trendy 10th and 11th districts of Paris. The massacre culminated at the Bataclan music venue where a packed concert was underway. Three jihadists stormed in and a total of 90 people lost their lives there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/frances-biggest-trial-to-begin-wednesday-101630867058440.html
06-09-2021||India||Tamil Nadu honours freedom fighter VO Chidambaram; PM says he stood for self-reliance||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday hailed the contributions of freedom fighter V O Chidambaranar on his 150th birth anniversary while the Tamil Nadu government observed the day as a state event with chief minister M K Stalin and leaders cutting across party lines honouring the state’s icon of the freedom movement.Modi tweeted: “Remembering the visionary V O Chidambaram Pillai on his Jayanti. He made pioneering contributions to our freedom movement. He also envisioned a self-reliant India and made key efforts towards it, especially in the ports and shipping sectors. We are deeply inspired by him.”Chidambaranar’s life-size statue, which was decked with garlands and flowers for the anniversary, is on the Chennai Port premises.VOC (5 September 1872 – 18 November 1936) is an icon of freedom movement in Tamil Nadu and respected for his sacrifices for the sake of nation.Stalin released leaflets in Tamil and English on the life and times of the freedom fighter and the first copies were received by Nehru.Union minister of state for fisheries L Murugan was among others who recalled the yeoman services of VOC to the nation and paid tributes.An arterial road, renamed after VOC, in Tuticorin was declared open by minister for social welfare P Geetha Jeevan, along with party MP Kanimozhi and they also garlanded a statue of the leader in the southern port city.Fisheries minister Anitha Radhakrishnan visited VOC’s memorial at Ottapidaram in southern Tamil Nadu and paid floral tributes.Leader of Opposition in the Assembly and top AIADMK leader K Palaniswami hailed VOC for standing up to the British colonialism and praised the leader for continuing to sow the seeds of freedom among the people despite the cruelty he faced during his prison term.Telangana governor Tamilisai Soundararajan was among others who visited the freedom fighter’s memorial at Ottapidaram and paid homage.Participating in an event to honour the leader, Soundararajan paid rich tributes and underscored his contribution to India’s freedom movement including his Swadeshi Steam Navigation Company initiatives.Paying his tributes, PMK founder leader S Ramadoss recalled that VOC was treated with cruelty when he was imprisoned for spearheading the freedom movement and oil extraction in Coimbatore prison was only one of the punishments he endured during his incarceration.The 150th birth anniversary celebrations of the leader, which would be till September 5, 2022, provided the nation and people a good opportunity to pay their respects and accord due recognition to his sacrifices, Ramadoss said.BJP Tamil Nadu unit chief K Annamalai, who paid floral tributes at VOC Manimandapam in Tuticorin, tweeted “V O Chidambaram Pillai born on Sep 5, 1872 in Ottapidaaram, Thoothukudi, fondly called as VOC is a freedom fighter of the highest order.”Annamalai said VOC was a famous lawyer and writer during his hey days. “He sacrificed everything at one go and started a shipping company Swadeshi Steam Company to take on the British monopoly in shipping. United our workers against the unjust trade practices of Britishers. The British government arrested him and made him to do merciless hard labour in Coimbatore prison. He sacrificed everything for our freedom & for our nation.”Dravidar Kazhagam chief K Veeramani garlanded a statue of VOC in Tiruchirappalli and Naam Tamizhar Katchi was among other outfits which honoured the leader on the occasion.To honour V O C, Stalin had on Friday announced a 14-point programme which includes refurbishing his memorials and instituting an award in the leader’s name as a mark of respect to his contributions to the freedom movement which includes his work in various spheres including shipping.The TN government has also lined up several year long initiatives (Sept 5, 2021-Sept 5, 2022) like a photo exhibition on bus for students and naming government buildings after him as part of the 150th anniversary celebrations of the freedom fighter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-honours-freedom-fighter-vo-chidambaram-pm-says-he-stood-for-selfreliance-101630866940290.html
06-09-2021||India||Centre open to holding talks with agitating farmers: Thakur||Anurag Thakur, the union minister for Information & broadcasting, youth affairs and sports on Sunday said that the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government has held talks with agitating farmer groups in the past and are open to do so in the future as well.Thakur, who was in Bengaluru on Sunday, said that opposition political parties who could not promote reforms during their terms have a problem when the Modi government has been successful in heralding changes and working to double farmer incomes across the country.“For this, at least do not mislead the farmers. Farmers across the country are happy with the decision of the Modi government. Those who are misled, we have talked to them in the past and are prepared to do so in the future as well since the Modi government is interested in the welfare of farmers,” Thakur said, while speaking to reporters in Bengaluru.Thakur said that under Modi’s government the number of mandi’s have increased and there are also efforts to link them to the national agricultural market e-nam.Responding to allegations of lower value and procurement, Thakur said that the government has increased both during the last two years.“When the world over, and even in India, fertilizer prices doubled, Prime Minister Modi did not put the burden of even Re 1 on farmers,” Thakur said.Meanwhile, the government of Karnataka on Sunday said that thrust would be given to post harvest management under Comprehensive Agriculture Policy.Basvaraj Bommai launched the CM Raitha Nidhi Scholarship programme aimed at children of farmers on Sunday.“If the farmers children too are educated, the situation of the farmers too would be improved and therefore the scheme is being implemented, he said. The Scholarship will be provided to students who join different courses after SSLC. The amount will be disbursed through DBT to about 1.7 million students,” according to a statement from the chief minister’s office (CMO) attributing it to Bommai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-open-to-holding-talks-with-agitating-farmers-thakur-101630866937801.html
06-09-2021||India||Tamil Nadu on alert after Kerala Nipah death||Tamil Nadu has stepped up measures to monitor people who arrive from Kerala in nine bordering districts, in the wake of the neighbouring state reporting a death due to Nipah virus infection, minister for medical and family welfare Ma Subramanian said on Sunday.A 12-year old boy died on Sunday due to Nipah virus infection at a hospital in Kozhikode, according to Kerala health minister Veena George.“Already we have been monitoring the nine districts that border Kerala. We have been conducting door-to-door awareness campaigns in the districts on the spread of Zika virus... In the wake of the Nipah virus, we have issued an advisory to district health officials to expedite measures like holding fever camps,” he told reporters.The minister said health officials of the nine districts to hold fever camps at the entry points in the border districts besides conducting thermal screening of the passengers, testing their saturation levels. “Already, we are allowing people to enter (Tamil Nadu) only if they have a Covid-19 vaccination certificate nor a RT-PCR negativity report,” he said.Health secretary J Radhakrishnan said people who enter Tamil Nadu from Kerala were screened not only for Covid-19 but also for other communicable diseases like Zika, Nipah. “We are continuously monitoring the people who enter Tamil Nadu. People need not panic about the Nipah virus. But at the same time they should not show negligence (in following the government advisory),” he cautioned.Health department officials of the nine districts that border with Kerala were urged to conduct surveillance for all communicable diseases, especially Zika and Nipah. “Deputy directors have been informed and the local bodies in border areas should stay alert about these diseases,” a message sent to the district health officials said.Nipah virus is a zoonotic virus -- it is transmitted from animals to humans -- fruit bats and pigs -- and can also be transmitted through contaminated food or directly between people.To a query about a few school students and teachers having tested Covid-19 positive after schools were reopened on September 1, Radhakrishnan said they might have contracted the virus earlier.“...these people (teachers and students testing Covid-19 positive), might have contracted the virus ahead of coming to the schools. There is still prevalence of the Covid-19 virus...People should strictly follow Covid-19 protocols,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-on-alert-after-kerala-nipah-death-101630866877803.html
06-09-2021||India||Section 377, 3 years on: Want the pace of change to accelerate||Three years after the Section 377 verdict, which read down the criminalization of adult consensual same sex desire, while we have made progress in addressing the inequality that faces the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, Intersex (LGBTQI+) community, there’s a lot that still needs to be done to translate that verdict, as well as some of the others that came before it into reality. With the 2014 Nalsa judgment, which recognized the gender identity of transpersons, the 2017 nine-judge bench decision on privacy, which read it as a fundamental right of all citizens and the Navtej Johar verdict of 2018 which read down Section 377, a momentum was gathering: it was one of equal rights to LGBTQI+ citizens. Now, three years on, what we have is, at best, non-criminality. What will it take for us to move towards more equality? In a post-Covid world, I would want the pace of change to accelerate in two areas. The first is the law, where I would like to see progress on a meaningful anti-discrimination law that protects the rights of LGBTQ+ people and other minorities. This would be useful to enhance the thrust of Navtej verdict and the others that preceded it. Many community organizations and individuals are also moving court to rectify some provisions of the Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Act, because many feel that it doesn’t serve transpersons meaningfully in its current form. Thirdly, there is the issue of marriage equality. There is a long road ahead for this but given our strong socio-cultural imperative towards marriage, the right to choose to enter into this institution in the same way that heterosexual Indian citizens can choose to do so, is a big step towards equality of queer citizens of India. But the law is only part of the equation. Social realities are the other. I would want the family, the workplace, educational institutions, and even media, to become more inclusive. There are already small pockets of change, as I’ve detailed in Queeristan. There are so many instances of birth families of LGBTQ+ persons accepting them and their partners. There are educational institutions that have created incredible environments for queer students. There have been so many workplaces, both in the private and public sectors that are conducting inclusive hiring. A World Bank report published in 2014 calculated that homophobia had cost India up to $30.8 billion in 2012 alone. It’s this sort of regularization of queer people that I want to see more of. This is how society shifts: when we are present everywhere, when our presence is imagined and included as normal and not as tokenism or comic relief, that’s how the spirit of the Navtej verdict will translate into lived reality. For this to happen, mainstream society needs to step up. It is not the onus of LGBTQ persons alone to struggle and fight for these changes; we are only 6 to 10% of the population. It’s time for mainstream society to be an ally and join the inclusion revolution. For years, queer people have been doing the labour of arguing, doing advocacy, and asking for inclusion. It’s time for mainstream societies to understand that by creating these spaces for all of us to flourish in, is ultimately to their advantage. Take for instance what Dalit and trans rights activist Grace Banu has done in Tamil Nadu: a trans-led milk cooperative has come up in Thoothukudi with the help of public and private enterprise and this benefits everyone. This is a template for a queer inclusive future. What also excites me is how many intersectional queer organizations are being formed to platform and bring forward queer voices or experiences that were hitherto marginalized, such as the Ya-All community organization in Manipur or the Queer Muslim Project or the Dalit Queer Project, among others. This articulation of various kinds of diverse queer experiences is important because it reminds us that the struggle for queer rights is linked to other struggles of different communities. At the end of the day, we all want the same thing: a better, more equal and inclusive world. Work by scholars like the recently deceased historian Saleem Kidwai and Ruth Vanita, a professor at the University of Montana reveal that queer identity is very much situated in Indianness. Inclusiveness is a very Indian thing to do. This argument has to be made not just in courts, but also in families and workplaces and educational spaces. What is alien is discrimination. (Parmesh Shahani is the author of Queeristan: LGBT Inclusion at the Indian Workplace, a TED Senior Fellow and a Yale World Fellow. He is the founder of the Godrej Culture Lab and has advised many leading companies on LGBT inclusion programmes)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/section-377-3-years-on-want-the-pace-of-change-to-accelerate-101630866818507.html
06-09-2021||India||Kerala’s Covid-19 graph shows a slight dip, 26k cases reported||After recording over 30,000 cases in the last few days, Kerala on Sunday reported 26,701 fresh Covid-19 cases and 74 deaths pushing the total infection count to 4,207,838 and the fatalities till date to 21,496, according to the state health ministry. The test positivity rate (TPR) was 17.17 per cent after testing 155,543 samples in the last 24 hours, the health ministry said .Kozhikode district topped the table with 3,336 fresh cases, followed by Thrissur 3,214 and Ernakulam 2,915. A look at last seven days’ average TPR shows that four districts, Thrissur (23.37%), Palakkad (22.10%), Kozhikode (21.48%) and Wayanad 20.65%, reported more than 20 per cent positivity rate. In some of the worst affected districts like Malappuram and Ernakulam, cases subsided a bit and TPR dipped to 15-20% bracket. Kasaragod in north Kerala recorded the lowest TPR with 12.91%. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines, TPR should be below 5 per cent if an area has to be declared out of the critical zone. Majority of the districts in the state reported three to four times higher the rate explaining the intensity of the infection. The country on Sunday reported 42,766 new cases, 308 deaths while the TPR is below 3%. As per government data, Kerala’s high caseload is the prime reason for the national surge. With cases showing no sign of declining, the government has decided to take strict action against those found violating home quarantine guidelines. Those who violate the norms will now be booked, fined , which startes from ₹2000 onwards, and they will be shifted to institutional quarantine centres by the police, expenses of which will have to been born by the violators. Many experts have blamed lax home quarantine rules for the persistent surge in cases. In north Kerala, many houses still have joint family which results in spreading the virus among other members. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday said situation was under control and that there was no big jump in infections after the Onam festival and also adding that situation will subside by the second week of September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/keralas-covid-19-graph-shows-a-slight-dip-26k-cases-reported-101630866760210.html
06-09-2021||India||Karnataka allows Ganesh festival with Covid curbs||The Karnataka government on Sunday decided to allow Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations in districts where the positivity rate is less than 2 per cent , with a set of restrictions, which will remain in place for five days.“The (Karnataka) government is allowing the (Ganesh Chathurthi) festival but many restrictions are there. There will be no procession orchestra, no DJ and pandals must be 50/50 (meaning??) and Covid vaccination is compulsory wherever the Ganapathy festival is being held,” R Ashok, Karnataka’s revenue minister said on Sunday.The decision was taken after an hour-long meeting chaired by chief minister Basavaraj Bommai, members of the experts committee, cabinet members and other officials in Bengaluru on Sunday.The move to allow public celebration of Ganesh Chathurthi comes at a time when Karnataka’s new Covid-19 infections appear to have stabilized but the threat of the virus remains just as potent as the first two waves.Though the Bommai-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has retained a significant number of restrictions like night and weekend curfew in different parts of the state, the decision was also taken after a number of members from the saffron outfit insisted that permission be given to celebrate a “Hindu festival”.Ashok said that the government has approved to allow one Ganesh festival per ward in urban areas and that district authorities would decide on similar requests in rural regions.However, the minister was not clear on how the government or authorities will decide who will be allowed to keep the idol in public spaces. In Karnataka, like other states, Ganesh Chathurthi is celebrated with much pomp and fervour with public processions, dance, cultural programmes which attracts large crowds of worshippers and others.The festival also sees competition by local groups, backed by political leaders, to celebrate the day as a spectacle of sorts with new designs of the deity that is placed in pandals by collecting money from the public and small establishments in these localities.“The police, local authorities and MLA will not compromise. Because Covid is also very important,” Ashok said.The minister also said that in border districts where the positivity rate is higher than 2%, the festival cannot be celebrated in public.Ashok said that the decision was taken after consulting the experts as well.The minister said that all committee members incharge of public installation of these idols will have to be vaccinated.The government has also decided to set up vaccination centres at such places where the idol will be kept and doses will be administered.In apartment complexes, no more than 20 persons will be allowed and several such residential spaces have come up with innovative ways like online darshan to avoid people gathering in small spaces, Ashok said.Despite the restrictions being imposed on the common man, political leaders continue to flout Covid norms during events like campaigning and other programmes that witnessed huge crowds with no masks nor maintaining social distancing and taking other precautions.There are 17,501 active Covid-19 cases in Karnataka after 1,117 more people tested positive, the state health department said in its daily bulletin on Sunday. The bulletin also added that 1,354 more recovered and the death toll rose to 37409 as eight more people succumbed to the virus. The positivity and case fatality rate both stood at 0.71%, data shows.Bengaluru’s active case count rose to 7,205 as 358 more tested positive. There were 530 more recoveries and the death toll rose to 16,024 as five more people died in India’s IT capital.Ashok said that experts predict that a third wave of infections in Karnataka is expected around October and that the next two months is crucial.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-allows-ganesh-festival-with-covid-curbs-101630866759201.html
06-09-2021||India||Infra challenges keep B’luru on the back foot||Bengaluru is arguably one of India’s well-known cities globally, housing large corporations and getting monikers like ‘technology and start-up capital’, among other attributes that give the city a distinct identity. To top it up, Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai also shared his ‘new vision’ for the city. His aim is to double the existing metro lines to over 300kms, interlinking multi-modal transport systems, pursuing large infrastructure projects and other ambitious targets.However, irrespective of the political party or the man in charge of the state, reality has been very different to the dreams these state leaders have promised to the city’s residents.Since 2007, the Bengaluru Metro project, currently underway in the city and will continue to be under construction for at least another ten years, has just completed 56kms of operational lines with another 100kms in various stages of construction left. That is an average of just 4kms per year.“Do not compare Phase-I because the challenges were different. It was a learning process for us. But today, we are not in that situation. Today, we’re in a much better situation in terms of technology, in terms of what problem you faced at that time, and how it has been solved. So, whatever time Phase-I took, you cannot put phase-II in that frame. Phase-II is much faster,” Anjum Parvez, the managing director of Bengaluru Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) said.According to Parvez, the underground work can on the average move around four meters per day while the overground is almost double that.Bengaluru is one of the biggest revenue earners for the state and Centre’s coffers with its large Information Technology exports industry but the public infrastructure reality for its over 12 million residents is almost an antithesis, experts said.The lack of vision in the project is apparent as overhead and underground lines are now being forced into the larger plans in the name of “integration”, the experts added.Legendary architect Charles Correa in 2011 made no secret of his criticism of the Metro. “Elegantly designed, the entire Metro could have been a hi-tech train, a symbol of Bangalore, it’s IT industry... Many places in the world have used steel for similar trains. But now you are stuck with this, you cannot dismantle it; you cannot get rid of it even if you bomb it. It is vandalism,” he said, the Times of India reported.Despite the capital and employment generation, the city is better known for its nasty traffic, crater-abundant roads, toxic lakes, rising pollution levels that demonstrate the “shortsightedness” of the city’s administration and planners today, experts said.“We are a city and country of announcements and not one of delivery. We are weak on delivery, planning (and) overall vision of what it means to live in a city,” V Ravichandar, an urban infrastructure expert, chairman of a consulting firm, Feedback Consulting and a former member of Bangalore Agenda Task Force (BATF).On Saturday, residents of Anjanapura on Kanakapura Road in the southern part of Bengaluru used Coracles to cross the road and even planted paddy to vent their anger for the poor and water-logged road to protest the administration’s apathy.“Anywhere you go, it is impossible to drive without potholes. It has become kind of a Mohenjo Daro excavation city, which is perpetually dug up,” Ravichandar added.Most, if not all, of Bengaluru’s roads, are perpetually dug up in the garb of development, smart city and various other projects that have made it a nightmare for commuters and pedestrians, who do nothing short of risking their lives each time they tread these streets.Gaurav Gupta, the chief commissioner of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) on Sunday said that the city’s civic body has issued directions to fix these potholes.“Road infrastructure department has been taking up road development work through arterial and sub arterial roads development, project (central zone) department, under white topping and TenderSure Road projects. Due to a lack of coordination in various departments, fixing the potholes has not been adequate,” Gupta said.The lack of coordination is largely due to the existence of multiple agencies like Bengaluru Development Authority, BBMP, Bengaluru Water Supply and Sewerage Board and Bangalore Metropolitan Region Development Authority, among others whose area of scope overlaps and adds to the lack of coordination between multiple agencies and their exact purpose.A crackdown by the Karnataka high court, following the tragic death of a 19-year-old medical student on February 6, and hearings of Public Interest Litigations (PILs) have revealed that there are at least 5,435 potholes, bad roads or bad footpaths in Bengaluru, Hindustan Times reported in March.The data was revealed in a report submitted by the Karnataka State Legal Services Authority (KSLSA) to the Karnataka high court. However, these 5,435 may well be a sampling. KSLSA arrived at these numbers by conducting a surprise inspection of 25 roads in the city based on information collected from volunteers.The HC had come down heavily on BBMP’s inaction following the death of a 19-year-old medical student, Tasdeeq Bushra while trying to avoid a pothole and was hit by the truck belonging to BBMP on Lingarajapuram-Hennur main road. “Imagine people dying because of potholes on roads. Imagine the plight of the family,” a division bench of Justice BV Nagarathna and Justice MG Uma said during the hearing of a PIL on February 8, Hindustan Times reported.According to Knight Frank, a real-estate consulting firm’s Bengaluru Infrastructure Report-2020, the city’s population was projected to rise from 11.69 million in 2011 to 16.48 million in 2021, registering a 40% increase in 10 years as against 29.3% the previous decade.The vehicular growth has matched the rise in population, 3.79 million in 2010-11 to almost 9.4 million as of May 2020, according to Department of Urban Land Transport and the Knight Frank report.Bommai has said that he will now supervise all mega projects undertaken in the city and dedicate the first working hour of his day to monitor its progress.But whether the projects make progress is a question the chief minister has no answer to at the moment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/infra-challenges-keep-b-luru-on-the-back-foot-101630866757969.html
06-09-2021||India||Bengaluru breaches 10 million vaccine mark; rural areas still lagging||Bengaluru on Sunday breached the 10 million vaccination mark, as the total number of doses administered in the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) region rose to 1,00,69,050, as per CoWin data as of 8.45 pm on Sunday.This includes 7,180,718 first doses and 2,888,332 second doses, data shows.“As of today, BBMP has administered a total of 1,00,37,956 doses in B’luru. More than 10 million doses only means that we will continue to vaccinate every eligible adult! We believe Covid-19 can be completely kept at bay when all of us are fully vaccinated. Towards a stronger Bengaluru!” Gaurav Gupta, the chief commissioner of the BBMP said in a post on Twitter.With this, the total number of doses administered in Karnataka rose to 4,49,94, 227 which includes 3,37,45,573 first and 1,12,48,654 second doses, according to CoWin data.Bengaluru accounts for almost a quarter of all doses administered in the southern state as against only three quarters in all 29 other districts.Data shows that the government has continued to prioritise urban areas of the state over rural regions.Out of the 191,287 doses administered on Sunday till 8.45 pm in the state, the coffee growing region of Kodagu, about 225 kms from Bengaluru, accounted for only 246.The contrast in vaccination drives is apparent in other districts of the state when compared to Bengaluru which has fueled the state’s drive but clearly left a void in rural regions, Hindustan Times reported on Saturday.Out of the 44 million vaccines administered in Karnataka, Kodagu accounts for just 454,000, data shows.Kodagu is one of two districts in the state where restrictions which were imposed over two months ago remain in force due to the high positivity rate in the region allegedly due to its proximity with Kerala.Locals have complained about the frequently sighted “no stock” boards on the health centres in Kodagu, forcing many to remain indoors.Access to vaccine centres in such places is also very poor in such regions where people have to travel long distances which has become more difficult with the recent bout of rains in the state.The situation is similar in districts like Bidar, Yadgir, Gadag and Chamarajanagar where, officials said, vaccine hesitancy has been on the rise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengaluru-breaches-10-million-vaccine-mark-rural-areas-still-lagging-101630866700170.html
06-09-2021||India||FM lays foundation for I-T office in Bengaluru||Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Sunday laid the foundation for the office building of the Income Tax Department here, which officials said, would be one of its kind, oriented to harness maximum natural lighting and GRIHA rating IV compliant.The building has provision for solar panels for power generation and a Rain Water Harvesting system, they said.Recycled water will be used for gardening and dual plumbing. The Central Air Cleaning system will be equipped with magnetic filter and UV-Ray Sterilization, officials said, adding the building will be constructed by the Bengaluru Project Circle of the Central Public Works Department.The officials said the state-of-the art building will comprise an exclusive public relations office to address grievances on priority and a waiting lounge for tax payers. It also houses Aaykar Seva Kendra for providing hassle free taxpayer services. This centrally located office building is taxpayer friendly. Design and space allocation of the building provides congenial working environment for officers and staff of Income Tax Department, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fm-lays-foundation-for-i-t-office-in-bengaluru-101630866699079.html
06-09-2021||India||C’garh CM Baghel’s father booked over hate speech against brahmins||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel’s father Nand Kumar Baghel, 86, has been booked for allegedly making derogatory remarks against the Brahmin community, saying they should be boycotted, officials said on Sunday.The chief minister reacted to the FIR saying “nobody is above the law”.A case for promoting enmity between different groups was registered against the CM’s father on the complaint of Sarv Brahmin Samaj at the DD Nagar police station in Raipur city on Saturday, the officials said.“A case was registered under Indian Penal Code Sections 153-A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language) and 505(1)(b) (with intent to cause, or likely to cause, fear or alarm to public, or to any section of public whereby any person may be induced to commit offence against the state or against public tranquillity) against Nand Kumar Baghel (86),” said superintendent of police , Raipur, Ajay Yadav.In its complaint, the outfit has alleged that the CM’s father at an event in Uttar Pradesh last week urged people to “boycott Brahmins” and termed them “foreigners”. It also accused the 86-year-old of asking people to “evict” Brahmins from the country, an official said. A video of the event has since been widely circulated on social media. HT could not independently verify the authenticity of the clip.In the past also, the CM’s father allegedly made derogatory comments against Lord Ram, the official said, citing the complaint.In a statement issued after the FIR was filed, the chief minister said: “Remarks made by my father Nand Kumar Baghel against a particular caste have come to my attention. The comments have hurt the sentiments of the community as well as social harmony and I was also pained by it.”“Every person is equal before my government. Everyone knows about my ideological differences with my father. Our political thoughts and beliefs are different. I honour him as his son but as a CM I cannot forgive him for such statements which disturb public order,” the statement said, adding that legal action in the matter will be ensured.“Nobody is above the law in my government even if he is the chief minister’s 86-year-old father,” the CM said.The SP said the police will follow all the legal procedures and the accused will be arrested soon.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cgarh-cm-baghel-s-father-booked-over-hate-speech-against-brahmins-101630866457225.html
06-09-2021||India||Management schools record 23% dip in placements amid Covid: AICTE data||India’s management schools saw a 23% drop in placements in the academic year 2020-21 as compared to 2019-20, according to data compiled by the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE), the country’s professional education regulator. The sharp decline -- the placement figures plummeted to a nine-year low in 2020 -- is being attributed to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on education and the economy.Official statistics reviewed by Hindustan Times revealed that only 92,322 students in management courses graduated with jobs in hand from AICTE-approved management colleges in 2020-21 as compared to 119,546 students the previous year. The numbers relate to students enrolled in AICTE-approved management colleges and institutes in undergraduate, postgraduate and diploma courses in management. Enrollment remained the same during both the academic years, the data showed.AICTE chairperson Anil Dattatraya Sahasrabudhe attributed the decline to classes, even internships, shifting out of physical locations to the online mode due to the pandemic.“The pandemic forced all education institutions, including those offering professional courses, to switch to online education for the entire academic year 2020-21. Many companies, as a part of their recruitment policies, observe the candidate during internships and then hire them. This could not happen in the last academic year since even internships were held online,” Sahasrabudhe said.“Besides, the entire placement process was conducted in an online mode unlike the 2019-20 session when the major part of the process was already completed before the pandemic hit. It looks like many companies were not keen on hiring a lot of people based on their performance in virtual internships and interviews.”Officials at several management institutes attributed the drop in placements to the Covid-19 pandemic which resulted in uncertainties including inadequate training during the online internships, virtual recruitment process and adverse market conditions.The data shows that placements dropped even in states known for their strong service sectors such as Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Delhi, and Maharashtra, amid the pandemic.In Andhra Pradesh’s 330 institutes, the placements dropped by 35% to 6,982 while in national capital Delhi, only 2,569 students in 40 institutes in the city received a job offer in 2020-21, a 37% decline over 2019-20’s 4,053 students.According to the data, B-Schools in other states also saw placements plunging: Maharashtra (20%), Karnataka (15%), Tamil Nadu (26%), Madhya Pradesh (22%) and Uttar Pradesh (28%) all saw a dip.A second AICTE official who has analysed the data from the country’s 3,100 management institutes, most of them are in the private sector, said the biggest impact was reported in new or less sought-after colleges (also known as tier-2 or tier-3 colleges).These figures exclude the premier Indian Institute of Management (IIMs) since they are autonomous and do not fall under the purview of AICTE.C Poovendran, placement officer at Coimbatore Institute of Management and Technology in Tamilnadu, said they were among those institutes where placements took a hit. “The pandemic had completely changed the way we used to conduct placement drives and badly affected the job market. Despite our best possible efforts, we could not get as many recruiters as we do in normal times. The job opportunities were really low in some sectors including human resources, marketing and hospitality. Things are slowly picking up now and we expect to conduct offline placement drives this year,” he said.“We had to put extra efforts to recruiters to get this 2020-21 batch placed,” said an official at a new management institute in Andhra Pradesh’s Guntur district.“Even if there were recruiters, the number of people they wanted to hire was very low because of the changes in recruitment policies of companies amid the pandemic. Institutes like us who are still in the process of building their brands were worst affected by the pandemic in terms of placements,” the official said on condition of anonymity.But there were several other institutes such as FORE School of Management, Sydenham Institute of Management Studies, Research and Entrepreneurship and Delhi Technical University (DTU) in Delhi, and Jaipuria Institute of Management in Ghaziabad, who insisted that the number of placements did not drop. But they acknowledged difficulties in getting recruiters in several sectors.“The sectors which were hiring well earlier namely hospitality, manufacturing and real estate have considerably decreased the intake as these industries have been severely impacted by the pandemic. Whereas, Ed tech, insurance and healthcare saw a proliferation in the business due to online classes, the uncertainty of life and need of healthcare services respectively,” said Ashwani Varshney, Dean (student welfare), Jaipuria Institute in Ghaziabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/management-schools-record-23-dip-in-placements-amid-covid-aicte-data-101630866337905.html
06-09-2021||India||RSS distances itself from article on Infosys||The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) on Sunday distanced itself from an article published in its affiliate Hindi magazine Panchjanya, which alleged that Bengaluru-based IT major Infosys supported “anti-national” forces.The four-page article, which appeared as the cover story in the current edition of the weekly magazine with the headline ‘Saakh Aur Aaghaat’ (‘reputation and affront’), accused Infosys of trying to destabilise the Indian economy and also accused it of helping “Naxals, Leftists and tukde tukde gang”.Clarifying the organisation’s stand, RSS spokesperson Sunil Ambekar said in a Twitter post: “As an Indian company, Infosys has made seminal contribution in progress of the country. There might be certain issues with a portal run by Infosys, but the article published by Panchjanya in this context only reflects individual opinion of the author.”“Panchjanya is not a mouthpiece of the RSS and the said article or opinions expressed in it should not be linked with the RSS,” he added.The article comes in the backdrop of glitches in the new Income Tax e-filing portal developed by Infosys. Last month, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman summoned the firm’s CEO, Salil Parekh, and asked him to fix the glitches in the I-T portal by September 15.Following the RSS statement, Panchjanya Editor Hitesh Shankar tweeted, “Panchjanya stands firm with its report. If Infosys has objections, it should present its side by urging for a more thorough investigation...”The article drew flak from the Opposition parties.“The scurrilous attack on Infosys in a RSS publication is outrageous and actually anti-national. Companies like Infosys have transformed India... The article is an attempt to shift the blame from the Govt...,” Congress leader Jairam Ramesh tweeted.Shiv Sena leader Priyanka Chaturvedi on Sunday questioned the “silence” of India Inc on the issue months after commerce minister Piyush Goyal’s criticism of Tata Sons.“Then they came for me. And there was no one left to speak out for me” “RSS affiliated Panchajanya, says Infosys is working with anti-national forces and is part of tukde tukde gang. First the attack on Tatas by Commerce Minister and now this. Silence by industry biggies. Okay,” she said in a tweet.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rss-distances-itself-from-article-on-infosys-101630865617166.html
06-09-2021||India||President Kovind honours 44 teachers for outstanding work||President Ram Nath Kovind on Sunday conferred the National Teachers’ Awards on 44 teachers for their remarkable contributions to the field of education, as he stressed the need to ensure “the all-round development of each child according to their special needs, interests and abilities”.The Union education ministry awards teachers for their achievements every year on Teachers Day -- celebrated on September 5 to mark the birth anniversary of the first Vice President of India, Dr Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan.“Teachers should pay special attention to the fact that each student has different abilities, talents, psychology, social background and environment. Therefore, emphasis should be laid on the all-around development of each child according to their special needs, interests and abilities,” said the President during the virtual award ceremony.Noting that the primary responsibility of a teacher is to combine the inherent talents of the students with theirs, Kovind added: “A good teacher is a personality-builder, a society-builder and a nation-builder...Our education system should be such that students develop a commitment to the constitutional values and fundamental duties, strengthen patriotic feeling, and make them aware of their role in the changing global scenario.”The President also appreciated the teachers for their efforts to ensure that the Covid-19 pandemic does not hinder students’ education. “In this situation, even when all schools and colleges were closed, teachers did not allow children’s education to stop. For this, teachers learned to use digital platforms in a very short time and continued the education process. Some teachers have developed remarkable infrastructure in schools with their hard work and dedication. I appreciate such dedicated teachers and hope that the entire teaching community will keep on changing its teaching methods according to the changing circumstances.”The awardees include two teachers each from Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Sikkim, Odisha, Bihar, Gujarat, Delhi and Rajasthan. This year, the online self-nomination process was followed by a three-tier selection process at district, state and national levels.Prime Minister Narendra Modi also lauded the teachers on the day. “On Teachers’ Day, greetings to the entire teaching fraternity, which has always played a pivotal role in nurturing young minds. It is commendable how teachers have innovated and ensured the education journey of students continues in the Covid-19 times,” he said in a Twitter post.In a related development, the Prime Minister’s Office announced on Sunday that Modi will virtually address teachers, students, parents, and stakeholders associated with the education sector during a conclave on Tuesday.During the inaugural session of the conclave, the PM will launch several initiatives including Indian Sign language dictionary of 10,000 words, audiobooks for visually impaired students, social quality assessment and accreditation framework (SQAAF) of CBSE, NISTHA teachers’ training programme, and ‘Vidyanjali Portal’ for facilitating donors of CSR contributions for school development, the PMO said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/taliban-rise-a-concern-for-india-ex-cia-official-101630865497159.html
06-09-2021||India||SC fines lawyer for trying to block selection of HC judge||The collegium system of appointing judges has adequate safeguards and any attempt to prejudice a collegium against a candidate must be dealt with sternly, said the Supreme Court as it imposed a penalty of ₹5 lakh on a lawyer for trying to block the selection of a high court judge.A bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and MM Sundresh termed it a “gross abuse of process of law” to file petitions in the constitutional courts with the sole motive of obstructing a candidate’s elevation to the high court as a judge.“The process of appointment of judges to the High Court is under a well-known established process where the collegium of the High Court considers recommending the names and in case of judicial officers by seniority and on merits,” said the bench.It further noted: “Thereafter, the proposed IB (Intelligence Bureau) inputs and other inputs are obtained and the Government processes the names. The collegium of the Supreme Court has the benefit of all the material before taking a call on whether to recommend the name or not. The appointment takes place thereafter by issuance of warrants of appointment. Thus, sufficient safeguards exist in the system.”The collegium system, which does not find mention in the Indian Constitution, was evolved through the judgments of the Supreme Court, starting 1981 and culminating in the final judgment in 1998 when it was declared that the Chief Justice of India, along with four senior-most judges of the apex court, will make recommendations to the Union government for appointment of judges in the high courts and the Supreme Court. The judgments also laid down that while the government will be consulted on names, the CJI will have primacy in matters of appointment.The central government tried to have a greater say in the appointment process by bringing in the National Judicial Appointment Commission (NJAC) in 2014 through a law that envisaged a role for the law minister and some independent jurists.But the constitutional amendment validating the NJAC was quashed by the Supreme Court in 2015 while ruling that judges’ appointments shall continue to be made by the collegium system in which the CJI will have “the last word”. However, the collegium system continues to be criticised by a section for being non-transparent and lacking objective yardsticks for the appointment of judges.Meanwhile, the bench observed that the collegium system has in-built safeguards to take into account seniority, comparative merit and other relevant factors of the candidates being considered for appointments.In the present case, it noted that multiple proceedings were initiated by advocate B Sailesh Saxena targeting Telangana high court’s registrar general Venkateswara Reddy to stall his elevation as a judge in the high court.“This is gross abuse of process of law...We consider the endeavour of the petitioner (Saxena) as one of harassing Respondent No. 4 (Reddy) and abusing the court proceedings and since nothing else seem to deter the petitioner in such endeavours, we are of the view that appropriate imposition of costs seems to be the only solution,” held the bench in its order last Friday.The court also asked the Bar Council of Telangana to examine Saxena’s conduct and take appropriate action.The bench said it is “surprised at the brazenness” of Saxena who chose to file a writ petition in the Supreme Court after the Telangana high court had already dismissed his separate petition in 2018 while noting that the lawyer was an accused in six criminal complaints involving charges of forgery and creation of fake documents.In one of these cases, the court said the registrar general, on the direction of the high court, had lodged a complaint against Saxena for filing a petition in a land dispute case by submitting fake and forged documents of non-existent people.“Respondent No. 4 (Reddy), as the responsible officer, only followed the direction passed by the learned judge of the high court,” said the bench, adding the high court had dismissed Saxena’s petition holding it to be an abuse of the process of law and a counterblast to the series of criminal complaints filed against him.The bench then proceeded to dismiss Saxena’s petition with a cost of ₹5 lakh, which, it said, will be deposited with the Supreme Court Advocates On Record Welfare Fund within four weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-fines-lawyer-for-trying-to-block-selection-of-hc-judge-101630865437640.html
06-09-2021||India||Discontent in RSS over Centre’s monetisation policy||There is unease among the affiliates of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), the ideological fount of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), over the Union government’s decision to announce a monetisation policy, the delay in addressing concerns over high inflation, and New Delhi’s formal engagement with the Taliban regime in Afghanistan, said people aware of the developments.According to RSS functionaries, the issue of rising prices has been underscored by various affiliates of the Sangh. The Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS), one of the largest labour unions, at its national executive has already passed a resolution against price rise and asked the government to take remedial steps.“The situation has worsened after Covid. Workers are the most affected by job cuts and wage cuts and there is no control over inflation,” said Binay Kumar Sinha, general secretary of the BMS.The affiliate that has called for a nationwide protest on September 9 against inflation has also suggested that apart from mentioning the selling price of products, the government should introduce the provision where the cost of production is also mentioned on the label so that people are aware of the profits that companies are making.“For instance, in the pharma sector, there is no control over how much profits they can make. Similarly, if the government has been talking of one nation, one tax, why not bring petrol under GST to prevent everyday fluctuations that affect the lives of the common man? We have also been demanding that edible oils and other food items should also be brought under the ambit of the Essential Commodities Act to prevent hoarding and black marketing,” Sinha said.While the BMS will also hold a pan-India protest on the national monetisation pipeline (NMP) on November 2, the Swadeshi Jagran Manch, an RSS affiliate that pushes for indigenous production and opposes privatisation and disinvestment, has also criticised the ₹6-lakh crore NMP programme unveiled by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman last month.While the government has defended the plan to raise funds by leasing infrastructure assets of the central government ministries and state-run companies under NMP over four years, from FY 2022 to FY 2025, the SJM has cautioned against letting assets into private hands.A senior functionary of the SJM said that it is still studying the finer details of the policy and will soon come out with its observations, but it is not in support of any move to give national assets into private hands.“A quick assessment shows there will be practical problems in the implementation of the monetisation policy since there are so many assets involved. Besides, the government itself claims that the use of technology has cut inefficiencies. For example, after the use of FastTags, revenue losses have been plugged, so where is the need for monetisation if technology can come in handy to plug losses and improve efficiency?” the functionary said.Sinha said the government should look at alternative revenue generation models. “Corporatisation and monetisation are just juggleries of words, the aim is to privatise industries and we are against it. We have been suggesting alternative models of revenue generation. We have also been saying that the government must look at rationalisation. Use the money for creating jobs and strengthening the sectors,” he said.The government, for its part, has refuted the charge that the monestisation policy is selling off assets. The finance minister, while speaking at an event in Mumbai on August 25, had said there will be handing back of assets being monetised, and only underutilised brownfield assets will be offered up for better use without any change of ownership.Apart from the Sangh affiliates, opposition parties such as the Congress had termed the NMP policy “a scandal and a daylight robbery” and said the Union government was planning to sell off the assets created in 70 years of Independence.On the issue of talks with the Taliban, a senior functionary said though the Sangh has praised the Union government’s efforts in evacuating Hindus and Sikhs from Afghanistan, the idea of engaging with the Taliban has evoked criticism among a section. Earlier this week, the ministry of external affairs said India’s ambassador to Qatar, Deepak Mittal, met with the head of the Taliban’s political office, Sher Mohammad Abbas Stanikzai, following a request from the Taliban. They discussed the safety, security and early return of Indian nationals in Afghanistan, the ministry said.“The Sangh normally does not interfere in issues related to foreign policy, but we are watching the developments unfold,” the functionary said on condition of anonymity.In the past, the Sangh has advocated a muscular policy to deal with Pakistan and China and its affiliates have mobilised campaigns to boycott Chinese goods.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/discontent-in-rss-over-centre-s-monetisation-policy-101630865378299.html
06-09-2021||India||Kerala on high alert as Nipah resurfaces, 12-year-old dead||A 12-year-old boy died on Sunday after being infected with the Nipah virus in Kerala, prompting the Centre to rush a team of experts to the state that is also recording a surge in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, officials familiar with the matter said.The boy was initially admitted to a hospital on August 25 and later shifted to the government medical college and then to a private hospital on September 1. His samples were to the Pune National Institute of Virology, which confirmed the presence of the virus, state health minister Veena George said.“A case of Nipah virus has been detected in Kozhikode district of Kerala. A 12- year-old boy who presented with features of encephalitis and myocarditis was reported on September 3, 2021… The boy was hospitalised and has passed away,” the Union health ministry said in a statement and added that “the central government has rushed a team of NCDC (National Centre for Disease Control) to the state” to provide technical support to local authorities.The virus that causes high fever, headache and coma in extreme cases is spread by fruit bats. Body fluids can cause human-to-human transmission of Nipah, which can have a mortality rate of up to 75%, according to the World Health Organization (WHO). There is no treatment or vaccine available for either people or animals. State health authorities said they were trying to ascertain the source of the infection but like previous cases, fruit bats were likely to be the primary cause this time, too.The public health measures that the Centre has advised to the state include active case search in the boy’s family, village and areas with similar topography (especially Malappuram); active contact tracing during the past 12 days at least; strict quarantine of the contacts and isolation of any suspects; and collection and transportation of samples for lab testing.George said they have identified 188 primary and secondary contacts of the boy and placed them under observation. “We have identified 188 contacts till now. The surveillance team has marked 20 of them as high-risk contacts. Two of these high-risk contacts have symptoms. Both are health workers,” she said.Kerala has witnessed localised outbreaks of the disease in the past. In May 2018, the virus claimed 17 lives in the state.The state government assured the public that the situation was under control. “No need to panic. But a high vigil is the need of the hour. We have a strict Nipah protocol and we will go by this,” George said.Critical care expert Dr AS Anoop Kumar who played a key role in containing the 2018 outbreak, said they were better prepared to deal with the disease this time around.“Situation is not like 2018 when we were totally in the dark. Since a majority of people are observing physical distance and masking it can be contained effectively,” Kumar said.According to WHO, Nipah virus was first identified during an outbreak in Malaysia in 1998. “Both animal-to-human and human-to-human transmission have been documented. From 1998 to 2015, more than 600 cases of Nipah virus human infections were reported. Subsequent outbreaks in India and Bangladesh have occurred with high case fatality,” said a WHO document.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-on-high-alert-as-nipah-resurfaces-12-year-old-dead-101630865323656.html
06-09-2021||India||RSS icon, Ambedkar to be part of MBBS course in Madhya Pradesh||Medical students in Madhya Pradesh will now be taught about RSS founder KB Hedgewar, Bharatiya Jana Sangh leader Deendayal Upadhyaya, Swami Vivekananda and BR Ambedkar as part of the first-year foundation course, state education minister Vishwas Sarang said on Sunday. The next academic session for MBBS (Bachelor of Medicine, Bachelor of Surgery) students is likely to start from 2021-22.“I have asked to add this in the foundation course as we don’t want to just teach the students expert knowledge about a subject. We want to make them responsible citizens. We will educate them about the Indian tradition and ideology through the life and deeds of famous personalities,” Sarang said.“The National Medical Council (NMC) has said that ethical values should be part of the foundation course in the first year (of MBBS). So we thought of incorporating these great personalities for building the character of students,” he added.An official familiar with the matter said the addition was made on the basis of the recommendations made by a five-member committee of the medical education department. “We have not made any changes in the topics of medical education programme 2019 of National Medical Commission. The life and deeds of famous personalities have been added as a lecture on the topic of Medical Ethics. We have included it to inspire the future doctors and motivate them to work hard,” said the official, who asked not to be named.The additional lectures are likely to be clubbed in the topic of medical ethics in the foundation course, added the official.Keshav Baliram Hedgewar, a surgeon, founded the Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh in Nagpur in 1925. Deendayal Upadhyaya was one of the prominent leaders of the Bharatiya Jan Sangh and the forerunner of the BJP.Hailing the leaders, the education minister said: “RSS first chief Hedgewarji, Upadhyayaji, Vivekanandji and BR Ambedkarji were great visionaries and human beings. Their lives were based on values. Their thoughts, conduct, and very personalities are inspiring.”“Deendayalji’s thought of ‘Antyodaya’ for helping the last man (the poorest of the poor) was exemplary. Swami Vivekanandji travelled far off lands to showcase the Indian vision. B R Ambedkar was born in a poor family but he went on to frame our Constitution. We have decided to teach (MBBS) students about the inspiring lives of these great personalities from the coming academic session (2021),” Sarang added.The medical fraternity, however, expressed concerns over the additions.“If they want the students to motivate by teaching life and deeds of famous personalities, they should teach about good doctors and scientists. They shouldn’t force students to teach about heroes of one particular ideology. By doing this, they are spoiling the future of medical students by putting a tag of being rightist,” said Dr Anurag Gupta, state unit chief of the Indian Medical Association (medical students’ network).The Opposition, too, attacked the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the state for “imposing” its ideology on the students.“BJP keeps working to impose its ideology and its particular agenda on the people, whether it is in the field of education or other areas. Now MBBS students in Madhya Pradesh will be taught the thoughts of the founders of Jan Sangh and RSS. BJP leaders are deliberately working to distort the history, glorify their leaders and impose their ideology,” said Kamal Nath, the Congress’s state unit chief and former chief minister.BJP spokesperson Rajneesh Agrawal said: “It is a very good decision of the state government and before accusing BJP of imposing an ideology, they should at least see the history of Congress of promoting and glorifying only one family.”(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rss-icon-ambedkar-to-be-part-of-mbbs-course-in-madhya-pradesh-101630865318607.html
06-09-2021||India||Maharashtra lists 7 ‘districts of concern’, Mumbai also faces Covid spike||The Maharashtra government on Sunday identified seven of the state’s western districts, including Pune, as regions of “concern” and took note of an upward trend in new cases in Mumbai, as the state government grapples with concerns that a new wave of the pandemic could be in the making.The last 10 days have not seen any drop in the number of cases; instead, there has been a slight jump in new infections, said state health authorities at a conference in Mumbai.The observations about the seven “districts of concern” – Pune, Ahmednagar, Satara, Solapur, Sangli, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg – were part of a presentation made by additional chief secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas during a conference called ‘Majha Doctor’ (My Doctor) that was chaired by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray in Mumbai on Sunday.Data showed that even though the weekly positivity rate stayed below 5% in all districts for the last several weeks, this week, some districts such as Pune and Ahmednagar saw the figure at 6.58% and 5.08%, respectively. Mumbai was back among the top five districts having the most cases.Of the total 52,025 active cases in the state, 90.61% belong to 10 districts of which 37,897 or 72.84% are located just in five districts – Pune, Thane, Satara, Ahmednagar and Mumbai.The state authorities have termed Pune, Ahmednagar, Satara, Solapur, Sangli, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg as ‘districts of concern’. “The growth rate of new infections, and weekly positivity rate in these districts is too high. With the Ganesh festival beginning Friday, likely to be celebrated on a large scale in these districts, there are chances of a third wave starting... The district administrations need to take utmost care,” said Dr Vyas.Of the 44,437 new Covid-19 infections reported in the state in the last 10 days, 30,313 (68%) are from Pune (22%), Ahmednagar (17%), Satara (11%), Solapur and Mumbai (9% each), while the remaining 32% patients are from 30 districts. After reporting less than 400 cases consistently for 38 days — from July 25 to August 31 — new infections in Mumbai are again nearing the 500-mark. There were 495 new Covid-19 infections reported in the metropolis on Sunday.Vyas, however, said that the second wave in 17 of the remaining districts appears to have subsided for now. Seven of them have less than 10 active patients while in 11, the number of active patients ranges between 11 and 100. Most of these districts are in Vidarbha and Marathwada. At the conference, CM Thackeray said his government’s priority is to avert the third wave or reduce its intensity if it strikes. “We have increased the number of beds, but the question is whether we would be able to supply the oxygen required for the patients. Almost 80,000 patients during the peak of the second wave required oxygen. We will attempt to ensure that oxygen requirement does not go beyond 1,400 metric tonne per day, which we have been generating every day,” the CM said. He added that at present, 350MT oxygen is being administered to Covid and non-Covid patients daily. “There has been a brief rise in the daily caseload in the last few days, but we endeavour to bring it down to zero,” Thackeray said. Dr Mehul Mehta, who is a senior fellow at Harvard Global Health Institute, said masking up and vaccination were effective tools to keep the infection at bay. He gave the example of the southern part of the United States that has been witnessing a high number of cases because of low vaccination and Covid-inappropriate behaviour by the people. Dr Shashank Joshi, member of the state-appointed task force, said the state government is aggressively carrying out vaccinations in Dharavi, as there was a possibility that antibodies among the people there have reduced. “During the first wave, our Dharavi model was appreciated across the globe, and despite the Delta Plus variant, daily caseload there could not cross 20 on any given day. But the antibodies among people there is expected to have gone down because of which vaccination drive in Asia’s largest slum is being aggressively implemented,” Joshi said. He added, “Masking and vaccination are two effective tools to avert the third wave or reduce its intensity. The people who have already been infected and have been fully vaccinated have double antibodies.” Dr Joshi also allayed fears about the C 1.2 variant of the virus found in South Africa, saying that it has been seen in just seven countries and the number of cases of the variant is not more than 100.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-lists-7-districts-of-concern-mumbai-also-faces-covid-spike-101630864178773.html
06-09-2021||India||Govt relaxes green norms for projects connecting mines||Roads, conveyor belts, railway infrastructure etc. that connect mines to ports or other destinations can now be considered as standalone projects that can be approved by the regional offices of the union environment ministry, the ministry said in a letter to state governments.“The State Government/User agency shall ensure that dispensation considered by the Ministry is not misused in any way and likely tendencies to detach linear projects from the main proposal of mining should not be encouraged. To the extent possible, linear infrastructure such as roads/railways/conveyor belts, etc. ancillary to mining should be included in the main proposal and under inevitable circumstance only, such proposals submitted by the user agency should be considered as standalone projects,” the letter, dated August 23, stated.It has, however, cautioned that all forest clearance proposals for mining shall have an additional column for the project proponent to certify that they have critically examined the mineral extraction pathways and that no new extraction path outside the mining area shall be proposed during the next five years. As far as possible existing roads, railway infrastructure should be strengthened to minimise forest and tree cover loss, the letter states.The letter states that the ministry of coal had requested the environment ministry to consider the possibility of constructing new linear projects linking mines to dumping or loading sites. The ministry of coal launched an auction for mines last year. In the first tranche 38 were listed and in the second tranche 67 mines in Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Odisha, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh were listed for commercial coal mine auctions.“Based on the recommendation of the FAC and approval of the same by the competent authority, the ministry hereby conveys that supplementary linear project linked to mining that are conceived after the start of the original mining, should be considered as a standalone linear project and decisions on according approval for those shall be made at the REC/IRO (regional empowered committee/integrated regional office of MoEFCC) concerned as per provisions provided in the Forest Conservation) Rules, 2003,” the letter stated.Transportation of coal is a contentious issue in many parts of the country where locals have opposed it due its large pollution footprint. For example, locals in Odisha’s Sundargarh district have been opposing transportation of coal through their villages because heavy dust pollution caused by the transportation has been damaging our crop production continuously and children are avoiding school for the fear of being run over according to their petitions submitted to the forest advisory committee.“This delinking of linear infrastructure has to be seen along with the changes in mining laws that allow for mineral extraction without specifying end use. This means that evacuation routes and all the related impacts can continue to shift throughout the life of a mine. Our regulatory appraisal, compliance and monitoring protocols are not designed to address this dynamic demand. In the present case, the enabling conditions are drafted more as a request to user agencies not misuse this privilege and minimize damage. They also give a lot of discretion to the ministry’s regional offices to determine the form and future of linear infrastructure linked to mining projects,” said Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher, Centre for Policy Research.“All linear projects are considered by regional offices. In this case the ministry has very specifically said that the need for supplementary infrastructure shouldn’t arise at least for the next five years because transportation should be considered by the mining project. If it does arise then regional offices can critically examine the impact of such supplementary projects,” said a senior environment ministry official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-relaxes-green-norms-for-projects-connecting-mines-101630863998260.html
06-09-2021||India||Mansukh Mandaviya meets health ministers from G20 countries, extends support and co-operation on health care||Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya extended India’s support to Brazil in helping the latter fight tuberculosis during an interaction with his Brazilian counterpart Marcelo Queiroga in Italy on Sunday. The two health ministers also talked about the introduction of nano urea and the one health scheme.“Had an excellent discussion with Mr Marcelo Queiroga, Minister of Health for Brazil, for better cooperation in healthcare. We spoke about One Health and the introduction of Nano-Urea for better results. Also, offered India's full support to aid Brazil's fight against TB,” Mandaviya tweeted.
06-09-2021||India||Amid rumours about talks ULFA-I rejigs outfit||Amid speculations on possible peace talks, the banned United Liberation Front of Asom-Independent (ULFA-I) on Sunday announced ‘structural changes’ in the outfit. According to a statement issued by the militant outfit (which HT has seen) to editors of media organisations, three new councils have been formed with vice-chairman and commander-in-chief Paresh Baruah heading the supreme council. There would be no change in the military wing of the outfit. “With effect from September 4, while the military wing of ULFA-I would remain as before, the outfit’s central working council has unanimously decided to temporarily suspend the constitutional infrastructure and carry out the mentioned structural change,” the brief statement issued by ‘brigadier’ Arunudoy Asom read. There was no mention of what prompted the outfit to make the changes. ULFA-I used to have a military as well as a political wing. There’s no clarity yet on what will be the status of the political wing after creation of the new councils. Besides self-styled general Baruah, two others---self-styled lieutenant general Michael Asom and self-styled major general Nayan Asom are other members of the supreme council. Michael Asom aka Joy Chandra Das was appointed in November last year as deputy c-in-c of the outfit following the surrender of Drishti Rajkhowa, second in command to Baruah, in Meghalaya after a gun battle with security forces. The outfit’s new high council, which has four members, will be headed by Nayan Asom. It will have three other members with rank of self-styled brigadiers. Nayan Asom would also be the chief of lower council of ULFA-I that would have a total of 13 members. Since May this year, when the second Bharatiya Janata Party-led government assumed office in Assam, there have been speculations that ULFA-I could join peace talks with the Centre. The outfit, has, however maintained that the issue of Assam’s sovereignty should be part of talks---a pre-condition, which has been ruled out by the Centre as well the state government. Citing the Covd-19 pandemic, the outfit declared a unilateral ceasefire in May for three months. It was extended by another three months in August. This year, for the first time since its inception in 1979, ULFA-I didn’t boycott the Independence Day celebrations or called for a ‘bandh’ to mark the occasion. “Our organization is not against talks or belligerent. But it is not possible to deny historic facts or waver from our ideological goals in the name of talks. Indian authorities have maintained that talks with ULFA-I can’t include the question of (Assam’s) sovereignty,” ULFA-I said in a statement released in August. “The Constitution of India has been amended nearly 100 times. Why can’t it be amended again to allow for talks with ULFA-I? If India wants talks, it should amend the Constitution to approve right to secede by communities or allow a plebiscite participated in by bonafide indigenous communities,” it added. On Saturday, Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma told journalists in New Delhi that unofficial links have been established with ULFA-I c-in-c Paresh Baruah (to bring the outfit to talks). “It would take time, but I am hopeful,” he said. ULFA was formed in April 1979 with the aim of establishing a sovereign Assam through armed struggle. The group split in August 2012 with several senior leaders shunning arms and agreeing to sit for talks. The anti-talks faction renamed itself at ULFA-I and continues to pursue the slated goal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-rumours-about-talks-ulfa-i-rejigs-outfit-paresh-baruah-to-head-supreme-council-101630843595955.html
