07-09-2021||India||‘Online puja, ban on visit of priests’: Goa issues norms for Ganesh Chaturthi||The Goa government on Tuesday released standard operating procedures (SOPs) for the upcoming Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations which will start from September 10 onwards, news agency PTI reported.According to the SOPs, a ban has been imposed on priests visiting homes for rituals as well as households having Covid-19 patients have been prohibited from inviting guests or visiting others.Priests can conduct online puja, and the state government also urged families to perform rituals pertaining to Ganesh Chaturthi by using technologies such as “YouTube or WhatsApp videos.”The immersion ceremony of Ganesh idols will happen in a staggered manner between 5pm and 10pm, the SOP said.Officials, however, said that the 'sarvajanik Ganeshotsav' (public festivities) may be allowed by local bodies on a case-to-case basis by following protocols such as wearing masks and sanitisers, and maintaining social distance, among others.Leading up to one of the biggest festivals in India, several states have issued guidelines for citizens in order to contain Covid-19. Karnataka has also issued SOPs saying that no cultural events will be permitted in districts that have a positivity rate above two per cent. It also said that the night curfew will remain in effect throughout the five-day celebrations and that not more than 20 people can be present during celebrations and also the immersion ceremony.In Maharashtra, however, where Ganesh Chaturthi is celebrated with utmost grandeur, state health minister Rajesh Tope ruled out any curbs and said that the ruling dispensation is closely monitoring the situation in the state.“During Ganeshotsav celebrations…gathering of crowds leads to an increase in the possibility of the spread of infection. This has been seen in other states,” Tope pointed out.Also Read | Ganesh Chaturthi festivities to be restricted to three days in Bengaluru: BBMPHe also used Kerala as an example to stress on the significance of following Covid-19 protocols. Meanwhile, Mumbai’s mayor Kishori Pednekar cautioned against celebrating Ganesh Chaturthi outside homes amid the increasing cases of coronavirus. “The third-wave [of Covid-19] is not coming, it is already here. It has already been declared in Nagpur,” she said. (With additional inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/online-puja-ban-on-visit-of-priests-goa-issues-norms-for-ganesh-chaturthi-101631038366814.html
07-09-2021||India||‘Take both doses of Sputnik-V Covid-19 vaccine from same hospital’: Dr Reddy’s||The Sputnik-V Covid-19 vaccine should be administered in two doses at a gap of 21 days, and both the doses should be taken from the same hospital, Dr Reddy's Laboratories said on Tuesday. “Currently in India, Sputnik V vaccine is administered in two doses with a 21-day gap. Both doses of the vaccine should be taken from the same hospital,” the statement released by Dr Reddy’s said.The Hyderabad-based pharmaceutical company also announced that it has initiated supply of the first dose component of Sputnik-V vaccine to partner hospitals across the country, and those who want to be inoculated with the Russian vaccine can visit their official site to find out if it's available in their area.The supply of the first dose component had to be suspended owing to logistical constraints from the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), the sovereign wealth fund that partnered with Dr Reddy’s to manufacture Sputnik-V vaccines in India. Dr Reddy's signed a pact with RDIF to sell the first 125 million people doses (250 million vials) of Sputnik V vaccine in India.Also Read: Uttarakhand begins Sputnik V vaccination service with help from Dehradun-based firmTuesday’s announcement comes after Panacea Biotec supplied the first shipment of the second component of the Sputnik-V vaccine to hospitals across India. The Indian pharma firm said in August that they will produce 25 million doses of the vaccine and supply it to Dr Reddy’s for distribution."As announced by our partners, the RDIF and Panacea Biotec, supply of the second dose component manufactured by Panacea Biotec has now commenced. Dr Reddy's has initiated supply of the first dose component to partner hospitals all over India followed by equivalent quantities of the second dose component. With more batches of the second dose component to follow from the manufacturing site, Dr Reddy's expects the momentum and supply to continue,” a representative of the company told news agency PTI.Sputnik-V, which was found to be 91.6% effective against Covid-19 during the third phase clinical trials, has also been approved by countries such as Bahrain, Hungary, Indonesia, Armenia and the Philippines among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/take-both-doses-of-sputnik-v-covid-19-vaccine-from-same-hospital-dr-reddys-101631036639147.html
07-09-2021||India||Heavy rain lashes Odisha districts; weather department sounds yellow alert||The meteorological department of Odisha on Tuesday issued a yellow warning as it forecast the formation of a fresh depression over the Bay of Bengal around September 11. "A fresh low-pressure area is likely to form over the North and adjoining central Bay of Bengal around 11th September 2021," the meteorological centre in Bhubaneswar tweeted.Under the influence of the movement of the low-pressure area, the weather department further predicted "light to moderate or thundershowers" at most places over the districts of interior Odisha and at many places over the districts of coastal Odisha.This comes as heavy rain lashed several districts of Odisha, bringing respite to the farming community of the state, which has been staring at a drought-like situation due to the patchy monsoon.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) also issued a forecast of heavy rainfall over Nuapada, Nabarangpur, Bargarh, Jharsuguda, Sundargarh and Keonjhar districts on Wednesday. The weather department urged fishermen to not venture into the sea in view of the forecast. Squally weather conditions with surface wind speed reaching 40 to 50kmph is likely off the Odisha coast, it also said as per a PTI report.The state government also put the districts on alert and warned of damaged communication infrastructures and landslides in some areas. Special relief commissioner Pradeep Kumar Jena wrote to collectors, asking the local administrations to remain vigilant of the situation.Meanwhile, Banki in Cuttack and Khandapara in Nayagarh districts received very heavy rainfall of 140mm and 117.4mm, respectively, in a 24-hour-span till 8.30am on Tuesday, according to the IMD.Ganjam's Sorada and Daspalla in Nayagarh also received rainfall above 100 mm as heavy showers lashed Ganjam, Balasore, Angul, Gajapati, Khurda, Mayurbhanj, Dhenkanal and Kalahandi districts. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rain-lashes-odisha-districts-weather-department-sounds-yellow-alert-101631035112050.html
07-09-2021||India||In Mohammad Akhund-led Taliban govt, several key faces from Haqqani Network||NEW DELHI: The Taliban on Tuesday announced an interim setup to govern Afghanistan that will be led by a founding member, Mohammad Hassan Akhund, and has several leaders of the dreaded Haqqani Network in key positions. A majority of the 33 members in the caretaker setup, including Akhund and his first deputy Abdul Ghani Baradar, have been sanctioned by the UN Security Council, while Sirajuddin Haqqani, who was named the interior minister, has a US bounty of $5 million on his head.The reclusive Taliban chief Haibatullah Akhundzada was named the supreme leader with the final say on religious, political and security affairs under a system that some have compared to the ruling setup in Iran.Akhund, who is believed to be in his sixties, was a close associate of Taliban founder Mullah Omar and served as his political advisor. He also served as foreign minister in the previous Taliban regime and as governor of Kandahar province, the traditional stronghold of the group in southern Afghanistan.Baradar emerged as the most public face of the Taliban because of his leading role in negotiations with the US and other countries.Despite several assertions by Taliban leaders in recent weeks that the proposed setup would be inclusive, all the 33 members of the so-called caretaker cabinet were members of the Taliban hierarchy or the Haqqani Network. Many of them also served in similar capacities in the Taliban regime that ruled in Kabul in the 1990s.Most of the 33 leaders are Pashtuns and the setup included two Tajiks and one Uzbek.Akhund will have two deputies – Baradar and Abdul Salam Hanafi, who was a deputy education minister in the previous regime.Maulvi Amir Khan Mutaqqi, a former education minister, was the surprise pick for foreign minister, with Sher Mohammed Abbas Stanekzai, who recently held a meeting with India’s ambassador in Qatar and has been involved in back-channel contacts with the Indian side for some years, was named the deputy foreign minister.Mullah Muhammad Yaqoob, the eldest son of Taliban founder Mullah Omar, was named the defence minister. Yaqoob is among the very few leaders in the setup who isn’t subject to UN sanctions, but there have been reports that during the Taliban’s recent campaign against the former government of President Ashraf Ghani, he was directly coordinating with Lashkar-e-Taiba commanders fighting alongside the Taliban.Mullah Abdul Haq Wassiq, a UN-sanctioned Taliban leader who earlier served as deputy minister of security was named the intelligence chief, with Mullah Rahmatullah Najib and Mullah Taj Mir Jawad as his deputies. Mullah Khairullah Khairkhwa, a former prisoner at Guantanamo with whom the Indian side opened channels of communication, was named information minister, with long-standing Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid as his deputy. Mujahid said the 33-member setup will serve as “acting” leaders and he didn’t rule out the possibility of changes in future.All the UN-sanctioned Taliban leaders are subject to an assets freeze, arms embargo and travel ban. About 15 of them, including Baradar, were granted exemptions to travel restrictions to allow them to travel to Qatar and various other destinations for peace negotiations. The UN Security Council is set to meet on September 21 to consider the further extension of these exemptions. India currently heads the UN’s 1988 Sanctions Committee that oversees sanctions on the Taliban till December. If the travel-related exemptions aren’t extended, the sanctioned leaders will effectively be unable to travel out of Afghanistan and engage with the international community. This could complicate the Taliban’s efforts to seek international recognition for its setup, especially at a time when many Western countries have linked recognition to the group’s ability to deliver on commitments to protect human rights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-mohammad-akhund-led-taliban-govt-several-key-faces-from-haqqani-network-101631036159570.html
07-09-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: Sept 8, 1952 Egypt under virtual military dictatorship||Cairo- Gen. Naguib, in a pre-dawn swoop with troops and armoured cars, today arrested almost every prominent personality in Egypt outside the Government and, as new Premier, became virtual dictator in Egypt. Armoured cars patrolled the streets of Cairo tonight when Gen. Naguib and Ministers of his new 16-man Cabinet drove to the Abdin Palace to be sworn in by the Regency Council. Most of the 16 are non-party men. Less than seven weeks after Egypt’s strong man launched his ‘Coup d’etat ‘ against ex-King Farouk, he took complete control of the Government after the biggest mass arrests in the country’s turbulent history. He imprisoned over 50 politicians and leaders, including two ex-Premiers, at a stroke, and accepted the resignation of Mr Aly Maher and his Government. The Regency Council asked the General to form a Military Government, a spokesman of the outgoing Maher Cabinet said, but Gen. Naguib told reporters at his General H.Q.: “I am going to form a Cabinet mostly of civilians.” The new Cabinet is as follows: Prime Minister, War, Marine and C.-in-C.-Gen. Naguib; Vice-Premier and Minister for Interior- Soliman Hafez; Foreign Minister -Ahmed Farag Tayeb (now Minister to Jordan and Iraq); Finance -Dr Abdel Gelil Amary; Public Works-Murad Fahmy; Education-Ismail el Kabbany; Propaganda Fathy Radwan (extreme Nationalist Party leader); Communications -Dr Nureddin Tarraf (also leading member of extreme Nationalist Party); Wakfs (religious foundations)-Sheikh Ahmed Hassan el Bakkour (one of the Muslim Brotherhood leaders); Agriculture -Abdel Aziz Abdullah Salem; Commerce, Industry and Supply- Dr Mahmoud Abu Zed; Public Health-Dr Mohammed Sabay; Reconstruction and Building-Dr Ibrabim Bayyoumi Madkour; Social Affairs-Prof. Mohammed Fuad Galal; Municipal Ties-Abdel Aziz Aly; Justice-Abdel Hamid Soliman. Gen. Naguib is the only soldier in the new Cabinet. Wearing smart khaki uniforms, he led his Ministers dressed in grey morning coats and red tarbushes into the stately Palace. He and Soliman Hafez conferred privately with the Regents for about 15 minutes before the other Ministers were summoned to be sworn in. Later, Gen. Naguib’s party posed momentarily for Press photographers outside the Palace before driving to the Presidency. There they began their first formal Cabinet meeting, which is expected to pass the Army’s land reform measures into law without delay. The political leaders were arrested for failing to carry out “purges” in their ranks ordered by Gen. Naguib. They included ex-Premier Ahmed Naguib Hilaly, Fuad Serag el Din, Wafdist Party leader, held “administratively responsible” for Cairo’s riots on January 26, and Hafez Afifi, former Chief of Farouk’s Royal Cabinet. Mortada Maragi, a former Minister of the Interior, and Ibrahim Abdel Hady, former Premier and leader of the Saadist Party, were also reported to be among those arrested. Meanwhile, a prominent Wafdist said the Army placed the Wafd leader and former Premier, Mustafa el Nahas, under house arrest. Wafdist sources said Nahas had been confined by the Army in Alexandria. ARMY’S ACTION The Army went into action while Cairo slept. Troops, armed police and armoured cars swept through the city and cordoned off the leaders’ residences to make the arrests, which were carried out while the leaders of the factory riots last month at Kafr el Dawar were being executed at Alexandria, 100 miles away. After informing Mr Aly Maher of his action, Gen. Naguib demanded immediate action to be taken to promulgate the reform programme, which seeks to close the immense gap between Egypt’s few wealthy landowners and the mass of poverty-stricken population. Mr Maher refused to rush through the reforms which, he claimed, were too far sweeping and likely to lead to economic collapse. Mr Aly Maher told Gen. Naguib in a 45-minute interview this morning that he was resigning because of the Army’s mass arrests. After the interview Mr Aly Maher told correspondents: ‘’My resignation has been accepted by agreement with the Army.” Mr Maher said afterwards: It is in the best interests of the nation that power be transferred to a single hand.” Apart from reinforcements of steel-helmeted police who patrolled the Cairo streets, the Army’s seizure of overall power passed off with few outward signs. There were no major troop movements and no large massing of crowds. Life in the capital looked little different from a normal Sunday afternoon with most inhabitants taking their usual siesta in sweltering heat. OFFICIAL STATEMENT A statement from Gen. Naguib’s G.H.Q. said: The Army revolt was not only against the King but against corruption, of which the King was only a symbol.” “The movement was also against at those, who co-operated with the ex-King and exploited close relations with him. We have repeatedly asked political organizations in the country to purge their ranks so that Egypt may enjoy a clean and healthy political life.” “But the parties were reluctant to comply with this appeal and today we had to arrest certain individuals held in suspicion.” Mr Aly Maher’s Cabinet, reorganized and expanded two days ago, was in session at the Presidency at noon when the Army H.Q. issued its statement. The Cabinet, which was reported to have been discussing the proposed Land Reforms Bill, then suspended its meeting. The arrested leaders were placed under guard in a large store house, less than a quarter of a mile from Gen. Naguib’s H.Q. An Army spokesman said that Mr Aly Maher “has been unable to keep pace with the new mentality of the nation.” The Army regime is now facing its most serious crisis since its coup nearly seven weeks ago. There are now practically no political leaders willing and able to form a Government under Army Control.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htthisday-sept-8-1952-egypt-under-virtual-military-dictatorship-101631031776232.html
07-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: Panel probing Delhi Police ‘atrocities’ against farmers submits report and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Panel formed to look into Delhi Police ‘atrocities’ on farmers, youth submits reportA special committee of Punjab Vidhan Sabha, constituted for probing into the atrocities by Delhi Police on farmers, youth and others in the aftermath of incidents on January 26, on Tuesday submitted its report to speaker Rana KP Singh. Read MoreAIMIM wants to ensure BJP’s defeat in UP polls: OwaisiAll-India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul Muslimeen (AIMIM) chief Asaduddin Owaisi said the aim of his organisation was to ensure the defeat of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the 2022 assembly election. Read MoreDelhi Police book 3 nightclubs for violating Covid-19 guidelines, arrest 1Delhi Police have booked three nightclubs of the city for violating Covid-19 guidelines and also arrested the manager of one of the establishments but was released on bail later, news agency ANI reported on Tuesday. Read MoreBrad Hogg gives five reasons why Shardul Thakur should've been Player of the Match and not Rohit SharmaFormer Australia spinner Brad Hogg gave five reasons why Shardul Thakur should have got the Player of the Match award instead of Rohit Sharma in the India-England fourth Test at The Oval. Read MoreAkshay Kumar's mother is unwell, actor calls it a ‘very tough hour’ for familyActor Akshay Kumar took to social media on Tuesday to share a note of thanks for his fans. Akshay confirmed that his mother, Aruna Bhatia, has been unwell and thanked his fans for their concern. Read MoreNoiseFit Core launch offer: Smartwatch now available with a massive price cutNoiseFit Core launch: Indian tech brand Noise has launched a new smartwatch in India. Read More'Are UP Muslims prisoners?': From Ayodhya, Owaisi launches UP poll campaignAIMIM Chief Asaduddin Owaisi sounded the poll bugle and revealed his party’s plans for the upcoming UP Assembly elections. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-panel-probing-delhi-police-atrocities-against-farmers-submits-report-and-all-the-latest-news-101631026726017.html
07-09-2021||India||‘Constitution has given us the right to express ourselves’: Cong leader Digvijaya Singh on Javed Akhtar’s Taliban remark||Congress leader Digvijaya Singh came to lyricist Javed Akhtar’s defence on Tuesday, stating that the Indian Constitution guarantees one the freedom to express themselves. “I don't know in which context he said so. But our Constitution has given us the right to express ourselves,” Singh told reporters on Tuesday.Akhtar, a former Parliamentarian, had compared the Islamist militant outfit Taliban with the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) during a television appearance on September 3. "Just like the Taliban want an Islamic State, there are those who want a Hindu Rashtra. These people are of the same mindset -- be it Muslim, Christian, Jews or Hindus," he said."Of course, the Taliban is barbaric, and their actions are reprehensible, but those supporting the RSS, VHP and Bajrang Dal are all the same,” he added.Akhtar had also said that he has “total faith in the basic sensibility of an average Indian.”“The majority of this nation is extremely decent and tolerant. That must be respected. India will never become a Talibani country,” the iconic lyricist said.Bharatiya Janata Party spokesperson Ram Kadam criticised Akhtar for his comments on the RSS, and demanded he apologise for making such a comparison. Kadam warned that Akhtar’s movies will not be allowed to run if he does not apologise to the RSS.“We will not allow any of his films to run in this land of Ma Bharti till he apologises with folded hands to the functionaries of the Sangh who have dedicated their lives to the nation," he said in a video message.Shiv Sena had defended RSS against Akhtar’s comments and accused the latter of “disrespecting Hindu culture” in an editorial published in the party mouthpiece Saamana.Digvijaya Singh, whose party has formed the government in Maharashtra along with Shiv Sena and the Nationalist Congress Party, invoked satirist Sampat Saral’s words, stating that “Satirist Sampat Saral had once defined Taliban and gave an equation that politics plus religion is equal to the Taliban.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/constitution-has-given-us-the-right-to-express-ourselves-cong-leader-digvijaya-singh-on-javed-akhtar-s-taliban-remark-101631023047819.html
07-09-2021||India||Kerala lifts night curfew, Sunday lockdown; Colleges to reopen from Oct 4||Even as Kerala continues to majorly contribute to India's coronavirus disease (Covid-19) numbers, the state government on Tuesday decided to lift the night curfew and Sunday lockdown. The decision was taken after a review meeting to assess the prevailing Covid-19 situation in the state. The state reported 25,723 fresh Covid-19 cases and 189 related deaths in the last 24 hours.Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan told a press conference that active cases now stand at 2,37,042. He also announced the government's decision to reopen higher educational institutions from October 4, adding that the decision regarding the reopening of schools will be taken later. Under the new rule, polytechnic colleges and institutions offering technical and medical courses will be allowed to function from October 4. Final year students and teachers of undergraduate and postgraduate courses will also be allowed if they have received at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine.“In higher educational institutions, classes for final year, undergraduate & postgraduate students will begin from October 4. Details regarding the reopening of educational institutions are being worked out. Decision on the reopening of schools will be taken later,” Pinarayi said.Night curfew and Sunday lockdown were imposed after Kerala started reported a renewed surge in Covid cases following festivals. But the critics of such Covid-19 measures argued that movement during the 10pm-6am remains minimum without any curfew.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-lifts-night-curfew-sunday-lockdown-colleges-to-reopen-from-oct-4-101631019600031.html
07-09-2021||India||Farmers march on Karnal mini-secretariat after talks with dist officials fail||Hundreds and thousands of farmers marched their way to the mini-secretariat in Haryana's Karnal on Tuesday evening, after the talks between their union leaders and the officials of the district administration failed.The farmer leaders under the aegis of Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of unions protesting against the Centre's contentious agricultural laws, had called a Kisan Mahapanchayat in Karnal earlier in the day in protest against police lathicharge on protesters on an expressway in Karnal on August 28.The farmer unions had demanded action against the officials, especially sub-divisional magistrate Ayush Sinha, involved in the lathicharge that saw several injured. The farmers reached the New Anaj Mandi for the gathering in the morning, riding tractors and motorcycles. Soon after, an 11-member delegation went to meet the district administration to discuss their demands. The officials attempted to dissuade them from marching towards the secretariat.“Our talks with the administration failed as they did not agree to our demands,” senior farmer leader Joginder Singh Ugrahan told news agency PTI.The leaders then urged the assembled farmers at the mahapanchayat to march peacefully towards the mini-secretariat, situated around 5km away, in Karnal town.The rally was attended by the leaders of various farmer unions, including Rakesh Tikait, Balbir Singh Rajewal, Joginder Singh Ugrahan, Darshan Pal and Yogendra Yadav.  The leaders told the farmers not to enter into any confrontation with policemen, and squat in protest wherever they are stopped. Responding to the call, thousands of farmers marched towards the secretariat carrying union flags crossing barricades put up on the route.However, Yogendra Yadav tweeted later in the evening that the police detained him and Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait along with other leaders of the SKM on their way to the secretariat. Soon after, in another post on Twitter Yadav said the leaders were let off under the pressure of the gathered farmersPolice also used water canons to disperse the marching farmers. किसानों के भारी दबाब और प्रदर्शन के कारण में पुलिस ने सभी साथियों को बसों से उतार दिया है। सभी नेता पैदल आगे बढ़ रहे हैं। https://t.co/LV14NWpNaBThe state government ordered suspension of internet and SMS services in and around the venue of the mahapanchayat till Tuesday midnight even as police tightened security arrangements and imposed Section 144 in the district.On Sunday, hundred and thousands of farmers from across the country gathered at Muzaffarnagar in Uttar Pradesh to set the stage for ‘Mission Uttar Pradesh’ and continue discussions on issues plaguing them.Last week, Haryana police personnel baton-charged a group of protesting farmers in Karnal. The incident drew flak from several quarters after videos of Karnal sub-divisional magistrate Ayush Sinha ordering to “break the heads” of any protesters who "cross the barricades" went viral on social media.The leaders of farmers unions from Haryana demanded registration of FIRs against Ayush Sinha and police personnel involved in the lathicharge, as well as financial assistance of ₹2 lakh for those injured in the incident.ALSO READ | NHRC seeks report from Karnal DC, SP over lathi-chargeAddressing the mahapanchayat earlier in the day, social activist Yogendra Yadav said, “We have come to ask the government which Constitution, which law gives an IAS officer permission to give orders to break the farmers' heads.”“Under which law are police allowed to carry out brutal lathi-charge resulting in the death of one and injuries to several others,” Yadav added.Ayush Sinha has since been transferred and posted as the additional secretary in the Citizen Resources Information Department of Haryana government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kisan-mahapanchayat-karnal-farmers-protest-ayush-sinha-farm-laws-101631019513924.html
07-09-2021||India||Footfall at Mumbai airport improved in August, festive season expected to be better||With the onset of the festive season and with countries across the globe easing travel restrictions, August witnessed a surge in the number of passengers travelling through Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA). Over 1.5 million passengers flew in and out of CSMI airport in August, in comparison to 400,000 passengers who travelled in August 2020. With the Covid-19 pandemic affecting the aviation industry at large, airports and airlines saw poor passenger movement over the past year and a half. At first, air services were shut for two months (from March-end to May 2020). It was only when the government began air services in a phased manner and the number of Covid-19 cases drastically reduced that air traffic picked up from October last year. Due to the second wave in the country in April this year, travelling again took a backseat. However, the situation improved from June. As per CSMIA data, Doha and Dubai emerged as the top international destinations last month. While Doha saw approximately 41,410 passengers travel to and from CSMIA, Dubai and Male saw 37,126 and 18,190 passengers respectively. Amid the festive season, 1,587,150 passengers across domestic and international destinations were recorded at the city airport in August (1,402,369 domestic passengers and ,184,787 flew international locations).“About 785,479 passengers arrived at CSMIA in the month of August, while 801,677 passengers departed to various domestic and international destinations. CSMIA registered Delhi, Bangalore and Goa as the most travelled domestic destinations from CSMIA with 242,085, 111,026 and 95,089 passengers respectively,” a CSMIA spokesperson said. Indigo, Air India and Vistara carried the highest number of passengers on domestic routes while Qatar Airways, Indigo and Air India catered to the majority of passengers internationally. “With festivals like Raksha Bandhan, Janmashtami and Onam being celebrated during weekends in August, CSMIA witnessed an upward trend of passengers travelling over the weekend. CSMIA registered Goa as the highest travelled destination with 22,078 passengers, which was followed by Srinagar, Jammu and Leh during the weekend of August 2021. Moreover, an upward trend in the number of passengers travelling for leisure locally and internationally is expected in the coming months, with a lot of festivals and holiday season coming up,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/footfall-at-mumbai-airport-improved-in-august-festive-season-expected-to-be-better-101631020254192.html
07-09-2021||India||Jharkhand namaaz hall row: BJP MLA demands room to chant Hanuman Chalisa||Member of the legislative assembly from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Hari Bhushan Thakur on Tuesday demanded a room to chant Hanuman Chalisa, after the Jharkhand government alloted a room to offer namaaz in the state assembly. In a report by the news agency ANI, Thakur said he will also meet the Bihar assembly speaker to press for his demand. "All sections of society are equal before the Constitution,'' he said while raising his demand for a separate room to chant Hanuman Chalisa, as per ANI report."If a room is allocated (in the Jharkhand assembly) to offer namaaz in the secular country, why shouldn't there be room to chant 'Hanuman Chalisa'? '' he asked according to the report.On September 2 , the Hemant Soren government in Jharkhand issued an order for the allotment of "namaaz hall" in the assembly premises. The order, which became public two days later has now snowballed into a controversy, prompted demand from the BJP to build a Hanuman temple and places of worship of other religions in the assembly premises. The speaker Ravindra Nath Mahto has allotted room number TW 348 for offering namaaz.The leaders also created a ruckus in the Jharkhand assembly on Monday as they constantly disrupted the proceedings by raising slogans. Some BJP leaders also trooped into the well of the assembly and shouted: "Jai Shri Ram" (Glory to Lord Rama). Some also sat on the stairs at the entrance of the assembly chanting Hanuman Chalisa and 'Hare Rama' with placards.The agitation was criticised by Soren saying, "this kind of mentality is a barrier to the state's development," while speaking to reporters.The opposition leaders are demanding withdrawal of the order pertaining to the allotment of the namaaz room.Meanwhile, on Sunday, the BJP workers burnt the effigies of chief minister Hemant Soren and the speaker during protests across the state against the decision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jharkhand-namaaz-hall-row-bjp-mla-demands-room-to-chant-hanuman-chalisa-101631019379335.html
07-09-2021||India||Films from Chile, Argentina win top honours at Kashish Mumbai int’l queer film fest||A film from Chile and another from Argentina won the top honours at the Kashish Mumbai International Queer Film Festival, South Asia’s biggest LGBTQIA+ (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, intersex and asexual) film festival that closed over the weekend. Chilean film Forgotten Roads, which deals with the journey of self discovery and falling in love of an elderly woman, by Nicol Ruiz won the Best Narrative Feature film and Argentinian film Canela, which follows the challenges faced by a 48-year-old woman as she comes out as trans, by Cecilia del Valle won the Best Documentary film, and Brazilian trans actor Maria Eduardo Mia won the Best Performance in a Lead Role award for her role in Advent of Mary, a film from Brazil that chronicles a 11-year-old girl. From India, Are We There Yet? by Bhanu Ballal and Kashyap Swaroop won the Best Indian Narrative Short award and Radhika Prasidhha won the Riyad Wadia Award for the Best Emerging Indian Filmmaker for her film Begum Parvathi. “We were thrilled to screen 24 films from India, the highest number from any country at this year’s festival. It is so heartening to see the quality and diversity of representation of LGBTQIA+ lives that cuts across sex/gender, rural/urban and class divides. This filmmaking talent needs to be brought to mainstream audiences,” said Sridhar Rangayan, founder and festival director. Kirnay Bhatt’s Keep Punching received a special jury mention in the Indian Narrative Shorts category and Swati Jaiswal’s Nothing But a Human received one in the Documentary Shorts category “Latin American films are exquisite since they have a certain filmmaking aesthetics that is raw and palpable and convey complex emotion with a simplicity that is unique. We are thrilled and congratulate all the winners spread across three continents, most of who went against all odds and faced many challenges to tell these beautiful stories,” said Rangayan. The festival, which ran virtually on three weekends between August 19 and September 5, screened 221 films from 53 countries. Started in 2010, a year after the Delhi high court decriminalised homosexuality in a landmark judgment, the film festival has played host to a raft of Indian and foreign films on various queer issues, spotlighting the challenges and joys of the community as it fought for its legal rights in India. “I am full of happiness because our stories could connect with you from the other side of the world. It fills me with hope to know that we can connect, based on love and compassion, and speak about freedom in kindness Chile,” said Riuz. Rangayan said the motto of Kashish remained to award some of the best queer-themed films, take them to festivals across the world, and hopefully release them on OTT platforms. “Kashish continues to be a strong platform to nurture the nascent Indian LGBTQIA+ cinema movement, by not only exhibiting, but also producing and distributing Indian LGBTQIA+ content.” He added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/films-from-chile-argentina-win-top-honours-at-kashish-mumbai-int-l-queer-film-fest-101631019654054.html
07-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: Covid 3rd wave already here, people must celebrate Ganesh Chaturthi at home, says Mumbai mayor||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 5pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid-19 third wave is already here, people must celebrate Ganesh Chaturthi at home: Mumbai mayorThe third wave of Covid-19 is already here, Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar said on Tuesday as she cautioned people against celebrating Ganesh Chaturthi outside their homes amid the rising cases of Covid-19 and positivity rate over the past few days in the city as well as Maharashtra. Read More46% rise in complaints of crimes against women in 2021; UP, Delhi top list: NCWThe country saw a rise of 46 per cent in complaints of crimes against women in the first eight months of this year as against the corresponding period of last year, the National Commission for Women (NCW) said on Monday. Read MoreChhattisgarh CM’s father arrested, sent to judicial custody over hate speechChhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel's father, Nand Kumar Baghel, was on Tuesday sent to 15-day judicial custody by a local court in Raipur for allegedly making derogatory remarks against the Brahmin community, superintendent of police Prashant Agarwal said. Read MorePak ISI and Chinese proximity to Taliban, queer Quad pitch for Kabul recognitionReplying to a question on whether US would recognise Taliban government in Kabul, President Joe Biden said that it was a long way off. Read MoreStep inside Sonam Kapoor's London home with jewel-tone decor, the boldest bathroom you've ever seenSonam Kapoor took fans on a tour of her London house, where she lives with her husband, businessman Anand Ahuja. She took to Instagram to share pictures from a new photoshoot. Read MoreYamaha RayZR 125 Fi Hybrid vs Activa, NTorq, Access: Price comparisonYamaha Motor India has launched the new RayZR 125 Fi Hybrid scooter in the Indian market at a starting price tag of ₹76,830 (Ex-showroom, Delhi). Read MoreKBC 13: Can you answer this ₹640,000 question that Kalpana Singh got wrong on Amitabh Bachchan’s show?On the latest episode of quiz show Kaun Banega Crorepati 13, Amitabh Bachchan played host to contestant Kalpana Singh, who had to leave the show with ₹320,000. Read MoreAnanya Panday is a fireball of hotness in a white smiley crop puffer jacketReminding us of how powerful a smile can be, Bollywood actor Ananya Panday tamed our Tuesday blues with her cool vibes in a white smiley ultra cropped-top puffer jacket that makes us want to upgrade our winter wardrobe already. Read MoreWatch | India's first floating missile test range INS Anvesh to go on sea trial soonHere are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 5pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid-19 third wave is already here, people must celebrate Ganesh Chaturthi at home: Mumbai mayorThe third wave of Covid-19 is already here, Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar said on Tuesday as she cautioned people against celebrating Ganesh Chaturthi outside their homes amid the rising cases of Covid-19 and positivity rate over the past few days in the city as well as Maharashtra. Read More46% rise in complaints of crimes against women in 2021; UP, Delhi top list: NCWThe country saw a rise of 46 per cent in complaints of crimes against women in the first eight months of this year as against the corresponding period of last year, the National Commission for Women (NCW) said on Monday. Read MoreChhattisgarh CM’s father arrested, sent to judicial custody over hate speechChhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel's father, Nand Kumar Baghel, was on Tuesday sent to 15-day judicial custody by a local court in Raipur for allegedly making derogatory remarks against the Brahmin community, superintendent of police Prashant Agarwal said. Read MorePak ISI and Chinese proximity to Taliban, queer Quad pitch for Kabul recognitionReplying to a question on whether US would recognise Taliban government in Kabul, President Joe Biden said that it was a long way off. Read MoreStep inside Sonam Kapoor's London home with jewel-tone decor, the boldest bathroom you've ever seenSonam Kapoor took fans on a tour of her London house, where she lives with her husband, businessman Anand Ahuja. She took to Instagram to share pictures from a new photoshoot. Read MoreYamaha RayZR 125 Fi Hybrid vs Activa, NTorq, Access: Price comparisonYamaha Motor India has launched the new RayZR 125 Fi Hybrid scooter in the Indian market at a starting price tag of ₹76,830 (Ex-showroom, Delhi). Read MoreKBC 13: Can you answer this ₹640,000 question that Kalpana Singh got wrong on Amitabh Bachchan’s show?On the latest episode of quiz show Kaun Banega Crorepati 13, Amitabh Bachchan played host to contestant Kalpana Singh, who had to leave the show with ₹320,000. Read MoreAnanya Panday is a fireball of hotness in a white smiley crop puffer jacketReminding us of how powerful a smile can be, Bollywood actor Ananya Panday tamed our Tuesday blues with her cool vibes in a white smiley ultra cropped-top puffer jacket that makes us want to upgrade our winter wardrobe already. Read MoreWatch | India's first floating missile test range INS Anvesh to go on sea trial soon|#+|||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-covid-19-third-wave-is-already-here-people-must-celebrate-ganesh-chaturthi-at-home-says-mumbai-mayor-and-all-the-latest-news-101631012724375.html
07-09-2021||India||Tej Pratap floats new youth outfit, claims to have father's blessings||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) supremo Lalu Prasad's elder son Tej Pratap Yadav has floated a new youth outfit with an apparent aim to strengthen the parent party.Stating that the outfit, Chhatra Janshakti Parishad, launched two days ago, would not pose any threat to Chhatra RJD, the party's official student wing, Tej Pratap said he had "the blessings of Lalu Prasad".He said the new outfit would work towards "mobilising youth at the village level". The move came at a time he seemed to have lost a battle of perception with state RJD chief Jagadanand Singh, a close of aide Yadav's younger and more powerful sibling Tejashwi Yadav.Also read | Until you get justice, I'll sit on protest: Tej Pratap tells aspiring teachersSingh had earned the wrath of the mercurial elder brother recently when he sacked Akash Yadav as the state president of Chhatra RJD. Though there was no official word on the reasons behind the removal of Akash, one of the few close friends of Tej Pratap Yadav, it was widely believed that the blame fell on him when posters came up in the city recently in which images of Tejashwi – now the party’s de-facto leader – were conspicuous by absence. Sensing that it could further diminish his clout, Tej Pratap had reacted furiously, likening Jagadanand Singh to 'Hitler', who refused to visit the party office for days in protest, until he was, understandably, mollified by Tejashwi.Also read | BJP’s ‘sidelined’ barb at Tej Pratap Yadav after he opens a shop. RJD respondsMeanwhile, Akash realised that time was up for him in the RJD, where he was seen as aligned with a leader who did not have power despite pedigree, and joined the Lok Janshakti Party. RJD rank and file, which has been witness to Tej Pratap’s tantrums for awhile, viewed the development with bemusement.Sources said the volatile leader had reacted similarly during the Lok Sabha polls of 2019 when he floated a “Lalu Rabri Morcha” when his cronies were denied tickets. They agree that the fact of being the son of Lalu Prasad and rustic mannerisms reminding the masses of his legendary father make Tej Pratap Yadav more than a pushover.Nonetheless, few in the party believe that he can muster the tenacity of purpose which was required if he wished to emerge as a credible centre of power since the RJD seems to have reconciled itself to Prasad having anointed the younger son as his heir apparent.The fresh episode in what looks like an unequal war of succession has brought some glee to the BJP, which sees the RJD as the main hurdle in its quest for becoming the numero uno political force in Bihar."Tej Pratap is fighting for his survival and we sympathise with him. His father has treated the party as a personal fiefdom and failed to do justice to his own son," state BJP spokesman Nikhil Anand said in a statement here.He also added that "it is ironic, and a poor reflection on the RJD that Tej Pratap Yadav, who never cared to educate himself, shall be floating a students' body. No wonder the party has lost trust of the people".(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tej-pratap-floats-new-youth-outfit-claims-to-have-father-s-blessings-101631013301307.html
07-09-2021||India||46% rise in complaints of crimes against women in 2021; UP, Delhi top list: NCW||The country saw a rise of 46 per cent in complaints of crimes against women in the first eight months of this year as against the corresponding period of last year, the National Commission for Women (NCW) said on Monday. According to data, the NCW received 19,953 complaints of crimes against women from January to August this year. The number is up from the 13,618 complaints reported in the same period of time in 2020. The NCW received as many as 3,248 complaints in the month of July, which is the highest in a month since June 2015.More than half of these complaints came from the state of Uttar Pradesh alone, the women's body also informed. Among states and Union territories, the highest number of complaints were received from Uttar Pradesh (10,084). It was followed by the national capital with 2,147 complaints. Haryana reported 995 and 974 came from Maharashtra, the commission also said.Explaining the steep rise in the cases, NCW chief Rekha Sharma said it was because the commission is regularly conducting awareness programmes and the public is now more aware of its work, hence the jump in complaints. "Also, the commission has always made it a point to launch new initiatives to help women. Keeping in line with this, we have launched a round-the-clock helpline number as well to provide support services to women in need where they can also register a complaint," news agency PTI quoted Sharma as saying.Of the total complaints, the highest number of 7,036 were recorded under the right to live with dignity clause, followed by 4,289 complaints of domestic violence and 2,923 complaints of harassment of married women or dowry harassment, NCW informed. As many as 1,116 complaints have been received regarding the offence of outraging the modesty of women or molestation, followed by 1,022 complaints of rape and attempt to rape and 585 complaints of cybercrimes, as per the data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/46-rise-in-complaints-of-crimes-against-women-in-2021-up-delhi-top-list-ncw-101631013445931.html
07-09-2021||India||Hindustan Paper Mills workers to vacate quarters after dues are paid||The employees of the two closed paper mills under Hindustan Paper Corporation Ltd have agreed to leave their official quarters following payment of dues from a ₹570 crore relief fund announced by the Assam government on Monday to clear their pending salaries.The two paper mills located in Morigaon and Hailakandi districts of Assam have been non-functional since October 2015 and March 2017 respectively and workers have not received their salaries since then. The proposed relief fund will clear their salaries of the last 28 months along with payment of pension and other funds. The protesting employees have assured that they will release the quarters they have been occupying since their working days after receiving their dues.On December 23, 2019 Hindustan Paper Corporation’s liquidator ordered the employees of both the paper mills to vacate their quarters by January 31, 2020. The order was stayed by Delhi high court following a petition by Cachar Paper Project Workers Union.The National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) also asked the Central government in 2019 to consider these two Paper Mills as “going concerns”, suggesting they were viable entities and their employees should not be asked to leave.But on September 4 this year, Hindustan Paper Corporation’s liquidator Kuldeep Verma issued a fresh order asking the employees to vacate the quarters within 15 days. “The order was issued under Section 33(7) of Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code 2016. “The employees are asked to release the quarters voluntarily, otherwise we’ll be bound to use forces to vacate them,” Verma wrote in his order.The employees cited the petition in Delhi high court and declared that they were ready to face use of force by authorities but won’t vacate their quarters.The impasse was solved in a three-hour long meeting held between the Assam government and the paper mill employees on Monday evening in Guwahati after the state proposed a relief fund of ₹570 crore to clear their pending salaries and pensions.“After discussing with the paper mill employees, the state government has decided to provide rupees 570 crore as a relief amount to the employees and workers of the Hindustan Paper Corporation Ltd. It has further been decided that the modalities for payment, approval of NCLT etc would be discussed and decided in due course of time after approval of Assam chief minister,” a statement released by the government said after the meeting.The employees welcomed the proposed relief fund but said they will vacate the quarters only after receiving the money. Nobendu Dey from the family welfare forum of paper mill employees said, “In the past, we got several assurances but we didn’t receive anything. This time, the state government has assured to clear [our] 28 months’ salary, pensions and other pending amounts. Once we get the money, we will leave the quarters.”Utpal Dutta Chaudhari from Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh said, “This is a welcome step which will give at least some relief to families for now. But this is not the permanent solution and we are going to meet Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sharma in the coming days.”Manabendra Chakraborty said, “Our case will continue in Delhi high court till we get everything we deserve. But more than that, we want the production of these two mills to resume, because apart from the direct employees, thousands of people are indirectly dependent on its production. The employees, who have not retired yet, deserve to be relocated in other industries if the government decides to close production of these two mills.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hindustan-paper-mills-workers-to-vacate-quarters-after-dues-are-paid-101631013533460.html
07-09-2021||India||Chhattisgarh CM’s father arrested, sent to 15-day judicial custody over hate speech against Brahmins||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel's father, Nand Kumar Baghel, was on Tuesday sent to 15-day judicial custody by a local court in Raipur for allegedly making derogatory remarks against the Brahmin community, superintendent of police Prashant Agarwal said. Agarwal said he was produced in a court and sent to jail. The 86-year-old Nand Kumar Baghel was booked last week for allegedly saying that Brahmins should be boycotted. According to officials, a case for promoting enmity between different groups was registered against the CM’s father on the complaint of the Sarv Brahmin Samaj. “A case was registered under Indian Penal Code Sections 153-A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language) and 505(1)(b) (with intent to cause, or likely to cause, fear or alarm to the public, or to any section of public whereby any person may be induced to commit an offence against the state or against public tranquillity) against Nand Kumar Baghel (86),” Ajay Yadav, a senior police official, said on Saturday.The Sarv Brahmin Samaj lodged the complaint against Chhattisgarh CM’s father, saying Nand Kumar Baghel urged people to “boycott Brahmins” and termed them “foreigners” during an event in Uttar Pradesh.The chief minister said that “nobody is above the law” after his father was booked. “Nobody is above the law in my government even if he is the chief minister’s 86-year-old father,” Bhupesh Bhagel said.“Every person is equal before my government. Everyone knows about my ideological differences with my father. Our political thoughts and beliefs are different. I honour him as his son but as a CM I cannot forgive him for such statements which disturb public order,” he said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-cm-s-father-sent-to-judicial-custody-over-hate-speech-101631011491770.html
07-09-2021||India||LJP says no politics as Chirag puts dad's bust at house allotted to Rly minister||A bust of late Union minister and Lok Janshakti Party leader Ram Vilas Paswan has been installed at 12, Janpath in the national capital where he used to live with his family and which has now been allocated to Cabinet minister Ashwini Vaishnaw following the former's demise.The latest could lead to tension at a time when the Central government has issued an eviction notice to occupants of the bungalow, including Paswan's son and Jamui MP Chirag Paswan.Delhi | A bust of late Ram Vilas Paswan, Lok Janshakti Party leader and Union minister, has been installed at 12, Janpath where he livedThe house has been officially allocated to Union Railway and IT Minister Ashwini Vaishnav now. pic.twitter.com/i4h1LhuqY9However, a senior functionary of the LJP said there was no political motive behind the installation of Paswan, one of most prominent Dalit leaders."It was done only to give him respect. He was known as the second Ambedkar in the country," said Yamini Mishra, president of the national youth wing of the LJP.Paswan, who died on October 8 last year, lived in the bungalow for over three decades. The order to vacate the house was first issued on July 14 by the directorate of estates under the ministry of urban affairs.His son, a two-time MP from Jamui, has been allotted a house in North Avenue. So far, he had been living with 12 Janpath along with his father and mother.The eviction notice had come as a fresh blow for Chirag, who was upstaged in his party by his uncle and Lok Sabha MP Pashupati Kumar Paras a few months back. Paras, who enjoys support of five of the six MPs of the party, declared himself as leader of the real LJP and was included in the union cabinet recently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ljp-says-no-politics-as-chirag-puts-dad-s-bust-at-house-allotted-to-rly-minister-101631009938495.html
07-09-2021||India||Karnal kisan mahapanchayat: Cops warn ‘armed elements’, call for order||The Haryana Police said on Tuesday a ground intelligence report indicated some armed miscreants had reached Karnal where a large number of farmers gathered for a kisan mahapanchayat of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) being held.Issuing a statement, the police further warned the "mischievous elements" against taking the law into their hands and urged them to maintain public order."Ground intelligence reports indicate that some elements from Rambha, some from Nissing and some from other places have reached the Anaj Mandi armed with lathis, jellis, iron rods... The district administration and police are warning such mischievous elements not to take the law into their hands and maintain public order, All such elements will be strictly dealt with in accordance with law," the statement read.The statement further said the administration had held talks with farmer leaders over the issue and the miscreants were not paying heed to their words either.Earlier, it was reported an 11-member team, including Rakesh Tikait, Balbir Singh Rajewal, Darshan Pal and Gurnam Singh Charuni, left for talks with Karnal administration at mini-Secretariat when the administration offered talks over their demands.Also read | We're ready for the farmers: Haryana's Anil Vij on Kisan Mahapanchayat in KarnalThe administration has made a massive security arrangement across Karnal as the agitating farmers have also decided to gherao the Karnal mini secretariat to protest the baton charge against them on August 28.At least 40 companies of paramilitary forces have been deputed as a precautionary measure.The precautionary measures and arrangements came as the farmers announced no changes in the plan after talks with Karnal deputy commissioner, seeking action against those involved in the lathicharge and relief for the injured, failed on Monday. Over 40 farmers were injured in the clashes last month.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, a platform of farm unions spearheading the protests against the farm laws since November, had threatened to lay siege to the secretariat if its demands for action were not met by September 6.(With inputs from bureau)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnal-kisan-mahapanchayat-cops-warn-armed-elements-call-for-order-101631002037752.html
07-09-2021||India||PM Modi launches Vidyanjali portal: All you need to know about it||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday launched several initiatives in the education sector, asserting that they will play an important role in shaping India's future.Addressing the inaugural conclave of 'Shikshak Parv' through video-conferencing, he said that teaching-learning process in the country has to be constantly redefined and redesigned to make the country's education sector world-class.Among these initiatives is the Vidyanjali portal, which is meant to facilitate education volunteers, donors or CSR contributors for school development.Here is everything you need to know about the Vidyanjali portal:The Vidyanjali portal will enable community/volunteers to contribute by connecting directly with the government and government-aided schools of their choice.Acording to education ministry, any person who is a citizen of India/NRI/PIO OR any organisation/institution/company/group registered in India can volunteer and contribute in two ways:• Services/activities• Assets/material/equipment such as basic civil infrastructure, basic electrical infrastructure, classroom support materials and equipment, digital infrastructure, equipment for extra curricular activities and sports, yoga, health, etcServing and retired teachers, scientist/government/semi government officials, retired armed forces personnel, self-employed and salaried professionals, alumni of educational institutions, homemakers and any other literate person can volunteer at a school that requests for assistance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shakshak-parv-pm-modi-launches-vidyanjali-portal-all-you-need-to-know-about-it-101631000349175.html
07-09-2021||India||In Mayawati's poll pitch, there's Brahmin security but no new parks or memorials||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) supremo Mayawati on Tuesday promised to ensure the security of the Brahmin community if her party came to power in Uttar Pradesh in the Assembly election slated to be held next year.According to an ANI report, the former chief minister said Brahmins had agreed that under the BSP's rule, people from the community were in a better condition when compared to their lives under the present BJP government.I assure Brahmin community that if we come to power in the next elections, we will ensure their security: BSP chief MayawatiWe should join more people from Brahmin community with us for the upcoming elections to form government with majority, similar to 2007, she addsMayawati has often accused the Yogi Adityanath government of “harassing and exploiting the community” after winning the 2017 assembly polls with the help of their votes.Also read | Parties scramble for support of Brahmins ahead of 2022 polls in Uttar PradeshWith an eye on the crucial state polls, the BSP launched an outreach campaign from Ayodhya on July 23. Mayawati’s Brahmin outreach was considered as one of the key factors for her win in the 2007 state assembly election.Addressing the 'Prabudh Sammelan' in Lucknow on Tuesday, Mayawati said, “We should join more people from the Brahmin community with us for the upcoming elections to form the government with a majority, similar to 2007.” The programme was launched on July 23 in Ayodhya.Also read | BSP chief Mayawati says her political heir will be from the Dalit communityShe also promised to focus on the development of Uttar Pradesh, and not on parks and memorials, an issue over which she has faced massive criticism over the years."We do not need to make any new monuments or parks in the name of those who were our guiding lights - we have already done it ‘thok ke bhaav’ (wholesale) in our previous terms," the BSP chief was quoted as saying in an NDTV report."If I form the government again I will not concentrate on statues or memorials or parks but in governing the state to the best possible ability," she further said to loud cheers.Speaking about Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat’s statement that Hindus and Muslims share the same ancestry and every Indian citizen is a "Hindu", Mayawati asked why the Sangh and BJP treated members of the minority community as adopted.“I want to ask him if Hindus and Muslims in India have the same ancestors then why RSS and the BJP behave like Muslims are adopted,” she was quoted as saying by ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mayawati-promises-brahmins-security-if-voted-to-power-in-next-up-polls-101631000185475.html
07-09-2021||India||‘Took extortion money from Congress’: Haryana minister says Gurnam Chaduni creating continuous chaos in state||On a day when farmers protesting against the three central farm laws are holding a kisan mahapanchayat in Haryana’s Karnal, a leader of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) said on Tuesday that Gurnam Singh Chaduni, who heads the Haryana unit of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), has taken “extortion money” from the opposition Congress to create chaos in the state.Also Read | Ahead of kisan mahapanchayat, security beefed up, barricades in place in Karnal“I feel Chaduni took extortion money from the Congress to create continuous chaos in Haryana. They will continue this until some innocent farmers die. However, some farmers in the state have realised that it isn’t about farmers, but that it is political,” JP Dalal, the agriculture minister in chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s government, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. I feel (Gurnam) Chaduni took extortion money from Congress to create continuous chaos in Haryana. They will continue this until some innocent farmers die. Some Haryana farmers have understood that it isn't about farmers but is political: Haryana Agriculture Minister JP Dalal pic.twitter.com/NqTcPGPjiaChaduni, a prominent farmer leader and member of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), has been the face of anti-farm law protests in the northern state. The SKM is an umbrella body of 40 unions leading farmers’ agitation since November last year. Also Read | Karnal prepares for mahapanchayat, internet, SMS services to remain suspendedThe mahapanchayat is being held after the district administration refused to cede to farmers’ demands pertaining to police lathi-charge in Karnal on August 28. Farmers had given administration time till September 6 to accept their demands failing which, they warned, they would hold the mahapanchayat and gherao the mini-secretariat. On Monday, talks between the two sides ended without an agreement being reached.Also Read | We're ready for the farmers: Haryana's Anil Vij on Kisan Mahapanchayat in KarnalSecurity has been beefed up in Karnal and mobile internet services have been suspended in five districts till Tuesday night. Tuesday’s event comes two days after the SKM held a mahapanchayat in Uttar Pradesh’s Muzaffarnagar, the home turf of BKU spokesperson Rakesh Tikait.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnal-mahapanchayat-gurnam-chaduni-took-extortion-money-from-congress-says-haryana-minister-101630999861777.html
07-09-2021||India||Pak ISI and Chinese proximity to Taliban, queer Quad pitch for Kabul recognition||Replying to a question on whether US would recognise Taliban government in Kabul, President Joe Biden said that it was a long way off. The conundrum faced by the democratic world, particularly the Quad, over recognizing Emirates of Afghanistan is whether the Taliban is a nationalistic Sunni Pashtun force ruling Kabul or is it a fundamentalist Islamic force out on a mission of global jihad or merely a stooge of the Pakistani ISI for extending the CPEC into Afghanistan.With the Haqqani Network faction of the Taliban pushing back those in charge of Doha political process, it is quite evident that the Taliban government will represent the aspirations of fundamentalists Pashtuns, whose total population is around 30 per cent in the country. This means that the Kabul government will have no truck with the minority Tajiks, Hazaras and Uzbeks, what to talk of women and other groups.The statement that Taliban will the voice of (Sunni) Muslims throughout the world, as indicated by their spokesman, indicates that they will weaponize Islam to achieve their ends through violence and politicizing the region. That Taliban refuses to end its filial ties with Salafi groups like Al Qaeda and Lashkar-e-Taiba is a sure indicator that they want to be the real shoulder or true representative of Sunni Islam with Shia Iran being the other one. With their ideological Deobandi brothers, Tehreek-e-Taliban and Jaish-e-Mohammad, part of their operations on either side of the Durand Line, the spurt in Islamic fundamentalism as during their earlier avatar is a given.The Taliban issue gets murkier considering the presence of Lt Gen Faiz Hameed, DG, Inter-Service Intelligence, in Kabul over the weekend, helping out the Sunni Pashtuns take out the resistance in Panjshir Valley with Pakistan Army commandoes in mufti. While Pakistan with the covert support of British intelligence is the via media between the Taliban and the western world, the presence of ISI super spy in Kabul shows that the Islamists are mere proxy of Rawalpindi. The British role particularly that of Chief of Defence Staff Nick Carter and its external intelligence is also under the scanner as Kabul watchers believe that the Joe Biden administration was led up the garden path by Whitehall in stitching out a one-way peace deal in favour of the Sunni force.With confusion prevailing in Kabul over government formation, the Quad powers will take a considered call on the Taliban government at the summit meeting in Washington on September 24. While usual suspects China, Russia, Pakistan, Turkey and Qatar may join the swearing in ceremony of the Taliban regime, Quad is in no hurry as they are in first verify and then trust mode. Clearly, the Taliban leaning towards China via Pakistan for support will be a deciding input for Quad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pak-isi-and-chinese-proximity-to-taliban-queer-quad-pitch-for-kabul-recognition-101630999882321.html
07-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: Delhi court grants relief to 2, including Ford India MD and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 1pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi court grants relief to Ford India MD and director in cheating caseA Delhi court has granted relief to Ford India managing director Anurag Mehrotra and director David Allan Schock in a case of cheating filed by a dealer of the car maker. Read moreAfter UP's Firozabad, dengue cases reported in Madhya Pradesh"Gwalior has reported 16 confirmed cases of dengue. We are keeping an eye on the situation,” Dr Manish Sharma, chief medical and health officer of Gwalior, told ANI. Read more'Everything he touches is turning into gold': Gavaskar feels India have found 'just the player they need for the team'Former India captain Sunil Gavaskar reckons India, in Shardul Thakur, would well have found a player for the long haul, especially for Test matches overseas. Read moreSonam Kapoor in ₹44k co-ord crop top and skirt enjoys dinner date with Anand AhujaSonam Kapoor enjoys a dinner date with Anand Ahuja looking like a dream in a co-ord black and white cropped top and maxi skirt. Read morePurchase window for Ola Electric scooter opens tomorrow: Five things to noteOla Electric S1 and S1 Pro scooters were launched in the Indian market on August 15 at a starting price of ₹1 lakh and amid much fanfare. Read moreNASA collects first Mars rock sample with its Perseverance roverNASA tweeted a photo of the rock core slightly thicker than a pencil inside a sample tube. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-delhi-court-grants-relief-to-2-including-for-india-md-and-all-the-latest-news-101630996009064.html
07-09-2021||India||After UP's Firozabad, dengue cases reported in Madhya Pradesh||More than a dozen cases of dengue have been reported from Madhya Pradesh's Gwalior district, after as many as 51 people, including at least 36 children, died in western Uttar Pradesh over the past two weeks, according to a report. "Gwalior has reported 16 confirmed cases of dengue. We are keeping an eye on the situation,” Dr Manish Sharma, chief medical and health officer of Gwalior, told ANI. "In coordination with the municipal corporation, we are doing contact tracing and door-to-door survey. The hotspot zones where we had the highest cases of dengue are under strict observation. Our team is monitoring and doing larvae surveys. Sanitisation and fogging are being carried out by sanitisation workers,” he said on Monday.Sharma also appealed to the people to maintain cleanliness in and around their locality, listed the do's and don'ts to curb the spread of dengue as he urged them to get themselves tested if they show any symptoms. "We have a large number of patients with the symptoms of fever, we are conducting tests,” Dr Nishant Nayak from the Civil Hospital in Gwalior said.On Monday, the Union ministry of health and family welfare’s expert team rushed to Uttar Pradesh’s Firozabad district following a fever outbreak, said that a majority of the cases are due to dengue as well as scrub typhus and leptospirosis. "Vector Indices were also found to be high with House Index and Container Index, both above 50 per cent, in Firozabad district and accordingly the vector surveillance and control measures have been instituted," Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said in a letter to UP chief secretary.Also read | Covid command centre to assist dengue patientsBhushan asked the UP government to screen all fever patients for dengue, malaria, scrub typhus and leptospirosis based on the detailed observations of the central team after the outbreak in Firozabad. He also said the state needs to strengthen enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) based testing facilities. "Activities related to fever survey, vector control and fever camps should continue as per micro plan submitted by the Central Team. Surveillance should be strengthened with the implementation of IHIP in the district in coordination with CSU IDSP, NCDC. Entomological activities should be strengthened and continued as per standard guidelines and SOPs of NVBDCP," Bhushan said in the letter.Also read | Firozabad dengue outbreak: CM orders strict action against officials found laxWhile dengue is a mosquito-borne viral infection, scrub typhus is caused by bacteria spread by mites and leptospirosis spreads through water or soil contaminated by the urine of bacteria-infected animals such as pigs, dogs, rodents, etc. The rainy season is considered the active breeding time for vector-borne diseases, including dengue.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-up-s-firozabad-dengue-cases-reported-in-madhya-pradesh-101630997152058.html
07-09-2021||India||‘Placed under house arrest’, tweets Mehbooba Mufti||Jammu and Kashmir Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chief Mehbooba Mufti claimed on Tuesday that she has been put under house arrest. In a tweet, Mufti said that the administration has told her that situation is far from normal in Kashmir."GOI expresses concern for the rights of Afghan people but wilfully denies the same to Kashmiris. Ive been placed under house arrest today because according to admin the situation is far from normal in Kashmir. This exposes their fake claims of normalcy," Mufti said in her tweet.GOI expresses concern for the rights of Afghan people but wilfully denies the same to Kashmiris. Ive been placed under house arrest today because according to admin the situation is far from normal in Kashmir. This exposes their fake claims of normalcy. pic.twitter.com/m6sR9vEj3SThe administration has not yet given any official response on Mufti's house arrest.Mufti had, on Monday, lashed out at the government for not allowing separatist leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani family to conduct his last rites.“Its right of the family members to conduct last rites of a person. Here the government didn’t allow family members to conduct last rites, instead the family members of Geelani were beaten especially women and also cases slapped against them. India is a very big country and this is against its culture. This country is respected across world for its democracy and in democracy everybody has right to put their perspective,” she tweeted.But the Jammu and Kashmir Police later said that Geelani's sons agreed to bury their father at night, and only changed their mind later.“IGP Kashmir personally spoke to a few relatives and ensured them of safe passage. However, 3 hrs later probably under the pressure from Pakistan & miscreants they behaved differently & started resorting to anti national activities including wrapping dead body in Pakistani flag, making loud sloganeering in favour of Pakistan and instigating neighbours to come out. After persuasion the relatives brought the dead body to the graveyard and performed last rites with due respect in presence of members of Intizamia Committee and local Imam,” a police spokesman said on Twitter.Syed Ali Shah Geelani, 91, died on Wednesday and was buried at a graveyard in Hyderpora. His family members alleged that police “snatched” his body, forcibly buried it, and thrashed them.Earlier on Tuesday, the police said that most of the restrictions had been eased, including the internet shutdown, and the situation is fully normal in Jammu and Kashmir.Restrictions were imposed and internet and mobile services were suspended immediately after the demise of Geelani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/placed-under-house-arrest-says-mehbooba-mufti-101630994720291.html
07-09-2021||India||Pilots’ association accuses Air India of gender discrimination||The Indian Commercial Pilots’ Association accused the government’s Air India of actively discriminating against women pilots, in a letter written to Air India Managing Director Rajiv Bansal on Monday.In the letter, the association said that the Upgradation List excluded the names or misspelt the names of few women pilots who took maternity leaves, thereby amounting to a denial of due service benefits like Leave Travel Concession (LTC) and adversely affecting their seniority.“It is reiterated that the present actions of Air India amount to a complete unauthorized transgression vis-à-vis the constitutionally protected rights of its female Pilot workforce and are, therefore, unconstitutional, illegal, arbitrary, and contrary to the judicial pronouncements on this issue,” the letter said.Also Read | London-bound Air India flight delayed after ants huddle at business classThe letter said that such discrimination has adversely affected the morale and dignity of the said women pilots and called on Air India to restore their rightful seniority.According to an extant policy of Air India, women pilots are compulsorily taken off all flight duties when they report their pregnancy. The said pilot is then shifted to desk duty with full pay, excluding flying allowance, performance incentives and mobile phone allowance.The pilots’ association said this is a violation of women pilots’ right to equality and dignity. “The same is also insulting to a woman pilot and almost makes out pregnancy as if it is a stigma or a negative marker which makes the said woman pilot ‘unfit’ or ‘not qualified or entitled’ to discharge her duties ably, shoulder to shoulder with her male counterparts,” the letter added.Citing a Delhi high court verdict, the association said that any form of pregnancy-related discrimination against expecting women professionals is violative of their fundamental rights under Articles 14, 15, 16, 19 and 21 of the Constitution and is thus, entirely non-permissible by law.Maternity Benefit Act, 1961 (“Act”) governs the conditions of service of women employees on maternity leave. Maternity Benefit (Amendment) Act 2017 provides for the rights of pregnant employees and attempts to ensure that such employees do not have to face any kind of discrimination during their pregnancy.An Air India spokesperson said that Air India won’t comment on such internal matters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pilots-association-accuses-air-india-of-gender-discrimination-101630994811922.html
07-09-2021||India||PM Modi says education should not only be inclusive, but equitable too||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said education should not only be inclusive but also be equitable as he launched multiple key initiatives in the education sector during his inaugural address of 'Shikshak Parv'.Addressing the conclave through video-conferencing, he said the measures would not only make our education system globally competitive but also make the youth future-ready. He said the new initiatives would shape the future of the sector. “One of the initiatives, School Quality Assessment & Assurance will not only make education competitive but will also make students future-ready,” he said.He said education should not only be inclusive but also be equitable. “Talking books and audiobooks are part of education system now. A dictionary for Indian Sign language has been formed. For first time in the country, Indian Sign language is being included as a subject in curriculum,” the PM said.He congratulated teachers who were conferred with the National Awards by President Ram Nath Kovind on Teachers' Day. “I want to congratulate the teachers who received National Awards. You have worked under difficult circumstances. Your efforts are commendable,” Modi said. The new initiatives launched include Indian Sign Language Dictionary (audio and text embedded sign language video for the hearing impaired, in conformity with Universal Design of Learning), Talking Books (audio books for the visually impaired), School Quality Assurance and Assessment Framework of CBSE, NISHTHA teachers' training programme for NIPUN Bharat and Vidyanjali portal (for facilitating education volunteers/ donors/ CSR contributors for school development).On the occasion, Modi also lauded the performance of the Indian players in the Tokyo Olympics and Paralympics, saying they have inspired youngsters.He further urged them to visit 75 schools to mark Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav. “I urge you all to get in touch with them. They will meet the students of the schools. These sportspersons might encourage students to pursue sports in the future,” Modi said.The theme of 'Shikshak Parv-2021' is 'Quality and Sustainable Schools: Learnings from Schools in India', the Prime Minister's Office said.Its celebration will encourage innovative practices to ensure not only continuity of education at all levels but to improve quality, inclusive practices and sustainability in schools across the country as well, the PMO had earlier said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-says-education-should-not-only-be-inclusive-but-equitable-101630991665274.html
07-09-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi should be president of AICC: Youth Congress||The national executive conclave of the Indian Youth Congress (IYC) held in Goa over two days--September 5 and 6--resolved that Rahul Gandhi be made the president of the All India Congress Committee (AICC).In a resolution passed at the end of the two-day conclave that was led by IYC national president Y Srinivas and in-charge Krishna Allavaru, the youth outfit said that the Gandhi scion is “the only leader who is boldly raising the issues of [the] Indian people.”“The only leader who is boldly raising the issues of Indian people is Rahul Gandhi ji and IYC resolves that Rahul Gandhi be made president of the AICC,” the resolution said. Also Read | Daylight robbery: Chidambaram criticises National Monetisation Pipeline schemeThe outfit also resolved to hold a nationwide padyatra to highlight the mismanagement of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government. “The IYC is alarmed and anguished at the growing unemployment, price rise, farmers issue which has reached the highest level and the BJP ruled central government has completely failed to control it,” they said. “National security is facing its biggest threat, never have India’s been so compromised with recently China illegally occupying 1000 sq kms of India’s sovereign land and Pakistan flexing its muscles. We, the IYC, resolve to protest the Chinese illegal occupation of India’s sovereign land and demand that India reclaim our sovereign territory and will create awareness among people regarding the Chinese and Pakistani forces agenda,” they added.“The BJP announced a national monetisation pipeline which is nothing but a grand Indian closing sale of the assets built by our country over 70 years. The IYC resolves to fight tooth and nail from the streets to Parliament against this sale,” they said. “Every member of the Indian Youth Congress... will undertake a nationwide padyatra to expose the central government,” the IYC said in its resolution. The two-day conclave was held in Goa and was addressed by leaders like P Chidambaram who was in Goa help the state unit of the party prepare ahead of the assembly election next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-should-be-president-of-aicc-youth-congress-101630992832262.html
07-09-2021||India||78 people airlifted from Afghanistan leave ITBP facility after 14-day quarantine||Seventy eight people, who were evacuated from Afghanistan after the Taliban took control of the country, left the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) facility in Delhi on Tuesday. These evacuees were kept at the ITBP facility due to 14-day mandatory quarantine rule in place for international travellers arriving in India due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The Union health ministry stated that any person tested positive or detected as symptomatic shall be shifted to identified Covid-19 dedicated Covid care centre or Covid hospital.These people completed the requisite quarantine and were given departure from Chhawla Camp, ITBP spokesperson Vivek Pandey said.The group included 53 Afghan nationals - 34 men, nine women and 10 children - and 25 Indian nationals - 18 men, five women and 12 children - according to ITBP.They reached the ITBP quarantine facility on August 24 after being airlifted from Afghanistan.The ITBP said that 35 people (24 Indian and 11 from Nepal) are still under quarantine at their Chhawla camp and will be released after completing the 14-day period on September 8.The evacuees are being provided services like fooding, lodging, indoor games, Wi-Fi and canteen free of cost. Yoga and stress counselling sessions are also being organised by stess counsellors, according to ITBP.The ITBP facility at Chhawla is credited to have established the first 1,000-bed quarantine centre in the country. It kept more than 1,200 people, including 42 nationals from eight countries, under quarantine from January to May, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/78-people-airlifted-from-afghanistan-leave-itbp-facility-after-14-day-quarantine-101630991136613.html
07-09-2021||India||Geelani’s family agreed to night burial, but changed mind later: J&K Police||The Jammu and Kashmir Police said on Monday that separatist leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani’s sons agreed to bury their father at night, and only changed their mind later. Criticised for allegedly forcing Geelani’s burial, a charge the police refuted, a police spokesman said in a series of tweets that Inspector General of Police Vijay Kumar met Geelani’s sons Nayeem Geelani and Naseem Geelani at their residence at 11pm on September 1, and requested them to bury their father at night to avoid “law and order problems”. Both allegedly agreed.“After death of SAS Geelani, IGP Kashmir Vijay Kumar along with SP & ASP met both of his sons at their residence at 11pm, condoled them & requested for burial in the night for larger interest of general public due to potential major L&O situations. Both agreed and asked to wait for two hours until relatives reach,” tweeted the police spokesman.Also Read | 5 days after Geelani’s death, mobile internet restored in 8 districts of Kashmir“IGP Kashmir personally spoke to a few relatives and ensured them of safe passage. However, 3 hrs later probably under the pressure from Pakistan & miscreants they behaved differently & started resorting to anti national activities including wrapping dead body in Pakistani flag, making loud sloganeering in favour of Pakistan and instigating neighbours to come out. After persuasion the relatives brought the dead body to the graveyard and performed last rites with due respect in presence of members of Intizamia Committee and local Imam,” the police spokesman said in another tweet.Syed Ali Shah Geelani, 91, died on Wednesday and was buried at a graveyard in Hyderpora. His family members alleged that police “snatched” his body, forcibly buried it, and thrashed them.The spokesman said that Syed Ali Shah Geelani’s sons refused to come to the graveyard for the burial.“The refusal of both his sons to come to graveyard indicated their loyalty to Pakistani agenda rather than their love & respect for their departed father,” the spokesman tweeted.The police, meanwhile, have registered a case under sections of the UAPA against Syed Ali Shah Geelani’s family members and “miscreants” for allegedly draping his body with a Pakistani flag.Former J&K chief minister Mehbooba Mufti, on Monday, lashed out at the government for not allowing Geelani’s family to conduct his last rites.“Its right of the family members to conduct last rites of a person. Here the government didn’t allow family members to conduct last rites, instead the family members of Geelani were beaten especially women and also cases slapped against them. India is a very big country and this is against its culture. This country is respected across world for its democracy and in democracy everybody has right to put their perspective,” she tweeted.Meanwhile, a Hurriyat Conference faction led by Mirwaiz Umar Farooq also condemned the filing of an FIR against Syed Ali Shah Geelani’s family members over the alleged draping of the separatist leader’s body in a Pakistani flag.In a statement, the Hurriyat faction said, “The details shared by Geelani’s son in media that the authorities took the body of the... leader into their custody, and buried it on their own without the knowledge and participation of the family is appalling and painful to hear.” “It is so tragically inhuman when a family is denied the basic right of burial of their loved one and one can only imagine what the family must have gone through. After such harshness the authorities are now harassing the family with FIRs and threats of arrests,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/geelanis-family-agreed-to-bury-him-at-night-but-changed-their-mind-later-j-k-police-101630990491626.html
07-09-2021||India||Temple land belongs to deity or priests? Here's what Supreme Court observed||A 2-judge bench of the Supreme Court has ruled that the presiding deity of a temple is the owner of the land attached to the temple, while priests are only required to perform rituals and maintain properties of the deity. In doing so, the bench, comprising Justice Hemant Gupta and Justice AS Bopanna upheld circulars issued by the Madhya Pradesh government directing that the names of priests be deleted from revenue records of temple properties.In its order, the bench cited precedents including the Ayodhya land dispute case. “The law is very clear on the distinction that priests hold such land only for the purpose of management. They are not ordinary tenants and should only manage the property of the deity. Such rights can be withdrawn if they fail to do the task they have been assigned, which is to conduct prayers and manage the land. Hence, they cannot be treated as owners of the land,” it said.Monday’s ruling was delivered on a petition filed by the Madhya Pradesh government challenging the quashing by the high court of the said circulars, which were issued under the Land Revenue Code, 1959.In its appeal, the Shivraj Singh Chouhan-led government argued that these executive instructions were passed to prevent illegal sale of temple properties by priests. The priests, on the other hand, contended that they have been conferred rights to ownership of the land which, they, said, cannot be withdrawn by means of executive orders.The hearings in the case, therefore, were held to determine whether a priest can be considered as the owner of temple land under the state Land Revenue Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/temple-land-belongs-to-deity-or-priests-here-s-what-supreme-court-observed-101630989845617.html
07-09-2021||India||Kerala: 8 close contacts of boy who died of Nipah test negative for virus||Eight samples from close contacts of a 12 -year-old boy who died of the Nipah virus on Sunday, tested negative on Tuesday, said state health minister Veena George in Kozhikode (north Kerala), adding that five more results are expected by the evening from the National Institute of Virology (Pune). “It is a great relief for us. Among the eight are the boy’s parents and medical officials. We will localise and contain the outbreak as we did in 2018,” said the minister. Kozhikode has reported a Nipah infection for the second time in three years--in 2018 the virus claimed 17 lives in the district. Also Read | Nipah virus: Centre suggests measures to Kerala, more contacts of boy identifiedThe minister said the health department is observing all 251 contacts of the boy who dies of the virus--54 among them are in the high risk category--closely. The government had also suspended the ongoing Covid-19 vaccination drive in Kozhikode and its outskirts in view of the new threat. “Efforts are on to trace the source of infection. Experts have recovered half-eaten rambutan fruits from the boy’s house. They also found a fruit bat habitat near their house,” the minister said, adding a team from the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases Laboratory from Bhopal will be in the city soon. Fruit bats are considered to be main carrier and reservoir of the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-8-close-contacts-of-boy-who-died-of-nipah-test-negative-for-virus-101630988331725.html
07-09-2021||India||Owaisi to launch AIMIM’s 2022 UP poll campaign from Ayodhya, seers upset||The All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul Muslimeen (AIMIM) chief Asaduddin Owaisi will launch his party’s campaign for the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly elections from Ayodhya district by addressing a ‘vanchit-shoshit samaj’ (deprived and victimized communities) conference on Tuesday, September 7.The conference, scheduled at 3 pm at Rudauli tehsil about 57 km from Ayodhya city, has already provoked the seer community in the city by referring to Ayodhya district as Faizabad in posters circulated on social media. The seers have protested and sought a ban on AIMIM rally, accusing Owaisi of hurting the sentiments of the Hindu community. Faizabad district was renamed Ayodhya in November 2018.The priest of Hanuman Garhi temple at Ayodhya, Mahanth Raju Das, said the seers will not allow Owaisi to visit Ayodhya.AIMIM state unit president Shaukat Ali claimed that the members of the saffron brigade and rival political parties were panicking due to AIMIM’s increasing support base among all communities. Along with Muslims, Dalits, backwards and upper caste Hindus have also been invited to the conference, he said. “Not only Muslims but other communities, too, have been harassed and exploited by the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government at the centre and in Uttar Pradesh. The AIMIM has decided to fight for the rights of the people suppressed by the BJP government by organising a series of ‘vanchit-shoshit samaj’ conferences across Uttar Pradesh,” he said. On September 7, the AIMIM chief will address one such conference in Rudauli area of Ayodhya district. The next day he will address a conference in Sultanpur, and in Barabanki on September 9. Shaukat Ali said the AIMIM was not only fighting for the rights of the Muslims, but of all the communities allegedly victimised under the BJP government. He claimed that Muslims, Dalits, backwards and even upper caste people in UP were looking for an alternative to the BJP, the Samajwadi Party (SP), the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and the Congress since these parties had used them as vote banks. He added that the AIMIM will work for the welfare of all communities if it wins the UP polls. The AIMIM has announced to field candidates on 100 assembly seats in Uttar Pradesh. It has also joined an alliance of smaller political parties to form Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha, which includes Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) led by Om Prakash Rajbhar, Jan Adhikar Party led by Babu Singh Kushwaha, Rashtriya Uday Party led by Babu Rampal, Rashtriya Upekshit Samaj Party led by Premchanda Prajapati and Janata Kranti Party led by Anil Singh Chauhan. The Morcha has invited the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and the Bhim Army to join the pre-poll alliance. Earlier in July, Owaisi’s visit to Bahraich to pay obeisance to medieval Ghaznavid general Ghazi Salar Masud alias Ghazi Miya had triggered a war of words between the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and leaders of Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha constituents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/owaisi-to-launch-aimim-s-2022-up-poll-campaign-from-ayodhya-seers-upset-101630986411400.html
07-09-2021||India||Sea trials for floating missile test range INS Anvesh begin this month||Sea trials of India's first floating missile test range (FTR), INS Anvesh, are set to begin this month with the ship expected to be commissioned in the next two months. Built by Cochin Shipyard and designed by the Defence Research and Development Organization (DRDO), the nearly 9000 tonne ship will be used to test missiles up to range of 1500 kilometers deep inside the Indian Ocean without the threat to population or sea traffic as well as land mass limitation.India is expected to commission at least four ships this year with ballistic missile tracking ship INS Dhruv being handed over to National Research Technical Organization (NTRO) on September 10. Stealth guided missile destroyer INS Vishakapatnam and diesel attack submarine INS Vela, fourth of the Kalvari class, will also be commissioned by the end of the year.Once commissioned, the FTR INS Anvesh will bring futuristic missile projects up to speed as it will provide for a ready-made safety corridor without going through the tedious exercise of issuing NOTAMs to ships and aircraft flying in the area. While the DRDO missile testing site at Wheeler Island off Odisha is under the scanner of the adversaries, the FTR will also allow discreet testing of missiles and torpedoes 400 to 500 nautical miles into the sea.While only a select group of nations operate FTRs, the DRDO has specific plans to use the vessel, equipped with electro-optical missile tracking, S-band radar tracking, telemetry devices apart from a launch pad, control and mission control center, for testing its phase II of Ballistic Missile Defence (BMD) interceptor missiles. The phase II of the BMD envisages intercepting and destroying enemy missile up to range of 2000 kilometers by kinetic force with the FTR allowing live testing of the interdictor missiles and not computer simulations.The FTR will also allow for live missile and torpedo firing by the Navy as well as surface-to-surface tactical missiles with the Indian Army.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sea-trials-for-floating-missile-test-range-ins-anvesh-begin-this-month-101630984781024.html
07-09-2021||India||News updates from HT at 9am: PM Modi to address teachers, students during Shikshak Parv today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9AM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PM Modi to address inaugural conclave of Shikshak Parv todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will address teachers and students during the inaugural conclave of 'Shikshak Parv' on Tuesday via video-conferencing. He will also launch multiple key initiatives in the education sector on the occasion. Read moreMamata Banerjee expected to start campaigning for Bhabanipur by-poll from Sept 8West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee is scheduled to start her campaign for assembly by-polls from September 8, news agency ANI reported on Tuesday. Banerjee has been fielded by the Trinamool Congress (TMC) party from south Kolkata's Bhabanipur from where she had won in the past. Read moreDino Morea on his equation with ex-girlfriend Bipasha Basu: ‘I don’t think it changed ever’Actor Dino Morea, who dated actor Bipasha Basu during their early days in Bollywood, has said that his equation with her never changed. In a new interview with Hindustan Times, Dino talked about his former girlfriend Bipasha, his latest show The Empire and facing backlash over the historical web series that recently premiered on Disney+Hotstar. Read moreFrom the Gabba to the Oval, Shardul Thakur's heroics stand out for IndiaWhen this Indian cricket team is on the field in a tense spell of play, it’s not about the bowlers alone. It's the familiar sight of Virat Kohli the conductor, orchestrating the crowd's music, gesticulating to drive them to a crescendo aimed at psychologically overwhelming the opponents. Even if the opponents are the home side. Read moreZendaya brings the ultimate drama to Dune Paris premiere in plum bralette and fur pencil skirtAfter reigning over the fashion world with two iconic gowns designed by Valentino and Balmain at the Venice Film Festival, Zendaya is back again to rule with another look from the Paris premiere of her film Dune. Her stylist Law Roach took to Instagram to post a video of the star dressed in a monotone, coordinated ensemble. She proved once again why she is the indisputable 'red carpet queen'. Read moreHyundai won't sell anything but EVs in Europe from 2035. Here's the full planHyundai Motor Company has made a massive announcement which could see a big jump in its focus and push for electric vehicles. Read morePM Modi meets Amit Shah, Rajnath, Ajit Doval after Taliban's Panjshir claimPrime Minister Narendra Modi called a high-level meeting on September 6 to reportedly discuss the Afghanistan situation. Home minister Amit Shah, defence minister Rajnath Singh, NSA Ajit Doval attended the meeting. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9am-pm-modi-to-address-teachers-students-during-shikshak-parv-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101630978510981.html
07-09-2021||India||6 injured in CPM- BJP clashes over Manik Sarkar’s event in Tripura||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Communist Party of India (Marxist) CPM workers clashed twice on Monday over former Tripura chief minister and opposition leader Manik Sarkar’s political programme at Sonamura in the state’s Sepahijala district, leaving six--including four from the ruling party—injured, police said.The first clash took place when Manik Sarkar’s convoy including two CPM legislators Shahid Chowdhury and Shyamal Chakraborty and a few supporters was stopped by BJP cadres near Dhanpur market, while it was heading to Kathalia for a party programme. An altercation soon ensued between the two sides, leaving a BJP worker injured, police added.The second clash took place at Bashpukur, nearly three kilometres from Dhanpur, after Sarkar reached there on foot, shielded by a human barricade made up of CPM activists after police asked him to return. One CPM and four BJP workers were injured in the clash. The police fired tear gas shells to disperse the mob.“The situation has been brought under control,” said an officer from police headquarters, who didn’t wish to be named.Sarkar, while addressing a rally near Kathalia block, urged party cadres and supporters to protest against political violence in the coming days. The BJP in turn said it will hold a demonstration at Kathalia market on September 8 to protest against CPM’s act of violence.“We are not believers of violence. They will be wrong to think our activists are weak. We are ready to reply in their own language,” said youth affairs minister Sushanta Chowdhury.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-injured-in-cpm-bjp-clashes-over-manik-sarkar-s-event-in-tripura-101630984311644.html
07-09-2021||India||Wet spell to bring widespread rain to central, west, N-W India this week||A wet spell commenced over central, west and parts of northwest India in association with a low-pressure area that formed over westcentral Bay of Bengal on Monday, India Meteorological Department (IMD)said. A low-pressure area formed over northwest India and adjoining westcentral Bay of Bengal, off south Odisha-north Andhra Pradesh coasts. The low-pressure area and its remnants are very likely to move west-north-westwards during the next four or five days. The monsoon trough is lying south of its normal position, which is very likely to move to south of its normal position during the next four or five days.A shear zone (zone of change in wind speed and direction) is likely to persist over south Peninsular India during the next four or five days. Due to these meteorological conditions, widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy rain is likely over Odisha, coastal Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka, Vidarbha and Chhattisgarh on Monday and Tuesday, and Marathawada, Madhya Maharashtra, Konkan and Gujarat till Saturday. Isolated extremely heavy rain (over 20cm) is also likely over coastal Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Madhya Maharashtra, north Konkan and Gujarat till Wednesday.Rainfall activity is also likely to increase over most parts of northwest India with isolated heavy rain over Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Haryana, Jammu region and east Rajasthan till Friday. Very heavy rain is likely over Uttarakhand and east Rajasthan between Wednesday and Friday.Also Read | 29% of India is witnessing dry weather, shows IIT study“A low-pressure area has already formed off south Odisha-north Andhra Pradesh, which will move inland and travel in the west-northwestwards direction, bringing heavy rain in its wake. We are expecting widespread and heavy rain over central India and the west coast during next three or four days. The system will also bring rain to northwest India because easterly winds will set in. There are scattered rains over northwest India mainly due to the monsoon trough but this will enhance further by around September 8. Even after the low pressure system weakens its cyclonic circulation, rains will continue,” explained K Sathi Devi, head, national weather forecasting centre, IMD. There is also likelihood of another low-pressure area forming over Bay of Bengal next week. “Development of that-low pressure area is being monitored. Some models are indicating that another low-pressure area will form,” she added.Between 8.30am on Sunday and 8.30am on Monday, certain stations in coastal Andhra Pradesh recorded heavy rain including Vizianagaram-18cm, Srikakulam-13cm, Vishakhapatnam-7cm; in west Madhya Pradesh: Khargone-12cm; Sehore-10cm; In Uttarakhand: Chamoli-9cm; In East Rajasthan: Rajsamand-8cm; In Kerala: Vaikom-7cm etc.There is a 9% rainfall deficiency over the country with 13% deficiency over central India; 13% over northwest India; 10% deficiency over east and northeast India and 10% excess over peninsular India. Over northwest India, while Delhi and Haryana have recorded 26% and 20% excess rains respectively; Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir have over 20% deficiency; Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh have 7% and 9% deficiency respectively.There is likely to be above normal rainfall activity at over 110% of the so-called long period average or LPA in September, and while this will reduce the current monsoon rain deficiency of 9% over the country, overall monsoon rain (June 1 to September 30) will still be in the “lower end of normal category,” IMD said in its monsoon monthly forecast last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wet-spell-to-bring-widespread-rain-to-central-west-n-w-india-this-week-101630983471302.html
07-09-2021||India||Mamata Banerjee likely to start campaigning for Bhabanipur by-poll from Sept 8||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee is scheduled to start her campaign for assembly by-polls from September 8, news agency ANI reported on Tuesday. Banerjee has been fielded by the Trinamool Congress (TMC) party from south Kolkata's Bhabanipur from where she had won in the past.Banerjee needs to get elected to the state assembly by November to continue as the chief minister. The TMC swept to power for the third time in West Bengal by winning 213 out of the 292 seats in the April-May assembly election. But Banerjee lost the poll from Nandigram to her protege-turned-adversary Suvendu Adhikari of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) by a narrow margin of 1,956 votes.On Saturday, the Election Commission announced that by-elections to three assembly seats - Bhabanipur, Jangipur and Samserganj - in West Bengal will be held on September 30.TMC leaders Jakir Hossain and Amirul Islam will be the party's candidates for Jangipur and Samserganj seats respectively.The Congress is unlikely to field a candidate against Banerjee in the upcoming by-elections.The counting of votes will take place on October 3.The Bhabanipur seat was vacated by West Bengal's agriculture minister Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay in May, making way for the chief minister to contest from there.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lost the assembly polls but emerged as the second-largest party with 77 seats.Though polls and by-polls are to be held in seven seats in Bengal, the Election Commission has announced elections in only three seats. The TMC wants polls to be held on all the seven seats at the earliest, but the BJP has claimed that the situation is not conducive as the pandemic situation is not under control in any part of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-banerjee-expected-to-start-campaigning-for-bhabanipur-by-poll-from-sept-8-101630982425331.html
07-09-2021||India||Minor girls made to walk naked to please rain god in drought-hit MP village||Minor girls were made to walk naked and beg at locals’ homes at a tribal village in Madhya Pradesh for relief from a drought-like situation and to appease the rain god. Officials said the incident happened in Damoh district on Sunday as part of a ritual.The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) has sought a report from the Damoh district administration.A video that has emerged reportedly shows at least six bare-bodied girls of about five years of age walking together with a wooden shaft on their shoulders with a frog tied to it. A group of women is seen singing devotional songs and following the procession.A report in India Today, the girls visit every household in the village and beg for flour, pulses and staple food cereals. The collected items are then donated for a ‘bhandara’ (community lunch) at the village temple. All residents have to ‘mandatorily’ remain present during the ritual. In another clipping, some women said the practice would help bring rainfall in the region where the paddy crop is drying. They added they would collect raw food grains from villagers during the procession and then cook food for 'bhandara' (community feast) at a local temple.“We believe that this will bring in rains,” they can be heard telling the person who recorded the incident. The village is located about 50km from the Damoh district headquarter in the rain-starved Bundelkhand region.Police said the ritual was performed with the consent of families of the young girls. Damoh superintendent of police (SP) DR Teniwar said police came to know about some girls being paraded naked to appease the god as part of local practice and prevailing social evils. “Police are investigating this incident. Action will be taken if it is found that girls were forced to walk naked,” he said.Damoh collector S Krishna Chaitanya said the local administration will submit a report in this regard to the NCPCR. He said the parents of these girls were also involved in this incident and an awareness campaign would be initiated to explain to the villagers the futility of such practices.The district collector said none of the villagers complained about this 'ritual'. "In such cases, the administration can only make the villagers aware about the futility of such superstition and make them understand that such practices don't yield desired results," he told reporters.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/minor-girls-made-to-walk-naked-to-please-rain-god-in-mp-s-damoh-district-101630980897403.html
07-09-2021||India||Can celebrate festivals later, save lives 1st: Maharashtra CM backs Covid curbs||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday appealed to political parties and organisations not to organise rallies, meetings and protests to prevent assembly of crowds as Covid-19 cases in the state have risen slightly in the past few days. He also brushed aside Opposition criticism over continuing some restrictions, saying festivals could be celebrated later but timely prevention of another Covid surge and saving people’s lives was a bigger “priority” at the moment.“The demands to open up activities have led to the risk of a spread. There will not be any need for curbs if rules and restrictions are properly followed. I am, therefore, appealing to all political parties, including Sena, to follow restrictions. Our priority should be [saving] the lives of people. Festivals can be celebrated even next year, if everything is well at home. To protect human lives, everyone should follow health restrictions meticulously. Avoid crowding and public events. Do not encourage political meetings, rallies and even Lord Ganesha would wish so,” Thackeray said in a statement on Monday.The state has named Pune, Ahmednagar, Satara, Solapur, Sangli, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg as districts of concern due to their high Covid-19 positivity rates.“The growth rate and weekly positivity rate in these districts are too high. Pune has clocked 6.58% positivity rate, the highest, and it’s more than 5% in Ahmednagar. With the Ganesh festival beginning from Friday, there are chances of it triggering the third wave or strengthening the second wave in these districts. The administrations need to take utmost care in these districts,” Dr Pradeep Vyas, additional chief secretary of public health department had said during a presentation on Sunday.Both Maharashtra and Mumbai have been witnessing a rise in the daily caseload and positivity rate over the past few days. Maharashtra registered 3,626 new Covid-19 cases and 37 deaths on Monday and Mumbai recorded 383 new cases and five deaths, taking the toll to 15,998. The relatively lower numbers of fresh infections were a result of fewer tests (145,457) conducted in the last 24 hours owing to holidays on the weekend. On Sunday, state recorded 4,057 new cases among the 193,193 tested samples. The total number of active patients in Maharashtra currently stands at 47,695. Pune tops cities with most active cases with 12,413 patients, followed by 7,275 in Thane and 6,328 in Satara.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-celebrate-festivals-later-save-lives-1st-maharashtra-cm-backs-covid-curbs-101630981371030.html
07-09-2021||India||'Those who connect the dots...': S Jaishankar on why Quad matters||External affairs minister Dr S Jaishankar on Monday talked about "quantum shifts" along with more organic changes globally as he presented a case for the centrality of the Indo-Pacific and Quad in today's time. Jaishankar was delivering the annual JG Crawford Oration at the Australian National University.He said the world is at the cusp of something big and that the Indo-Pacific would be very much at its core."The geopolitical turbulence in the Indo-Pacific, the ripple implications of the Afghanistan withdrawal and the larger consequences of the Covid pandemic are three such current examples," he said."Those who connect the dots would surely agree that we are really now at the cusp of something big. As we seek to discern the outlines of what emerges next, there is no question that the Indo-Pacific would be very much at its core," Jaishankar said in the virtual address.Referring to geopolitical developments and challenges, Jaishankar also elaborated on the role of the United States of America and delved extensively into the reality of the strategic recalibration by it, adding the country is "undeniably the premier power of our times and will remain so.""The US is undeniably the premier power of our times and will remain so. Indeed, such is its centrality to the current order that be it ally, competitor, the agnostic or the undecided, none of us can really be indifferent to its posture," Jaishankar added.At the same time, he said the American polity is going through a serious introspection and that could well result in a different method of engaging the world.Jaishankar then talked about the emergence of China on the global stage, which he said saw "impressive growth"."There are three autonomous aspects to this phenomenon that need considered analysis. The first is the enormous expansion of Chinese capabilities in virtually every field," he said."The second is a projection pattern that changed beginning with 2009, and then more vigorously, after 2012. The third – and this was particularly apparent during the pandemic – is China's deep relevance to the global economy," observed the foreign minister.The external affairs minister also noted that the last two decades have seen a real transformation in India's relations with its three Quad partners: The United States, Japan and Australia.Jaishankar credited the role of the Indian diaspora living in the US and Australia which represents a "unique bridge between our societies", and regional convergence and natural empathy of democratic societies in ties with Japan as the reason for the Quad's proliferation."The Quad nations are all democratic polities, market economies and pluralistic societies. Apart from that natural understanding that it generates, similarity in the structural aspects of their relationships has helped to foster the platform," he said.In an apparent reference to the need to reform the United Nations and other global bodies, Jaishankar said a 75-year-old world order had run its course and was ripe for change."The fate of our region cannot be left, certainly not in a democratic era to the decisions of a few. Those of us who have interests, capabilities and confidence must step forward. If the G-7 could become the G-20, then our region too can surely find a broad-based decision-making process," the foreign minister said.He added that the Indo-Pacific is at the epicentre of change.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/those-who-connect-the-dots-s-jaishankar-on-why-quad-matters-101630979593263.html
07-09-2021||India||Supreme Court to hear NCLAT's decision in Videocon resolution matter today||The Supreme Court will on Tuesday hear the decision of the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) on the Videocon Industries Ltd resolution matter. Earlier in August, the apex court had refused to set aside the stay order given by the NCLAT on Vedanta group’s Twin Star Technologies acquisition of Videocon group.The NCLAT had in July stayed industrialist Anil Agarwal-led Twin Star Technologies' ₹2,962.02 crore-takeover bid for debt-ridden Videocon Industries over the pleas filed by two dissenting creditors, reports news agency PTI.Prior to it, a two-member NCLAT bench headed by its Officiating Chairperson Justice A I S Cheema had stayed the order passed by the NCLAT in June and directed to maintain "status quo ante" as before passing of the order, till the next date of hearing.The NCLAT order came over the petition filed by two creditors--Bank of Maharashtra and IFCI Ltd--contending that as per the law, they could not have been paid less than the liquidation value. The NCLAT had in its June order observed that the liquidation value of the 13 Videocon group companies and resolution plan value were very close.In its appeal before the top court, Twin Star Technologies said that while staying the implementation of its resolution plan, the NCLAT “has blatantly ignored the settled law laid down by the SC in catena of decisions that the commercial wisdom of Committee of Creditors (CoC) in accepting or rejecting the resolution plan (RP) is paramount and that there should be no interference to an approved RP, unless the same contravenes Section 30(2) of the IBC… As apparent, its RP does not contravene any provisions of the Code or its regulations”.It also said that the order does not assign any reasons on prima facie case, irreparable loss and balance of convenience while staying the approval order. It stated that the reliance was based solely on a ‘doubt’ of the NCLAT of non-compliance of confidentiality clause in respect of liquidation value and fair market value as categorised by NCLAT in its order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-to-hear-nclat-s-decision-in-videocon-resolution-matter-today-101630977310745.html
07-09-2021||India||Nipah virus: Centre suggests measures to Kerala, more contacts of boy identified | 10 points||The Union health ministry on Monday sent a letter to Kerala chief secretary Dr VP Joy recommending measures to be taken to control the spread Nipah virus in the state. The ministry directed the state officials to strengthen hospital-based and community-based surveillance.The letter was sent after Kerala health department identified 251 on the contact list of the 12-year-old boy, who succumbed to the infection in Kozhikode on Sunday. At least 11 of those have been admitted to hospital with symptoms, according to state health minister Veena George. The conditions of all the 11 people are stable, she added.Here are the latest developments on spread of Nipah virus in Kerala:* Of the 251 contacts of the boy, 129 are health workers and 54 are in the high-risk category. Among those in the high-risk category, 30 are health workers.* A central team which visited Kerala carried out field investigations along with district surveillance officer and other officials. "It also visited the epicentre, house of the 12-year-old male diseased child, interacted with family members and others," according to Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan.* The health ministry has recommended active search for cases to be undertaken in the containment area, as per the micro plan provided by the central team. In his letter to Kerala chief secretary, Bhushan said that districts like Kannur, Malappuram and Wayanad need to alerted.* The health secretary further highlighted the need for setting up a 24x7 control room for daily reporting and sharing information with the media.* The Centre promised all possible technical support to the state government in addressing the present problem in an effective manner.* Meanwhile, Veena George said on Monday that a testing lab is ready at Government Medical College Hospital in Kozhikode and henceforth RT-PCR and other samples testing will be done there.* The health department is also planning to launch a mobile application to check the exact situation of Nipah and contain any false information.* George has been camping in Kozhikode for the past two days since the first case of the Nipah virus was reported in the district. She held a meeting with the district officials at the Collectorate on Monday.* The state animal husbandry department has started examining domestic animals and pets in the Kozhikode area, where the boy died, and collected blood samples.* Fruit bats are considered to be the main carrier and reservoir of the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nipah-virus-latest-updates-centre-suggests-measures-to-kerala-more-contacts-of-boy-identified-101630974667923.html
07-09-2021||NA||Breaking News: Two dead, eight wounded after protest in Afghanistan's Herat||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:Two dead, eight wounded in Afghanistan's Herat protestAs many as two people dead, and another eight wounded after protest in Afghanistan's Herat, reports AFP.No candidate for Bhabanipur by-polls, says Bengal Cong president Adhir Ranjan ChowdhuryWest Bengal Congress President Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury on Tuesday confirmed that it will not field any candidate from Bhabanipur seat for the upcoming by-polls, ANI reported.Tamil Nadu CM MK Stalin announces ₹5,000 additional aid to idol-making families in view of ban on Ganesh Chaturthi celebrationsTamil Nadu CM MK Stalin announces an additional aid of ₹5000 to 3,000 families involved in pottery and idol making in view of the ban on Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations at public placesState Govt gives ₹5,000 per month to these families during monsoon pic.twitter.com/BSc0zhUAaiThe Tamil Nadu government gives ₹5,000 per month to these families during monsoon, and the new announcement will be in addition to this amount.Mohammad Hasan to lead new Taliban government: SpokesmanMohammad Hasan will lead the new Taliban government, reported AFP quoting the group's spokesman. Taliban's co-founder Abdul Ghani Baradar to be deputy leader.Six more accused held in alleged abduction and gangrape of Pune minor: PoliceSix more accused have been held in alleged abduction and gangrape of a 14-year-old girl in Pune, Maharashtra. A court has sent them to custody for nine days. With this, a total of 14 accused have been arrested so far, ANI reported quoting Pune City Police.Taliban to announce first members of new govt Tuesday night: OfficialTaliban to announce first members of the new government in Afghanistan on Tuesday night, reported AFP quoting an official.‘Defer return to state till end of October’: Karnataka asks students and employees who are yet to return from KeralaThe Karnataka government on Tuesday asked all students and employees who are yet to return to the state from Kerala to defer their return till the end of October due to the Covid-19 situation in Kerala, ANI reported.Colleges in Kerala will reopen from October 4 onwardsColleges in Kerala will resume physical classes from October 4 onwards.Night curfew and Sunday lockdown to be lifted in KeralaNight curfew and the Sunday lockdown, which was imposed to contain the spread of Covid-19, will be lifted in Kerala after the state reported 25,723 cases today and 18 deaths today.BJP delegation arrives at EC's West Bengal officeBJP delegation including state vice president Pratap Banerjee and Balurghat MP Sukanta Majumdar arrive at Election Commission West Bengal office pic.twitter.com/i21QuLlTSpThe BJP delegation including state vice president Pratap Banerjee and Balurghat MP Sukanta Majumdar arrive at the Election Commission's West Bengal office, ANI reported. They will talk regarding the Bhabanipur by-polls, which will be held this month.Will meet Bihar Assembly Speaker: BJP MLA on giving room to chant Hanuman Chalisa in Jharkhand AssemblyIf a room is allocated (in Jharkhand Assembly) to offer Namaz in the secular country, why shouldn't there be room to chant 'Hanuman Chalisa'? All sections of society are equal before the Constitution. I'll meet Bihar Assembly speaker over this demand: BJP MLA Hari Bhushan Thakur pic.twitter.com/baqkuUwTSuRecently, Jharkhand CM Hemant Soren said a Namaz room will be allotted in Jharkhand Assembly. Read more.Bengal to give ₹50,000 each to puja committees this yearThe West Bengal government has decided to give ₹50,000 each to puja committees this year for Durga Puja, says the state chief secretary.INS Tabar undertook maritime exercise with ENS Alexandria of Egyptian Navy in Mediterranean seaINS Tabar on September 5 undertook a maritime exercise with ENS Alexandria, a frontline frigate of the Egyptian Navy, in the Mediterranean sea. The exercise involved multiple activities covering a wide range of naval operations. pic.twitter.com/eDjrsVSXn7INS Tabar on undertook a maritime exercise with ENS Alexandria, a frontline frigate of the Egyptian Navy, in the Mediterranean sea on September 5.Chhattisgarh CM's father sent to 15-day judicial custodyA court in Raipur today sent Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel’s father Nand Kumar Baghel to 15-day judicial custody for his alleged derogatory remarks against Brahmins, says Nand Kumar's lawyer Gajendra Sonkar, according to ANI.Baghel's father produced before court in ChhattisgarhChhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel's father Nand Kumar Baghel who has been arrested over his alleged derogatory remarks against Brahmins is being produced before a court in Raipur. pic.twitter.com/i2GAJaF066Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel's father Nand Kumar Baghel is being produced before a court in Raipur. He has been arrested over his alleged “boycott Brahmins” remark. Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel's father held over ‘boycott Brahmins’ remarkChhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel's father Nand Kumar Baghel arrested, produced before a court in Raipur over his alleged derogatory remarks against BrahminsChhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel's father, Nand Kumar Baghel, has been arrested over alleged derogatory remarks against Brahmins, news agency ANI reported.Taliban detain news outlet's cameraperson who was covering anti-Pak rally in Kabul todayAfghanistan | Taliban have detained TOLOnews cameraperson Wahid Ahmadi who was filming the protest today in Kabul, the news outlet saysFollowing the anti-Pakistan rally in Kabul today, Taliban have detained TOLOnews cameraperson Wahid Ahmadi who was filming the protest, the news outlet says.Rain caused waterlogging in KolkataWest Bengal | Kolkata witnessed waterlogging after rain lashed parts of the city. pic.twitter.com/46yFmuIVVJKolkata in West Bengal faced waterlogging problems after rain lashed the city on Tuesday.Will make a plan to reduce overcrowding in Mumbai trains: MoS RailwaysWe are also going to make a plan to reduce overcrowding in railway stations. I spoke to some travellers about their convenience. I have received some suggestions and we will discuss those in upcoming meetings: Raosaheb Danve, MoS, RailwaysRaosaheb Danve, minister of state, Railways, on Tuesday said that he spoke with some travellers of the Mumbai local trains and learnt about their convenience. “I have received some suggestions and we will discuss those in upcoming meetings,” he added.He also said that the Railways have to develop 68 railway stations in line with the standards of Bhopal and Gandhinagar railway stations, ANI reported.Maharashtra health minister Tope rules out curbs “No Covid-19 curbs as of now. The government is watching the situation closely especially in wake of the forthcoming Ganpati festival and the final decision will be taken by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray,” says Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope.UP govt relaxes night curfew timings by two hoursUttar Pradesh government announces relaxation of two hours in night curfew timings in the state. Night curfew to be in effect from 11am to 6am, instead of 10pm to 7am.Taliban open fire to disperse anti-Pakistan rallyTaliban open fire to disperse anti-Pakistan rally in Kabul, reports AFP.BKU leader took ‘extortion money’ from Congress, says BJPI feel that Gurnam Chaduni took extortion money from Congress to create continuous chaos in Haryana. They will continue this until some innocent farmers die. Some Haryana farmers have understood that it isn't about farmers but is political: Haryana agriculture minister JP DalalKarnataka CM instructs officials to study Nipah virus“I have instructed experts to study in detail about Nipah virus and give their suggestions on how to tackle it,” says Karnataka chief minister Basvaraj Bommai.Put under house arrest, claims Mehbooba MuftiGOI expresses concern for the rights of Afghan people but wilfully denies the same to Kashmiris. Ive been placed under house arrest today because according to admin the situation is far from normal in Kashmir. This exposes their fake claims of normalcy. pic.twitter.com/m6sR9vEj3S“GOI expresses concern for the rights of Afghan people but wilfully denies the same to Kashmiris. I've been placed under house arrest today because according to admin the situation is far from normal in Kashmir. This exposes their fake claims of normalcy,” tweets PDP chief and former J&K CM Mehbooba Mufti.SC adjourns to September 13 hearing in alleged Pegasus snooping caseSupreme Court adjourns for September 13 the hearing in petitions seeking court-monitored probe into the reports of central government allegedly using Israeli software Pegasus to snoop on its critics.IMD Mumbai forecasts intense rain in several districtsModerate to intense spells of rain very likely to occur at isolated places in Solapur, Ratnagiri, Thane, Palghar, Ahmednagar, Jalgaon, Nasik, Dhule within the next 3-4 hours. Possibility of thunder/lightning accompanied with gusty winds in some areas: IMD MumbaiPM Modi to lay foundation stone of University in Aligarh: UP CMOPrime Minister Narendra Modi to lay the foundation stone of Raja Mahendra Singh State University in Aligarh on September 14: UP Chief Minister's Office78 evacuees from Afghanistan have completed quarantine, says ITBP78 persons who were airlifted from Afghanistan, have completed their 14-day quarantine. All have been discharged from ITBP Chhawla Camp, New Delhi. They arrived at the facility on August 24 after being airlifted from Afghanistan: Indo Tibetan Border Police (ITBP)Have made adequate security arrangement for Mahapanchayat: Karnal SPWe want Kisan Mahapanchayat to be conducted peacefully and conflict to be resolved through mutual conversation. We spoke with farmer leaders yesterday on the matter. We will take action if law and order is disturbed. District administration and police have made necessary security arrangements. A total of 40 companies have been deployed to maintain law and order. Public activities are going on without interruption: Karnal SP Ganga Ram PuniaIndia logs 31,222 new Covid-19 cases and 290 deathsIndia reports 31,222 new Covid-19 cases, 42,942 recoveries and 290 deaths. Total tally at 33,058,843 including 32,224,937 recoveries, 441,042 deaths and 392,864 active cases.533,189,348 samples tested till now for Covid-19: ICMRCOVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes @PIB_India @mygovindia @COVIDNewsByMIB #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/QFecaQQ8BCsamples for Covid-19 tested up to 6th September. Of these, 1,526,056 samples were tested yesterday: Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)All 24 samples sent to NIV Pune tested negative for Nipah: Kerala health ministerAll 24 samples of 8 persons sent to National Institute of Virology, Pune, were found negative for Nipah virus. We're testing more samples. We've started field surveillance, and will begin house-to-house surveillance in containment zones today: Kerala health minister Veena GeorgeKisan Mahapanchayat: Heightened security in KarnalHaryana: Security personnel deployed in Karnal ahead of Kisan Mahapanchayat.Visuals from new Anaj Mandi area in Karnal. pic.twitter.com/mfnQ7rSEDnSecurity personnel deployed in Haryana's Karnal ahead of Kisan Mahapanchayat today.PM Modi to address Shikshak Parv conclave todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will address Sikshak Parv conclave at 10:30am today. PM Modi will also launch various key initiatives in education sector.Peru to build plant to make Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccinePeruvian president Pedro Castillo announced on Monday his government has reached an agreement with Russia to build a plant to produce the latter's Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine locally.New Zealand sees marginal rise in Covid-19 casesNew Zealand reports 21 new Covid-19 cases, as against 20 on September 6. All the cases were reported from the country's largest city of Auckland.China reports 36 new Covid-19 casesChina reported 36 new Covid-19 cases on September 6, up from 18 a day earlier, the national health authority said on Tuesday. The total confirmed cases are at 95,064, with the death toll unchanged at 4,636.NASA's Perseverance captures first sample of Martian rockIt’s official: I’ve now captured, sealed, and stored the first core sample ever drilled on another planet, in a quest to return samples to Earth. It’s the first in a one-of-a-kind Martian rock collection. #SamplingMars Read more: https://t.co/bs4Hd4Fzyw pic.twitter.com/2jwF7cOcMZ“It’s official: I’ve now captured, sealed, and stored the first core sample ever drilled on another planet, in a quest to return samples to Earth. It’s the first in a one-of-a-kind Martian rock collection,” official Twitter handle of NASA's Perseverance Mars Rover informs.246 new local Covid-19 cases in Australia's VictoriaAustralia's Victoria reports 246 new Covid-19 cases, all locally acquired. This is the same number of cases reported a day ago on Monday. 90 cases linked to current outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-september-07-2021-101630973817291.html
07-09-2021||India||PM Modi to address inaugural conclave of Shikshak Parv today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address teachers and students during the inaugural conclave of 'Shikshak Parv' on Tuesday via video-conferencing. He will also launch multiple key initiatives in the education sector on the occasion.The Prime Minister's address will take place at 11am, according to an official of the Ministry of Education (MoE) as quoted by news agency PTI.The MoE is celebrating Shikshak Parv, 2021 from September 5-17 in recognition of valuable contributions of teachers and to take New Education Policy (NEP) 2020 a step forward.The theme for this year's event is ‘Quality and Sustainable Schools: Learnings from Schools in India’, the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said on Sunday.The Prime Minister will launch Indian sign language dictionary (audio and text embedded sign language video for the hearing impaired, in conformity with Universal Design of Learning), talking books (audio books for the visually impaired), school quality assurance and assessment framework of CBSE, NISHTHA teachers' training programme for NIPUN Bharat and Vidyanjali portal (for facilitating education volunteers/ donors/ CSR contributors for school development), according to PMO.The ‘Shikshak Parv’ celebration will encourage innovative practices to ensure not only continuity of education at all levels but to improve quality, inclusive practices and sustainability in schools across the country as well, the PMO noted.The event will also be attended by Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan and the other Union ministers of state for education."The inaugural conclave will be followed by webinars, discussions and presentations up to September 17 in which the educational practitioners from various schools of the country have been invited to share their experience, learnings and the roadmap ahead. It is noteworthy that teachers and practitioners from even remote schools will be speaking on issues relating to quality and innovation in school,” PTI quoted an official as saying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-address-inaugural-conclave-of-shikshak-parv-today-101630971822260.html
07-09-2021||India||Hetero gets emergency nod for tocilizumab use||Drugmaker Hetero on Monday said its generic version of Roche Holding AG’s tocilizumab, an immunosuppressant used to treat severe cases of Covid-19, has been given emergency-use approval in India.Hyderabad-based Hetero’s version of the drug will be available from September-end.“This approval is crucial for supply security in India, considering a global shortage of tocilizumab. We will be working closely with the government to ensure equitable distribution,” said Dr. B. Partha Saradhi Reddy, chairman, Hetero Group.The drug was in short supply as infections and hospitalizations surged during the pandemic’s second wave, with patients having to pay multiples of the drug’s price to procure it. Cipla is the sole distributor of Roche’s tocilizumab in India.Hetero said the authorization by the regulator will allow doctors to use it for treatment of covid in hospitalized adults who are receiving systemic corticosteroids and require supplemental oxygen, mechanical ventilation, or extracorporeal membrane oxygenation.Tocilizumab is used with steroids to soothe an excessive immune response in severe covid patients. It was originally developed to treat inflammatory diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis. Tocilizumab is also part of India’s Covid treatment protocol, though as an off-label drug. Hetero’s Tocira will be marketed by its associate company ‘Hetero Healthcare’ in India.Hetero is among several Hyderabad-based companies which are involved in India’s fight against the contagious disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hetero-gets-emergency-nod-for-tocilizumab-use-101630965782168.html
07-09-2021||India||SC rejects petition seeking NEET deferment||The Supreme Court on Monday turned down a plea seeking deferment of the National Eligibility Entrance Test (NEET) for medical college admissions scheduled on September 12, noting that any interference by the court will cause “pain and strain” to nearly 1.6 million candidates who have registered for the examination.The court instead asked the petitioning students to appeal to National Testing Agency (NTA) to consider their request for deferment or let them opt out this time and take another shot at the examination later.The decision to hold NEET for MBBS/BDS admissions was taken by the Centre on July 13. “If the authorities are willing to do it on their own, we won’t come in their way. But do not use our platform to push them,” said the bench of justices AM Khanwilkar, Hrishikesh Roy and CT Ravikumar.The petition sought deferment because some of the students writing the exam would also have to appear for Odisha Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) on September 6 and CBSE Class 12 physics compartment/improvement examination on September 9. Advocate M Shoeb Alam appearing for the petitioners informed the court that the NTA had deferred Session 4 of JEE from July 27 to late August and could similarly consider deferring NEET.“Let the exam go on. This will amount to too much of meddling with education. We should now redefine the scope of our judicial review. Because of inconvenience of some, 16 lakh students should not suffer...,” the bench said. The court also noted the logistical challenges of planning and arranging for the examination centres.But the court offered an alternative. “If the petitioners so desire, are free to make representation(s) to the competent authority who may consider the representation(s) on its own merits and in accordance with law at the earliest,” it said.The top court also directed the University Grants Commission (UGC) and All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) to provisionally accommodate students appearing in the CBSE examination for private/compartment/patrachar (correspondence) categories pending announcement of their results by September 30.CBSE counsel Rupesh Kumar informed the court that nearly 90,000 students were appearing for the private/patrachar/second compartment and improvement exams. Advocates Apoorv Kurup for UGC and Harish Pandey for AICTE informed the court that even if the results are not available before September 30 and the admission process begins, the petitioners and similarly placed students could apply for provisional admissions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-rejects-petition-seeking-neetdeferment-101630963744501.html
07-09-2021||India||Lookout notice against ex-Maharashtra minister Deshmukh over corruption case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has issued a lookout notice against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh, who has skipped at least five summons issued by the agency in connection with a money laundering probe against him, people familiar with the development said on Monday.The circular, people said, was issued in April this year to prevent Deshmukh from leaving India.In April this year, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) registered an FIR against Deshmukh to probe allegations that he misused his position, and collected ₹4.7 crore from Mumbai’s bars for their “smooth functioning” through an assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze. Vaze is in jail for his alleged role in the Antilia explosives scare and Mansukh Hiran murder case. On the basis of the CBI case, the ED launched a probe against the Nationalist Congress Party leader and issued a LOC against him, said the people. Deshmukh had in the past termed the allegations against him false.Meanwhile, a Delhi court has refused to extend the CBI custody of Deshmukh’s lawyer, Anand Daga, and CBI sub-inspector Abhishek Tiwari in a graft case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lookout-notice-against-ex-maharashtra-minister-deshmukh-over-corruption-case-101630962595761.html
07-09-2021||India||‘Obviously’: BJP responds to buzz that it wants to be part of Sikkim cabinet||SILIGURI: The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) wants chief minister Prem Singh Tamang to induct some of its lawmakers into his council of ministers, a senior party leader confirmed on Monday in response to swirling rumours in Gangtok about tension with the ruling Sikkim Krantikari Morcha (SKM).“Obviously, if our alliance partner considers ourselves worthy of getting ministers. We have conveyed our message to the SKM and the chief minister PS Golay (Prem Singh Tamang) and now the ball is in their court,” Sukanta Majumdar, the BJP’s Sikkim in-charge said when asked if his party wanted to be part of the council of ministers.“The party has conveyed its message to the chief minister and I think he will consider all those things positively for the betterment of the state.”To be sure, the ruling SKM has a majority on its own with 19 MLAs in the 32-member assembly. The BJP, with its 12 MLAs, is in an alliance with the SKM but is not a part of the government in the eastern Himalayan state. There is just one opposition legislator in Sikkim; former chief minister Pawan Chamling who founded Sikkim Democratic Front (SDF) that ruled the state for five straight terms from 2014.On Sunday, the BJP delivered a 48-hour public ultimatum to government led by chief minister PS Tamang, better known as PS Golay, to resolve the problems of agitating adhoc teachers who are on indefinite hunger strike seeking continuation of their services till interviews are held.If the ultimatum goes unheard and no concrete steps are taken, the BJP will come out more strongly on the issue, BJP’s Sikkim unit spokesperson Raju Giri warned.The warning on Sunday triggered speculation that not everything was hunky dory in the alliance and the ultimatum was a tactic to pressure the coalition government to induct BJP lawmakers into the council of ministers.Majumdar, who is the BJP’s Lok Sabha MP from West Bengal’s Balurghat seat, brushed aside speculation about cracks in the alliance, but added there may be a “misunderunderstanding”.“Some misunderstanding may be there, otherwise it is okay. We are in alliance with the SKM, but we are not in the government. We have the right to raise the issues related with the people of Sikkim and that is what we are doing.”He added that the BJP wants the alliance with the SKM to continue “but it depends upon the SKM.”SKM spokesperson Jacob Khaling said there was no problem between the two. “The SKM has good rapport with the BJP and is running the government with good understanding with BP leaders.” In the May 2019 elections, the SKM won 17 of the state’s 32 seats while the Chamling’s SDF won 15. Two SDF and one SKM lawmakers, however, had to resign since the three of them had won from two seats. Later, the SKM led by PS Tamang (Golay) fought the by-elections for three assembly seats as an alliance partner of the BJP. The BJP won two seats while SKM won the third seat. In August 2019, 10 MLAs of the opposition SDF joined the BJP while two joined the ruling SKM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/obviously-bjp-responds-to-buzz-that-it-wants-to-be-part-of-sikkim-cabinet-101630957488193.html
07-09-2021||India||Farm unions say will take protest across the country||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha plans to mount a countrywide opposition to the Narendra Modi government’s economic policies, two leaders of the outfit said a day after hundreds of thousands of farmers gathered in Uttar Pradesh’s Muzaffarnagar for a Kisan Mahapanchayat demanding a roll back of the Centre’s three contentious farm laws passed by Parliament a year ago.The plan envisions a three-point resolution, arrived at by SKM after a meeting of its key leaders on Monday. It includes setting up SKM units in every state, expanding their opposition to include broader criticism of the government’s economic policies and carrying out protests such as blocking toll plazas across regions.The SKM, an umbrella body of the protesting farmers’ unions, has been spearheading the agitation since November last year when farmers thronged Delhi’s borders against the three laws.After Sunday’s Mahapanchayat, the unions have announced their plan to oppose the government’s National Monetisation Pipeline, under which the Centre will monetise state-owned assets over the next four years to generate a revenue of ₹6 lakh crore and boost infrastructure spending to spur economic growth.They have alleged that the scheme will only benefit a few big corporations. “India is now on sale to (Gautam) Adani and (Mukesh) Ambani. We will not allow that to happen,” said Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait, in a reference to the owners of two of India’s biggest business conglomerates that operate everything from seaports to airports.While the farmers began their agitation demanding a repeal of the three legislations -- the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act – the leaders of the movement have now broadened their agenda to oppose the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its economic policies.At the Mahapanchayat, the SKM also launched “Mission Uttar Pradesh”, a programme to propel their protests into the state where elections are due next year.“Sunday’s rally has given us new energy as well as direction,” said Yogendra Yadav, a key leader of the farmers’ platform.The outfit, Yadav said, will set up a unit in every state. “The Samyukta Kisan Morcha will set up units in every state and in all of Uttar Pradesh, from Gazipur on Delhi’s border to Ghazipur in the eastern-most part of Uttar Pradesh,” he said.Tikait asserted that the farmers will work to defeat Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s BJP in Uttar Pradesh.“We will hurt them in elections to teach them a lesson,” said Tikait, who hails from the Baliyan khap community -- a dominant farming clan among the Jat agrarian community in western UP.The community voted overwhelmingly in the favour of the BJP during the 2014 and 2019 Lok Sabha elections, and the 2017 Uttar Pradesh assembly elections.Addressing the Mahapanchayat in Muzaffarnagar on Sunday, Tikait also called for Hindu-Muslim unity. “We will not allow anybody to divide farmers into Hindus and Muslims,” Yadav said at the event. The region witnessed bloody communal riots in 2013 that claimed over 60 lives.The protesting farmers have sought a repeal of the laws which they say will do away with the MSP system and allow big supermarkets and food businesses to skirt regulated markets. They have also demanded a law to guarantee minimum prices for their produce.The Modi government, however, has repeatedly said the reforms were necessary to boost farm earnings.“Steps taken by the government to improve farm incomes, cash transfers for farmers, linking of markets, building of warehouses, expansion of procurement, funding for agricultural markets known as mandis… all these together will counter any negative fallout,” said Gopal Aggarwal, the Bharatiya Janata Party’s national spokesperson overseeing economic affairs.The farm leaders have called a nationwide strike on September 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-unions-say-will-take-protest-across-the-country-101630954596623.html
07-09-2021||India||Six additional Karnataka HC judges made permanent||The President has notified the appointment of six additional judges of the Karnataka high court as permanent judges after the Supreme Court collegium approved the proposal for the same last month, a central government notification said.“In exercise of the power conferred by clause (1) of Article 217 of the Constitution of India, the President is pleased to appoint S/Shri Justices (l) Neranahalli Srinivasan Sanjay Gowda (2) Miss Jyoti Mulimani (3) Rangaswamy Nataraj (4) Hemant Chandangoudar (5) Pradeep Singh Yerur and (6) Maheshan Nagaprasanna, Additional Judges of the Karnataka High Court, to be Judges of the Karnataka High Court with effect from the date they assume charge of their respective offices,” the notification from the ministry of law and justice said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/six-additional-karnataka-hc-judges-made-permanent-101630954308492.html
07-09-2021||India||TN tables bill making it must for shop owners to provide seating for staff||The Tamil Nadu government on Monday tabled a bill in the assembly, which makes it mandatory for business establishments to provide seating arrangements for their employees, who stand for long hours.The bill is subject to assent from governor Banwarilal Purohit, and once it is an act, Tamil Nadu would be the second state after Kerala to legalise the ‘right to sit’ at the workplace.The bill was introduced by Minister for labour welfare and skill development, C V Ganesan. “Persons employed in shops and establishments in the state are made to stand throughout their duty time, resulting in varied health issues. Considering the plight of the employees, who are on their toes throughout their duty time, it is necessary to provide seating facilities to all the employees of the shops and establishments,” the bill stated. The issue was raised and discussed during a meeting of the state labour advisory board on September 4 in 2019, and the provision for seating facilities was approved by all members unopposed. So, the government decided to amend the Tamil Nadu Shops and Establishments Act, 1947 to be called the Tamil Nadu Shops and Establishments (Amendment) Act, 2021. The decision has come into force immediately, the minister said.Inserting a sub-section to the legislation, it reads “The premises of every establishment shall have suitable seating arrangements for all employees so that they may take advantage of any opportunity to sit which may occur in the course of their work and thereby avoid ‘on their toes’ situation throughout the working hours.” This has come as a huge relief to employees and salespeople working in shops and showrooms across the state – some of whom work in undesirable working conditions. “We stand for at least 7-8 hours,” said Sandeep Menon, who works in a high-end jewellery showroom in Chennai. “There are a few chairs for us to sit when we aren’t attending anyone, but we don’t usually sit because our floor managers may think we aren’t being active. But when there is a new government rule, that perception may change.”Advocate P Venu Gopal, a fourth general resident of T Nagar, a commercial hub dotted with street vendors and high-end showrooms in Chennai, said that during festival seasons, the workers are standing continuously and some of them work in double shifts due to the rush. “But unfortunately, it’s been an accepted way of working,” said Gopal. “They get to sit only during a meal break, and they usually sit on the floor. But no one has complained so far, which is vastly different from what had happened in Kerala.”G Venugopal, chairman of Naidu Hall, which has had stores across Chennai since the 1930s, said that their showrooms have resting areas. “90% of our workforce is women, so we have a resting area in the terrace of the showroom where they can take breaks and eat,” he said. “We also have stools on the floors for them to sit on a rotational basis. With the new legislation, it looks like we will provide each of them a stool or a chair to sit on the floor they’re working in.”Experts say that this is in the right direction for the health and dignity of workers. “To treat all employees with dignity and provide them with basic facilities is the most basic duty of any employer,” said senior advocate and human rights activist Sudha Ramalingam. “Providing seating facilities for the employees will pave the way for efficient working of the employees, as they will not be exhausted and have the energy to attend to their customers.”However, the bill does not detail the implementation and if shop owners would be penalised for not providing seating arrangements. HT contacted labour commissioner Atul Anand for clarification but he did not respond to calls and messages. Workers of textile showrooms in Kerala had protested for their right to sit during work, and in 2018, the neighbouring state amended the Kerala Shops and Establishments Act allowing the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-tables-bill-making-it-must-for-shop-owners-to-provide-seating-for-staff-101630954306295.html
07-09-2021||India||Police detain Andhra BJP chief, gen secy during stir over idol immersion on Ganesh Chaturthi||Andhra Pradesh police on Monday detained Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) state president Somu Veerraju, general secretary Vishnu Vardhan Reddy and national secretary, Y Satya Kumar after a scuffle broke out during the party’s protest over the state government’s decision not to allow idol immersion during this year’s Ganesh Chaturthi festival in Kurnool, the police said. The BJP held protests on Monday in all 13 districts of Andhra Pradesh demanding that the festival should be held. Party functionaries said that party leaders held demonstrations across the state demanding the ruling YSR Congress Party (YSRCP), led by chief minister Y. S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, to allow public pandals for Ganesh idols this year to observe the festival. While the police detained leaders in some places like Kurnool, protests in other parts of the state were more or less peaceful, with some BJP leaders even giving representations to local authorities over the issue. In Kurnool, the police blocked the movement of BJP demonstrators, resulting in a scuffle between them. “The government is asking the public not to do Puja in public places and has asked them to do it in their homes citing Covid-19. The entire Ganesh immersion was created by Bal Gangadhar Tilak to build a community. The government is trying to curb it among Hindus and is slowly driving us towards western traditions,” alleged Sudheesh Rambhotla, BJP’s chief spokesperson in Andhra.Rambhotla said the ruling YSRCP held a massive gathering to observe the death anniversary of former chief minister of undivided Andhra Pradesh, late Y. S. Rajasekhara Reddy, on September 2. “Jagan (who is Christian by faith) is trying to convert people into Christianity, and his target is 50,000 per Assembly constituency,” he alleged. Jagan and YSR Congress party has refuted such claims in the past. Vinayak (or Ganesh) Chaturthi, which falls on September 10, is widely observed in Hyderabad (capital of Telangana), wherein people gather in large numbers to immerse idols in lakes or other water bodies. While not as widespread in Andhra, it is observed similarly by a section of people every year. In 2020, too, the festivities got hampered due to the Covid pandemic. On Monday, the state reported 739 new cases, taking Andhra’s total tally to 2,022,064. Over the last fortnight, cases of Covid-19 in the state have been around 1,000 marks per day on average.When contacted, a senior police official who did not want to be quoted said that BJP leaders were released after being detained for some time and that no untoward incident took place during the protests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-detain-andhra-bjp-chief-gen-secy-during-stir-over-idol-immersion-on-ganesh-chaturthi-101630954247452.html
07-09-2021||India||Stop politics over God: Tamil Nadu minister to BJP state president||Tamil Nadu minister Sekar Babu on Monday told off the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) state president K Annamalai to not do politics in the name of God, after the ruling government prohibited people from publicly celebrating Ganesh Chaturthi.“I’m asking you not to put God in the forefront and make it political, unnecessarily create law and order issues and cause split among people who are living unitedly,” Babu, the minister for Tamil Nadu’s hindu religious and charitable endowments (HR & CE) told reporters on Monday. “All of us can pray to Vinayagar (Lord Ganesha) from our homes this year, and he will fulfil our wishes.”Last week, the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) cited the Covid-19 pandemic to prohibit people from installing Ganesh idols in public places and from carrying out processions or immersions, which is a huge affair particularly in Chennai, a coastal city. Annamalai had asked the state government to reconsider its decision. On Monday, he issued a statement saying that chief minister M K Stalin was insulting Tamil people by interfering in an individual’s rights. He urged people to send a postcard to Stalin asking him to wish the people of the state for the festival like he extended wishes for other religious festivals. He urged people to celebrate by placing their idols outside their homes, the same way in which the BJP cadre plans to do. A day ago, Annamalai insisted that the DMK is being stubborn. “We will keep one-lakh idols in front of our (BJP) homes. The government cannot prevent that,” Annamalai had told reporters on Sunday. The BJP and right-wing affiliations such as the Hindu Munnani questioned the DMK’s decision of banning the religious procession when the state has opened up and allowed numerous relaxations. “While Tasmac liquor shops remain open in the state as the government claimed that Covid spread is curbed, the same government restricts the celebrations. Even with the rise of Covid cases in Maharashtra, its government allowed celebrations and idol processions,” Annamalai had said a week ago.When a PIL, filed by Hindu Munnetra Kazhagam to lay down SOPs for the Ganesh Chaturthi festival celebration, came up in the Madras high court on Monday, the state submitted that they were abiding by a circular issued by the union government asking states to regulate crowds during the festival.The same issue had played out last year between the BJP and their ally the AIADMK, which was governing the state and had banned processions due to the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stop-politics-over-god-tamil-nadu-minister-to-bjp-state-president-101630954246281.html
07-09-2021||India||Lakshadweep launches seaweed farming units in nine inhabited islands||After fisheries, coconut and tourism, the Lakshadweep administration has prioritized seaweed farming as the next major engine of economic development.In this effort, large-scale farming of indigeneous seaweeds was launched in nine inhabited islands of Lakshadweep on September 1 under the guidance of Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMRI), a premier marine research body, headquartered in Kochi. “The initiative is in line with a study conducted by the marine research body which found immense potential for quality seaweeds in serene and pollution-free lagoons for high-end utilisation like pharmaceuticals, food and nutraceuticals,” said CMFRI in a statement on Monday, which is planning to produce about 30,000 tonne worth ₹7.5 million in a year. The CMFRI said the indigenous red algae, Gracilaria edulis and Acanthophora spicifera are some of the species being planned in nearly 2,500 bamboo rafts benefitting 100 families belonging to 10 women self-help groups. “Known for its unique tuna fish, beautiful corals, reef fishes and other creatures now the islands are likely to be known as the seaweed farming hub of the country soon”, said Dr K Mohammed Koya, a senior scientist with the CMFRI. Recent studies by the CMFRI revealed a big growth of indigenous seaweed species in various lagoons of Lakshadweep with nearly 60-fold growth in 45 days for species like Gracilaria edulis. Following this, the island administration joined hands with the CMFRI for multi-locational trial farming and capacity building of stakeholders. “Experimental farming was conducted in the islands of Kiltan, Chetlah Kadmath, Agatti and Kavaratti during 2020-21 with good results,” said CMFRI. “Our studies revealed that the island has a potential of producing nearly 30,000 tonnes of dry seaweed per year worth ₹7.5 million by farming only 1% (200 ha) of its 21,290 ha of lagoon area (inhabited islands only)” said Dr Koya. To provide a sound scientific basis for a sustainable seaweed farming, the CMFRI and the Lakshadweep Krishi Vigyan Kendra began further studies for assessing the carrying capacity of the lagoons, spatial mapping of suitable farming sites, standardising farming methods for year-round farming in deeper areas and to ensure quality seeding materials, said CMFRI. Seaweed is consumed in several countries especially in East Asian countries. It is also used in food additives, medicine, fertiliser and cosmetic goods and to combat beach erosion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakshadweep-launches-seaweed-farming-units-in-nine-inhabited-islands-101630954189280.html
07-09-2021||India||Tamil Nadu to mark Periyar’s birth anniversary as ‘Day of Social Justice’: CM Stalin||Tamil Nadu chief minister M K Stalin on Monday declared September 17 as ‘Day of Social Justice’ in the state, a tribute to social reformer and father of the Dravidian movement ‘Periyar’ EV Ramasamy on his birth anniversary. “This will be observed annually,” Stalin said.Periyar’s ideology was about social justice, self-respect, rationalism, equality, and brotherhood, principles that, Stalin added, employees of all state government offices would undertake a pledge of henceforth. The chief minister also said Periyar’s ideals laid a foundation for Tamil society’s growth and it would pave the way for the future.Stalin recalled Periyar’s life and said that he spoke of issues that others hesitate to raise. “Equality of men and women, and the abolition of caste were his main principles,” Stalin said.Periyar dropped his surname ‘Naicker’– a caste name – to show his stance on caste discrimination. Stalin credited Periyar for being instrumental in the first amendment to the Indian Constitution (that safeguarded reservation for backward classes) without even going to the Parliament.Born on September 17, 1879, Periyar has enjoyed an iconic status with his ideals, particularly his stance against oppression. His politics started with the Congress party, and much of the Tamil linguistic and land identities arose from Periyar’s self-respect movement, founded in 1925. Periyar founded Dravidar Kazhagam (DK), a political party, but in 1949 his lieutenant CN Annadurai moved to form the current ruling government Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK). Later, MG Ramachandran split from the DMK, headed by M Karunanidhi then, to form the ADMK (later renamed AIADMK). Periyar died on December 24, 1973, but the Dravidian majors’ espouse his political stances.On Monday, all parties welcomed the announcement, and in an eventful turn, even the state Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lent its support. “The social justice concept is among the principles of the BJP,” said BJP floor leader Nainar Nagendran in the assembly. “The BJP believes in theism and welcomes this announcement.”BJP has often been at odds with Periyar and his ideology. In 2019, the state unit of the party stoked a controversy by tweeting a picture of Periyar alongside his wife Maniammai, whom he married at the age of 69 when she was 31 and wrote that a society has to be built without any POSCO accused. BJP’s allies, the AIADMK and PMK, also condemned the tweet, which was deleted later. Last year, unidentified miscreants smeared saffron paint on a statue of Periyar in Trichy. More infamously, actor Rajinikanth, last January, during his speech at the 50th-anniversary event of Tamil magazine ‘Thuglak’, edited by right-wing ideologue S Gurumurty, accused Periyar of disrespecting Hindu gods by referring to a rally in 1971 in Salem district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-to-mark-periyar-s-birth-anniversary-as-day-of-social-justicecmstalin-101630954186835.html
07-09-2021||India||Karnataka logs 973 fresh Covid-19 cases, 17 deaths||Karnataka on Monday reported 973 new cases of Covid-19 and 17 deaths, taking the total number of infections to 2,956,137 and death toll to 37,426.The day also saw 1,071 discharges, taking the total number of recoveries in the state so far to 29,01,299.Of the new cases, 243 were from Bengaluru Urban, as the city saw 260 discharges and 8 deaths.Total number of active cases is at 17,386, according to the health department.While the positivity rate for the day stood at 0.69 per cent, case fatality rate (CFR) was at 1.74 per cent.Eight deaths were reported from Bengaluru Urban, Dakshina Kannada and Haveri (2), followed by others.Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Dakshina Kannada accounted for 258, Bengaluru Urban 243, Mysuru 78, Hassan 62, Udupi 53, Kodagu 52, followed by others.Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 12,39,724, followed by Mysuru 1,76,570 and Tumakuru 119,470.Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban tops the list with 12,16,511, followed by Mysuru 1,73,263 and Tumakuru 117,713.Cumulatively a total of 44,449,710 samples have been tested so far,of which 139,090 were tested on Monday alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-logs-973-fresh-covid-19-cases-17-deaths-101630954066488.html
07-09-2021||India||13 Bangladesh nationals in NIA net for trafficking||The National Investigation Agency on Monday filed a charge sheet before a special court in Bengaluru against 13 Bangladeshi nationals for their alleged involvement in trafficking women and children from the neighboring country after illegally crossing over to India, an official said. Rafik, Sobuj Shaik, Mohammed Rafikdul Islam Ridoy, Rakibul Islam, Mohammed Babu Molla, Mohammed Alami Hossein, Mohammed Dalim, Hossain Azim, Mohammed Jamal, Enamul Haque Shuzan, Mohammed Ruhul Amin, Riday Islam, and Mohammed Milon Biswas — all Bangladeshi nationals — have been charged with sections of the IPC, the Foreigners Act, and the Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act, the NIA official said. The case was registered in June in Bengaluru against the 13 accused, based on a raid conducted by the police at a rented house where seven women and one child of Bangladeshi nationality were rescued from the custody of four human traffickers, a NIA official said. The NIA took over the case and found that the 13 charge-sheeted accused had illegally crossed over to India from Bangladesh, the official of the premier investigation agency said. They were luring women from Bangladesh and trafficking them to India with the promise of jobs, the NIA official added. The women were then confined in rented accommodations and subjected to sexual exploitation, the official said. The accused had also forged identity cards and used these forged documents to obtain Indian identity documents such as Aadhaar card, PAN card among others for themselves and their victims, the NIA official said, adding that further investigation in this case is on, PTI reported. Meanwhile, the government have directed the state police to maintain a strict vigil on the illegal immigrants and the overstayed foreign nationals, and action should be taken against those involved in anti-social and anti-national activities, said Karnataka home minister Araga Jnanendra on Monday. Addressing a press conference, after taking part at a one day state-level senior Police Officers Conference here, the minister said, “A direction had been issued to the police to maintain a separate register on the foreign nationals, in their respective police stations, and maintain a strict vigil on their activities”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/13-bangladesh-nationals-in-nia-net-for-trafficking-101630954007433.html
07-09-2021||India||CM Bommai to lead BJP in 2023 polls, says state president Kateel||Karnataka BJP President Nalin Kumar Kateel on Monday concurred with Union home minister Amit Shah’s statement on winning the 2023 assembly elections under the leadership of chief minister Basavaraj Bommai, which has evoked mixed reactions within the party.He also said that all the leaders of the party will work together collectively for the party’s victory.“The Chief Minister of the state is the leader of the government and at the time of election, certainly it will be his leadership..... Amit Shah has clarified it. Seniors will give the guidance, B S Yediyurappa (former CM) will be the Margadarshak (guiding force) during the next election,” Kateel said in response to a question.Speaking to reporters here, he said there is no opposition or differences within the party on this issue.“....our party is unique, when we have a Chief Minister, he will lead the party in the next election, it has been clarified (by Shah), but we will all work collectively as a team, so we will all go together,” he said in response to a question on differences in the party after Amit Shah’s statement.During his visit to Davangere last week, Shah had exuded confidence that the BJP would once again come back to power in Karnataka with a complete mandate, under Bommai’s leadership.However, senior party leader and Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa had contended that the BJP would fight the next assembly election under “collective leadership” of which Bommai will be a part.There were also reports of former chief ministers Jagadish Shettar and B S Yediyurappa holding talks on September 4, regarding Shah’s statement.Noting that it will be the chief minister, who will lead during the next election, when the party is in the government, the state BJP chief in response to a question pointed out that the party was going to assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh, under incumbent Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s leadership.“It is the same for all states, when the party is in government. When not in government it will be the party president, while in government it will be Chief Minister along with the president....so the leadership will be his (CM’s), along with him we will all work collectively, there is no difference on that,” he added.To a specific question whether the party will face the next election under Bommai’s leadership and has everyone in the party have accepted it. Kateel said Bommai became the Chief Minister following the directions from the central leadership, and it has been accepted by everyone.“There is still one-and-a-half years left for the assembly election.Already Amit Shah has given a message, the party will work together as a team,” he said.A section of BJP leaders are said to be sceptical about Shah’s statement, as Bommai, who is not a native BJP leader, and the message such a statement at this stage may send to party’s hardcore Hindutva ideologues or voter base.In a surprise move Bommai, who has his political origins in Janata Parivar, was made the Chief Minister on July 28,following the exit of state BJP strongman Yediyurappa from the post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cm-bommai-to-lead-bjp-in-2023-polls-says-state-president-kateel-101630954006304.html
07-09-2021||India||It’s back to school for students of classes 6-8||Schools in Karnataka reopened for students of classes 6 to 8 on Monday in areas where the Covid-19 positivity rate is below 2%. Karnataka primary and secondary education minister BC Nagesh said that the government decided to reopen schools after approval from the state’s Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) on Covid-19. “We are thinking about reopening schools for primary classes,” Nagesh told reporters. Shashi Kumar, the general secretary of the Associated Management of Private Schools in Karnataka on Monday said that attendance in the private schools in the state was around 55%. He, however, added that most private schools are continuing with online classes due to safety concerns. “Compared with classes 9 and 10, the attendance is low. We hope these numbers will increase,” Shashi Kumar said. The state government is yet to release the data on first-day attendance. Talking to reporters on Monday, Nagesh said that the government will take a decision on reopening schools for students of classes 1 to 5 after consulting the technical advisory committee. He, however, did not specify any timeline. The government has already allowed the reopening of schools for students from classes 9 to 12 since August 23. Nagesh said many parents and students urged him to reopen schools as he visited several parts of the state. He said the government and district administrations have been working together with the department for the safe conduct of classes. “The department had an intention of reopening schools for some time now and teachers were also ready for it; but keeping in mind the health of the students along with education and concerns of the parents, we discussed with the technical advisory committee and after taking the opinion of expert pediatricians, we are reopening schools for classes 6,7 and 8,” he told reporters. There are over 3.1 million students in these three classes across around 38,000 schools in the state, according to official data.It is mandatory for students to submit a consent letter from their parents to attend offline classes and these classes are not compulsory, as there is a provision of online classes also. The government has said that offline classes for students of classes 6 to 8 will be held on alternate days, each with 50 per cent attendance. They will be held on five days a week and school authorities will sanitize and put in other Covid control measures over the weekend. A technical advisory committee (TAC) on the third wave, headed by noted cardiologist, Dr Devi Shetty, had submitted its report to the Basavaraj Bommai government on June 22. It had strongly recommended that schools and physical classes be resumed at the earliest.“Any further delay in school reopening may push children into malnutrition, child labour, child marriage, child trafficking, begging etc., making their condition further worse,” according to the report. According to the TAC, there are 23,838,995 people below the age of 18 in the state with an estimated population of 70,259,592, accounting for around 34%.There are 24,391 schools that have grades between 1 and 5 which have over 5.4 million students and around 162,000 lakh teachers, data shows.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/its-back-to-school-for-students-of-classes-68-101630953947627.html
07-09-2021||India||BJP impresses in Urban Local Body polls, wins 35 seats in Belagavi||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday secured control over the Belagavi city corporation for the first time, by winning 35 out of the 58 seats in the Urban Local Body (ULB) polls held on September 3. The victory in Belagavi, marks an important landmark for saffron party,which fought the polls on the development plank. So far, language was the as the main election agenda in local polls in the district. The win also marks a new high for the Basavaraj Bommai government in the state that has been in power for just over a month and faced its first electoral test in the state.“Within one month of our government this election was the first sign of approval and support. And in the coming days this will show the direction (of future elections),” chief minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Monday.The victory for the BJP in Belagavi also relegated the Congress to a distant second as well as the Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti (MES), a pro-Marathi outfit to the opposition benches.A total of 1,105 candidates contested the elections in the three ULB polls comprising 195 seats. The Congress, which was hopeful of a better show in Belagavi, won 10 seats while the Asaduddin Owaisi-led All India Majli-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (MIM) managed to secure just one. Twelve seats went to Independents, including two from the MES, according to data shared by the state election commission on Monday.The victory for the BJP will help boost the saffron party’s confidence ahead of the yet-to-be announced zilla and taluk panchayat elections which would be a major test for all political outfits to understand the support in the grass roots which would be a crucial indicator before the 2023 assembly polls.In Hubballi-Dharwad, the BJP won 39 out of the total 82 wards that went to the polls, while the Congress secured 33 seats and the Janata Dal (Secular) managed only one. The AIMIM won three seats and six went to Independents.In Kalaburagi, the BJP broke new ground with 23 seats at the cost of the Congress which managed 27. The JD(S) won four and there was one Independent, which leaves the district with no clear majority for any one party. However, the hung verdict gives rise to the possibility of local alliances including one with the BJP and JD(S). All in all, the BJP managed to win 97 out of the total 195 seats in the three large corporation ULB polls while the Congress got 70. The JD(S), which has no real presence in the northern districts of the state, managed 5 seats in all.The AIMIM had an impressive outing with a total of four seats while 19 went to Independents.The BJP also won 12 out of the 31 seats in Bengaluru Rural, one out of 23 in Chikamagalur and one in Bidar. The Congress managed to win 15 seats in Chikmagaluru.“The government is in their hands. They have more resources, misuse power and all officials work for them. As a matter of fact, in Kalaburagi, the commissioner acted like a BJP worker,” Siddaramaiah, the former chief minister and Congress’s leader of the opposition said on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-impresses-in-urban-local-body-polls-wins-35-seats-in-belagavi-101630953946450.html
07-09-2021||India||11 contacts of Nipah victim symptomatic: Kerala govt||At least 11 of 251 people on the contact list of the 12-year-old boy, who succumbed to Nipah virus in Kozhikode district on Sunday, have been admitted to hospital with symptoms, state health minister Veena George said on Monday.At least 54 of the total are believed to be in the high risk category, she added. The minister’s remarks came as the Union health ministry directed the state government to shift all high-risk contacts of Nipah-infected patients to a quarantine facility to prevent further spread. Briefing reporters in Kozhikode on the situation, George said the samples of all 11 people -- mainly the deceased’s mother, three relatives and seven healthcare workers -- were sent for testing to the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune and the results of eight of them are likely to be available late at night. The condition of all the 11 people is stable, she said. “There are 38 persons in isolation at the Kozhikode Medical College hospital of which 11 have shown symptoms. Samples of eight persons have been sent to Pune NIV for testing,” the minister said. “Hectic efforts are on to trace the source of infection. Experts have recovered half-eaten rambutan fruits from the premises of the boy who died on Sunday. They also found a fruit bat habitat near their house,” the minister said. Fruit bats are considered to be the main carrier and reservoir of the virus. “We have traced all contacts of the boy and quarantined them. The next week is crucial for us. We have to keep utmost vigil,” the minister said, adding that the health department will also look into some of the earlier deaths, if any, with the same symptoms. The minister said that Pune NIV is planning to set up a special laboratory at the medical college hospital here to facilitate quick testing. The health department is also planning to launch a mobile application to check the exact situation of Nipah and contain any false information. “Different teams are at work to find out the source of infection. If needed, more experts will be deployed. Since the whole state is following strict physical distancing and masking, the chances of high transmission are low. But we can’t lower our guard,” she said. Relatives of the deceased boy told a team from the National Centre for Disease Control that he had eaten rambutan fruits two days before he developed a fever. The team later found rambutan and guava at his house. An area of 3 km radius from the house of the deceased has been sealed. The state animal husbandry department has also started examining domestic animals and pets in the area and collected blood samples in this regard. “The blood and serum samples of the two goats, owned by the child’s family, will be tested by the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases in Bhopal,” she said, adding that a team from Bhopal NIV will reach Kozhikode on Wednesday.The minister exuded confidence that the latest outbreak will be localised and contained like the 2018 outbreak which claimed 17 lives in the district. The government has released a Nipah-management plan, listing out protocols related to treatment procedures, precautions and norms for hospitalisation, among other details. The state government has also decided to suspend the ongoing Covid-19 vaccination drive in Kozhikode city and outskirts in view of the new threat, she said. Following the fresh detection of the virus in Kozhikode, which is seeing cases for the second time in three years, a high alert has been sounded in the two neighbouring districts -- Kannur and densely-populated Malappuram. Malappuram had also reported a few cases in the last outbreak. Meanwhile in a letter to Kerala chief secretary V P Joy, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said the state will have to implement strict surveillance measures to track each suspected case.Based on the report submitted by the Central team of National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), which was deputed to Kozhikode, Bhushan said: “Both the hospital-based and community-based surveillance needs to be strengthened. Awareness needs of Acute Enchephalitis Syndrome/Respiratory Distress and risk communicated to the public.”In the letter, Bhushan said that the central team has carried out field investigations along with the district surveillance officer and other officials. “It also visited the epi-centre, house of the 12-year-old male diseased child, and interacted with family members and others.”Recommending the measures, the union health secretary said: “The district authorities must identify primary and secondary contacts and prepare line listing of high risk and low risk”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/11-contacts-of-nipah-victim-symptomatic-kerala-govt-101630953887865.html
07-09-2021||India||Experts question govt nod to Ganesh festival||Karnataka government’s decision to allow Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations in the state has raised concerns among experts. Even though the government has decided to allow celebrations only in districts with a positivity rate of less than 2% and strict restrictions have been imposed in districts where celebrations have been allowed, experts are questioning the decision. Dr N Manjunath, member of state Covid Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) and director of Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research, said that festivals could become potential super-spreaders if a large number of people are allowed to celebrate together. “A large number of people usually come out for festivals like Ganesh Chaturthi and markets are often overcrowded. We have our Covid situation under control, such overcrowding could undo it,” he said. Another TAC member on the condition of anonymity said that even though the government has put strict restrictions in place, implementation has been a problem. “How will they control the markets? In every festival before this, we have seen photos of people thronging KR Market and other places. Ganesha being a longer festival than others, the chances of gathering it are much higher. If you look at how cases have increased in Kerala after Onam, we should have imposed more restrictions,” he said. Talking about the restrictions imposed for the festival, R Ashok, Karnataka’s revenue minister on Sunday had said, “The (Karnataka) government is allowing the (Ganesh Chathurthi) festival but several restrictions are in place. There will be no procession orchestra, no DJ and pandals must be 50/50 feet and Covid vaccination is compulsory wherever the Ganapathy festival is being held. However, the minister was not clear on how the government or authorities will decide who will be allowed to keep the idol in public spaces. In Karnataka, like other states, Ganesh Chathurthi is celebrated with much pomp and fervor with public processions, dance, cultural programs which attract large crowds of worshippers and others. Ashok said that the government has approved to allow one Ganesh festival per ward in urban areas and that district authorities would decide on similar requests in rural regions. Officials have stressed that prior permission is mandatory for anyone from the local district administration or from the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (in Bengaluru city areas) to install Ganesha idols and to organize related festivities. “Officials will be deployed to ensure celebrations conclude by 9 pm. It is mandatory that all organizers of the celebration shall be fully vaccinated as well,” a senior government official said. Health Department officials, however, said strict measures are in place. A senior official said it has been clearly stated that the height of the idols installed at public places and in houses should not be more than 4 ft and 2 ft, respectively. Deputy commissioners of border districts had been empowered to take decisions on granting permission to public celebrations of the festival depending on the Covid-19 cases. “During the celebrations, the state government has barred the distribution of food and prasad. Also, if anyone violates the guidelines to have only one Ganesh idol in each ward, will face police action. We have already held a meeting with the police and one more meeting will be held to finalize the decision,” said BBMP commissioner Gaurav Gupta on Monday. Meanwhile, while neighbouring Tamil Nadu has banned public processions and celebrations , Andhra Pradesh and Maharashtra have decided to ban all Ganesh celebrations considering increase in Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/experts-question-govt-nod-to-ganesh-festival-101630953886609.html
07-09-2021||India||Centre emasculating tribunals: Apex court||The Union government has no respect for the judgments of the top court and is now testing its patience, said an anguished Supreme Court on Monday, adding the government is “emasculating tribunals” by not filling up vacancies in them. A bench, headed by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana, further observed it is “very upset” by the government and censured the Centre for re-enacting the very same provisions for the administration of tribunals that were struck down by the court in July. “The government is bent upon not honouring the orders of this court... Virtually the same Act is re-enacted. We cannot have this situation. Legislature can take away the basis of a judgment but you cannot overrule a judgment by re-enacting the very same provisions,” said the bench, which also included justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and L Nageswara Rao. The bench said that the court will have to consider staying the new law since it is a “replica” of the old law, which was held to be unconstitutional. There are more than 200 posts lying vacant across 15 tribunals in the country. Commending the Centre for clearing nine names as judges of the Supreme Court within a week, the bench clarified that it is not looking for “any confrontation with the government” but added that the reluctance in appointing members in tribunals has left most of them virtually defunct. The court was hearing a clutch of separate petitions on vacancies across the tribunals and a challenge to the Tribunal Reforms Bill, which was passed by both the houses in the Monsoon session of the parliament. The petitioners included advocate Amit Sahni, Congress MP Jairam Ramesh and Delhi Bar Association. Senior advocates Abhishek Manu Singhvi and Vikas Singh appeared for some of the petitioners. When the hearing commenced on Monday, solicitor general Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre, requested an adjournment seeking accommodation for attorney general KK Venugopal, who was not available. But the bench turned down the S-G’s request. “There is no respect to the judgment of this court. You are testing our patience,” retorted the bench, asking Mehta about the number of people appointed in tribunals since the last hearing two weeks ago. At this point, Mehta shared with the bench a communication received from the Union finance ministry on Monday morning that said the government will take decisions within two weeks in cases where the Search-Cum-Selection Committee (SCSS) for various tribunals have made their recommendations. These committees are led by a sitting Supreme Court judge and also include secretaries from the government. Justice Rao, on his part, asked Mehta why the government did not make appointments for names sent a year-and-a-half ago when those recommendations were made completely in accordance with the rules existing at that point of time. “Many tribunals are on the verge of closing down. Then, there are tribunals working with only one member... See the burden we have to face now. You are emasculating the tribunals by not appointing members,” said the judge. Justice Chandrachud flagged vacancies in company law tribunals. “NCLT (National Company Law Tribunal) and NCLAT (National Company Law Appellate Tribunal) are critical to the economy. They are cornerstones of reconstructions and restructuring of companies. But because of vacancies, they have not been able to adhere to the timelines. A very critical situation has arisen.”Justice Chandrachud called it a “waste of time and energy” when the government was not interested in clearing names, which were sent by the selection committee in consultation with the government’s bureaucrats, after they were okayed by the Intelligence Bureau (IB). At this, the CJI said the court is now contemplating the option of staying all tribunal related laws and asking the high courts to start dealing with the cases or issue a contempt notice to the government. “What is your alternative proposal? Tell us if you do not want tribunals. If you don’t have faith in the two judges of this court and your own bureaucrats (who comprise the selection committee for tribunals), we can’t understand. Let us also tell you that we are not bothered about your subsequent legislation,” the bench told the S-G. It highlighted that there is no difference between the new law on tribunals and the one that was struck down by the court in July. Justice Chandrachud cited at least four such provisions. The first one related to fixing the tenure of members and chairpersons of tribunals at four years while the court in its July judgment said the tenure has to be for five years. Similarly, the minimum age requirement of 50 years, which was quashed by the court in July, still finds a place in the new law. The court ruling held that the provision relating to the recommendation of two names for each post by the SCSC and further, requiring the decision to be taken by the government preferably within three months is violative of the Constitution. But the new law puts this back in the statute. The provision relating to allowance and perks have also been brought back. “The situation is very serious. We are very upset with what has transpired. We will give you 3-4 days and we will then pass an order on the new legislation after hearing you...you cannot re-enact the same provision. This is not validating legislation,” said the bench. It added the court cannot go on delivering judgments after judgments on the same issue. The court issued notices in the petitions for filling up vacancies in the tribunals and against the validity of the new law while fixing the matter for next Monday. “We expect some appointments by Monday next,” the bench told the S-G. Mehta agreed to come back with instructions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-emasculating-tribunals-apex-court-101630953526697.html
07-09-2021||India||UP deaths causedby dengue, 2 other diseases: Centre||A majority of the fever cases in Uttar Pradesh’s Firozabad district are due to dengue, and a few due to scrub typhus and leptospirosis, according to the investigation of Union health ministry’s expert team which was rushed to the region following a fever outbreak that has claimed at least 51 lives, mostly children. Dengue is a mosquito-borne viral infection; scrub typhus is caused by bacteria spread by mites; and leptospirosis spreads through water or soil contaminated by the urine of bacteria-infected animals such as pigs, dogs, rodents, etc.As many as 51 persons have died, of which at least 36 includes children, in Western Uttar Pradesh over the past two weeks. Hundreds more are undergoing treatment for the diseases currently.A six-member central team of the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and National Vector Borne Disease Control Porgramme (NVBDCP) was rushed to Firozabad last week. Preliminary findings of its investigation were submitted to the Union health ministry on Monday.“The central team has observed that the majority of cases are due to dengue, while a few because of scrub typhus and leptospirosis. Vector indices were also found to be high with house index and container index, both, above 50% in Firozabad district; and accordingly the vector surveillance and control measures have been instituted,” said Bhushan in his letter to UP chief secretary, RK Tiwari.These indices show the percentage of homes of containers infested with larvae during inspections.Based on their detailed observation, the government experts recommended a slew of measures that must be strictly and quickly implemented to contain the outbreak.All fever patients need to be screened for dengue, malaria, scrub typhus, and leptospirosis, the team suggested; along with ongoing fever survey, vector control measures, and fever camps to be continued at the local level. Surveillance needs to be strengthened with the implementation of Integrated Health Information Platform in the district in coordination with central surveillance unit of the integrated disease surveillance programme (IDSP) and NCDC.“Entomological (related to insects) activities to be strengthened and continued as per standard guidelines and standard operating procedures of NVBDCP (National Vector Borne Disease Control Programme). Isolation beds and admission facilities in district hospital of Firozabad and neighbouring districts need to be augmented; a short reorientation should be organised of all doctors at primary health centre, community health centre, and district hospital cum medical college on recent guidelines for management of dengue, scrub typhus and leptospirosis; services of experts on infectious diseases from KGMU and similar institutions may be utilized for this purpose; and information education and communication activities need to be intensified by the district administration,” Bhushan added in his letter outlining the central team’s suggestions.NCDC has also deputed two senior experts in the district for 14 days to help the district in strengthening its outbreak response.UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath held a meeting and directed teams of specialists from Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences, Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital and King George’s Medical University in Lucknow to also be sent to Firozabad, Agra and Mathura to guide local doctors and oversee treatment of patients. To contain the outbreak, the Firozabad district administration has said it is releasing about 25,000 mosquitofish that eat larvae of dengue-breeding mosquitoes in ponds.District health officials have started releasing the fish, generically known as Gambusia, in ponds in urban as well as rural areas of the district, Dinesh Kumar Premi, chief medical officer (CMO) told PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/updeaths-causedby-dengue-2-other-diseases-centre-101630953405440.html
07-09-2021||India||Must find ways, means to boost farm productivity and agri exports: Piyush Goyal||Union food & public distribution minister Piyush Goyal on Monday stressed the need for finding ways and means to augment farm productivity and agriculture exports to boost farm incomes in the country.He also said that the Central Warehousing Corporation (CWC) and the Food Corporation of India (FCI) will soon submit a comprehensive modern crop storage plan for the benefit of farmers in India, according to an official release.Speaking at the Conference on Agri Infra Fund and Digital India, Goyal said that a cluster-based approach in agriculture produce marketing and exports will enable to “bring down cost of production without affecting quality.”He also threw light on the works done in the last seven years, including India featuring in the ninth position in the top 10 list of agricultural produce exporters in 2019 with 3.1% global agricultural exports as per WTO report. Goyal also said that the export of agricultural and allied products – including marine and plantation items, saw a 17.34% hike during 2020-21 as opposed to its previous financial year (2019-20).At Monday’s event, the minister said that focus needs to be present on “five pillars to create atma nirbhar Kisan”. These include the Agriculture Infrastructure Fund of ₹1 lakh crore, the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN), digital agriculture, national mission on oilseeds and oil palm, and export of agriculture products, the official government release read.Talking about the various initiatives and works done by the Centre, Goyal, who also holds the profile of the Union commerce minister, said that the department of commerce has reached out to the states, districts and farms in order to boost a rise in exports of agriculture products.He added that farmers have been given a “stake in exports of their produce, export market linkages [have been] provided to farmers/FPOs,” and export-oriented production with Farmer Producer Organisations (FPO) have also been encouraged.The minister, while outlining the agricultural achievements, mentioned the export of dragon fruit to London and Bahrain, a consignment of ‘Raja Mircha’ (king chili) from Nagaland exported to London by air for the first time, and ‘Shahi Litchi’ from Bihar exported to the UK as well by air, among others.Goyal also mentioned export of saffron and dry fruits from Jammu & Kashmir to Saudi Arabia and a consignment of vegetables consisting of curry leaves and ladies finger sourced from Hardiwar exported to Dubai.“India has the attention of the entire world today and we are being looked upon as a trusted partner,” the release quoted him as saying.Goyal said that India is “expecting FTAs/PTAs with many countries” for instance, the UK, the EU and Australia, among others that will help in “boosting agriculture exports as well.”The minister added that by “expediting technology adoption” in agricultural practices, India can boost its competitive advantage further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/must-find-ways-means-to-boost-farm-productivity-and-agri-exports-piyush-goyal-101630952750572.html
07-09-2021||India||12.5 mn Covid-19 vaccine doses being given in a day in India: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said India administered as high as 12.5 million doses against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) daily, which is more than the entire population of several countries. “…Free vaccines to everyone and the confidence of 130 crore Indians is the result of self-reliance in vaccines. India is making a record by administering 1.25 crore vaccines in a day. The number of vaccines India is administering in a day is more than the entire population of many countries,” the PM said while interacting with health care workers and Covid-19 vaccine beneficiaries of Himachal Pradesh. On August 28, Himachal became the first state in the country to cover first vaccine dose of all eligible beneficiaries. The state has also crossed almost one third of the population in the case of second dose also. “The success of India’s vaccination campaign is the result of the culmination of hard work and valour of every Indian. The ‘Sabka Prayas’ that I had mentioned from the Red Fort on the 75th Independence Day is a reflection of that. After Himachal, Sikkim and Dadra Nagar Haveli have crossed the 100% first dose milestone and many states are also very close to it,” he added. Modi reiterated the need for making concerted efforts to ensure those who took their first dose must also take the second dose and complete the course. He gave credit for achieving this milestone to health care workers and support staff on ground. He appreciated the tireless efforts of Covid warriors, including doctors, paramedical staff, Asha and anganwadi workers, and teachers. “This achievement is the result of the high spirits of all health workers, ASHA workers, Anganwadi workers, teachers and all other colleagues. There is also a lot of hard work by the people associated with the health sector, be it doctors, paramedical staff, or other assistants. In this too, a large number of our sisters have played a special role,” the prime minister said. Modi said as many as 700 million vaccines have been administered so far in the country and said that doctors, nurses, Anganwadi-ASHA workers, local administration, vaccine manufacturing companies and scientists of India have put in their best efforts. He also warned that people couldn’t afford to drop their guard just yet. “There has been a rapid pace of vaccination, but we have to guard against any indifference and carelessness and I have been reiterating a mantra from Day 1 that we must not forget the mantra of ‘Dawai Bhi Kadai Bhi (yes to medicine, yes to caution),’ he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/125-mn-covid-19-vaccine-doses-being-given-in-a-day-in-india-pm-modi-101630952867196.html
07-09-2021||India||Experts call for reopening of schools||Schools must be reopened for in-person teaching for all age groups, a collective of epidemiologists has recommended, saying there was no evidence it would lead to a greater infection risk among children and that keeping them home will instead lead to lasting social and developmental impairment and increase inequality among privileged and underprivileged children. Last year, 167 countries across the world had implemented measures like lockdowns and school closures to prevent transmission of a virus not very well understood at the time. Most countries re-opened schools slowly; India was among the last eight to still have physical schools closed before some of the states started reopening them, the Indian Association of Preventive and Social Medicine said in its report. The report addresses two main concerns when it comes to sending children to a school – the risk of infection and severe disease in the children and the risk of transmission to other more vulnerable members of the family. The report says if children get infected at a similar rate as adults, most are asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic and are less likely to pass the virus. Most children also do not need hospital and intensive (ICU) care, the report said, citing studies. These factors, the report adds, makes a case to reopen schools before vaccinations are rolled out. The report suggests that staff members and vulnerable people at homes of schoolchildren must be vaccinated to protect from severe disease. “What we are saying is that depending on the local situations – number of cases, positivity rate – schools should be the first to open and last to close. What we have seen is even when children are at home, they are exposed to the virus. Going to school does not increase that risk,” said Dr Chandrakant Lahariya, well-known epidemiologist, who was part of the group. “If children can go to malls and markets, why not schools?”On the other hand, the report added, keeping schoolchildren at home can lead to social and developmental challenges for many, especially the underprivileged. The report states that with rapid digitisation of education during the pandemic, those without access to phones, computers, and internet are unable to keep up. Schools also teach children social skills that cannot be taught online. The report also adds specific risks for children from poor families: schools provide mid-day meals and once these are closed, the likelihood of a child being pushed into child labour rises. Going to school also prevents early age obesity and the exercise helps young age development. “Due to the pandemic a major chunk of our population has been deprived of education with virtually no education in rural areas due to the digital divide. The growth and development along with nutritional status from preschool to higher classes is compromised. The overall objective of the advisory is to support the government to reopen the schools with appropriate precautions. Benefits of opening the schools far outweigh the risk of Covid-19,” said Dr Suneela Garg, president of IAPSM and member of the Lancet commission on Covid-19 India. The report also states steps to ensure safe return to schools – classrooms must be well-ventilated, students seated apart, alternate attendance be allowed, face masks and regular hand-washing be compulsory and staff be vaccinated. The recommendations also call for counsellors to address anxieties that may arise due to the return to school in children. The organisation includes people such as the chairperson of the scientific advisory committee of the National Institute of Epidemiology Dr JP Muliyil, and the head of the department of community medicine at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Dr Sanjay Rai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/experts-call-for-reopening-of-schools-101630952865872.html
07-09-2021||India||Issue notice to Centre on Bengal plea against CBI probes: SC to registrar||The Supreme Court on Monday directed its registry to issue a formal notice to the Centre on a suit filed by the West Bengal government to debar the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) from conducting probes in the state without prior approval of the government. A bench, led by Justice L Nageswara Rao, said the notice has to be issued as a matter of procedure. “The registry has to automatically issue a notice. There is no procedure for listing of suits before the court without issuance of a notice. We will ask the registry to issue a notice. We will list this matter after four weeks since the notice has to be for 28 days,” the bench, which also comprised justices BR Gavai and BV Nagarathna, said. Appearing for the state, senior lawyers Kapil Sibal and Sidharth Luthra said the suit was listed before the bench perhaps because the state government had also sought an interim order to restrain the CBI from lodging any fresh case and from proceeding in other cases till the apex court’s final decision. Sibal and Luthra added that the suit involves a pure question of law. At this, the bench said that the state government will have the liberty to approach it in case any urgent directions are required in the next four weeks. The state’s ruling Trinammol Congress alleges that after the Bharatiya Janata Party lost the state elections it has embarked on a vendetta using central agencies to target the state and its leaders. The BJP claims that after the election results were announced, the TMC unleashed violence on its (the former’s ) workers and supporters. Last week, the state also appealed the SC against the Calcutta High Court’s order on a CBI probe into post poll violence in the state. Underlining that the TMC government had in November 2018, withdrawn general consent to carry out a probe in the territory of the state, the suit maintained that registration of 12 cases by the central agency despite withdrawal of consent was an instance of “constitutional overreach” by the Union government. The state said that the CBI has no inherent jurisdiction to conduct a probe in any part of the state, including railway areas, till the time it obtains a prior sanction. Claiming that the agency has been exercising its powers in an “unconstitutional manner”, the suit said the registration of cases by the CBI was an encroachment on the legal rights of the state. The petition demands annulment of all 12 cases registered by the CBI and to restrain the agency from lodging any fresh cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/issue-notice-to-centre-on-bengal-plea-against-cbi-probes-sc-to-registrar-101630952808206.html
07-09-2021||India||Chandrayaan-2 has completed 9,000 orbits: Isro||The Chandrayaan-2 has completed 9,000 revolutions around the moon, Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) chairperson Dr K Sivan said on Monday, after releasing data gathered by eight payloads aboard the orbiter on the eve of the second anniversary of India’s attempt to soft-land near the lunar pole on September 7, 2019. The space agency is also conducting a two-day workshop to disseminate information about the publicly available data and the research already conducted. This is a milestone as India’s previous lunar mission had stopped communicating after ten months in lunar orbit. In contrast, the Chandrayaan-2 orbiter is expected to function in lunar orbit for seven years, collecting scientific data. “The payloads will provide repetitive data from multiple points due to the many years of operation,” said Dr AS Kiran Kumar, former chairperson of ISRO and chair of the apex science committee at the space agency. The orbiter will also function as the communication link between the lander-rover Chandrayaan-3 mission, which India plans to launch in 2022. Talking about the science from the eight surviving payloads, Dr Sivan said, “The results are very much encouraging.” He further urged the academia, students and everyone interested to utilise the publicly available data to generate new science. “The data is national property use it to discover new science,” he said. He said the moon was crucial to understanding the origin and evolution of the solar system. “Being airless, there is no chemical weathering of the evidence, especially at the shadowed areas at the poles,” he said. Moon could also become a base for further inter-planetary travel, with the water becoming fuel for such mission, he added. Two of the payloads onboard the orbiter – Dual Frequency Synthetic Aperture Radar and the Imaging Infra-Red Spectrometer – have been able to distinguish between the water and hydroxyl (OH) molecules on the moon that were first detected by its predecessor. OH molecules were more likely to be found in the space-weathered lunar plains with high surface temperatures whereas more water molecules were observed in fresh surfaces. The Chandrayaan-2 Large Area Soft X-ray Spectrometer (CLASS) can map elemental abundance at a high spatial resolution, much better than the instruments available so far. The Solar X-ray Monitor (XSM) studied for the first time quiet sun microflares; almost all solar flares are observed in the solar active regions. The observations provide strong support to the hypothesis of the occurrence of small-scale impulsive heating events everywhere on the solar disk, which could contribute to the heating of the corona. On that day, just 2.1 km from its destination, the Vikram lander crashed into the lunar orbit. The Vikram lander and Pragyan rover together had five payloads, with its most important task being the observation of water molecules in the permanently shaded region near the lunar South Pole where it was to land.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/isrochandrayaan2-has-completed-9-000-orbits-101630952805963.html
07-09-2021||India||Covishield’s immune response same as UK version of Oxford-AZ jab: Study||New Delhi: Covishield, the locally manufactured version of Oxford-AstraZeneca (AZD1222) vaccine against Coronavirus disease (Covid-19), has similar immune response as compared to AZD1222, and acceptable safety profile, according to the bridging phase 2/3 trial carried out in India. The trial’s results are part of a pre-print study yet to be peer reviewed.Covishield (SII-ChAdOx1 nCoV-19), locally manufactured by Pune based Serum Institute of India (SII) following technology transfer from AstraZeneca, was evaluated in a phase 2/3 immuno-bridging study in India.“SII-ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 has a non-inferior immune response compared to AZD1222 and an acceptable safety/reactogenicity profile,” said the the phase 2/3, Observer-Blind, Randomised, Controlled Study. The Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine is sold as Vaxzevria in Western markets.Between August 25 and October 31, 2020, 1601 participants were enrolled for the study, of which 401 were in the immunogenicity or reactogenicity cohort and 1200 in the safety cohort.“After two doses of SII-ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 or AZD1222, seroconversion rates for anti-spike IgG antibodies were 98% and 98·9%, respectively…,” said researchers.Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) granted emergency use authorization to Covishield on January 3, this year, after the national drugs regulator’s subject expert committee recommended its approval.As per Union health ministry’s provisional data till 7pm on Monday, 697 million doses of the vaccine have so far been administered.SII submitted the drugs regulator safety, immunogenicity and efficacy data generated on 23,745 participants aged 18 years and older from overseas clinical studies.The overall efficacy of this recombinant chimpanzee adenovirus vector anti Covid-19 vaccine was found to be 70.42%.The company also submitted data from the bridging trials to the national drugs regulator that was not made public then.“Further, M/s Serum was granted permission to conduct Phase-II/III clinical trial on 1600 participants within the country. The firm also submitted the interim safety and immunogenicity data generated from this trial and the data was found comparable with the data from the overseas clinical studies. After detailed deliberations Subject Expert Committee has recommended for the grant of permission for restricted use in emergency situation subject to certain regulatory conditions,” the drugs controller said in a statement while approving Covishield for emergency use in India.A senior public health expert said on condition of anonymity that while “the results have been on the expected lines” the question was “why it took so long to put out results considering they did submit interim data with the drugs regulator for review during the EUA process.” There was no response from the SII on the issue.Meanwhile, commenting on the issue of counterfeit Covishield vaccine doses in circulation in the South East Asia and Africa region of WHO (World Health Organisation), the Union health ministry issued certain identifying markers for those administering Covid-19 vaccine doses on ground, to authenticate the supply.“…it was requested that the vaccines need to be carefully authenticated before use… the information on genuine Covid-19 vaccine labels and additional information of the Covid-19 vaccine in use is being enclosed for reference of programme managers and service providers under the National Covid-19 vaccination programme,” it said in a letter to state governments.For Covishield, the advisory says, “…The lettering is printed in special white ink to be more clear and readable. The general trend is to keep white lettering in reverse and just print the solid color. This gives the labels a special look and unique claret and readability. The entire label has been given a special texture honeycomb effect which is visible only at a specific angle…”For Covaxin, the ministry mentioned that vaccinators should look for an invisible UV helix (DNA like structure) on label that is only visible under UV light; micro text hidden in label claim dots that is written as Covaxin; green foil effect in the ‘x’ of Covaxin; and holographic effect on Covaxin.For the third vaccine that is being administered under the programme, the Russian made Sputnik V, the ministry clarified that imported products are from two different bulk manufacturing sites from Russian and, hence, there are two different labels for both these sites. While all the information and design is same, only manufacturer name is different in the pack. For all the imported products till now, the English label is only available on the front and back of the carton of 5 ampoule pack. All other sides including primary label on the ampoule is in Russian.The letter also has scanned pictures of all three vaccine packs for reference. “The service providers and monitoring teams for Covid-19 vaccination may be informed about these details and to ensure due diligence towards recognition of counterfeit vaccines,” the health ministry’s letter said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covishields-immune-response-same-as-uk-version-of-oxford-az-jab-study-101630952628342.html
07-09-2021||India||Former UP governor booked for sedition over remarks against Yogi govt||Former governor of Uttar Pradesh, Aziz Qureshi, has been booked for sedition over his alleged derogatory remarks against the  Yogi Adityanath-led government, the police said on Monday.  Qureshi, however, said he was misquoted to cause political harm.According to the police, Qureshi has been booked following a complaint by local Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader, Akash Kumar Saxena, at the Civil Lines police station in Rampur district on Sunday. In his complaint, Saxena alleged that after visiting Samajwadi Party leader Azam Khan’s house and meeting his wife Tazeen Fatma, Qureshi made derogatory statements against the Adityanath government and compared it to a “blood-sucking demon”. “The statement can create tension between two communities and create unrest in the society,” the complaint added.Qureshi (81) is a senior Congress leader who served as the governor of Mizoram from 2014 to 2015 and also briefly held charge of Uttar Pradesh in June 2014. Speaking to news agency ANI, the former governor said: “It is my right to oppose the policies of the government and I will fight for it till my last breath in a democratic way. My statement is being completely distorted to harm me politically and to mislead the public.”“I had said that there have not been as many atrocities in earlier days like today. I have not made any remarks against anyone,” he added. According to the FIR, Qureshi has been booked under sections 153A (promoting enmity between two groups on grounds of religion, race), 153B (imputations, assertions prejudicial to national integration), 124A (sedition), and 505(1)(B) (intent to cause fear or alarm to the public) of the Indian Penal Code.“The FIR against Aziz Qureshi was lodged on the complaint of one Akash Saxena. Qureshi has been booked under sedition on the basis of the complaint made to the police. A team of the local police station is investigating the matter. We are also collecting video evidence of the incident for probe,” said additional superintendent of police (Rampur) Sansar Singh.Hitting out at the government, Samajwadi Party spokesperson Abdul Hafiz Gandhi said: “The words by Mr Qureshi may not be in good taste but how on earth does his statement constitutes the offence of sedition. Since when has CM Yogi became a state? The criticism of government is not sedition, UP police needs to keep this in mind. The Supreme Court has also expressed concerns about the misuse of the law. It has asked the central government why is it not repealing a colonial era law that was used against our freedom fighters. Rampant misuse of this law shows the anti-democratic character of the present UP government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-up-governor-aziz-qureshi-booked-for-sedition-over-remarks-against-yogi-govt-101630952505967.html
07-09-2021||India||Govt will create guardrails around new IT rules: MoS Rajeev Chandrasekhar||Union minister of state for electronics and information technology Rajeev Chandrasekhar on Monday said the government is working on “guardrails”, or standard operating procedures (SOPs), to address “grey areas” for social media companies, such as Facebook and Twitter, to comply with the new intermediary guidelines.“Around the IT guidelines and the IT Act, there are some grey areas. We will create guardrails and SOPs and release them to the public. The jurisprudence will evolve; cyberspace is an area that governments are coming to terms with,” Chandrasekhar said in an interview.Stating that the internet initially began as an enabler of connectivity, the minister said: “But in 2021, the internet has both good and bad facets. The law will accordingly evolve and the ministry will create clarifications where necessary.”Social media platforms and industry bodies have been seeking SOPs from the government ever since the new guidelines came into effect on February 25. The guidelines, seen as controversial by the industry as well as activists, put in place a new mechanism for companies to regulate content, appoint officers who will be liable for compliance, and adopt features such as traceability of messages and voluntary user verification.The SOPs are expected to clarify which all government bodies can ask social media companies to remove content -- one issue that has been repeatedly raised by companies.Chandrasekhar said the government is committed to ensuring that the internet is open, safe and secure. “At the same time, the intermediaries that provide these services also have to be accountable. We don’t want any child or any woman or any person to feel unsafe on the internet.”The minister highlighted that the new guidelines, which courted controversy for traceability requirements and takedown powers over news articles, were meant to ensure user safety. “As far as the issue of takedown is concerned, every sovereign government has the right to direct takedown of content that is illegal, wrong or can cause harm to users.”The guidelines have been challenged by at least seven associations and activists representing digital new platforms and intermediaries. WhatsApp has also challenged the traceability clause, which mandates intermediaries primarily in the nature of messaging to identify the originator of a message.Chandrasekhar also stressed that the right to free speech was guaranteed by the Constitution and no bureaucrat or minister could take it away. “On the issue of censorship, there is no cause for concern. There is no reason for anyone to fear it. The Constitution guarantees the rights. If people try to take it away, like the UPA did with section 66A, the courts will strike it down.”His reference is to the now defunct section 66A of the IT Act which was read down by the courts. Section 66 (A), which prohibited the sending of information of a “grossly offensive” or “menacing” nature through computers and communication devices, has been used by several states to arrest people over posts on social media that officials claimed were “seditious”,” communally sensitive” or abusive.Most of these arrests were for posting controversial remarks or photos, while some were for sharing, commenting on or liking such posts. The section was struck down by the Supreme Court in 2015.The minister said that as tech conglomerates turn bigger and more powerful, his government wanted to ensure they remained accountable.“We don’t want the internet to be unsafe. Social media intermediaries provide a service, we don’t want them to ignore the users. The guidelines are about creating user safety as platforms become bigger,” he said.Drawing attention to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s assertion that the internet should remain free of government interference, Chandrasekhar said some platforms are using their own rules to scuttle free speech.“I use the words open, safe and trusted. The PM’s track record on this has been that the internet should remain free of government interference. Moreover, we are concerned that some platforms use their own rules to scuttle free speech. That the government is censoring content is a narrative that is being peddled by some people.”The government has been a stand off with Twitter since January this year, when it asked the company to remove content about the farmers protests. Twitter refused to block account of activists and journalists saying that it was defending free speech. The government also sent Twitter two non-compliance notices. The company was also initially non-compliant with the new guidelines but has since appointed the necessary officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-will-create-guardrails-around-new-it-rules-mos-rajeev-chandrasekhar-101630952448937.html
07-09-2021||India||Indian Hindus, Muslims share same ancestry: RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat said on Monday that Hindus and Muslims of India share the same ancestry as he reasserted that every Indian citizen is a “Hindu”.Speaking at a conclave organised by a Pune-based think tank, Global Strategic Policy Foundation, Bhagwat urged “sensible” Muslim leaders to “oppose tyrannical thoughts”.“The basis of unity is our motherland and our glorious tradition. For us, the word Hindu is the synonym for motherland, ancestors and the legacy of the Indian culture. The word Hindu does not denote any caste or linguistic definition, but it’s the name of a culture that guides the development and uplift of every human being. All those who accept this, irrespective of any caste, creed, religion or language, are Hindus and in this backdrop, we consider every Indian a Hindu,” he said.The conclave, organised on the subject ‘Rashtra Pratham Rashtra Sarvatopari’ (literally, “nation first, nation above all”), was also attended by Muslim scholars and intellectuals.“Islam made inroads in the country through aggressors. This is the history which should be told in that fashion. Sensible leaders from the community should oppose tyrannical thoughts. This needs to be done for a longer period and we have a herculean task before us. Our social loss will be less if we begin early,” he said.He further stressed that all “should think about the dominance of India” and not “the dominance of Muslims”.“If India becomes the superpower, it would not pose any challenge before anybody, but it will be a superpower in the form of a Vishwaguru,” he said.Kerala governor Arif Mohammed Khan and Lt Gen Syed Ata Hasnain, chancellor of the Central University of Kashmir, were among the other speakers at the event.Khan said more diversity leads to a prosperous society and added “Indian culture considers everyone equal.”Hasnain urged Muslim intellectuals to be more vigilant in the wake of the changed situation in Afghanistan and thwart Pakistan’s attempts to target Indian Muslims.In July, the RSS chief had attempted to allay concerns that the Sangh is fuelling anti-minority sentiments in the county. He said there is a need to guard against fear-mongering that the Sangh is against minorities or that Islam is in danger in India. He had also said the Sangh has always believed that the DNA of the people of India is the same and that both Hindus and Muslims are one entity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-hindus-muslims-share-same-ancestry-rss-chief-mohan-bhagwat-101630952385870.html
07-09-2021||India||Afghanistan terrorism may spread to Kashmir: Russian ambassador||Russia and India have the shared concern of terrorism emanating from Afghanistan spreading to Russian territory or to Kashmir, Russian ambassador Nikolay Kudashev said on Monday against the backdrop of the Taliban takeover in Kabul.Counterterrorism cooperation is a key part of the India-Russia dialogue at various levels, and Moscow wants an inclusive government in Kabul to ensure stability and sustainable development in Afghanistan, Kudashev told reporters during an interaction at the Russian embassy.Separately, Bangladesh information minister Hasan Mahmud, who is on an official visit to New Delhi, told reporters at the Press Club of India that his country is closely watching developments in Afghanistan as they have implications for regional stability.“We are keeping an eye on that. Stability in Afghanistan is important for stability in the South Asian region,” Mahmud said. He added it was too early to talk about any recognition of a set-up formed by the Taliban.Kudashev, who spoke to reporters on the margins of an event at the Russian embassy, said Russia is closely cooperating with India to counter the danger of terrorism emanating from Afghanistan. Any flare-up of the civilian conflict would result in terrorism spilling over across the region, he said.“As far as the phenomenon of terror is concerned, we do share our concerns with India. There is a danger of terror...being spread to the Russian territory, to the territory of Kashmir maybe,” he said.“We want an inclusive government, we expect that Afghan soil would not be a source of terror emanating to the other countries of the region,” he said.“Thus, this is a matter of common concern and this is a matter of continued dialogue between Russia and India within multiple frameworks, be it the bilateral counterterrorism working group, [or] the track of national security councils [or] the track of defence ministers [and] foreign ministers,” he added.Russia’s main concern is stability in Afghanistan and building an inclusive government that can “offer itself for recognition to the international community to secure stability and sustainable development”, Kudashev said.Afghanistan “deserves peace, predictability and sustainable development, and India and Russia want “Afghanistan to be peaceful [and] friendly with each and every country in the region”, he said.“These are the very basic values which bring Russia and India together. I don’t see much of a difference in our positions,” Kudashev added. Both countries are also cooperating on Afghanistan within the framework of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) and its working group on Afghanistan.Kudashev said it was too early to talk about any recognition of a set-up created by the Taliban. “The new Taliban dispensation should prove that it is a responsible government, that it is able to build an inclusive government, that it is able to look after each and every minority, each and every region of Afghanistan, that it is able to build predictable foreign ties...with the regional and international community,” he said.“If that will be the case, we will be able to revisit this question,” he added.Kudashev’s comments came against the backdrop of some amount of disquiet in New Delhi over Moscow’s efforts to work more closely with Islamabad on the issue of Afghanistan. India was kept out of several recent meetings of the “extended troika” format organised by Russia, and Pakistan was part of these discussions.Zamir Kabulov, the Russian special presidential envoy for Afghanistan, had even said that India was not invited to participate in the “expanded troika” meetings because it does not have any influence on the Taliban.Kudashev said in response to questions that India and Russia were expected to hold multiple interactions this year, including the annual bilateral summit, a 2+2 dialogue of the defence and foreign ministers, and meetings of the military and technical commission, trade and economic commission, and other expert-level groups. These meetings will focus on matters such as UN reforms, strategic stability, the emerging regional architecture in Asia and the Pacific, and challenges such as terrorism, drug trafficking and crime.He noted there are “enormous opportunities” for bilateral cooperation in defence, oil and gas, nuclear power, space, infrastructure and connectivity. The Russian proposal to build six new nuclear reactors is still “on the table” and “it is for the Indian government to take a decision” on this matter, he said.Kudashev said Russia is expected to deliver the first batch of S-400 air defence systems under a $5.4-billion deal by October. “There are no issues as far as the timeline is concerned. It would be performed in due course,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afghanistan-terrorism-may-spread-to-kashmir-russian-ambassador-101630952327328.html
07-09-2021||India||Suvendu skips CID summons, gets relief from HC||The Calcutta high court on Monday granted Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Suvendu Adhikari protection from coercive action in two cases and stayed police proceedings in three others, criticising “misuse” of state machinery to investigate the Bengal leader of Opposition.The development came on a day Adhikari did not appear before the Criminal Investigation Department in connection with the probe into the death of his bodyguard, citing prior political engagements.Justice Rajasekhar Mantha stayed proceedings against Adhikari in connection with three cases pertaining to the death of the bodyguard, an alleged political clash in Nandigram and a case of snatching lodged in Contai, Nandigram and Panskura police stations, respectively, in Purba Medinipur district.Allowing investigation in an alleged job scam case registered with Maniktala police station in Kolkata and a case of allegedly threatening the police at Tamluk, the court directed that no coercive action can be taken against him in connection with these.Adhikari is not a named accused in the cases filed in Contai and Maniktala police stations.“in the instant case, there is prima facie evidence before this court of abuse and or misuse of state and police machinery in registering cases for investigation based on half-truths, fiction, concoctions and nonevents,” the court said.”The right to life and personal liberty under Article 21 is cardinal, above all and completely non-negotiable,” the bench added.Directing the West Bengal government to furnish information regarding any further FIR registered against Adhikari, the bench said that the state will have to obtain permission from the court before arresting him or taking any coercive action against him in all such cases.B Bhattacharya, Adhikari’s lawyer, said, “ In two cases, the court has said that investigators can question him at a place of Adhikari’s choice but would not be able to take any coercive action. In future too if any fresh cases are lodged, coercive actions can’t be taken against Adhikari without the court’s permission.”The high court asked the BJP leader to cooperate with the investigating officers in connection with the two cases in which probe will continue, while making it clear the investigators will, as far as possible, accommodate him, if he is required to give any statement, from a place and time convenient to him, considering his public responsibilities.The order was passed on Adhikari’s petition seeking the court’s intervention in criminal proceedings filed against him by the state police.He claimed that these cases were politically motivated.Earlier in the day, Adhikari was summoned by the CID for questioning in connection with the death case of his bodyguard. Adhikari, however, sent an email to the investigating agency saying that he had some political engagements and would be unable to appear for questioning.In July the CID initiated a fresh probe into the death of Adhikari’s security guard who reportedly died by suicide in 2018, officials said. The victim’s wife had lodged a complaint demanding a fresh probe. “He mailed us around 9.30 am, mentioning some political engagements due to which he was unable to come and meet our officers,” a CID officer told PTI. A CID team has already visited his Kanthi residence in connection with the probe.“We have to see the high court’s order first, to comment on it. But what I came to know is that in some of the cases the court has kept the option open where in Adhikari may be questioned by the police. He wanted to avoid any kind of investigation. The court didn’t allow it,” said Kunal Ghosh, Trinamool Congress spokesperson.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/suvendu-skips-cid-summons-gets-relief-from-hc-101630952267294.html
07-09-2021||India||Allow Covishield 2nd dose after 4 weeks: Kerala HC to Centre||The Kerala high court on Monday asked the Union government to allow the administration of the second dose of the Covishield vaccine after a gap of four weeks for those wishing to take the jab early, and willing to pay for it. It also asked the Union government to make necessary changes on the CoWin portal. The reduction in gap does not apply to those availing free vaccines under the government’s vaccination drive.“The decision on increasing the gap was based on opinion of experts after reviewing all the relevant data from across the globe and what was observed locally. Experts in committees on immunisation keep reviewing data and developments to update guidelines and advisories,” said an official in the central government, on condition of anonymity.The verdict came on a petition filed by Kitex Garments and Kitex Childrenswear, which last month questioned the long gap between two doses of vaccine. A single bench of Justice P B Suresh Kumar accepted the argument in the petition that if the Union and state governments can make exceptions for students travelling abroad and others (including sportspeople), the same privilege can be extended to others.The verdict comes even as Kerala continues to see a raging second wave of infections. The seven-day average of daily new cases in the state was 28,632 on Sunday, 69% of the corresponding seven-day average for the country as a whole.The two Kitex companies which bought vaccines for their employees, were unable to provide them a second dose after four weeks because of the government restriction.The gap between two doses of Covishield, the Indian version of the AstraZeneca/Oxford vaccine, was increased from 4-6 weeks in January to 12-16 weeks in May. While the government cited scientific evidence for this, it was widely believed that the gap was also increased to account for a shortage of vaccines. The gap between two doses of the other vaccine widely administered in India, Covaxin, has stayed constant at 4-6 weeks.The union government opposed the plea saying that 84-day gap between two doses of vaccine was related to efficacy and had nothing to do with the shortage of doses. It also cited the study of the national expert group on vaccination administration for Covid-19 to buttress its point. But the court said since both, union and state governments, were diluting the provision for a section it can’t be denied to others who are in need.“The decision of the government in providing relaxation in the protocol regarding administration of the second dose of vaccine to certain classes of persons alone amounts to discrimination,” it ruled.“If the government can permit who are intending to travel abroad to exercise a choice between early protection and better protection from Covid-19 infection, there is absolutely no reason why the same privilege shall not be extended to others who want early protection in connection with their employment and education, etc,” it said.Kitex in its plea contended that it vaccinated around 5000 of its workforce with the first dose but unable to administer the second dose due to the prevailing restrictions. It sought judicial intervention to speed up the process in view of mounting cases in the state and cited recent relaxations allowed by the state and central governments.Experts said that while the court has relaxed the gap for some people it doesn’t mean everyone will have to go for a second jab immediately. “A gap is always good. It gives extended immunity and many studies have proven it. I feel at least six-week gap is necessary for efficacy,” said public health experts Dr Padmanabha Shenoy.Till Monday evening, India has vaccinated 163.9 million people with two doses of the vaccine and another 368.9 million with one. Together, that translates into 56.7% of the eligible population of 940 million (adults).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/allow-covishield-2nd-dose-after-4-weeks-kerala-hc-to-centre-101630951785249.html
07-09-2021||India||BCI, SCBA reply soughton virtual hearings’ plea||The Supreme Court on Monday sought the view of the Bar Council of India (BCI) and the Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA) on a petition filed by a group of lawyers demanding virtual court hearing as a matter of fundamental right.Challenging the move by two high courts – Uttarakhand and Gujarat– for moving towards physical court hearings, the All-India Association of Jurists, claiming to be a body of 5,000 lawyers practising across the country along with a legal journalist urged the top court not to discontinue with the present system of virtual court hearing.The Uttarakhand HC issued an administrative order on August 16 by which virtual court hearing was stopped. The Gujarat High Court issued a similar order on August 6 coming out with a standard operating procedure (SOP) for physical hearing of cases from August 17 with no mention about continuation of virtual court hearing. Senior advocate Sidharth Luthra appearing for the Association said, “We are only saying that even if physical court commences, the hybrid mode of hearing (with virtual hearing) should continue. This is in the interest of litigants in getting access to justice, which is recognized to be a fundamental right.”A three-judge bench led by Justice L Nageswara Rao, and comprising Justices B R Gavai and B V Nagarathna said, “The BCI and SCBA are impleaded as parties. We issue notice, and we will wait till their response and then we will hear the case.” The bench directed the matter to be heard after four weeks.The bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao, BR Gavai and BV Nagarathna told Luthra that BCI chairman at a felicitation ceremony held for Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana on Saturday said that virtual hearing had severely affected the livelihood of lawyers. The bench said, “We are hoping there should be normalcy. Should you still insist on this petition?” The bench pointed out that a physical court hearing experience not only benefits litigants but also helps young lawyers to learn. “We are missing eye to eye contact which makes arguments effective. Young lawyers also learn watching the seniors argue in Court,” said the bench.SCBA president Vikas Singh, who was appearing in another matter, informed the court that SCBA was in favour of having physical hearing and will state so in an affidavit.The petition made central government along with high courts of Uttarakhand, Gujarat, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh and Bombay High Court as parties in its petition. ---Luthra cited the interim report of the Parliamentary Standing Committee submitted in September 2020 which highlighted that “affordable access to justice mandatorily demands that virtual courts must be made a permanent feature.” It further recommended that information and technology can be suitably used to fast-track cases by resorting to the technology of Video Conferencing, which will reduce the burden on courts, unnecessary crowding of Court premises and shall allow lawyers across the Country to appear in any court of the country.”The bench underlined the difference between online courts and virtual courts, with the former referring to use of artificial intelligence for conducting court proceedings as compared to use of technological devices for conducting court hearing. “As regards artificial intelligence-based courts, we have made it clear that it cannot be practical for the present. Coming to virtual courts, the use of information technology tools has to be limited. You cannot say hybrid should continue,” the bench remarked.The petition filed through advocate P Sriram cited Section 30 of the Advocates Act 1961 which entitles all lawyers registered on the rolls of the State Bar Council to practice before any Court, Tribunal or Commission of law across the Country. “This right and entitlement can be given full effect to only, when the option of virtual hearing is available along with the physical mode of hearing on the same terms and with the same level of alacrity by the administration of the various High Courts,” the petition said.The bench said that for 70 years, litigants have enjoyed the right of access to justice. The issue in the present petition related to right of lawyers to practice their profession under Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution. An application filed by a group of lawyers represented by advocate Pradeep Kumar Yadav opposed the petition claiming that they represented only 5000 when over five lakh lawyers in the country do not want virtual court hearing to continue. The bench refused to enter into the dispute and said that it was only seeking the opinion of BCI without passing any order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bci-scba-reply-soughton-virtual-hearings-plea-101630951005629.html
07-09-2021||India||PM Modi reviews Afghan situation after Taliban claims ‘complete control’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday chaired a high-level meeting to review the situation in Afghanistan in the wake of the Taliban claiming to have complete control of the country.Home minister Amit Shah, defence minister Rajnath Singh, external affairs minister S Jaishankar, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, chief of defence staff Gen Bipin Rawat and national security adviser Ajit Doval attended the meet held at PM Modi's official residence.There was no official word on the meeting, though people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that the deliberations at PM Modi's meeting focused on the situation in Afghanistan following the Taliban’s claim that it had complete control of Afghanistan following a reported victory over resistance forces in Panjshir province.Also Read: Taliban takeover in Afghanistan to figure at Brics meet chaired by PM ModiImages posted on social media showed Taliban commanders in front of the provincial governor’s compound in Panjshir, where forces of the National Resistance Front (NRF) led by Ahmad Massoud, the son of legendary commander Ahmad Shah Massoud, have been battling the Taliban.Reports have emerged of the Pakistani military backing the Taliban in the campaign in Panjshir, especially after the Inter-Services Intelligence chief, Lt Gen Faiz Hameed, arrived in Kabul on Saturday.The NRF has also dismissed reports that the Taliban have captured the holdout province, saying its forces were still battling the group.India has adopted a wait-and-watch stance with regard to the developments in Afghanistan following the collapse of the Ashraf Ghani government and the takeover of Kabul by the Taliban on August 15.The Indian government has said its key concern in Afghanistan is ensuring that Afghan soil isn’t used for terrorism or anti-India activities and the safe return of Indian nationals who are still in Afghanistan. These issues were raised when India’s ambassador to Qatar, Deepak Mittal, met Sher Mohammed Abbas Stanekzai, the deputy head of the Taliban’s political office in Qatar, at the Indian embassy in Doha at the request of the Taliban on August 31.This was India’s first officially acknowledged meeting with the Taliban, though the government had opened channels of communication with some Taliban leaders and factions last year.India is also yet to take a call on recognising any set-up created by the Taliban in Kabul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-reviews-afghan-situation-after-taliban-claims-complete-control-101630950946993.html
07-09-2021||India||OBC, EWS reservation: SC issues notice on PIL against medical quota||The Supreme Court on Monday sought the Union government’s response on its decision to introduce 27% reservation for other backward classes and 10% for economically weaker sections (EWS) in the all India quota (AIQ) for undergraduate and post graduate medical/dental admissions from this academic year. The response has to be filed within two weeks.The court order came on two separate petitions filed by 27 doctors who claimed the notification of July 29 issued by the Medical Counseling Committee (MCC) under the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare was bad in law and arbitrary.The petitions argued by senior advocates Arvind Datar and Vikas Singh pointed out that with the said reservation policy, the total reservation will exceed the 50% ceiling fixed by the Supreme Court in its landmark 1992 verdict. The 50% ceiling was later upheld in subsequent decisions of the Supreme Court. The 27% OBC quota and 10% EWS quota would apply to 15% AIQ seats in the MBBS/BDS courses and to 50% AIQ seats for MD/MS/MDS courses. As the effect will be felt largely on post-graduate medical seats, the petitioners said, “the impugned notice (of July 29) for the current academic year will severely harm the future of lakhs of students who had no knowledge of the said reservation policy, while they registered for the exam in February this year.”The common entrance for PG medical/dental courses is scheduled for September 11.A bench of Justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, Vikram Nath and Hima Kohli issued notice to MCC, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, and National Board of Examination and posted the matter after two weeks. There is already reservation for Scheduled Castes (15%) and Scheduled Tribes (7.5%) under the AIQ. With the addition of OBC quota (non-creamy layer) and EWS quota, the total reservation would exceed 50% and will touch 64.5% (including 5% reservation for persons with disability).“The impugned decision is manifestly arbitrary as it is in complete breach of Article 14 (right to equality), 15 (non-discrimination), 16 (equality of opportunity in public employment) and 21 (right to life) of the Constitution of India and also bypasses ceiling of reservation of 50 per cent,” said the petition filed through advocate Malak Manish Bhatt. It further stated that “the decision to implement the reservation policy for this academic year is sheer afterthought,” as NEET PG 2021 was earlier scheduled to be organized on April 18 but was postponed due to the surge in the Covid-19 cases.The petition further relied on a statement made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in May when he announced postponement of NEET- PG exam by four months. It said, “It was nowhere mentioned that in between these four months, there will be changes in the reservation policy and the current academic year will be subjected to the revised reservation policy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/obc-ews-reservation-sc-issues-notice-on-pil-against-medical-quota-101630950826162.html
07-09-2021||India||Odisha: A murder that revealed a cult and its overreach||Satyabrat Nayak’s house is hard to distinguish in the rows of thatched, asbestos-roofed homes with laterite stone walls covered in patchy plaster. Like most others in Abhimanpur -- a village of roughly 60 families from the Saara community, who believe they are adivasis but are not listed as tribals in government records -- the Nayak family has little of material value other than a small television set. When his wife cooks rice, she does it on an earthen chullah. Till early August, their biggest worry was whether the paddy they cultivated would wither away due to the lack of rain in the region.Then, on the morning of August 2, his family’s quiet life was torn asunder. News arrived that Nayak had died, a day after he was abducted by people from the Manavbadi Sangathan, an organisation he was a member of since its inception in 2005. On that morning, the family said some members of the Sangathan came to Abhimanpur and asked Nayak’s nephew Basant to accompany them to the neighbouring Karadagadia village. What Basant found was the body of his uncle lying on a funeral pyre. A gun pointed at him, Basant was allegedly forced to set the body on fire.Basant’s complaint at the Begunia police station would, over the next few weeks, unravel a series of events that have led to eight arrests, and the dismantling of an organisation that said it fought for the rights of the Saaras, but implemented its life principles in the harshest manner possible. These included assault and abuse, and in the case of Satyabrat Nayak, murder. Among the eight arrested are Manas Das, lawyer, politician and the 51-year-old president of the Manavbadi Sangathan, and his 25-year-old son Manoranjan Das. They have been charged in several cases, including homicide and abduction.“Das and his son were arrested over the involvement in the conspiracy to murder Nayak, who was once a member of Manvbad Sangathan but had stopped being an active member. Though they were not present at the scene of murder, they played a role in the conspiracy of his abduction, murder, and later destruction of evidence,” said inspector general of police (central range) Narasingha Bhol, who has been supervising the investigation. “We suspect that he (Das) is involved in many past cases, and if anyone has any evidence, we welcome people to lodge FIRs against him.”Several Dalit and tribal leaders who have been working for the disadvantaged in Odisha say that Das used poverty and existing social fault lines to create a “cult” in Khurda district.A Dalit and the son of a peon in state secretariat, Das joined the Bahujan Samaj Party in 1990s, and left it in 1999 to start the Rashtriya Samajik Nyay Manch, a forum that promised to deliver social justice to Dalits and tribals in the state. As he started getting traction, he formed another organisation, the Manavbad Sangathan (humanitarian organisation).“While heading the Rashtriya Samajik Nyay Manch, he met a lot of Saara community people of Bolgarh and Begunia areas of Khurda district, and lured them to the Manavbad Sangathan, which he built like a cult. The members of the Sangathan were supposed to live by a set of rules that included no idol worship, women not wearing bangles or vermillion, and a ban on last rites. Those joining the organisation had to take a pledge that they would not consume drugs or alcohol. While he could not get tribals to join his organisation, he managed to get a lot of Saara community people as his followers,” said Ashok Mallick, president of the Rashtriya Dalit Mahasabha, which also works for tribals and Dalits in Odisha. Both the Rashtriya Samajik Nyay Manch and Manavbad Sangathan are not registered with the state’s Inspector General of Registrations.Satyabrat Nayak, who is a Saara, was among Das’s first recruits, and had become a senior member of the organisation. Like other Saaras, Nayak proudly called himself a descendant of Biswabasu, the mythical Sabara tribal chief who worshipped Lord Jagannath in wooden form before the deity was placed in the Jagannath temple. Though Soharas and Sabaras are deemed as tribals in government records, the Saara community, which follows the same religious and cultural practices as them, doesn’t share the same status.The tehsildar of Begunia, Prithviraj Mandal, said the lack of ST status for the Saara community is mostly because of their revenue records. “They may be following the same practices of Sabara and Sohar tribes, but most of the Saara community members either live on government land or don’t have necessary land records that show them to be tribals. At my tehsil office, I regularly get requests to give them tribal status, but can’t do anything,” he said.It was this sense of injustice -- STs get benefits such as scholarship and stipend for students, assistance for small-scale businesses and reservation in education and government jobs -- and seething resentment among the Saaras that Das sought to tap into when he first began making trips to the district in early 2000s. Jharia Nayak, the neighbour of Satyabrata Nayak, who was also a member of Manavbadi Sangathan, said that Saaras are still not allowed to worship the deity in Swapneswar Shiva temple in their village.“We can enter the temple premises, but have to keep our offerings to God and draw back before the priest collects it and does the puja for us. We are not allowed to go near the deity,” said Nayak.Local fault linesAnother local, Sanuj Nayak was one of those who joined the Sangathan driven by a sense of discrimination and inspired by the belief, having listened to Das, that he was “Dravidian, not Aryan”.“I had joined the organisation in 2013 after listening to the speeches of Manas Das and his followers. We were told about the years of discriminations that tribals faced at the hands of upper caste people. We were told that Saara people are not Aryans, but Dravidians. The Aryans were our enemies. But we were never told why they were our enemies. We were told that we he would get Saara community the tribal status. But I left the organisation a few years later,” said Nayak, who left his house in Dalatola village of Begunia block a few years ago after facing threats from members of Manavbad Sangathan.The whole point of signing up was that those who joined the organisation were expected to do so for life, and any deviation was punished swiftly -- like in the case of Satyabrata Nayak.“Though Satyabrata Nayak was among his oldest followers, and had indoctrinated a lot of people, he had lost interest in last two years, more so after Covid pandemic last year. He was asked to get his brother-in-law, who ran a parallel organisation of the Saaras called Nilamadhab Sangathan, to join the Manavbad Sangathan. He could not fulfil that. The day Nayak was killed, a 60-year-old man and his 35-year-old son in Kadaba village in Begunia were being thrashed at the same time for not getting any new members. After the video of the incident later went viral, a case was lodged,” said a police officer who asked not to be named.On August 1, Satyabrat Nayak was called to a meeting in Abhimanpur to explain why he couldn’t get his brother-in-law to join the group. As soon as Satyabrat reached the meeting, Swapneswar Nayak -- a senior member of the Manavbadi Sangathan -- and others allegedly started beating him. He was then let go, but not for long.When night crept in, around 8pm, Swapneswar and Tulu Behera, another member of the Sangathan, allegedly picked up Satyabrat in a motorcycle at a nearby village square. He never returned. SDPO Mishra said investigations found that Satyabrat was attacked again with PVC pipes, sticks and kicked repeatedly, likely leading to his death.Swapneswar came to Satyabrat’s house in the village the next morning around 10am and asked his nephew Basant to follow. “Swapneswar took me to a cashew orchard at Karadagadia village where I found my uncle’s body on a pyre in the burial ground. When I asked them to explain how my uncle died, someone put a gun on my head and I was asked to light the pyre. I was abused and threatened against reporting the matter to the police,” said Basant.Sociologist Rita Ray said organisations such as Manavbad Sangathan exploiting social fault lines is not new to the state. “Already low on development indices and literacy levels, there will always be someone who will promise revolution. As long as social and economic disparities remain, these will always exist,” she said.‘Bhaisahab’ to ‘Guruji’In the initial years of starting the Sangathan, Das asked people to call him “Bhaisaheb” (elder brother), apparently on the lines of “Babasaheb”, as Dalit icon BR Ambedkar was called. Later, he asked his followers to call him by the epithet “Guruji”. People who became members of his organisation had to attend training camps in different districts throughout the year and had to pay ₹50-100 for each camp. Every year on May 16, he organised a Manavbad Diwas, asking his followers to attend, where Das talked about injustices done to the tribals.Structured like a pyramid, the Manavbad Sangathan has hundreds of followers who attend meetings and take a pledge not to worship idols or follow rituals. “All Aryans are my enemies and I would always treat them as my enemies,” the pledge entails. After working for a few years and depending on performance, a follower gets promoted to “cadre” and then “senior cadre”. “A few of the senior cadre would go on to become ‘top cadre’ who stay close to Das. The cadres for each panchayat send monthly reports to Bhubaneswar about the work they did in getting new recruits. Each of the cadres get regular monthly remuneration for their work,” said a former member on condition of anonymity.Das lived in Bhubaneswar’s Shahid Nagar. “He called his house in Bhubaneswar the “headquarters”, and anyone just entering his gate had to pay ₹20 to ₹70. For an audience with him, the charges were higher. As he had more than 10,000 followers, the income was sizeable,” said Khurda sub-divisional police officer Sushil Mishra. The police are now probing how Das collected the money, and are planning to track his investments over the years.Mishra said Das began asking tribals to take up issues of land, such as of cashew nut orchards, but using violent methods. “He would motivate the Saara community members to attack leaseholders of such cashew nut orchards telling them that the entire property belongs to tribals. When the community attacked the leaseholder, mostly an upper caste person, there was an inevitable backlash which began a cycle of violence. In 2010-11, one person was killed during a case like this. He also started doing the same thing with stone quarrying leases. In March 2016, his people were involved in the murder of owner of a stone crusher in Dadhimachhagadia area of Khurda district. There are several cases where he may have instigated the Saara people to take the law into their own hands.”Das’s followers, however, argue that he is not guilty. “He has been framed by detractors. He has been trying to bring social equality in Khurda through various programmes,” said Biranchi Nayak, a follower in Srirampur village of Khurda district. On Friday, more than 300 of his supporters staged demonstration before the office of Khurda SP demanding that he be released.Police officers said Das would have become an influential political leader had he not been arrested in the murder case last week. In February 2019, he joined the Biju Janata Dal (BJD) in the presence of chief minister Naveen Patnaik, where he hailed the BJD for looking after the interest of Odisha.Senior BJD leader Pramila Mallick however denied that Das was a member, refusing to comment on the 2019 function. She said, “If Das got photographed with BJD leaders that does not mean he was part of BJD. Let police do its inquiry and take action.”“In a state where most politicians don’t have much following, Das has over 10,000 followers. He would have successfully negotiated with political parties -- maybe he still can,” an officer said, asking not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odishaa-murder-that-revealed-a-cult-and-its-overreach-101630942663702.html
07-09-2021||India||Attack on Chhattisgarh pastor: Two BYJM members arrested||Two members of Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) youth wing Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) were arrested by Chhattisgarh police on Monday for allegedly beating a pastor and two others, inside a police station in Raipur, on Sunday. “Manish Sahu and Sanjay Singh were arrested from different locations in Raipur and were presented before the court. Six other accused in the case are still absconding. We have launched a hunt for them,” said Raipur superintendent of police (SP) Ajay Yadav. However, sources claimed that Yadav has since been transferred to police headquarters, apparently over the incident. They said senior officials were of view that the SP was unable to handle the issue and the accused should have been arrested immediately. Also Read | Central, west and northwest India to receive fresh spell of rainOn Sunday, a group accused Pastor Harish Sahu of indulging in religious conversion and manhandled him as well as Ankush Bariyekar, general secretary of Chhattisgarh Christian Forum, and one Prakash Masih, inside Purani Basti police station. A video of the incident went viral on social media following which, Yadav attached Purani Basti station house officer Yadumani Sidar to the police lines. An inquiry into the incident was also ordered. Police registered a case against eight accused and booked them under sections 147 (rioting), 294 (obscene acts and songs), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of Indian Penal Code. State unit of BJYM alleged the police took sides and claimed they will soon call for a state-wide protest against the police. “We are trying to contain forceful religious conversion in the state. Our people went to Purani Basti police station with a complaint against those pastors but police welcomed them, which led to a brawl. Manish Sahu is a division president of BJYM while Singh is a member,” said Amit Sahu, president, BJYM, Chhattisgarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/attack-on-chhattisgarh-pastor-two-byjm-members-arrested-101630932403203.html
07-09-2021||India||ED grills Abhishek Banerjee for almost 9 hours in illegal coal mining case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Monday questioned Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew, Abhishek Banerjee, for almost nine hours in its probe related to money laundering worth ₹1,352 crore in illegal coal mining scandal in the state.The 33-year-old Lok Sabha MP, also the de-facto number 2 of the TMC, is an alleged beneficiary of funds obtained by accused persons in the illegal mining case, according to an earlier claim by the central agency.Banerjee arrived at ED’s Jam Nagar house office around 11am on Monday and left around 8 pm after almost nine hours of interrogation. He was interrogated about his alleged association with the kingpin of the mining case – Anup Majhi -- as well as alleged funds linked with his family members, said people aware of developments.“I reached the ED office at 11 am. I have been questioned non-stop for nine hours. I have cooperated with them and answered all their questions to the best of my abilities. I gave them my written statement,” said Banerjee.He accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of using agencies against its opponents. “We will fight against you (BJP) and go to all those states where you (BJP) have murdered the democracy. Do whatever you can. BJP’s tyranny will be defeated. Let BJP put all its might, vigour, threat, resources. Mind my words..all their resources will fall flat. TMC will beat BJP in the upcoming election (in 2024),” he added.The TMC MP also said that at least 25 BJP MLAs in West Bengal are in the queue to join the TMC even though his party hadn’t accepted them. Since the TMC came to power with a sweeping victory in the recently held assembly elections, four BJP MLAs have switched sides. The BJP had won 77 seats.“Forget about any other political party. We will give our life, but we will not sell our spine to these autocrats, these cowards who can’t defeat us politically,” he said.The agency had claimed in a Delhi court in April this year that “Majhi assisted in transferring substantial funds derived from the proceeds of crime to Abhishek Banerjee’s close relative (wife and sister-in-law) at London and Thailand.”An ED officer, requesting anonymity, said, “We have reliable statements and evidence on Abhishek Banerjee’s role, but investigation is on.”Outside the ED office, Banerjee said he will cooperate with the probe agencies. His wife Rujira was also summoned by the ED on September 1 to Delhi but she sought to be questioned at her residence in Kolkata due to prevailing Covid-19 situation, a request which has been accepted by the agency, people cited above said.The BJP countered Banerjee and said that the TMC was day dreaming.“We have told time and again that the BJP has nothing to with ED and CBI investigation. The law is taking its own course. If the TMC thinks otherwise they can any day move court. As far as the number of 25 BJP MLAs waiting to join the TMC, it is nothing but a day dream. The rest are political statements,” said Samik Bhattacharya, BJP spokesperson in West Bengal.ED’s money laundering probe is based on a CBI First Information Report (FIR) registered in November 2020 on the allegations that a coal pilferage at a massive scale was taking place in Eastern Coalfields Ltd mines in Kunustoria and Kajora areas in West Bengal.After arresting the former Inspector in-charge of Bankura police station, Ashok Kumar Mishra in the case, the ED had claimed in a Delhi court in April, just ahead of state assembly elections, that Banerjee was a beneficiary of funds obtained in the illegal mining, which was flourishing in West Bengal under the ‘patronage’ of the political party in power.Apart from Mishra, ED has arrested Vikas Mishra, brother of TMC youth wing leader Vinay Mishra, in the case so far.Vinay Mishra, said to be close to Banerjee, left the country in September 2020 and has already renounced his Indian citizenship. It is believed that he has settled in Vanuatu, a small island nation in South Pacific Ocean.According to the probe carried out by the anti-money laundering agency, an amount of ₹1,352 crore has been illegally generated by Majhi through illegal coal mining in just two years.It is alleged that tainted funds collected by Majhi and others in connivance with the police officers reached political leaders in West Bengal and then were laundered to various locations in India and abroad.“Investigation revealed a deep system of political patronage and well-oiled network by which the system was subverted to carry out these illegal activities in a brazen manner,” ED said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-questions-abhishek-banerjee-in-illegal-coal-mining-case-101630922082170.html
07-09-2021||India||Section 377, 3 years on: Freedom to love takes root||Shanti Tudu knew no one like her.Her village, nestled in the Ajodhya hills in the tribal hinterlands of western Bengal, was far from any city. Her parents, relatives and most people in the village subsisted on farming and forest products. Most young people moved away for manual labour, or if they were lucky, education. Her house didn’t have a television or a fixed Internet connection, and cellphone network was patchy, Yet, Tudu knew she was different.Since she could remember, she preferred shirts and trousers over any girl’s uniform the local school prescribed, and liked the heroines of the Hindi and Bengali songs she would sneak off to watch with her friend. She didn’t know what this attraction was, if it had a name or, as her friend told her, was a disease.Shanti Tudu knew no one liked her. When she moved an hour away to Purulia town for studies four years ago, she feverishly researched about girls liking girls, understood that it was not a disease; but confidences to friends and teachers in college were broken, and she was dragged to a local quack for “therapy”.In 2018, she ran away from home, found a job and started living in a women’s hostel – where she met her future partner, Rekha, who requested to withhold her second name. Both had decided to never go back home, but started reconsidering after the landmark Supreme Court verdict that decriminalised homosexuality three years ago.“I don’t understand the law too much and hadn’t followed the case. But Rekha called me up that day and said, we are not criminals anymore. Even our local papers carried big news items that day. It gave me hope,” said Tudu.Together, they plan to tell their parents about the relationship. They are aware of the risks – their families can force them apart, confine them or file cases against one partner. But they believe the 2018 Navtej Johar judgment will shield them.“We have spoken to a lawyer who assured that if anything goes wrong, the courts will protect us. So we are hopeful of leading a life together,” said Rekha.They are not the only ones. Three years after the Supreme Court read down Section 377 to not apply to consenting adults in same sex relationships, lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) people around India have approached the courts to seek a phalanx of rights, from seeking recognition of marriage equality to reading down of specific sections of laws like the State Police Act to protection from violence of families.Many of these people hail from small towns and the countryside, who have used the law forcefully and creatively to expand the horizon of LGBT rights.2In July this year, the Delhi high court helped protect Anita Kumari and her partner, Priyanka Singh, both residents of Gaya town in Bihar. Kumari, 23, was in her third year of college when her parents pulled her out after she came out as lesbian.She was locked up, prevented from meeting Singh, 25, sexually abused by her cousins and threatened by her sister and mother. After five months, Kumari escaped and went to live in Delhi with Singh.Weeks later, Kumari’s mother filed cases against Singh and her family. This prompted Kumari to file a petition in the Delhi high court, seeking protection and asking the police to take her statement in Delhi, as she feared returning to her hometown.On July 7, the judge permitted all her requests. “The petitioner is a major and if she has different sexual orientation, she is at liberty to live in the manner as she wishes,” judge Mukta Gupta said.“My decision to leave my house was not made on the spur of the moment. I knew that the only way I could live with safety with my partner was if I ran away. But my family continued to threaten my partner and me. It was only after the court agreed to protect us that I felt safe,” said Kumari.S Sushma and U Seema Agarval, two university students from the rural parts of Madurai district in Tamil Nadu, also successfully used the 2018 judgment to protect their lives and relationships – in the process also securing sweeping protections for the community.The women met in 2019 and fell in love but battled fierce disapproval from their conservative families. On February 9, they ran away from home to Chennai, but both sets of families filed missing person FIRs in two separate police stations, prompting policemen to travel to Chennai to track them down.Things came to a head in the second week of March, when both sets of parents, along with roughly 10 policemen showed up in cars and threatened violence. By then, the women had already filed a petition in the Madras high court.On June 8, justice N Anand Venkatesh delivered a judgment that was remarkable for two reasons. One, the judge undertook counselling to understand the identity and concomitant vulnerabilities of the petitioners.Two, he issued directions to a slew of state and central agencies to frame guidelines that recognise the rights of LGBT people, and ensure their safety and security. On August 31, he issued further directions to the police to provide immediate protection to all such vulnerable couples and effectively banning conversion therapy – the kind that Tudu was subjected to in her college days.The two women know that their fight isn’t over – they are still looking for stable housing and employment, and remain fearful of reprisal from their families -- but they’re hopeful. “We want to...live our life in front of everyone. And help others like us,” said Sushma.3Legally, the troika of the 2017 verdict on privacy – where the apex court recognised sexual orientation and gender identity as core parts of privacy – the 2018 Hadiya judgment – where the top court recognised the right to choose a partner – and the Navtej Johar judgment together have paved the way for protections for queer couples.In the last three years, people have approached high courts in Rajasthan, Delhi, Mumbai, Allahabad, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Chennai, Kolkata and Odisha – seeking to validate their rights and rebuff parental and social censure, all on the basis of this landmark verdict.“The high courts have taken very liberal and progressive positions…they’re showing the way that things can change,” said Manuraj S, a lawyer at the Madras high court who fought on behalf of the Madurai women petitioners.He referred to another 2019 verdict by the Madurai bench of the Madras high court, which upheld the marriage of a man and a transgender woman under the Hindu Marriage Act, relying on the Navtej Johar judgment, among others.“For years, LGBT issues have been projected as elite and from the west. But the Sushma and Seema case showed that it wasn’t the case. There is a deepening and democratising of these rights. That the Madurai bench of the HC gave such a progressive judgment gives us hope that these judgments are percolating in rural and smaller regions, and people are learning about a more fairer and equal society,” he said.To be sure, there are still big strides to be taken to ensure dignity and respect for queer life. Transgender folks continue to battle prejudice in employment, education, housing and health facilities. The 2019 transgender rights law is unclear on punishments for discrimination, has been criticised for focusing on medical checks for issuing transgender certificate and stipulating lower punishment for crimes against transpeople.Queer folks from marginal castes and communities face hostility within and outside the community. State laws against transfolks, sex work and beggary are deployed against queer people. Manuraj pointed out that the 2018 judgment could have protected civil rights such as marriage and inheritance, but disappointingly stopped short. And petitions to legalise same-sex marriage have been pending before the Delhi and Kerala high courts for over a year, with the Union government staunchly opposing such a move.Still, the positive social life of the 2018 verdict – it was splashed across newspapers, extensively discussed on television and coincided with rising acceptance of queerness, especially among young people – has helped cut through the stigma long attached with homosexuality and mitigate the cycle of shame, blackmail and police brutality. “Without the Navtej Johar judgment, none of this would have been possible,” said Manuraj.4Queer people are everywhere. They are dancing in prides and protesting against bias outside government offices, talking back to homophobic teachers in class and demanding trans-friendly policies in offices.They are in our homes, in the cramped alleys of small towns, stealing glances with ones they love but dare not speak the name, in parks and lakes, holding hands as darkness descends because their homes are too hostile to their truths. They come from all castes, faiths and abilities.For too long, queerness in India has focused on big cities, that offer a respite from the loneliness in their promise of a glitzy nightlife, parties, prides and community events. But now, even pride parades are taking root in cities like Raipur, Chandannagar and Imphal.“Cities are enticing. But beyond the glamour of the gay parties in Delhi or Mumbai, the colours of the pride parade and the resistance and building of movements in courtrooms; many life worlds of queerness escape our sights, often invisiblised,” said Dhiren Borisa, a professor at Jindal Global Law School.He pointed to the more muted ways in which queerness flourishes away from the big cities – the clandestine changing of clothes at a friends’ house, the evening haunts of public areas that function as silent hubs of queer intimacy, the internet cafes and mobile phones where the first brush with the acronym LGBT occurs, and the many queer and trans people who live their lives both openly, and become a part of the local fabric – the two unmarried aunties who live together as “friends”, the trans couple everyone calls ‘didi’ or the two friends who were so close that they never married.“Not everyone can become a respectable queer subject with resources and power, or be well versed in the language and acronyms, which can be compartmentalising and suffocating, and rarely symbolise freedom. While one aspires to be in the city, there are many ways to desire and be able to survive it too,” Borisa said.Tudu knows it well. She is aware of the challenges of being queer in her small town – there are no support groups, people look at her like she’s an alien, her family has ostracised her and there are no fun nights or events she can take Rekha too. Yet, she is averse to moving away. “We met each other here, and have built a life here. Who said we have to go to big cities to love?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/section-377-3-years-on-freedom-to-love-takes-root-101630875219858.html
