08-09-2021||India||Assam: 1 dead, four missing as boats collide on Brahmaputra river||Two passenger boats collided on the Brahmaputra river in Assam on Wednesday afternoon, leaving at least one person dead and around four others missing.Officials said the head-on accident between a larger government vessel and a smaller private ferry occurred around 4pm, roughly 100m from the Nematighat bank in Jorhat district. The smaller boat, Ma Kamala, carrying roughly 70 passengers, capsized almost immediately.“Till 10 pm, six hours after the incident, we have been able to rescue 43 passengers of the capsized boat. One of the rescued persons was declared dead later at hospital,” said GD Tripathi, CEO of the Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA).Initial reports had estimated more than 50 people missing amid fears of a high death toll, but as the evening progressed, officials rescued many passengers and some were able to swim to the bank because the accident happened near the jetty.“The capsized boat was carrying around 67-68 passengers. Apart from the 43 rescued, 21 other passengers have been contact traced. There’s confirmation of four persons from Majuli missing. So, there should be around 4-6 passengers who are still unaccounted for,” he added.The boats carried passengers between Kamalabari in Majuli district and Nematighat but the services are not strictly regulated. The Brahmaputra and its tributaries are in spate due to recent showers and floods and rescue efforts are being hurt due to high water levels and strong currents, officials said.“Saddened by the boat accident in Assam. All possible efforts are being made to rescue the passengers. I pray for everyone’s safety and well being,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted.Tripathi said rescuers would continue searching for survivors through the night. Directives have been issued to districts located downstream to increase patrol along the banks or keep a lookout for missing passengers.Officials said the collision occurred near the jetty when Ma Kamala, on which passengers were boarding at Nematighat, attempted to give way to the bigger boat, which belonged to the state’s inland water transport department and named Tipkai, that was coming from Kamalabari. ASDMA officials at Jorhat said the capsized boat was also carrying around two dozen two-wheelers. Ferry services between Nematighat and Kamalabari had been suspended for five days last week due to rising water levels of the Brahmaputra.Chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma expressed deep concern and directed the district administrations of Majuli and Jorhat to undertake rescue mission expeditiously with the help of the national and state disaster response forces.“I am personally supervising the rescue operations and our officials are on the ground to ensure expeditious completion. All the injured are being diligently attended to,” he tweeted.Two cabinet ministers, Chandra Mohan Patowary and Bimal Borah, rushed to the spot. Sarma said he will visit Majuli on Thursday to evaluate the situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-1-dead-four-missing-as-boats-collide-on-brahmaputra-river-101631125662496.html
08-09-2021||India||Four months after Abhijit Sarkar was murdered in Kolkata, kin to receive body tomorrow||More than four months after Abhijit Sarkar, a BJP worker, was murdered in Kolkata after the results of the West Bengal Assembly elections were declared, his family members will receive his body from a hospital morgue on Thursday and would be able to perform the last rites. On May 2, hours after the election results were declared Sarkar was dragged out of his house at Narkeldanga and murdered allegedly by Trinamool Congress workers. “We had moved the lower court in Sealdah seeking that Sarkar’s body along with the post-mortem and DNA report be handed over to the family. The court has permitted it. The Central Bureau of Investigation has been directed to hand over the reports and the hospital authorities have been directed to hand over the body to the family,” said Priyanka Tiberwal, advocate and BJP leader. Earlier, his family members had refused to accept the body from the local police as after two post-mortems they could not identify the body. The family had moved court questioning the report of the first post-mortem. On July 2, the court had ordered a second autopsy. In July, a five-judge bench of the Calcutta high court ordered a DNA test of Sarkar, which needed to be matched with samples collected from his brother Biswajit, in a bid to identify the body. The Central Forensic Laboratory was directed to do the DNA matching. “The DNA report suggests that the body belongs to Abhijit Sarkar. It was then that we moved court seeking that the body should be handed over to the victim’s brother,” said Tibrewal. Biswajit is likely to receive the body on Thursday morning, which has been lying for the past few months in the morgue of the state-run NRS Medical College and Hospital. “Today I am feeling relieved. I will be able to perform the last rites of my brother. The fight, however, is not over yet, as those who murdered my brother are yet to be punished,” Biswajit told the media after receiving the court’s order. The TMC, however, said that the day on which Sarkar was murdered the law and order was under the jurisdiction of the ECI. “Some sporadic incidents had taken place till May 5 when Mamata Banerjee took oath as the chief minister. After that there has been hardly any incident of violence. Till May 5 the law and order was under the jurisdiction of the poll panel,” said Kunal Ghosh, TMC spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-months-after-abhijit-sarkar-was-murdered-in-kolkata-kin-to-receive-body-tomorrow-101631121942135.html
08-09-2021||India||PM Modi meet Russian NSA Nikolai Patrushev, discusses Afghanistan situation||Prime Minister Narendra Modi met the secretary of the Russian Security Council, Nikolai Patrushev, on Tuesday to discuss stronger coordination between India and Russia and the means to enhance regional stability. The present condition of the country was also brought up during the course of their discussion.“Was happy to meet Mr. Nikolai Patrushev, Secretary of the Security Council of Russia. His visit allowed useful discussions between both sides on important regional developments,” PM Modi said in a tweet.PM Modi and Patrushev discussed India-Russia cooperation along with several international issues, news agency ANI reported quoting Russian Embassy. “The two sides reaffirmed their intention to strengthen coordination in the field of enhancing regional stability, including the Afghan direction,” the statement said.The possibility of further developing the special and privileged strategic partnership and deepening political dialogue at the highest level was also discussed, apart from the prospects for strengthening interaction in multilateral formats, including the SCO and BRICS. Talks were held regarding cooperation in trade and the economic sphere.Earlier in the day, Patrushev met National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and Union external affairs minister S Jaishankar. Doval and Patrushev held high-level consultations on the latest developments in Afghanistan. The Doval-Patrushev meet was the first detailed and extensive meeting between India and Russia regarding the Afghanistan situation following the Taliban takeover of the war-torn country. Russia and India expressed concern over developments in Afghanistan. Doval and Patrushev stressed that Afghanistan should not become a hotspot for spreading terrorism in the region.Richard Moore, the head of the UK Secret Intelligence Service or MI6 and CIA director William Burns met Doval earlier this week to discuss the latest developments in Afghanistan. India emphasised Pakistan’s links to the Taliban and expressed concern about whether the Taliban will be accountable for the pledges it made following the takeover of Afghanistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-meet-russian-nsa-nikolai-patrushev-discusses-afghanistan-situation-101631121307258.html
08-09-2021||India||India reaches vaccination milestone, inoculates 71 crore citizens||India’s cumulative Covid-19 vaccine coverage crossed the 710 million mark, the government said on Wednesday as the country vaccinated 7.3 million people till 7pm. The daily vaccination report is set to increase as more vaccination centres send their data.“India’s Covid-19 vaccination coverage crosses the 71 crore landmark milestone (71,52,54,153) today. More than 73 lakh (73,80,510) doses administered till 7 pm today. Daily vaccination tally expected to increase with compilation of final reports for the day by late tonight,” the government said.India reached the target of vaccinating more than a crore people on three occasions in the last 13 days. The government earlier this month expressed confidence that it will be able to inoculate every citizen by December. The nation commenced its vaccination drive on January 16 this year. It opened the vaccine for people above the age of 18 years from June 21.India reported 37,875 fresh cases in the last 24 hours but the Union health ministry in a press release said that the nation saw less than 50,000 cases for 73 consecutive days. India currently has 391,256 active cases of Covid-19. The recovery rate stood at 97.48% while the daily positivity rate dipped to 2.16%.“Sustained and collaborative efforts by the Centre and the states/UTs continue the trend as less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 73 consecutive days now. 37,875 new cases were reported in the last 24 hours,” the ministry said in a statement.The health ministry also said that 5.64 crore balance and unutilised remain with the health departments of states and Union Territories to be administered to citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reaches-vaccination-milestone-inoculates-71-crore-citizens-101631120706825.html
08-09-2021||India||Kerala announces Covid-19 vaccination centres for final year students, mandates 1 dose before reopening institutes||With institutes for higher education in Kerala set to reopen from October 4, state health minister Veena George on Wednesday said that Covid-19 vaccination facilities would be made available to final year students of these institutes to get immunised against the disease before entering the colleges. The health minister said that all the final year students should be inoculated with at least one dose of the vaccine before the reopening of these institutions.Earlier on Tuesday, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said higher education institutions such as technical, polytechnic and medical institutes would be allowed to operate in a bio-bubble model from October 4 for final year students of graduate and undergraduate courses. Vijayan also said that one dose of vaccine was mandatory and asked students awaiting their second doses to get it immediately.Also read | After a week’s gap, fresh Covid-19 cases cross 30,000-mark in KeralaFollowing this, the health minister said that the students would receive the vaccine doses free of cost from the government vaccination centres. Her remarks came on the same day as the daily new infections went past the 30,000-mark again after nearly a week’s gap.Meanwhile, state minister for higher education and social justice R Bindu said that classes would be held in either two shifts or on alternate days according to the arrangement that was in place last year. She said that half of the students of each class would be taught during each such shift or on alternate days.George also said that the students who had received one dose of the vaccine should receive their second dose immediately.On Wednesday, 30,196 people tested positive for the disease in the state while 181 more people succumbed to the illness. So far, 4,283,494 people have been infected while the death toll breached the 22,000-mark on the day, according to data from a state health department’s medical bulletin. As many as 239,480 active cases of the disease are present in the state, according to the latest data. The Union health ministry’s dashboard showed that 30,434,537 doses of the vaccine have been administered to eligible beneficiaries in the state as of 7am on the day.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-announces-covid-19-vaccination-centre-for-final-year-students-mandates-1-dose-before-reopening-institutes-101631120807704.html
08-09-2021||India||Supreme Court reserves order on NGT’s suo moto power||The Supreme Court on Wednesday reserved orders on a batch of petitions questioning the suo moto power of the National Green Tribunal (NGT). While arguments were made by lawyers supporting and opposing the Tribunal’s suo moto powers in the Supreme Court over the past three days, in the last leg of submissions, senior advocates Sanjay Parikh and Gopal Shankarnaraynan told the Court that in an environmental tragedy, the tribunal cannot be expected to be powerless if no individual or group approaches it to remedy the damage to the environment. Parikh said that the National Green Tribunal is the only tribunal in the country vested with power to protect the environment and wherever there is a public injury caused to the environment, the Tribunal has a duty under law to restitute the damage caused to the environment. The bench of Justices AM Khanwilkar, Hrishikesh Roy and CT Ravikumar asked Parikh whether a Tribunal can be powerless to take emergency measures in a given situation if no application is brought before it. the bench said, “Suppose an activity having environmental consequence takes place, can the Tribunal take cognizance based on the occurrence of that activity or should it wait for an application to be moved before it.” Parikh replied, “The conscience of the Tribunal is moved by the fact that damage is caused to the environment. The consequence will be that environmental conservation will then have to be remedied by the Supreme Court or High Court in exercise of their power under Article 32 and Article 226 of the Constitution.” Even in a situation where a natural calamity occurs due to an act of God, there can be intervention by the Tribunal whether the tragedy was aggravated by the inaction or wrong action by the authorities or government. he referred to the 2014 decision of the Supreme Court in the Kedarnath cloud burst event of which the Supreme Court took suo moto cognizance. Shankarnaraynan supplemented the arguments in favour of Tribunal’s suo moto powers by stating, “The jurisdiction exercised by the Tribunal is entirely Article 21-oriented jurisdiction.” He further stated that a situation cannot be envisaged that the Tribunal is told to wait for an application that will make the National Green Tribunal Act 2019 unworkable. The Centre had earlier argued that the NGT does not enjoy any suo moto powers but a letter or application could be entertained by it. It said that the Tribunal cannot be tied up in procedural law for exercising power which is amply available to it under the Act. “Once the Tribunal receives any communication, it is duty-bound to take cognizance of that,” the Centre had submitted. The Court-appointed amicus curiae (friend of Court) senior advocate Anand Grover shared the view that there is no suo moto power available under the NGT Act. The appeals being heard by the Court relate to orders passed by NGT with regard to stone quarries in Kerala where the Tribunal acted on a letter by residents to direct that no stone quarries can be permitted within 200 metres from the nearest residential house. The quarry owners and Kerala government challenged this order pointing to the law prevailing in the state that permitted quarries to operate within 50 metres from a residential building. Another set of appeals heard by the top court related to an order by NGT imposing a cost of ₹five crore on the municipal body of Greater Mumbai for not setting up sewage treatment plant for solid waste management. This order was based on a newspaper report. The municipal body argued that this matter was already under consideration before the Bombay High Court.The apex court had framed two questions - whether the Tribunal has power to take cognizance on its own of a letter or communication and whether such an action could be still taken when the matter is pending consideration before a constitutional court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-reserves-order-on-ngt-s-suo-moto-power-101631120622441.html
08-09-2021||India||'Pray for everyone’s safety, wellbeing': PM Modi after boat capsizes in Assam||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday expressed sadness over a boat accident in Assam in which dozens of people are feared to be killed. "Saddened by the boat accident in Assam. All possible efforts are being made to rescue the passengers. I pray for everyone’s safety and well-being," PM Modi wrote on Twitter.A large boat sank in the Brahmaputra river after colliding with a ferry near Nimati Ghat in Jorhat district of Assam on Wednesday. The collision occurred when the private boat 'Ma Kamala' was headed to Majuli from Nimati Ghat and the government-owned ferry 'Tripkai' was coming from Majuli. 'Ma Kamala' capsized as it reportedly carrying more than a hundred passengers."Both ferries hit each other around 4pm. State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) and National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) personnel have started rescue operations. More details are awaited," Jorhat deputy commissioner Ashok Kumar Barman said.The officials have rescued at least 41 people so far, news agency PTI reported quoting Jorhat deputy commissioner Ashok Barman. However, the body has been recovered as of yet, Barman also informed as per the PTI report. "We cannot say right now how many people have died," the news agency quoted an official of the local administration as saying.The boat was also carrying several four-wheelers and two-wheelers that went down the river.Following the tragedy, state chief minister Himanta Biswa has directed the district administrations of Majuli and Jorhat to undertake the rescue mission expeditiously with the help of NDRF and SDRF. He also asked minister Bimal Bora to rush to the site of the accident.Meanwhile, Sarma himself is scheduled to visit Nimati Ghat on Thursday (September 9) to evaluate the situation, the chief minister's office has announced. The chief minister has also asked principal secretary Samir Kumar Sinha to monitor the developments round the clock.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pray-for-everyone-s-safety-wellbeing-pm-modi-after-boat-capsizes-in-assam-101631117331754.html
08-09-2021||India||Theatre commands to be functional in 2 to 3 years for optimal use of military’s resources||The creation of theatre commands to best utilise the military’s resources could take two to three years, with senior officers from the three services being assigned key responsibilities to finalise the joint structures, people familiar with the developments said on Wednesday. “The three services have nominated C-in-C ranked officers (senior three-star officers) to finalise the organisational structure and other aspects of theatre commands. These officers will submit a detailed report with their proposals in a year after which the creation of theatre commands will begin,” said a senior official, one of the people cited above. Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday said discussions on the creation of joint commands and their implementation were progressing well and fast, indicating that differences between stakeholders on the theaterisation model are being addressed and India is on course to set up theatre commands. “Whenever a change takes place, everyone wants to understand the change and its effects,” the official said. The government had in June formed an eight-member panel under chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat to fine-tune the theaterisation plans and bring all stakeholders on board, especially the Indian Air Force, for speedy roll-out of the new joint structures. The Indian military’s theaterisation model, a long-awaited reform, will have inbuilt flexibility to fall back on the current command and control structures to deal with any contingency during the transition phase, the official said. Stabilisation of theatre commands could take up to five years, and it is critical to ensure that there is a mechanism to swiftly return to the pre-theaterisation status quo if a crisis unfolds when the restructuring is underway, HT previously reported. The armed forces currently have 17 single-service commands spread across the country. The Indian Army and the Indian Air Force have seven commands each, while the Indian Navy has three. Creating theatres would involve merging the existing commands (except the Udhampur-based Northern Command). In July, Indian Air Force chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria flagged concerns about the theaterisation model, arguing that it was critical to first get the structure right, even as General Rawat gave out details of the plan to achieve jointness and brushed aside the reservations. The current theaterisation model under consideration seeks to set up four new integrated commands for synergy in operations --- two land-centric theatres, the Air Defence Command and the Maritime Theatre Command. The Indian Army’s Northern Command is the only single-service command that will stay outside the scope of the military’s theaterisation drive because of its critical role. The Udhampur-based Northern Command is responsible for guarding the country’s borders with Pakistan and China in the north, and is the nerve centre of counterterrorism operations in Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/theatre-commands-to-be-functional-in-2-to-3-years-for-optimal-use-of-military-s-resources-101631116422190.html
08-09-2021||India||Time is precious: Railways to pay ₹30,000 to man who missed flight as Supreme Court orders||The Supreme Court has recently ordered the Railways to pay ₹30,000 to a complainant who missed a flight from Jammu to Srinagar because of the delay in the Ajmer-Jammu Express. The delay was of four hours. The order of the compensation was originally passed by District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum, Alwar and confirmed by the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, New Delhi. A bench of Justice MR Shah and Justice Aniruddha Bose upheld the order after the Nothern Western Railway appealed to the top court.The Northern Western Railway will now have to pay ₹15,000 for taxi expenses, ₹10,000 towards booking expenses and ₹5,000 for mental agony and litigation expenses, Livelaw reported.Because he missed the flight owing to the delay in the train, the complainant (the respondent in the case) had to travel to Srinagar by taxi which made him lose ₹9,000 as the airfare. He had to spend ₹15,000 for the taxi fare and complained of a loss of ₹10,000 on account of booking a boat in Dal Lake.As additional solicitor general submitted before the court that the late running of a train could not be said to be deficient in service of the part of the railways, the Supreme Court bench said that the railways were required to "lead the evidence and explain the late arrival of the train to establish and prove that the delay occurred because of the reasons beyond their control. At least the railways were required to explain the delay which the railways failed"."It can not be disputed that every passenger's time is precious and they might have booked the tickets for the further journey, like in the present case from Jammu to Srinagar and thereafter further journey," the bench said."These are the days of competition and accountability. If public transportation has to survive and compete with private players, they have to improve the system and their working culture. Citizens/passengers can not be at the mercy of the authorities/administration. Somebody has to accept the responsibility," the bench noted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/time-is-precious-railways-to-pay-rs-30-000-to-man-who-missed-flight-as-supreme-court-orders-101631115138818.html
08-09-2021||India||Taliban can set example for world if they follow real Sharia law: Mehbooba Mufti||Mehbooba Mufti, the president of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), on Wednesday said that the Taliban are a new reality and if they follow the ‘real’ Sharia Law, they can set an example for the world.“Taliban is emerging as a reality. They had an image of anti-human rights during their first rule [in the 1990s]. They have come to power again and if they want to govern Afghanistan, they should follow the real Sharia law and not their interpretation of it," the former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister said.Mufti said the Islamist militant group must follow the ‘real’ Sharia law that Islam states, and which consists of women’s and children’s rights.Also Read | Row over Mehbooba Mufti’s comments on Afghan crisis“If they follow [the real Sharia law] and govern Afghanistan accordingly, then they will be able to share business relations with other countries of the world,” she was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Mufti, however, noted that if the insurgents go back to their old regime of the 1990s, it will be trouble for the entire world and especially for Afghanistan.#WATCH | Taliban is emerging as a reality. They had an image of anti-human rights during their first rule. They can set an example for the world if they follow the real Sharia law which includes women rights,& not their interpretation of Sharia: PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti in Kulgam pic.twitter.com/00vTqNdKXQMufti’s comments come soon after National Conference (NC) chief Farooq Abdullah said that he hoped the Taliban will “deliver good governance” in Afghanistan. “I hope they (Taliban) will deliver good governance and follow Islamic principles in that country (Afghanistan) and respect human rights. They should try to develop friendly relations with every country,” he told reporters.However, he quickly came under fire for indirectly lending a supportive hand to the insurgents. Addressing this, the party tweeted on Wednesday and blamed the “channels” for “twisting words and misrepresenting the intended meaning.”The Taliban, meanwhile, announced an all-male cabinet on Tuesday – despite their earlier assurances that it will create “an inclusive” government. The ministers inducted into the cabinet – which came after weeks of wait and speculation, include terrorists Mullah Hasan Akhund and Sirajuddin Haqqani, who have been selected to be the new Prime Minister and the home minister of the Taliban government in Afghanistan.Furthermore, the interior minister Sirajuddin Haggani – who has reportedly been a senior member of the Taliban since 2016, is on the FBI’s ‘most wanted’ list with a bounty of $10 million on his head. The United States terms him as a “specially designated global terrorist” who shares close links to the terrorist group al Qaeda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/taliban-can-set-example-for-world-if-they-follow-real-sharia-mufti-101631114740404.html
08-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: US concerned about ‘track record’ of new Taliban govt and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.US expresses concern over ‘track record’ of Taliban caretaker teamThe United States has expressed concern over the lack of diversity in the composition of the caretaker government announced by the Taliban and their “affiliations and track record” and questions are being raised about Pakistan’s increasing role in support of the new dispensation in Kabul. Read more'You go through the whole line-up and think, well he's a great player: Mark Wood in awe of India's 'world-class' battingIs India currently the best Test team? While the debate and discussion on this topic continue to rage on, there is one thing that cannot be denied: Virat Kohli-led India have an enviable batting line-up. This is something that even the opposition pacer, England's Mark Wood, recognizes. Read moreAkshay Kumar attends Aanand L Rai's mother's funeral, hours after his mom Aruna Bhatia's death. See picsHours after his mother Aruna Bhatia's funeral took place, Akshay Kumar made his way to attend the funeral of director Aanand L Rai's mother. The filmmaker's mother also reportedly died on Wednesday morning. The cause of death is still unknown. Read moreFacebook smart glasses with Ray-Ban branding? Will you buy? Check teaserFacebook smart glasses are coming and they have a connection with the iconic Ray-Ban company. In fact, Facebook and Ray-Ban are all set to launch a pair of smart glasses on Thursday, with the latter posting promotional information on its website related to the product in the form of a poser with the outline of the smart glasses. Read morePak's pets, FBI Most Wanted, Sharia: Takeaways from Taliban's new Afghan govtFrom featuring in the FBI's Most Wanted list to the United Nations' terrorist directory, the new leaders of the Taliban's 'interim' government in Afghanistan prove what some members of the US House of Representatives said - 'a government of terrorists, by terrorists, and for terrorists'. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-us-concerned-about-affiliations-and-track-record-of-members-in-taliban-caretaker-govt-and-all-the-latest-news-101631114172781.html
08-09-2021||India||CCS clears C-295 purchase worth $2.5 billion to replace IAF’s Avros||India’s Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) on Wednesday cleared the much-delayed purchase of 56 C-295 medium transport aircraft to replace the Indian Air Force’s ageing fleet of Avro-748 planes, the defence ministry announced on Wednesday. The deal is expected to be worth $2.5 billion. Airbus Defence and Space and Tata Advanced Systems Limited (TASL) will jointly execute the project to equip the air force with the new transport aircraft under the Make-in-India initiative in the aerospace sector. Airbus will supply the first 16 aircraft in flyaway condition while the remaining 40 will be assembled in India by TASL. The Avro replacement project was in the works for almost a decade. “Sixteen aircraft will be delivered in flyaway condition from Spain within 48 months of signing of the contract and 40 aircraft will be manufactured in India by Tata consortium within ten years of signing of the contract. This is the first project of its kind in which a military aircraft will be manufactured in India by a private company,” the ministry said in a statement. While the C-295s are meant to replace the Avro-748 transport planes, the new aircraft will also be suitable for demanding roles that the AN-32 currently undertakes. The aircraft can operate from short, unprepared airstrips and carry out a variety of missions in all-weather conditions. “We have made good progress with the light combat aircraft and a variety of helicopters. But transport aircraft is one area where a lot needs to be done. The C-295 project will help create an ecosystem for building transport aircraft in India,” said Air Marshal Anil Chopra (retd), director general, Centre for Air Power Studies. The defence acquisition council accorded its acceptance of necessity (AoN) to replace the Avro planes with 56 new aircraft in 2012. Under India’s defence procurement rules, AoN by the council is the first step towards buying military hardware. The Avro-748 entered service in the early 1960s and has been long due for replacement. “All 56 aircraft will be installed with indigenous electronic warfare suite. The project will give a boost to aerospace ecosystem in India wherein several MSMEs spread over the country will be involved in manufacturing parts of the aircraft,” the statement said. The programme will allow the Indian private sector to enter into the technology intensive and highly competitive aviation industry and will augment domestic aviation manufacturing resulting in reduced imports and expected increase in exports, it said. “The programme will act as a catalyst in employment generation and is expected to generate 600 highly skilled jobs directly, over 3,000 indirect jobs and an additional 3,000 medium skill employment opportunities…It will involve development of specialised infrastructure in the form of hangars, buildings, aprons and taxiway,” it said. The project will involve setting up servicing facilities for the C-295 in India. “It is expected that this facility will act as a regional MRO (maintenance, repair and overhaul) hub for various variants of C-295 aircraft,” it added. The contract will also have an offset clause. India’s offset policy stipulates that in all big-ticket capital purchases, the foreign vendor has to invest at least 30% of the value of the purchase in the country to boost indigenous capabilities. “The original equipment manufacturer (Airbus) will also discharge its offset obligations through direct purchase of eligible products and services from Indian offset partners giving further boost to economy,” the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ccs-clears-c-295-purchase-worth-2-5-billion-to-replace-iaf-s-avros-101631110901583.html
08-09-2021||India||For the 1st time, Army aircraft to be manufactured by private company||The Cabinet Committee of security on Wednesday approved the procurement of 56 C-295MW transport aircraft for the Indian Air Force. The aircraft will be procured from Airbus Defence and Space S.A., Spain. About 16 of the aircraft will be delivered within 48 months of signing the contract in a flyway condition while the remaining will be manufactured in India by the TATA Consortium within ten years of the signing of the contract.  Defence ministry sources said this is the first project of its kind in which a military aircraft will be manufactured in India by a private company. All 56 aircraft will be installed with the indigenous Electronic Warfare Suite. “The project will give a boost to the aerospace ecosystem in India wherein several MSMEs spread over the country will be involved in manufacturing parts of the aircraft,” an official said.“The programme will provide a major boost to the `Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan’ as it offers a unique opportunity for the Indian private sector to enter into technology-intensive and highly competitive aviation Industry. The project will augment domestic aviation manufacturing resulting in reduced import dependence and an expected increase in exports,” the official said explaining the aim behind the project.  IAF's Avro aircraft is ageing and the new transport aircraft with arear ramp door for quick reaction and para dropping of troops and cargo will replace the Avro aircraft of the IAF.A large number of detail parts, sub-assemblies and major component assemblies of aerostructure will be manufactured in India generating 600 highly skilled jobs directly, over 3000 indirect jobs and an additional 3,000 medium skill employment opportunities, the defence ministry said."It will involve the development of specialised infrastructure in form of hangars, buildings, aprons and taxiway. During the process of manufacturing in India, it is expected that all the suppliers of TATA Consortium who will be involved in special processes will gain and maintain globally recognised National Aerospace and Defence Contractors Accreditation Program accreditation.Before completion of deliveries, 'D' Level servicing facility these new aircraft will be set up. It is expected that this facility will act as a regional MRO hub for various variants of C-295 aircraft. In addition, the OEM will also discharge its offset obligations through direct purchase of eligible products and services from Indian Offset Partners giving a further boost to the economy, an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-approves-procurement-of-56-aircraft-to-replace-iaf-s-avro-in-a-boost-to-makeinindia-101631106245517.html
08-09-2021||India||68 under isolation for Nipah virus; all are stable: Kerala health minister||In the wake of the Nipah virus outbreak in Kerala, as many as 68 people are currently under isolation at the Government Medical College in Kozhikode district, state health minister Veena George told news agency ANI on Wednesday. She added that all patients are in a stable condition. She said that of the total number of samples collected during the contact tracing process of the Nipah virus victim in the state, 30 people have tested negative so far. George informed that she has been camping in Kozhikode for the past four days since the first case of the virus was reported in the district. Notably, a 12-year-old boy was the first victim of the Nipah virus in Kerala, and on Sunday, the minor succumbed to the infection. George said that all three samples of the boy were found to have had traces of the virus by the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune. According to the latest ANI report, as many as 251 people were listed during contact-tracing, of which, 129 were health workers and 54 in the high-risk groups. Of the total contacts identified, 11 were found to be symptomatic and among the high-risk groups, 30 were health workers.Also Read | What is Nipah virus? Know its symptoms, treatment and similarities with Covid-19On Tuesday, Hindustan Times reported that eight samples taken from the boy’s close contacts, came out as negative from the NIV, Pune. “It is a great relief for us. Among the eight are the boy’s parents and medical officials. We will localise and contain the outbreak as we did in 2018,” the state health minister said. A central team, which recently visited Kerala, conducted field investigations to provide measures to the state health department for combatting and containing the virus outbreak – that in 2018 had claimed 17 lives in Kozhikode district. The Union health ministry has asked for districts such as Wayanad, Kannur and Malappuram to be put on high alert. Besides, a need for setting up 24x7 control rooms for daily reporting and information sharing has also been highlighted by the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/68-under-isolation-for-nipah-virus-all-are-stable-kerala-health-minister-101631105378768.html
08-09-2021||India||Maharashtra woman dies en route hospital after landslide blocks road||A woman died on her way to the hospital on Wednesday in Maharashtra's Nandurbar district after landslides triggered by heavy rainfall blocked roads, news agency PTI reported quoting police. The woman, reported to be in her 50s, was being carried by her husband on his shoulders after he couldn't find any medium of transport due to the road blockade.The woman, identified as Shildibai Padvi, a resident of Chandsaili village in the tribal-dominated Nandurbar district, was unwell for the past few days. On Wednesday morning, Padvi complained of stomach ache following which her husband decided to take her to a nearby government-run hospital.However, the road connecting the town was blocked due to a landslide at the Chandsaili Ghat after heavy rainfall lashed the district. But, Padvi's husband held his wife on his shoulder and walked barefoot in a desperate attempt to reach the medical facility.He could barely walk some distance before Padvi collapsed, news agency PTI reported, citing a local official. After getting information about the incident, officials from the district administration, local police and a disaster management team rushed to the spot and started removing the landslide debris from the road.One side of the road was opened for traffic by afternoon.Parts of Maharashtra were hit by incessant rainfall over the past 24 hours, leading to severe waterlogging and landslides in some areas, including at Salav in Murud taluka in the coastal Raigad district.Meanwhile, the weather department issued a red alert for the state. A team of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) officials have been kept on stand-by as a precautionary measure.--||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-woman-dies-en-route-hospital-after-landslide-blocks-road-101631105016637.html
08-09-2021||India||Dozens feared missing as two passenger ferries collide on Brahmaputra in Assam||Dozens of people are feared missing in a collision involving two passenger ferries on Brahmaputra in Assam on Wednesday afternoon. According to the initial reports, the incident took place between Kamalabari in Majuli and Nematighat in Jorhat around 4pm. Both the ferries were carrying over 100 passengers in all. “Both ferries hit each other around 4pm. State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) and National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) personnel have started rescue operations. More details are awaited,” Jorhat deputy commissioner Ashok Kumar Barman said. According to reports, the incident took place around 100 metres from the Nematighat when one small ferry going towards Kamalabari hit the bigger ferry coming from the other side. The smaller ferry is reported to have capsized.Also Read | Assam: 100% public transport and govt vehicles to run on electricity by 2030 “Not much detail is available yet but one of the ferries involved in the accident belonged to our department,” said Gautam Das, director, inland water transport department. Chief minister Himanta Biswa expressed concern over the accident and directed the district administrations of Majuli and Jorhat to undertake rescue mission expeditiously with the help of NDRF and SDRF.He also directed minister Bimal Bora to travel to Majuli to take stock of the situation. Principal secretary to the chief minister, Samir Kumar Sinha, has been asked to monitor the developments. Sarma will visit Majuli on Thursday to evaluate the situation.The Brahmaputra and its tributaries are in full spate due to the rains and floods in the state and rescue efforts are likely to be hampered because of that.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dozens-feared-missing-as-two-passenger-ferries-collide-on-brahmaputra-in-assam-101631103446646.html
08-09-2021||India||Mamata to file nomination for Bhabanipur assembly bypoll on Friday||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee will file her nomination for the bypoll in Bhabanipur assembly constituency on Friday. Addressing a press conference, Mamata Banerjee also said that Sovandeb Chattopadhyay, who originally won the Bhabanipur seat in the assembly elections held earlier this year, but now vacated it for Banerjee to contest, will contest from Khardaha constituency. “He resigned for me, but he will continue as a minister in Bengal cabinet,” the chief minister said on Wednesday.The bypoll in Bhabanipur assembly constituency, which will take place on September 30, was neccessiated after Trinamool Congress leader Sovandeb Chattopadhyay vacated it recently so that Mamata Banerjee, who became the chief minister despite not winning any seat in the latest assembly election, could contest. Banerjee lost to her former aide Suvendu Adhikari by a thin margin of 1,956 votes from Nandigram constituency.However, as per the law, Mamata has to win on any seat in the state to have the chance of becoming a member of the state assembly, or the chief minister's post, before November 5.ALSO READ | Bhabanipur by-polls: Mamata’s plans to ensure she remains the CM of BengalMeanwhile, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) proposed six names to its leadership in New Delhi, from which it woild pick up the candidate to  be fielded against Banerjee. “We have sent a list of six names to Delhi. The list includes the names of Priyanka Tibrewal and Biswajit Sarkar among others like Tathagata Roy,” a senior BJP leader told the Hindustan Times.Banerjee began her campaign for the bypolls on Wednesday after the Election Commission on Saturday announced that it will hold elections in three constituencies of the eastern state, including Jangipur and Samsherganj constituencies in Bengal.The ballots cast in bypolls will be counted on October 3 – one week before the Durga Puja celebrations kick off in Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-to-file-nomination-for-bhabanipur-assembly-bypoll-on-friday-101631101652579.html
08-09-2021||India||Goa Police bust gang that ran fake call centre, duped US citizens||The Goa Police on Wednesday busted a network of scammers who operated out of a call centre and duped American citizens into parting with their money by impersonating US government officials. Thirteen persons, including the alleged mastermind, were arrested and equipment such as computers, laptops and other devices seized during a raid held by the Crime Branch of the Goa Police. According to the police, the gang had taken over a hotel -- Hotel Eden in Morjim a coastal village in North Goa -- and was operating a call centre from there. Also Read | Goa mining firms’ pleas for extension of leases dismissed by SC“They were defrauding American nationals by impersonating US government agents and telling them that their Social Security Numbers (SSN) were going to be blocked as they were found in a criminal investigation. The victims were then coerced to settle the matter by paying fines in the form of cash vouchers which were then converted to Bitcoin and used by the fraudsters,” Superintendent of Police (Crime) Shobit Saksena told reporters. “The accused are mainly from Gujarat and Mumbai who had taken the premises on rent and had started operating recently,” he added. “Further technical and forensic investigations are ongoing,” Saksena said. The scam, known as the technical support scam, lures victims, often senior citizens. According to the New York Times, Americans have cumulatively lost upwards of USD 14 million via such scams.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-police-bust-gang-that-ran-fake-call-centre-duped-uscitizens-101631102124499.html
08-09-2021||India||HT NxT to begin from Sept 9; Abhinav Bindra, Sonakshi Sinha among speakers||The virtual edition of HT NxT, a platform of Hindustan Times that brings together prominent newsmakers, will be inaugurated virtually on September 9. From September 9 to September 23, there will be sessions every Thursday featuring 17 speakers from areas ranging from sports to entertainment. The list of these stellar speakers includes Kapil Dev, Hardik Pandya, Sunil Chhetri, Abhinav Bindra, Naveen Tewari, Dr Navin & Dr Arjun Dang from the Dangs lab, Shatrughan Sinha, Sonakshi Sinha, Rasika and other renowned newsmakers. Catch the Olympians in action only at HT NxT! Register now to experience the future unfold #HTNxT2021https://t.co/PHA8OIZMeX#FirstVoiceLastWord pic.twitter.com/U9UR2ieGqJHT NxT is a first-of-its-kind platform aimed at bringing together the next-generation leaders, newsmakers to discuss the pertinent ideas, harness collective knowledge and experiences and frame innovative solutions for a better future.The HT NxT session will allow live Q&A with the speakers and participants will also be able to network with other peers and delegates in attendance. The Networking lounge feature will also offer an opportunity to send personal chat requests to other attendees, share business cards and request to schedule a meeting.To register for HT NxT, visit https://htnxt.virtualeventexp.com/||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-nxt-to-begin-from-september-9-registration-on-101631099187301.html
08-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: SpiceJet pilots derostered for landing before touchdown zone in Seychelles and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.DGCA derosters SpiceJet pilots for landing before touchdown zone in SeychellesDirectorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA), country’s aviation regulator, has derostered two SpiceJet pilots over safety concerns as they landed before the touchdown zone at Seychelles airport on Tuesday. Read more.Farooq Abdullah didn't 'back' Taliban: Party says on his Afghanistan remarkNational Conference on Wednesday slammed attempts to twist party leader Farooq Abdullah's coomment on Taliban and said that the party leader never 'backed' or 'supported' the Taliban as claimed by some media channels and on social media. "I hope they (Taliban) will deliver good governance and follow Islamic principles in that country (Afghanistan) and respect human rights. They should try to develop friendly relations with every country," the National Conference leader said, which has been interpreted by many as "indirectly extending support". Read more.No women: US ‘concerned’ over Taliban govt led by UN-blacklisted AkhundzadaThe United States is concerned over the track record of some of the cabinet members who will now govern Afghanistan under the new Taliban rule. A state department spokesperson explained that the concerns are mainly because of two reasons. One, the past and the affiliations of some of the individuals and second, the overall nature of the cabinet as it is not inclusive at all. The cabinet also includes no women members. Read more.ICC Test Rankings: India's Jasprit Bumrah climbs to ninth place after game-changing spellJasprit Bumrah, who was one of the main architects of India's win at The Oval, has climbed to the ninth place in the latest ICC Test rankings. Read more.Akshay Kumar’s mother passes away, actor says 'I feel an unbearable pain'Actor Akshay Kumar’s mother Aruna Bhatia died on Wednesday morning. The actor took to social media to share the news and expressed his grief. On Tuesday, Akshay had asked his fans to pray for his mother's health. Watch here.Overweight or have joint issues? Try deep water running to lose weightApart from the incredible health benefits it offers, running fills your heart with joy and a feeling of liberation. We leave behind our everyday stress with each step forward even as we get closer to a fitter version of self. Studies have proven how running helps to improve our cardiovascular health, increases immunity, enhances endurance and muscle strength. There are also researches that show how running can actually boost our mental health and serve as an antidepressant. Read more.Harsh Goenka shares pictures of New York’s Little Island, post intrigues peopleIf you follow Harsh Goenka on Twitter, chances are you are aware that he often shares various kinds of posts. Just like his recent share about Little Island Park in New York City. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-spicejet-pilots-derostered-for-landing-before-touchdown-101631097961704.html
08-09-2021||India||Not feasible to pass general order on door-to-door vaccination: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Wednesday left it to the states to decide on implementing door-to-door Covid-19 vaccination, saying that a general order cannot be issued for the entire country considering the diversity of conditions across states. The court was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by the Youth Bar Association of India seeking door-to-door Covid vaccination for all citizens, particularly the elderly, special persons with disability, the less privileged and weaker sections of society, and those who were unable to register online.While directing the petitioner to approach the ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) with their suggestions, the bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, Vikram Nath and Hima Kohli said, “The vaccination programme is already underway and has progressed considerably. At this stage it is difficult for us to issue general directions having regard to the diversity of conditions existing in the country. Any direction by us should not impinge upon the administrative power of the state governments to take any decision, including door-to-door vaccination.” In July, the Bombay high court asked the Maharashtra government to consider providing door-to-door vaccination for the elderly and those bedridden or wheelchair-bound. The top court said it was aware of the Bombay high court order but reminded the petitioner, “These are not matters where with one brush you can pass a direction for the entire country. Can you say the same conditions exist in Ladakh as in Uttar Pradesh or any urban area has the same conditions as prevailing in rural areas?” The court also asked the petitioner organisation, comprising mostly lawyers, whether they had checked the feasibility of carrying out such an exercise. “These are matters of research and for you to just come to court and seek directions is not enough. You have just picked up an issue and want door-to-door vaccination. Nobody has applied their mind if this is feasible. When you ask for such relief, you do not understand the diversity of this country and complexity of the problem.” The petition had relied on the fact that vulnerable sections of the population should be first attended to through a door-to-door vaccination policy. This way, the petition argued, there will be minimum risk of getting infected by avoiding visit to the vaccination centres. The petition also sought directions for drawing out a standard operating procedure (SOP) on door-to-door vaccination facility and a toll-free 24X7 portal for this purpose. The vaccination policy is being monitored by the court in a separate suo motu proceeding wherein a National Task Force has been constituted as part of measures to contain the spread of Covid-19. The court clarified that its present order will not have any bearing on the suo motu proceedings. When the petitioner’s lawyer Bably Singh sought a time-bound order for the government to consider their suggestions, the bench replied, “We will not pass such an order as you cannot imagine how pressurised the officials of the ministry of health and family welfare are. You can make your concrete suggestions that may be considered at the appropriate level. They will certainly take a decision.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-feasible-to-pass-general-order-on-door-to-door-vaccination-supreme-court-101631100082954.html
08-09-2021||India||Uttarakhand: NTCA seeks report on illegal construction in Corbett Tiger Reserve||National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) has again written to chief wildlife warden, Uttarakhand, to investigate the allegations of tree felling, illegal construction of bridges and walls in Corbett Tiger Reserve (CTR) and submit a factual report in the matter. In its letter dated September 6, the NTCA pointed out that it had written to the department on August 12 as well but the report has not been submitted. The letter urged the state forest department to get the matter investigated immediately. Last month, wildlife activist and Supreme Court advocate Gaurav Kumar Bansal sent a legal notice to NTCA member secretary. Bansal alleged flagrant violations of the Wildlife Protection Act and Forest Conservation Act in CTR. His legal notice alleged that illegal construction of bridges and wall was being done in Corbett near Kalagarh Forest Rest House. Also Read | Uttarakhand governor Baby Rani Maurya resignsJS Suhag, chief wildlife warden Uttarakhand said CTR field director has constituted a fact-finding committee in the matter to visit the areas mentioned in the allegations. “Based on the report of this committee, the factual report will be sent to NTCA”, he said. Bansal said within Kalagarh and Pakhro area of CTR, forest officials were illegally constructing bridges. “Near Kalagarh Forest Rest House, Uttarakhand forest department is not only illegally allowing construction of around four bridges, it is also constructing high wall at the boundary of CTR,” he said. Bansal said he also came to know that all the construction material except cement was being sourced from CTR, resulting in illegal mining of natural resources. He also approached the Delhi high court in the matter. In its August 23 order, the high court directed the NTCA to treat the petition as a representation and look into the issues flagged by Bansal. CTR director Rahul (who goes by his first name) also wrote to DFO Kalagarh forest division in July this year, seeking details of constructions or renovations between Kalagarh and Pakhro.CTR, which is spread across 1,288 square km, is one of the most popular tourist destinations in the state. It opens for tourists on November 15 every year for six months, till mid-June. There are 231 tigers inside CTR and 266 using the reserve, according to the latest report on tigers. This is the highest number of tigers across 50 tiger reserves in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-ntca-seeks-report-on-illegal-construction-in-corbett-tiger-reserve-101631099244539.html
08-09-2021||India||Centre gives nod to ₹10,683 crore-worth PLI scheme for textile sector||The Union cabinet on Wednesday approved the production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme for the textile sector with the aim to boost domestic manufacturing and exports, Union minister Anurag Thakur said. The decision to pass the scheme was made in a meeting that was chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Delhi.Under the scheme, incentives worth ₹10,683 crore will be provided over a period of five years, news agency PTI reported. The outlay has been given a nod for textiles for man-made fibre (MMF) apparel, MMF fabrics and ten segments or products of technical textiles.Notably, the PLI scheme for textiles is part of a wider announcement made earlier during the Union Budget 2021-22, which includes a total of 13 sectors, with an outlay of ₹1.97 lakh crore.According to official estimates, minimum production in India from the PLI schemes is likely to surpass US$ 500 billion in five years, Livemint reported.Speaking about the scheme, Union commerce and industry minister, Piyush Goyal told ANI that the government hopes this decision will “produce some global champions.” “The factories based around aspirational districts or Tier-3 & Tier-4 cities will be given priority. It will especially benefit Gujarat, UP, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, etc,” he added.Minister of state (MoS), textiles, Darshana Jardosh said that there is a possibility of about 7.5 lakh people getting employment from this scheme. She further told ANI that the central government is “aiming for production of over ₹3.5 lakh crores; incentive target of 25% after first 2 years.”The idea of the schemes is to better competitiveness of domestic manufacturing activities and to pave the way for global champions. Furthermore, the schemes were specifically designed to curtail cheaper imports, boost domestic manufacturing in strategic sectors and cut down import expenses as well, according to the Livemint report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-gives-nod-to-rs-10-683-crore-worth-pli-scheme-for-textile-sector-101631096299377.html
08-09-2021||India||DGCA derosters SpiceJet pilots for landing before touchdown zone in Seychelles||Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA), country’s aviation regulator, has derostered two SpiceJet pilots over safety concerns as they landed before the touchdown zone at Seychelles airport on Tuesday. The incident took place when SpiceJet B737-800 aircraft from Chennai to Seychelles landed before touchdown zone. The aircraft landed safely and according to DGCA sources, there was no damage to the airport or the aircraft.“Both pilots were off-rostered after the preliminary findings,’’ said a DGCA official. “The flight data recorder was reviewed and some manual error was found, after which the pilots were de-rostered,” the official added. SpiceJet spokesperson said, “We have initiated an inquiry.”Also Read | Footfall at Mumbai airport improved in August, festive season expected to be betterAccording to data from flightradar24, a Swedish internet-based service that shows real-time commercial aircraft flight tracking information on a map, the flight that was scheduled to take off at 7am, took off at 10.34am (IST) and landed at around 2.30pm (IST) on runway 13. “The flight landed safely but after the engine shut down, it was learnt that the operating crew made the aircraft land before touchdown zone. However, there is no damage to the aircraft or aerodrome property,” an airline source said. Appreciating DGCA’s decision to de-roster the pilots, aviation safety expert Mohan Ranganathan said, “It is a serious incident because the touchdown zone is at least 1300ft from the threshold and if the aircraft landed short of the runway then it highlights poor judgment of the pilots and had they used vertical situation display instrument, they would have known well in time that they were landing short. The repercussions could have been serious like the aircraft could have been veered off the runway or there could have been structural damage too.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dgca-derosters-spicejet-pilots-for-landing-before-touchdown-zone-in-seychelles-101631096122570.html
08-09-2021||India||Farooq Abdullah didn't 'back' Taliban: Party says after his Afghanistan remark gets 'twisted'||National Conference on Wednesday slammed attempts to twist party leader Farooq Abdullah's coomment on Taliban and said that the party leader never 'backed' or 'supported' the Taliban as claimed by some media channels and on social media. "I hope they (Taliban) will deliver good governance and follow Islamic principles in that country (Afghanistan) and respect human rights. They should try to develop friendly relations with every country," the National Conference leader said, which has been interpreted by many as "indirectly estending support".He was speaking to reporters after paying his respects at his father Sheikh Mohammad Abdullah's mausolem at Naseem Bagh in Srinagar on his 39th death anniversary."Backs? How? Falsely attributing things to Dr Farooq Abdullah that he NEVER said is DEPLORABLE. Twisting words and misrepresenting the intended meaning only exposes the so called “channels” that manufacture stories with mala fide intention," the party tweeted.Earlier, National Conference leader Omar Abdullah questioned the Centre for talking to the Taliban and said the Centre must clarify how it sees the Taliban. "Either Taliban are a terror organisation or not, please clarify to us how you see them. If they are not a terror group, then will you (Centre) move to United Nations and have it delisted as a terror organisation? Let their bank accounts start functioning then. If they are a terror group, why are you talking to them? How do you distinguish between the Taliban and other terror organisations?On August 31, India's ambassador to Qatar Deepak Mittal met Sher Mohammad Abbas Stanekzai at the Embassy of India in Doha to discuss safety, security of Indian nationals stranded in Afgganistan. At that time, Farooq Abdullah voiced his concern over the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan. "Taliban's influence will be felt. Where it will fall, how much will fall on America, how much will fall on Russia, how much will fall on China, I do not know. And we have to see how much impact it will have," Farooq Abdullah had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farooq-abdullah-didn-t-back-taliban-party-says-on-his-afghanistan-remark-101631095783197.html
08-09-2021||India||India, Russia agree to coordinate on Afghan settlement, regional peace||National Security Advisor (NSA) Ajit Doval and his Russian counterpart Nikolay Patrushev on Wednesday held wide-ranging talks in New Delhi on the prevailing situation in Afghanistan following its takeover by the Taliban and its security implications for India, Russia and the Central Asian region.In a statement, the Russian embassy said the duo discussed the military, political and socio-economic situation in the war-ravaged country.An ANI report said they also touched upon humanitarian and migration problems in Afghanistan, as well as prospects for Russian-Indian joint efforts aimed at creating conditions for launching a peaceful settlement process on the basis of an intra-Afghan dialogue.Also read | Afghanistan terrorism may spread to Kashmir: Russian ambassador“In addition, the sides agreed to coordinate the approaches of Russia and India in multilateral formats on the Afghan settlement,” the report said.The importance of defining parameters of the future state structure of Afghanistan by the Afghans themselves, as well as the need to prevent the escalation of violence -- social, ethnic and confessional contradictions in the country -- were also emphasised.Also read | ‘Too early’: Russian envoy to India on recognising Taliban as Afghanistan govtThe two top officials also discussed deepening bilateral cooperation in security with an emphasis on further interaction on the anti-terrorist track, combating illegal migration and drug trafficking, the embassy said.The further spoke about intensifying joint work of the two countries’ special services and military bodies.Also read | India, Russia on the same page on Taliban-ruled KabulThe meeting took place a day after Doval held extensive talks with chief of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) William Burns on the Afghan crisis.Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Russian President Vladimir Putin had on August 24 discussed the developments in Afghanistan and expressed the view that it was important for the two countries to work together.On Tuesday, the Ministry of External Affairs said Patrushev is visiting India at the invitation of Doval for the high-level India-Russia inter-governmental consultations on Afghanistan.On Monday, Russian envoy Nikolay Kudashev said that there is "ample scope" for cooperation between India and Russia on Afghanistan and both sides have been in regular touch with each other on the latest developments in the war-torn country.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-russia-agree-to-coordinate-on-afghan-settlement-regional-peace-101631095254711.html
08-09-2021||India||MI6, CIA chiefs and Russia’s Security Council secretary make beeline for India||Top security and intelligence officials of the UK, the US and Russia have made a beeline for India to discuss the situation in Afghanistan following the Taliban takeover in Kabul and the implications for regional security. Richard Moore, the head of the UK Secret Intelligence Service or MI6, was the first of the visitors over the past week, and he was followed on Tuesday by Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) director William Burns. Both spy chiefs and their teams met National Security Adviser Ajit Doval and top members of the National Security Council Secretariat, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. On Wednesday, Doval met Nikolay Patrushev, the secretary of Russia’s security council. Patrushev is visiting India at Doval’s invitation for high-level bilateral inter-governmental consultations on Afghanistan, the external affairs ministry said. The visits came against the backdrop of the old guard of the Taliban tightening its grip on power in Afghanistan a little more than two weeks after the group marched into Kabul on August 15, following the chaotic collapse of the Ashraf Ghani government. Just three days after a visit to Kabul by Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) chief, Lt Gen Faiz Hameed, the Taliban on Tuesday announced a 33-member interim setup led by veteran political leader Mohammad Hasan Akhund, a close aide of the group’s founder, Mullah Mohammad Omar. The people cited above said developments in Afghanistan and the possible spillover of terrorism from Afghan soil were among the key topics discussed in the meetings with the MI6 and CIA chiefs and the Russian security official. The Indian side raised Pakistan’s backing for the Taliban and its core military component, the Haqqani Network, and the presence of thousands of Pakistani fighters in Afghanistan, the people said. Also Read | As it forms the Afghan government, the Taliban relies on old guard, PashtunsThe meetings also looked at the way forward on Afghanistan, especially at a time when Russia and China appear to be veering towards the possible recognition of the Taliban dispensation. There are indications that Russia and China are keen to work with the Taliban to address their security concerns, especially the perceived threat from the Islamic State and the East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM). Russia and China are also among the very few countries that have kept their embassies in Kabul open and their envoys have been meeting with Taliban leaders. Burns and his team interacted with Doval and key members of the National Security Council Secretariat, including deputy national security adviser Rajinder Khanna and Lt Gen (retired) VG Khandare, the secretariat’s military adviser, the people said. While the external affairs ministry announced Patrushev’s visit, there was no official word from any side on the trips by the British and American spy chiefs. Burns is believed to have travelled to Pakistan after the India leg of his visit. The meeting between Doval and Patrushev is a follow-up to the phone conversation between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Vladimir Putin on August 24, during which the two leaders had agreed to remain in close touch on the Afghanistan issue. The consultations reflect the importance and potential for enhanced political and security cooperation on Afghanistan, the people said. “Both countries also share concerns on terrorism, especially ensuring that the Taliban adhere to their commitments,” one of the people said. The people said the Indian side also raised with Patrushev the activities of terror groups such as Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed on Afghan soil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mi6-cia-chiefs-and-russia-s-security-council-secretary-make-beeline-for-india-101631094744113.html
08-09-2021||India||Uttarakhand governor Baby Rani Maurya resigns||Only the second woman to be appointed Uttarakhand governor after Margaret Alva, Baby Rani Maurya resigned from her position on Wednesday, almost two years before completing her term, confirmed Brijesh Kumar Sant, secretary to the governor. “She has sent her resignation letter to the President Ram Nath Kovind today. The President is yet to accept or reject her resignation,” Sant said. 1956 born Baby Rani Maurya took charge as Uttarakhand governor in August 2018, succeeding Krishan Kant Paul, who was appointed governor in January 2015. The only other woman governor of the state, Margaret Alva held the post from August 2009 to May 2012. Before becoming the governor of Uttarakhand, Maurya had served on many political and administrative posts. From 1995 to 2000, she was mayor of Agra. In 2001, she was a member of the State Social Welfare Board and a member of the National Women’s Commission in 2002. In 1996, she was awarded Samaj Ratna, followed by the Uttar Pradesh Ratna in 1997 and the Nari Ratna award in 1998. Speculations were rife that she might be given some important responsibility in Uttar Pradesh ahead of the assembly elections. A Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader from the Dalit community, Maurya had unsuccessfully contested the Assembly election from Etmadpur seat in 2007, following which she became less active in political circles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-governor-baby-rani-maurya-resigns-101631093242299.html
08-09-2021||India||Politics calling? Baby Rani Maurya resigns as Uttarakhand governor||Uttarakhand Governor Baby Rani Maurya on Wednesday resigned from her post citing personal reasons. Maurya submitted her resignation to President Ram Nath Kovind, the governor secretary BK Sant said, according to news agency ANI.Maurya put in her papers two years before completing her tenure amid speculations that she might take a fresh plunge into Uttar Pradesh politics where the crucial Assembly election is slated to be held next here.Uttarakhand Governor Baby Rani Maurya (in file pic) has submitted her resignation to President Ram Nath Kovind, says the Governor's Secretary, BK Sant pic.twitter.com/bI4rIE6B2WOn Sunday, she met Union home minister Amit Shah in New Delhi.A BJP leader from the Dalit community, Maurya had unsuccessfully contested the Assembly election from Etmadpur seat in 2007, following which she became less active in political circles.She was sworn in as the governor of Uttarakhand on August 26, 2018 taking over from Krishna Kant Paul at the end of his five-year tenure.She had completed three years in office as the governor last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/baby-rani-maurya-resigns-as-uttarakhand-governor-101631091524765.html
08-09-2021||India||Apple’s new update sparks concerns among govt, experts||Apple’s announcement last month that it would scan iCloud and iMessage for images related to the sexual abuse and exploitation of children on iPhones, a plan that has since been deferred amidst an outcry that this could be the forerunner of mass surveillance, has created a stir in policy making circles in India as well. According to a senior government official who asked not to be named, this would be a total violation of right to privacy, something that had been upheld by the Supreme Court as a fundamental right. “Apple has no right to do something like this,” the government official added. “The definition of right to privacy has restrictions which can (only) be invoked by the government not tech companies.”The official added only the state has the “power to breach the fundamental right”. “Apple’s update is against what is enshrined in the constitution.” Also Read | Apple lets some apps avoid 30% cut after facing scrutinyApple proposed to achieve its objective through an update which would have allowed it to scan images stored in the cloud as well transmitted over iMessage, its messaging platform which it has managed to keep outside the purview of India’s new guidelines for social media companies. Any child sexual abuse material (CSAM) on iCloud would automatically be flagged and reported, the company said. The notification when CSAM is shared over iMessage is triggered only when parental controls have been enabled. The update would have been the first of its kind to perform client-side scanning, that is going through the contents of people’s phones. Experts have warned of grave consequences regarding its impact on end-to-end encryption.HT reached out to Apple but did not receive a response immediately. In a statement released globally on September 3, Apple said that it was delaying the update. “Last month we announced plans for features intended to help protect children from predators who use communication tools to recruit and exploit them, and limit the spread of Child Sexual Abuse Material. Based on feedback from customers, advocacy groups, researchers and others, we have decided to take additional time over the coming months to collect input and make improvements before releasing these critically important child safety features.” Former Associate Director of Surveillance and Cybersecurity at the Stanford Center for Internet and Society Riana Pfefferkorn said the update would open a Pandora’s box. “Apple’s new CSAM scanning feature is predicated on complicated cryptography that attempts to preserve user privacy as best as possible,” she said. “Nevertheless, it fundamentally undermines users’ expectations of privacy on their phones. Likewise, notifying parents when children under 13 send or receive explicit images has a privacy impact as well and may result in harm to children of abusive parents. Apple has absolutely set an example that other tech companies, both in the handset space and the encrypted messaging apps space, are already being pressured to follow.”Ranjana Kumari, who is a member of Facebook’s oversight board and Director of Centre for Social Research, said that the framework of end-to-end encryption is evolving. “The question is between privacy and safety. The choice is tough and both are equally important,” she said. “We need to devise other mechanisms for safety. Lot of international experts have proposed alternate mechanisms to promote safety while protecting privacy.”Pfefferkorn added that the surveillance implications of the update were vast. “We can anticipate that the on-device scanning for CSAM will rapidly be repurposed by governments worldwide into a surveillance tool to scan for content they do not like,” she said. “Similarly, Apple’s messaging safety feature could be expanded to content besides explicit images, and notification expanded from “notify only parents of children under 13, if the parents opted in to this notification feature,” to “notify the government, and not just regarding children, and don’t give users the option to opt out.” Apple’s only response to this concern is that they simply would not agree to scan for other types of content outside of the child safety context. But given Apple’s track record of bowing to government pressure worldwide, for example in China, that representation rings hollow.” She added that Apple’s update also showed a willingness to share data with government. “Apple follows the law in the jurisdictions where it does business. That includes both criminal investigatory laws as well as laws governing user privacy and data protection. This means it will comply with demands for user data by governments, whether in the US or elsewhere, but only if both (1) the demand is legal (i.e. there is proper legal process) and, also, (2) compliance with the demand is likewise legal under applicable laws, i.e., there isn’t a privacy law blocking the disclosure of the data. But yes, Apple has now created a way of detecting and sharing information about its users (specifically, those who upload a sufficient number of CSAM images to iCloud) that it did not previously have.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/apples-new-update-sparks-concerns-among-govt-experts-101631089282016.html
08-09-2021||India||Tamil Nadu adopts resolution urging government to repeal CAA||Following through with the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK)’s election promise, Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin adopted a resolution on Wednesday urging the union government to repeal the contentious Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), 2019. The state argues that the CAA isn’t secular, it doesn’t support refugees but it discriminates based on religion and country of origin. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) walked out in protest and its ally and principal Opposition, the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK), walked out even before the resolution was tabled. However, the Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK), which is part of the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA), supported the resolution. The resolution stated that the CAA is not in tune with the secular principles prescribed by the Constitution. “...and also not conducive to the communal harmony that prevails in India. As per established democratic principles, a Country should be governed taking into consideration the aspirations and concerns of the people belonging to all sections of the society. But it is clearly seen that the CAA was passed in such a way that it does not accord warm support to the refugees considering their plight, but instead discriminates (against) them according to their religion and their country of origin. Therefore, to protect and ensure the unity and communal harmony of this Country and to uphold the secular principles enshrined in the Constitution of India, this August House resolves to urge the Union Government to repeal CAA, 2019.” With this, Tamil Nadu joins states such as Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Rajasthan and West Bengal in passing resolutions against CAA. Stalin also drew attention to Sri Lankan refugees who are not covered under the CAA--the DMK has promised them citizenship on humanitarian grounds. After forming the government in May, Stalin dropped charges against anti-CAA protesters. This is also the second legislation passed by the BJP-led Centre that Stalin’s new DMK government has opposed in the assembly. In August, the Tamil Nadu government moved a resolution against the three farm laws.Tamil Nadu BJP’s floor leader Nainar Nagendran defended their party’s decision to enforce the CAA that allows India citizenship for persecuted immigrants except Muslims from three neighbouring countries -- Pakistan, Afghanistan and Bangladesh. “It’s 100% not against minorities,” Nagendran said in the assembly and walked out. The AIADMK walked out ahead of the resolution being tabled, saying that the schemes introduced during former chief minister and AIADMK leader late J Jayalalithaa’s regime were being stalled. “They are scrapping Amma’s (Jayalalithaa’s) schemes one by one, and they are not even allowing us to raise these issues,” leader of Opposition Edappadi Palaniswami told reporters outside the assembly. “We condemned this so we walked out.” The party has not commented on the resolution and has had differing stances on CAA. The AIADMK, during its regime, voted in favour of the CAA in Parliament. But later, the AIADMK made a promise to the contrary in its election manifesto ahead of the assembly elections in April--they said they would ask the union government to withdraw CAA for the protection of the rights of minorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-adopts-resolution-against-caa-101631088801720.html
08-09-2021||India||Women can join NDA, Centre informs Supreme Court||The Union government on Wednesday informed the Supreme Court that it has decided that women, too, can join the Pune-based National Defence Academy (NDA). The Centre’s submission in the top court came as a 2-judge bench took up a plea seeking directions for necessary steps to be taken to allow eligible female candidates to appear in the upcoming NDA examination, which is scheduled to be held on November 14.Also Read | SC allows women to appear in NDA exam“There’s some good news. A decision has been taken at the highest level of forces and government that girls will be inducted for permanent commission through the National Defence Academy. The decision was taken late evening yesterday,” Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Aishwarya Bhati, appearing for the central government, informed the bench, according to Live Law. Bhati described it as a “path breaking” and “generational reform.”The Centre, however, also sought an exemption from allowing women candidates for this year’s paper.On this, the bench headed by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul directed the government to put on record a detailed affidavit by September 20, mentioning details such as steps being mulled, timeline etc. The next hearing in the matter will take place on September 22, it announced. #SupremeCourt asks Centre to put on record a detailed affidavit on steps being mulled, timelines etc by Sep 20 & the case will be heard next on Sep 22. @appauled_ is the AoR for the petitioner in the case, in which SC had last time directed women will be allowed to sit for exam https://t.co/w2Oee2y2HU“Armed forces are so respected in the country. However, on gender equality, they have to do more,” Justice Kaul observed.Wednesday’s developments come in the backdrop of interim directions passed by the court on August 18, in which it said that girls can also appear for the NDA exam. “The policy that restricts their entry into the elite institution is based on gender discrimination,” the order read. In doing so, it rejected Centre’s arguments that women not being allowed at the NDA does not violate their fundamental rights as male cadets trained at the academy do not enjoy any advantage in future career prospects over women who, at present, can join the Army only on short service commission (SSC) through the Combined Defence Services (CDS) exam.Also Read | No violation of rights in denying women admission to NDA: Centre to SCAt present, only male candidates who have cleared class 12th, and are between 16-and-a-half and 19-years-old, can apply for this exam, which is conducted twice every year by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC). Those who clear the written exam then appear for Services Selection Board (SSB) interviews. Finally, the ones who clear their medical tests are inducted into the NDA, which was established in December 1954.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/women-cadets-will-be-allowed-to-join-nda-centre-informs-supreme-court-101631087888411.html
08-09-2021||India||Ajit Doval meets Russia's Patrushev to discuss situation in Taliban-ruled Afghanistan||National Security Adviser (NSA) Ajit Doval on Wednesday met Russia's secretary of the country's security council General Nikolai Patrushev for high-level India-Russia inter-governmental consultations on the situation in Afghanistan. The discussions come hours after the Taliban announced their new interim government in the war-torn nation, revealing an all-male cabinet that includes several individuals sanctioned by the United States and the United Nations, along with an FBI ‘most wanted’ terrorist as a top minister. In light of these developments, Patrushev's visit to India and the subsequent meetings with NSA Ajit Doval assumes special significance for both New Delhi and Moscow in connection with the response to the Taliban takeover.Also Read | Taliban takeover in Afghanistan to figure at BRICS meet chaired by PM ModiMeeting between NSA Shri Ajit Doval and Secretary of the Russian Security Council General Nikolai #Patrushev in Delhi.@PMOIndia @DrSJaishankar @MEAIndia @mfa_russia @RusEmbIndia @DDIndialive @ANI @IndianDiplomacy @tass_agency @rianru @RT_com pic.twitter.com/UK1i0ZKGzHAfter meeting Doval, the Russian security chief is also expected to call on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and foreign minister Dr S Jaishankar. The officials are to discuss the political, security, and humanitarian situation in Afghanistan.The high-level India-Russia inter-governmental consultations on Afghanistan led by the two national security advisers include representatives of the Union ministry of external affairs, the ministry of defence, and security agencies. The consultations, which are currently underway, are likely to reflect on the developing situation in Afghanistan created by the withdrawal of US forces. Both Russia and India share similar concerns on terrorism, especially to ensure that the Taliban adhere to their promises and assurances.Also Read | India, Russia on the same page on Taliban-ruled KabulThe security chiefs are expected to discuss activities of terrorist groups such as the Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammad, threats from drugs, the role of regional countries and details of Indo-Russia cooperation to meet current and future threats and measures to assist Afghanistan, said those privy to the matter.General Nikolay Patrushev is understood to be the ‘right-hand man’ of Russian president Vladimir Putin, and in meeting him today, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be getting a better cognisance of Moscow's position on Kabul.Earlier, India put across its point of view on the impact of Taliban-ruled Afghanistan to the visiting security heads of Britain and the United States – MI-6 chief Richard Moore and CIA chief William Burns – respectively.The political situation in Afghanistan has taken a turn for the worse with US-designated terrorist Sirajuddin Haqqani in charge of interior ministry and intelligence, while Mullah Yaqoob, son of Mullah Omar, the defence minister. The United States said late on Tuesday that it is concerned about the "affiliations and track records" of some of the people named by the Taliban to fill top posts in Afghanistan's new government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ajit-doval-meets-russia-s-patrushev-to-discuss-situation-in-taliban-ruled-afghanistan-101631085374825.html
08-09-2021||India||Come winter, artificial intelligence equipped Saathi to guard, treat crops||Come winter this year, robots will be guarding tomato and potato crops from insects, birds and viruses, analyse the soil and spray insecticides in a targeted area at the CS Azad University of Agriculture and Technology, Kanpur.Developed by the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Kanpur, the robots can navigate through agricultural fields to help farmers keep an eye on the crops, leaves and flowers and guard them against attacks from insects.“It will treat the crops and also send out instant alerts about the viruses infecting the soil, helping the farmer decide on a future course of action. It’s overall interventions will help the farmers get good crop quality and yield,” said professor Vishakh Bhattacharya, the maker of this robot.Between October and November, these robots will be deployed at the CSA University fields to give their inputs on soil and crop conditions.Bhattacharya said the use of pesticides to protect the crops from insect attacks not only pollutes the crops and fruits but also the soil and water. “We have named it Saathi, to help farmers alleviate the ill-effects of the current mode of farming,” he said.Equipped with artificial intelligence, the robot has numerous sensors and cameras, which will help in scanning even the smallest detail.“It will assess the affected area in the field and sprinkle pesticides just in that particular area, and not in the entire field,” he said. Even if one leaf on a plant is not infected, the robot will not spray it, Bhattacharya added.Saathi robot will regularly assess soil health and provide the user or farmer estimates on growth of crops and production. Besides, it will also record the changes in the field and shoot off an analytical report.“We have prepared this robot with Uttar Pradesh in mind. It will go to the CSA fields fully fed with details of diseases that harm potato and tomato crops, and the pesticides that are used,” he said.The team at the mechanical engineering department has been working for two-and-a-half years on this robot with the last one year spent on fine-tuning it to perform specific tasks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/come-winter-artificial-intelligence-equipped-saathi-to-guard-treat-crops-101631086941607.html
08-09-2021||India||Chirag meets Tejashwi in Patna, expresses desire to speak to Nitish too||Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) president Chirag Paswan met Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav in Patna on Wednesday to invite him for an event on September 12 to mark the first death anniversary of his father and former Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan. This was the duo’s first meeting since the Bihar Assembly election held last year.The Jamui MP said he would also meet RJD supremo Lalu Yadav in Delhi on Thursday, adding that he wished to meet Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar as well. “My aim is to invite everyone who has worked with him to pay their tributes,” he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Also read | Tejashwi reaches out to Chirag again, tells him to join Bihar oppositionTejashwi shared photos of the meeting on Twitter.लोजपा के राष्ट्रीय अध्यक्ष श्री चिराग पासवान जी ने अपने पिता स्वर्गीय रामविलास पासवान जी की बरसी के मौके पर आयोजित श्रद्धांजलि सभा में शामिल होने का आमंत्रण दिया। pic.twitter.com/6PWVieLoWG Chirag had severed ties with Kumar-led Janata Dal (United) weeks ahead of the election, but had maintained he would continue to remain a part of the BJP-led NDA at the Centre. The JD(U) and BJP are coalition partners of the ruling camp in Bihar.On Tuesday, Chirag said he had invited top national leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah and Congress president Sonia Gandhi, for the event that is likely to assume heightened political significance at a time when the Paswan scion in embroiled in a bitter dispute with his uncle and Union Minister Pashupati Kumar Paras to claim the legacy of his father. Chirag also met Paras at the latter’s residence in Delhi to give him an invite.Also read | Nitish Kumar sacrificed his party leaders to make Pashupati a minister: Chirag PaswanParas is also likely to organise an anniversary event on October 8, the day Paswan passed away last year. He is also expected to invite top national leaders.Chirag is also in the news for installing the bust of his father at the latter’s official residence for three decades in Delhi for which the Centre has sent an eviction notice to the Paswan family and allocated the same to Union minister Ashwini Vaishnaw. However, the LJP has claimed there was politics behind his move and Chirag, being a lawmaker, would not do anything considered encroachment or any violation of law.While the BJP has given a ministerial berth in the Narendra Modi government to Paras ignoring Chirag's claims to the party, opposition leaders, including Lalu Prasad and his son Tejashwi, have reached out to him.Though he has voiced displeasure over the BJP's treatment of him, he has so far maintained silence about his future political moves, saying his priority now was to build his party.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chirag-meets-tejashwi-in-patna-expresses-desire-to-meet-nitish-too-101631085540326.html
08-09-2021||India||‘UNSC not truly representative of contemporary world’: Indian envoy||India's permanent representative to the United Nations TS Tirumurti on Wednesday briefed the UN Security Council (UNSC) on the maintenance of international peace and security.Highlighting that the UN charter is prescribed a “trigger mechanism for collective action” by the UN Security Council, Tirumurti said, “Action by the UNSC is not the first step, but the last, after exhausting all options.”He said the principle of non-intrusion into domestic affairs of member states is a key aspect of the UNSC. “The challenge is to balance these important articles of faith when initiating action by the (UN Security) Council," the Indian envoy said.Tirumurti spoke on the constraints of the UNSC and the “structural inequality” in the security grouping.“We have seen and continue to witness the distressing consequences of intervention made without allowing for mediation efforts, especially regional mediation efforts. We, therefore, need to draw the right lessons from history and calls for preventive diplomacy should be seen in these contexts," Tirumurti said during this address.The Indian diplomat highlighted that some of the member nations have, in recent years, made efforts to bring thematic issues to be taken up by the UNSC by projecting them as peace and security issues. "While some of them are extremely important and timely, like, for example, the women, peace and security agenda, we should be equally careful that instead of reforming the other UN organs, we are arrogating to ourselves some of the responsibilities of the other organs.”Tirumurti remarked that much of the problems relating to Security Council decisions stem from an "important factor" that the group is not truly representative of the contemporary world.#IndiainUNSCWatch 📺:Remarks by @AmbTSTirumurti at the #UNSC Briefing on Maintenance of International Peace and Security (Elders)@MeaIndia pic.twitter.com/lpLWxelJmDThe Indian diplomat quoted an excerpt from Prime Minister Narendra Modi's address to the 75th session of the UN General Assembly last year, to highlight that "reforms in the responses, in the processes, and in the character of the United Nations is the need of the hour.”“The world today is significantly different from 1945, and if the member states have to truly believe in the impartiality of the Security Council, it must make decisions based on certain impartial yardsticks,” Tirumurti said.Stressing that the UNSC has to be “representative of current realities to be credible, legitimate and effective", Tirumurti said, “Consequently, when considering preventive diplomacy, either suo motu or through the recommendation of the Secretary-General, the member states have to be convinced that the decision taken by the Council is impartial and carefully considered, and is not just a political tool. Only then will preventive diplomacy be effective and even acceptable by all member states.”Tirumurti said that the United Nations has several principal organs which clearly defines roles and functions, and the issues of social and economic significance must be discussed primarily at the General Assembly, and not at the Security Council. “We need to reform the other organs to make them more effective and promote cooperative functionalism between the principal organs of the UN,” he added.Tirumurti further said that the tendency to burden the UNSC with an increasing number of global challenges premised on their “perceived connection with a threat to peace and security” will be self-defeating.The top diplomat highlighted that the world continues to be confronted with peace and security challenges exacerbated by the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. He stressed that contemporary security challenges are not limited to territorial or political disputes but transcend physical or political boundaries. “To address new and emerging challenges we need coordinated and concerted actions across borders. In this regard, strengthening partnerships and enhancing linkages between the UN and regional organisations is absolutely critical,” Tirumurti said.Speaking in favour of including regional blocs in the decision-making process of the Security Council, Tirumurti said, “With their deep knowledge of local factors and complexities, regional and sub-regional organisations and uniquely placed to contribute to finding better solutions to conflicts in their respective regions.”He said there are instances where the UNSC's decisions are at variance with how regional groups decide.Tirumurti also briefed the UNSC on the security challenges in the region and how they are affecting the world. “The continuing acts of terrorism and expansion of terrorist groups pose serious challenges to the maintenance of international peace and security,” he said.He reminded the UNSC of Indian foreign minister S Jaishankar's “eight principles of counter-terrorism,” and said that UNSC needs to have zero tolerance to non-state terror actors and their sponsors. “Equally important is to the end the stalemate and expeditiously adopt a comprehensive convention on international terrorism,” Tirumurti added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/un-security-council-ts-tirumurti-un-general-assembly-global-peace-diplomacy-101631082309556.html
08-09-2021||India||Every eligible citizen must take Covid vaccine: Vice President Naidu||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Tuesday asked every eligible citizen to take the Covid-19 vaccine and added that the vaccination campaign should become a people’s movement. He added that every eligible citizen must deem it as their duty to take the required dose of vaccine.Launching a free vaccination programme organised in Hyderabad by Swarna Bharat Trust in collaboration with Bharat Biotech International Ltd and MediCiti Hospitals, Naidu said that there was no alternative to taking the vaccine.He also urged people’s representatives, film and sports celebrities to take the lead in dispelling myths and fears on Covid-19 vaccination, and stressed on the need to counter misinformation on the vaccines. Mentioning that more than 7.1 million doses were administered in the country till Monday, he expressed his happiness that India had vaccinated over 50% of its eligible citizens with at least one dose. Terming this as a collective and remarkable effort of the Centre and states, the Vice President stressed that the mission of vaccination must not lose momentum until every citizen is vaccinated.Naidu observed that at a time when even developed countries are struggling to cope with the pandemic, India has not only successfully manufactured vaccines, but is also conducting the world’s largest free vaccination programme. “Further, in the spirit of ‘Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam’, India has exported vaccines around the world,” he added.The Vice President also stressed the importance of maintaining Covid-appropriate behaviour even after taking the vaccination. He mentioned that citizens should take personal responsibility and adhere to personal hygiene, wearing masks and maintaining a safe distance from each other. In addition, Naidu suggested that citizens adopt healthy lifestyle choices, such as practising yoga, maintaining physical fitness and eating healthy food in order to ward off potential health problems.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/every-eligible-citizen-must-take-covid-vaccine-vice-president-naidu-101631085681283.html
08-09-2021||India||Rajnath Singh okays increase in financial powers of armed forces||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday approved the expansion of financial powers to the armed forces through the Delegation of Financial Powers to Defence Services (DFPDS) 2021.The move aims to empower field formations, improve operational preparedness, and ease cross-service cooperation among the armed forces. Singh said it is an important step in strengthening the country’s security infrastructure. The order approved substantial enhancement in the schedules related to indigenisation, research, and development by up to three times the existing powers, in line with PM Modi’s vision of ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’. Also Watch | PM Modi meets Amit Shah, Rajnath, Ajit Doval after Taliban’s Panjshir claimA general enhancement of up to two times has been approved for the competent financial authorities (CFAs). In certain schedules, this enhancement at field formations is in the range of up to 5-10 times on account of operational requirements,” the ministry said in a statement.“Delegated financial powers of vice chiefs of the services have been increased by 10 percent, subject to an overall ceiling of ₹500 crore,” it said.The ministry said the financial powers of Chief of Integrated Defence Staff to the Chairman Chiefs Of Staff Committee as CFA have been enhanced substantially and aligned with that of the vice chiefs of the services.The statement by the ministry of defence also stated that any clarifications or interpretation of these provisions will be addressed by an empowered committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-okays-increase-in-financial-powers-of-armed-forces-101631085621238.html
08-09-2021||India||To assume every Covid-19 death was due to negligence is ‘too much’, says SC||The Supreme Court on Wednesday said that courts cannot presume that all deaths due to Covid-19 in the second wave of the pandemic were due to negligence as it refused to entertain a plea seeking compensation for the kin of the victims by treating it as medical negligence.A bench of Justices DY Chandrachud, Vikram Nath, and Hima Kohli asked the petitioner Deepak Raj Singh to approach the competent authorities with his suggestions.The bench said, “To assume that each death due to Covid-19 took place due to negligence is too much. The second wave had such an impact across the country that it cannot be presumed that all deaths happened due to negligence. Courts cannot have a presumption that all Covid deaths happened due to medical negligence, which your petition does”.The top court referred to a recent verdict of June 30, in which it had directed the National Disaster Management Authority to recommend within six weeks appropriate guidelines for ex-gratia assistance on account of loss of life to the family members of persons, who died due to Covid-19.It said, “in that verdict, the court has taken a view with regard to humanity and not due to negligence. The government is yet to come out with the policy. If you have any suggestion with regard to implementation of that policy, you can approach the competent authority”.At the outset, advocate Sriram Parakat, appearing for the petitioner, said that his petition is different as it brings into account an element of negligence and compensation for the deaths which have happened due to medical negligence.The bench noted that since the petition was filed in the month of May, a lot of developments have taken place.“We have taken suo motu cognizance on Covid preparedness and a National Task Force has been constituted by this court which is looking into several aspects,” the bench said.The bench further told Parakat that, “It was such a wave that it affected the entire country” and the court cannot make a general presumption of medical negligence.The top court, while disposing of the petition, asked the petitioner to withdraw his plea and amend it and if any suggestions are there, then the petitioner can approach the competent authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-assume-every-covid-19-death-was-due-to-negligence-is-too-much-says-sc-101631084681030.html
08-09-2021||India||Those giving out nationalist certificates targeting firms now: Former Infy exec||A former senior executive at Information Technology (IT) behemoth Infosys on Wednesday hit back at statements in support of a controversial article against the company, saying that those who were earlier issuing nationalist certificates to individuals are now doing the same for companies.“Earlier they were giving nationalist certificates to individuals, now they are giving it to companies. It is bad. When a lot of capital is coming into the country. When we are celebrating entrepreneurs in the ecosystem, creating unicorns. You cannot discredit unicorns and companies which have put the company in the global map . It is a sad thing,” V Balakrishnan, the former chief financial officer (CFO) of Infosys told Hindustan Times on Wednesday.The statement comes a day after Manmohan Vaidya, the general secretary of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), the ideological parent of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), defended a controversial article in Panchajanya, calling the magazine the “herald of a Dharam Yudh” or righteous war.In his comments, Vaidya said that when you have good people on the wrong side, then you will have to shoot arrows against them as well.Despite a section of the RSS distancing itself from the controversial magazine’s article, the comments by Vaidya have raised apprehensions within corporate India.Tata, the salt-to-software conglomerate, was targeted when Tanishq jewellery aired an ad showing a pregnant woman who appeared to be of Hindu religion, being escorted by her Muslim mother-in-law to a baby shower. Right-wing groups termed the ad an effort to promote “love jihad” though the actual messaging was supposedly to show how the festivities brings people together.The company was forced to pull down the ad due to growing pressure from online trolls and scathing remarks from fringe elements.Infosys, better known for its prowess in software, found itself a target of vicious attacks after the magazine claimed that the company’s trust was funding forces against IndiaThe four-page article, which appeared as the cover story in the current edition of the weekly magazine with the headline ‘Saakh Aur Aaghaat’ (‘reputation and affront’), accused Infosys of trying to destabilise the Indian economy and also accused it of helping “Naxals, Leftists and tukde tukde gang”.The article comes in the backdrop of glitches in the new Income Tax e-filing portal developed by Infosys. Last month, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman summoned the firm’s CEO, Salil Parekh, and asked him to fix the glitches in the income tax portal by September 15.“Due to glitches in both GST and Income Tax return portals developed by Infosys, the taxpayers trust in the country’s economy has taken a hit. Is it that any anti-national force via Infosys is trying to hurt India’s economic interests,” the article said.RSS spokesperson Sunil Ambekar on Monday attempted to put some distance between the group and the magazine, earlier believed to be a mouthpiece of the sangh.“As an Indian company, Infosys has made seminal contribution in progress of the country. There might be certain issues with a portal run by Infosys, but the article published by Panchjanya in this context only reflects the individual opinion of the author,” Ambekar said in a post on Twitter.“Panchjanya is not a mouthpiece of the RSS and the said article or opinions expressed in it should not be linked with the RSS,” he added.Following the RSS statement, Panchjanya Editor had Hitesh Shankar tweeted, “Panchjanya stands firm with its report. If Infosys has objections, it should present its side by urging for a more thorough investigation...”A mail sent to Infosys seeking comment went unanswered.“I don’t think that this person understands that Infosys is a 100% Indian company and one of the top companies of India,” TV Mohandas Pai, another former top executive of Infosys said.“He should talk to Prime Minister Modi to understand what companies like Infosys have done for the country,” he added.Pai said that he was not clear what was driving such statements against the company.The controversial episode has put the Bharatiya Janata Party in a tight spot where it cannot publicly defend the company or its ideological parent.The Karnataka government, which has used the success of Infosys and Wipro to put Bengaluru on the global map and attract new investments, has also maintained a stoic silence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/those-giving-out-nationalist-certificates-targeting-companies-now-former-infy-exec-101631084901286.html
08-09-2021||India||Assam: 100% public transport and govt vehicles to run on electricity by 2030||The Assam government is planning to convert existing public transport and government vehicles to electric mode by 2030 as part of a new policy, a state government official said on Monday. The Electric Vehicle Policy of Assam, 2021, approved recently, also aims to introduce at least 200,000 electric vehicles (EVs) within the next five years through a set of incentives for buyers. “It’s a bold decision taken by the government with an eye on improving air quality by reducing emission from vehicles. It’s just the beginning, but we are getting good response to the policy,” principal secretary (industries and commerce) KK Dwivedi said. As the first step towards implementing the policy, the state cabinet has approved procurement of 200 electric buses and 100 CNG-operated (compressed natural gas) buses for Guwahati. Dwivedi said that of the 200,000 EVs to be introduced within 5 years, 100,000 will be two-wheelers, 75,000 will be three-wheelers and 25,000 four-wheelers. “In order to encourage people to buy EVs, the state government will give a subsidy of ₹20,000 on two-wheelers, ₹50,000 for three-wheelers and ₹1.5 lakh for four-wheelers. There will be 100% exemption of registration fees, road tax and parking fees for EVs,” he said. The policy also envisages charging stations for EVs across the state. Entrepreneurs setting up the stations will get a 90% discount on their electricity bills for the first five years. “As per Centre’s policy, by 2030, all vehicles older than 15 years found unfit would have to be scrapped. In order to implement that, we have signed agreements with two firms, one from Kolkata and another from Guwahati,” Dwivedi said. “These scrapping facilities for old and unfit vehicles will be set up near Guwahati and both companies will invest ₹20 crore for them,” he added. For EV manufacturing companies interested in setting up their assembly line in Assam, the new policy will provide subsidies on setting up factories, discounts on electricity bills, rebate on income tax etc. “This is just the beginning. We will be constantly monitoring and will make course correction in policy as and when required. We are open to suggestions on improving it further,” said Dwivedi. At present, Assam has over 4 million vehicles operating across the state. The new policy envisages that by 2026, 25% of newly-registered vehicles will be EVs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-100-public-transport-and-govt-vehicles-to-run-on-electricity-by-2030-101631084541571.html
08-09-2021||India||Gotmar fair: Over 400 injured in annual stone pelting ritual in Madhya Pradesh||More than 400 people were injured in traditional stone pelting in Madhya Pradesh during the annual 'Gotmar' fair on Tuesday. The fair was organised on the banks of river Jaam in Chhindwara district.The district administration had deployed 1,000 policemen and a team of 35 doctors at the site of the fair, news agency PTI reported. The event was monitored by drones, PTI added."During the Gotmar fair on Tuesday, over 400 people sustained injuries. Two people with severe injuries have been referred to Nagpur in neighbouring Maharashtra for further treatment," Chief Medical Health Officer (CMHO) Dr GC Chourasia said.It is a centuries-old and one of the bloodiest fairs in the world. People of two villages - Savargaon and Pandhurna - throng either sides of river Jaam during the fair where a tree is erected in the middle of the river with a flag on top.Both the sides approach the tree to remove the flag by pelting stones (called Got) at each other and those who remove the flag first, are declared winners.The Gotmar fair is organised in the month of September. The whole activity happens amidst the chanting of the sacred name of Maa Durga.District Collector Saurabh Kumar Suman said on Tuesday that the fair passed off peacefully this year and lesser people were injured when compared to previous year, adding that he had appealed to people to organise such events only in a symbolic manner.As per local legend, about 300 years ago, a boy from Pandhurna eloped with a girl from Swargaon and people from the latter threw stones to stop him from crossing the river with her, while his village folk retaliated in the same manner to bring the couple home safely.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gotmar-fair-over-400-injured-in-annual-stone-pelting-ritual-in-madhya-pradesh-101631083858422.html
08-09-2021||India||BJP announces state in-charges for four poll-bound states||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has set the ball rolling for the upcoming assembly elections in a clutch of states by announcing in-charges who will have the mandate to oversee electioneering. Union ministers aided by ministers of state and party functionaries have been given charge of states such as Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Manipur and Goa where the party is contesting to retain power. Union minister for education Dharmendra Pradhan has been given charge of the politically significant state of Uttar Pradesh. His co-incharges will be Union minister for information and broadcasting Anurag Thakur; Minister of State (MoS), parliamentary affairs, Arjun Ram Meghwal; MoS for agriculture and farmers welfare, Shobha Karanjdale; MoS education, Annapurna Devi; former national general secretary Saroj Pandey; MPs Vivek Thakur and former minister in Haryana Capt Abhimanyu. Also Read | Bombs hurled outside BJP MP’s residence in BengalUnion minister for parliamentary affairs Pralhad Joshi has been given charge of Uttarakhand. West Bengal MP Locket Chatterjee and party spokesperson RP Singh will be the co-incharges for the state where the BJP changed three chief ministers within a year. Union minister for Jal Shakti Gajendra Shekhawat has been given charge of Punjab, where the party will be contesting on its own for the first time after its ally, the Shiromani Akali Dal, severed ties. The party faces a daunting task in the state whose farmers have been at the forefront of the ongoing stir against the farm laws. Union minister for urban development Hardeep Singh Puri; MoS in external affairs ministry, Meenakshi Lekhi; and Lok Sabha MP Vionod Chawda will be co-incharges in Punjab. Bhupendra Yadav, Union minister for labour and employment and environment, forests and climate change will be in-charge of Manipur. MoS for social justice Pratima Bhaumik and Assam minister Ashok Singhal have been named the co-incharges for Manipur. Former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis has been made in-charge of Goa. Darshana Jardosh, MoS for railways and textiles; and G Kishan Reddy, Union minister for culture, tourism and development of north-eastern region will be the co-incharges for Goa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-announces-state-in-charges-for-four-poll-bound-states-101631083821023.html
08-09-2021||India||Karnal farm stir: Rakesh Tikait says talks on as tents come up near secretariat||As farmers’ protest in Karnal against the administration’s handling of the August 28 agitation reached the second day, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait said some explanation had been offered and talks were being held over their future course of action.Hundreds of farmers along with their leaders spent the night at the main entrance of the Karnal mini secretariat in Haryana on Tuesday as they made it clear they would not retreat until their demand of action against former Karnal SDM Ayush Sinha is accepted.Haryana | Farmers continue sit-in protest at Mini Secretariat in Karnal Farmers held a march & gheraoed mini secretariat yesterday after district admin refused to compensate injured protesters & to take action against admin officials over lathi-charge on farmers on Aug 28 pic.twitter.com/7aldRI1ZW3Earlier in the day, the farmers held a march as part of the planned ‘kisan mahapanchayat’ and gheraoed the mini secretariat after the district administration refused to compensate injured protesters and take action against officials over baton charging the protesters on August 28. Over 40 farmers were injured in the clashes last month.Also read | Karnal kisan mahapanchayat: Cops warn ‘armed elements’, call for order“The administration has tried to give an explanation of SDM's earlier action. We will hold a meeting with farmers to make a decision on our further actions," Tikait was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Meanwhile, farmers have started setting up tents outside the mini secretariat as a large number of protesters, including women, from different districts continued their sit-in.So far, there has been no restriction on the movement of people and employees of the secretariat.The government has extended the suspension of mobile internet and SMS for the next 24 hours till 12am, September 9.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, a platform of farm unions spearheading the protests against the farm laws since November, had threatened to lay siege to the secretariat if its demands for action were not met by September 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnal-farm-stir-rakesh-tikait-says-talks-on-as-tents-come-up-near-secretariat-101631080327926.html
08-09-2021||India||SC upholds extension of ED director tenure till November||The Supreme Court on Wednesday upheld the decision of the Centre to extend the tenure of the director of enforcement Sanjay Kumar Mishra till November 2021, making it clear that he will not be entitled to any further extension.A bench of justices L Nageswara Rao and BR Gavai said, “For the reason that his (Mishra) tenure is ending in November 2021, we have refused to interfere. However, we make it clear that no further extension is to be granted to him.”The court decided the issue in a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by NGO Common Cause which challenged the decision of the government to grant a retrospective one-year extension to Mishra on November 13, 2020 after his superannuation in May 2020. He was initially appointed as ED Director for two years beginning November 19, 2018 and by the November 13, 2020 order, his tenure was amended retrospectively to three years.Also Read | Goa mining firms’ pleas for extension of leases dismissed by SCThe bench said, “We have upheld the power of the Centre to extend the tenure of ED director beyond two years. We make it clear that any extension should be only in rare and exceptional cases. Any extension granted to persons beyond superannuation should be for a short tenure.”The government had cited crucial cases investigated under him and his spectacular performance as a director to continue with his appointment. The petition argued by advocate Prashant Bhushan argued that this arbitrariness would play havoc with the system allowing government a free hand to keep officers of their choice beyond retirement for unreasonable period. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the government, said that Section 25(d) of Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) Act laying down the tenure of director enforcement to be “not less than two years” gave discretion to the government to fix a tenure beyond two years, notwithstanding the retirement age of 60 years applicable under Rule 56 of All India Service Rules. He argued that enforcement director occupies an important post probing money laundering crimes having cross-border and trans-national ramifications. “Considering the huge ramifications, if the government feels that in the interest of preserving the pending investigations, the officer must continue, is it necessary that curtains should fall when he crosses the two-year stage?” The government had informed the court that in the last two years as director, Mishra was instrumental in helping the ED recover a sum of nearly ₹9,000 crore worth proceeds of crime in the investigation of three cases involving Vijay Mallya, Nirav Modi and Mehul Choksi. The bench replied saying, “We appreciate that he is doing good work. But you cannot continue with him till all these cases are over.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-upholds-extension-of-ed-director-tenure-till-nov-says-no-further-extension-101631080160644.html
08-09-2021||India||Goa mining firms’ pleas for extension of leases dismissed by SC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday dismissed a bunch of petitions filed by Goa’s mining companies seeking retrospective extension of their leases until 2037. The petitions were filed by Vedanta Ltd and other mining companies after the Goa government refused to entertain them saying it was bound by a Supreme Court order specifically prohibiting such extensions. The petitions were dismissed by a bench of justices DY Chandrachud, Vikram Nath and Hima Kohli on Tuesday. The reasons for the dismissal will become clear when a copy of the order is made available. The largest mining company to have operated in Goa, Vedanta Ltd had challenged Goa government’s decision to decline its request to amend their mining lease to extend its period from 1987 to 2037-- a period of 50 years citing Section 8(A)(3) of the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957 (MMDR Act).Vedanta and others claimed before the Supreme Court that under the amended Mines and Minerals Development Act (2015), all leases that were operational before the amendment “shall be deemed to have been granted for a period of fifty years”. This, they argued, in Goa’s case meant 50 years from 1987 -- the year Goa’s mining leases were converted from Portuguese granted concessions under the Mines and Minerals Development Act. Goa’s miners argued that since their mines were “operational” when the amendment came into effect in 2015, they were eligible for the benefit under the amendment. The Supreme Court order pronouncing Goa’s mining lease renewals to be illegal was passed in 2018. The Goa government agreed with their standpoint, but expressed inability to extend the lease deed due to the Supreme Court verdict dated February 7, 2018, which cancelled 88 mining lease renewals and directed that leases and environmental clearances are granted afresh.The Supreme Court had ruled that Goa’s mining leases, initially granted as concessions by the Portuguese, expired in November 2007 and the subsequent renewals by the state government in 2014-15 were illegal.The Goa government had backed Vedanta in their plea before the Supreme Court saying it was prima facie in agreement with the firm. Earlier this year, the Supreme Court also dismissed a plea by the Goa government seeking a review of SC’s 2018 order, which cancelled the 88 mining leases. Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant on Tuesday said he hadn’t seen the order and hence couldn’t comment on the decision. “I will read the order. But the government has been prepared. We have started our corporation. We will fast track the process. If necessary we will auction the mining leases to restart the mining process,” Sawant said when asked to comment on the development. “After the dismissal of the review petitions, it was apparent that the appeals and petitions filed by Vedanta and Parulekar would also go out of the window. With this development, the private mining industry and its lobbies which held sway over the sector for more than 50 years have come to an inglorious end,” Claude Alvares, the director of Goa Foundation, an environmental NGO whose petitions resulted in the closure of mining in Goa, and who was a respondent in this case, said. HT reached out to Vedanta but received no response at the time of filing this report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-mining-firms-pleas-for-extension-of-leases-dismissed-by-sc-101631079440599.html
08-09-2021||India||Namaaz room in Jharkhand assembly: PIL filed in high court||A public interest litigation (PIL) has been filed in Jharkhand high court on Tuesday against the allocation of a dedicated room for Muslims to offer namaaz in the state assembly building. This comes amid a ruckus in the state assembly over the same, with the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) calling it the state government’s “appeasement politics”.Petitioner Bhairav Singh has sought cancellation of the notification issued to this effect on September 2 by the assembly Secretariat. “We have filed the petition seeking cancellation of the notification that allotted a separate room for namaaz because it violates the preamble of the Constitution, which clearly mentions secularism as one of the guarding principles of the Constitution. The state can’t protect or propagate any religion. Vidhan Sabha is a law-making body and a public funded institution,” said Singh’s counsel Rajiv Kumar. Also Read | Jharkhand assembly clears 75% quota in private jobs for localsThe BJP has been stalling the proceedings in the ongoing monsoon session, demanding that either the notification be cancelled or they also be granted a place for worship. Party legislators did kirtan outside the House on Monday and read Hanuman Chalisa inside the well of the House on Tuesday. Today, they are organising a march up to the assembly even as the ruling combine of Jharkhand Mukti Morcha, Congress, and Rashtriya Janata Dal has refused to relent.The state government has defended the notification, saying there has been such a room earlier, when the BJP was in power. Jharkhand BJP president and Rajya Sabha member Deepak Prakash said the march is against the “perennial appeasement politics of the ruling dispensation”. “Allocation of a namaaz room is not the first such issue. Recently, in the new employment policy, they included Urdu in the regional language papers for conducting exams for jobs, and removed Hindi from it. Two days back, a Congress legislator backed Taliban but the party leadership did not take any action,” said Prakash. If they were being secular, they should have also provided space for worship to Hindus, Christians, Jains, besides Sarna and Jatra Sthal for the tribals, Prakash added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/namaaz-room-in-jharkhand-assembly-pil-filed-in-high-court-101631077340078.html
08-09-2021||India||Jammu man shot down brother-in-law and his brother over domestic dispute||Jammu police late Tuesday arrested the key accused in sensational Chowadhi double murder case when we was attempting to flee from the city, said police officers.Accused Arun Kumar, a resident of Chowadhi shot his brother-in-law Amit Jangral and his younger brother Rohit Jangral, both residents of Gurha Balderan, Hiranagar, Kathua, during a heated argument on Tuesday, killing them on spot, said Chandan Kohli, senior superintendent of police (SSP) Jammu. The accused fled after the shooting incident near Radha Krishan temple at Chowadhi.Police said Amit Jangral and his younger brother Rohit were visiting Amit’s estranged wife on Tuesday at her parent’s Upper Chowadhi house in Jammu to settle a domestic dispute. The matter went out of hand when Amit’s brother-in-law Arun Kumar shot Amit and Rohit down following a heated argument with Rohit. Police said Amit was shot with a pistol and Rohit was shot from a 12 bore gun.A police team headed by sub divisional police officer (SPDO) City East Jammu Bikram Kumar and station house officer (SHO) Channi Himmat under the supervision of South Jammu police chief investigated the case and arrested the accused along with the weapon of offence from a Volkswagen Polo car. Accused had arms license for both the weapons, police said.“During preliminary investigation, it emerged that persistent domestic feud led to this incident. Further investigation is going on,” said the SSP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-man-shot-down-brother-in-law-and-his-brother-over-domestic-dispute-101631077100234.html
08-09-2021||India||Bombs hurled at Bengal BJP MP Arjun Singh's house, guv flags violence concerns||Crude bombs were reportedly hurled at Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Arjun Singh’s residence in West Bengal’s North 24 Parganas district early on Wednesday night. Police have reached the spot and are scanning for evidence.An India Today report said the parliamentarian was in Delhi at the time of the incident although his family members were living inside the house located in Jagatdal. So far, there has been no report of any injury.The report further said at least three bombs were hurled amid the presence of security personnel from the Central Reserve Paramilitary Force (CRPF). Police are investigating the motive behind the incident. According to an NDTV report, Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh said the assailants may have affiliations with the ruling Trinamool Congress. West Bengal: Security personnel present near the residence of BJP MP Arjun Singh in North 24 Parganas"Bomb explosions outside the residence of Member of Parliament Arjun Singh this morning is worrisome," tweeted West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar pic.twitter.com/Gg2XzhQmsrGovernor Jagdeep Dhankhar said the violence outside the parliamentarian’s residence revealed there was no sign of wanton violence abating in Bengal. “Bomb explosions outside the residence of Member of Parliament Arjun Singh this morning is worrisome,” he wrote on Twitter.Also read | Calcutta high court orders CBI probe into West Bengal post-poll violenceThe governor further said he would expect prompt action from the state police. As far as Singh’s security was concerned, the issue had been earlier flagged to chief minister Mamata Banerjee, he added.The governor has been raising the issue of post-poll violence unleashed against opposition leaders and workers ever since the Assembly election results were announced earlier this year. BJP leaders have also spoken about the issue frequently.Singh had switched over from the Trinamool Congress in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/crude-bombs-hurled-at-bjp-mp-arjun-singh-s-house-guv-dhankhar-raises-concerns-101631075392766.html
08-09-2021||India||India logs 37,875 new Covid-19 cases; active caseload remains below 400,000||India saw a marginal rise in its fresh infections of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), as 37,875 people tested positive, taking the cumulative Covid-19 infection tally to 33,096,718, the Union ministry of health and family welfare’s (MoHFW) dashboard showed on Wednesday. This is a rise of more than 21 per cent from Tuesday, when 31,222 people tested positive.Also Read | RT-PCR mandatory for passengers from 9 countries landing in KolkataAlso, this is for the third straight day when the country logged more than 30,000 but less than 40,000 cases of Covid-19. On September 6, there were 38,948 cases.Also Read | Covid-19: Karnataka issues advisory against travelling to KeralaWednesday’s data further showed that there were 39,114 additional recoveries, taking total recovered cases to 32,264,051 comprising 97.48 per cent of the overall caseload. 369 people lost their lives in this period, taking total recorded fatalities to 441,411 comprising 1.33 per cent of the national tally. The number of active patients, meanwhile, remained below 400,000-mark for second straight day, falling by 1608 cases to 391,256 or 1.18 per cent of the nationwide infections.Also Read | Kerala lifts night curfew, Sunday lockdown; Colleges to reopen from Oct 4Daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.16% as out of 1,753,745 samples tested on September 7, 31,222 returned positive result. For the last nine days, the daily positivity rate has been below 3 per cent. COVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes @PIB_India @mygovindia @COVIDNewsByMIB #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/PYO4LktvptOn the vaccination front, the national vaccination coverage has crossed the 700 million-mark with 707,543,018 doses of Covid-19 vaccines administered thus far. This includes beneficiaries who are fully vaccinated or received both doses of a Covid-19 jab and those who are partially vaccinated, having been administered their first dose. The nationwide inoculation drive began on January 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-logs-37-875-new-covid-19-cases-active-caseload-remains-below-400000-101631074914094.html
08-09-2021||India||'Covid-19 can be cured with aspirin': Govt says viral message fake||The government has warned against a message being circulated on WhatsApp and other social media platforms, which claims that Covid-19 is a bacteria and not a virus. Posting a message about the WhatsApp forward, the Press Information Bureau's (PIB) fact check team has asked people to not believe in such messages.The fake message claims that Singapore conducted autopsy of a person who died of Covid and found that it is actually a bacteria and can be cured with anticoagulants like aspirin.The viral message claims that a study has been conducted on the aspirin's role in curing the coronavirus disease."A forwarded #WhatsApp message claims that #COVID19 is not a virus but a bacteria and it can be cured with anticoagulants like aspirin. This claim is #FAKE! #COVID19 is a virus not a bacteria. It can not be cured with anticoagulants like aspirin," PIB fact check said in a tweet on Tuesday.A forwarded #WhatsApp message claims that #COVID19 is not a virus but a bacteria and it can be cured with anticoagulants like aspirin.#PIBFactCheck ▶️ This claim is #FAKE! ▶️ #COVID19 is a virus not a bacteria.▶️ It can not be cured with anticoagulants like aspirin. pic.twitter.com/e8RgPRFL0CIndia, meanwhile, recorded 37,875 new cases of Covid-19 and 369 related fatalities in the last 24 hours, according to Union health ministry data.The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country crossed 70 crore on Tuesday, with the last 10 crore doses being given in just 13 days, the fastest so far, according to the ministry.The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with healthcare workers (HCWs) getting inoculated in the first phase.On Sunday, the Centre issued guidelines to help people identify whether they are being given authentic vaccines against Covid-19. The guideline contains a list of parameters based on their label, colour and other details to identify the authenticity of the Covid vaccines being used in the country.The move was a result of an alert from the World Health Organization (WHO) that it has identified counterfeit versions of Covishield in South-East Asia and Africa.India is administering the Serum Institute of India's (SII) Covishield, Bharat Biotech's Covaxin and the Russian vaccine Sputnik V to those eligible during the ongoing vaccination drive in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-can-be-cured-with-aspirin-govt-says-viral-message-fake-101631074216934.html
08-09-2021||India||RSS-affiliated farm union calls for new law for remunerative price to farmers||The RSS-affiliated farmers’ union, Bharatiya Kisan Sangh (BKS), on Tuesday said the Union government should take a sympathetic view of the demands raised by a section of protesting farmers who are seeking the repeal of the farm laws. The BKS, which has distanced itself from the protest has, however, demanded a new law to ensure remunerative price for farm produce. Close on the heels of the farmers’ rally in Muzaffarnagar against the three-farm laws, the BKS said it will hold a countrywide agitation on Wednesday to seek laws for remunerative price to farmers based on their cost of production. Also Read | Farmers spend night outside Karnal mini secretariat; bigger crowd expected todayBKS general secretary Badrinarayan Choudhary said, “Minimum Support Price (MSP) is an illusion. Farmers are not getting MSP in all parts of the country. A new stringent law should be brought which ensures that farmers’ get remunerative price of their produce.” He said a memorandum has also been sent to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 11, to highlight the “anger and discontent” among farmers across the country for not getting remunerative price for their produce. When asked about the protesting farmers’ demand, Choudhary said, “The government should take a sympathetic view of their demands, Though it is also the cases some of farmers’ demands are not reasonable.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rssaffiliated-farm-union-calls-for-new-law-for-remunerative-price-to-farmers-101631072359533.html
08-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: Congress seeks postponement of NEET-UG 2021 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Congress seeks postponement of NEET-UG 2021 citing students’ ‘mental health’Congress leaders have put their weight behind students’ demand to postpone the National Eligibility Cum Entrance Test (NEET) for admission to undergraduate (UG) medical courses, abbreviated as NEET-UG, accusing the government of insensitivity to students’ concerns. Read MoreFarmers spend night outside Karnal mini secretariat; bigger crowd expected todayScores of farmers along with Samyukt Kisan Morcha leaders spent the night at the main entrance of the Karnal mini secretariat in Haryana on Tuesday. Several SKM leaders, including Rakesh Tikait, Gurnam Singh Charuni, Balbir Singh Rajewal, Yogender Yadav, Darshan Pal, and Joginder Ugrahan were also present as the farmers made it clear that they will not go back until their demand of action against the former Karnal SDM Ayush Sinha is accepted. Read MoreIndia, Russia on the same page on Taliban-ruled KabulThere is convergence in long-term strategic concerns of India and Russia over Taliban-ruled Afghanistan as it will not only destabilise Central Asia but also become a source of terror, opiate drugs, and a major proliferator of conventional weapons. Read MoreJoe Biden was asked about the China-Taliban finance link. Here's what he saidJoe Biden, president of the United States of America, said on Tuesday (local time) that China has a “real problem” with the Taliban, and thus he has reason to believe that Beijing will work out “some arrangement” with the new rulers in Afghanistan. Read MoreInside look at Taliban all-male cabinet: Minister wanted by FBI, with a bounty on his headThe Taliban on Tuesday announced a hardline government in Afghanistan after weeks of deliberation, revealing an all-male cabinet that also includes a top official who is on the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI)'s ‘most wanted’ list, with a bounty of up to $10 million on his head. Read More‘People said India would miss Ashwin. Kohli said, ‘No, we won't’: Naseer Hussain hails Virat’s captaincy in Oval TestFrom conceding 99-run lead to coming back in style and thumping the hosts by 157 runs to go-up 2-1 in the series, Team India showcased a great example of team work required to win a Test match. Kohli’s batting may not have earned much praise but captaincy did. Things started falling in place for India in the second innings which was powered by the determination of every player to win. Read MoreAlia Bhatt dazzles in ₹5k handmade cotton mini dress for outing in MumbaiFloral dresses have always dominated our wardrobes, no matter the season. They are easy to wear and perfect for any occasion, be it a lunch date with friends or a cosy night-in with family. This versatile sartorial choice is a favourite of some of the best-dressed celebrities in Bollywood, especially Alia Bhatt. Read MoreAnand Ahuja reacts as Sonam Kapoor their poses in boots on ₹18 lakh sofa for photoshoot, she apologises for itAnand Ahuja, the husband of actor Sonam Kapoor, has reacted after she stood in boots on the couple's ₹18 lakh sofa for a photoshoot. Recently, Sonam shared a picture of herself on Instagram as she posed inside her London home and creative studio for the latest edition of Architectural Digest India. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-congress-seeks-postponement-of-neet-ug-2021-and-all-the-latest-news-101631071213216.html
08-09-2021||India||India, Russia on the same page on Taliban-ruled Kabul||There is convergence in long term strategic concerns of India and Russia over Taliban-ruled Afghanistan as it will not only destabilise Central Asia but also become a source of terror, opiate drugs, and a major proliferator of conventional weapons.While India has exchanged notes on Taliban-ruled Afghanistan with visiting security chiefs from the US and UK, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be meeting General Nikolay Patrushev, right hand man of Russian President Vladimir Putin and secretary of Russian Security Council, today to understand Moscow’s position on Kabul. As a follow-up of PM Modi’s warm conversation with President Putin over telephone on August 24, Gen Patrushev flew down to India last night at the invitation of Cabinet ranked National Security Advisor (NSA) Ajit Doval. Patrushev will also meet External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar.India has also put across its point of view on the impact of Taliban-ruled Afghanistan to earlier visiting UK MI-6 chief Richard Moore and to CIA Chief William Burns this week. It intends to do the same with Patrushev, while trying to understand their point of view.The political situation in Afghanistan has taken a turn for the worse with US designated terrorist Sirajuddin Haqqani in charge of interior ministry and intelligence, while Mullah Yaqoob, son of Mullah Omar, the defence minister. Throwing all the global concerns out of the window as expected, there is no space for women or minority in the Afghan Taliban cabinet with rabid hardliners ruling the roost. “The best of shaped IED makers are in the Afghan cabinet,” said a Kabul watcher referring to Haqqani, Yaqoob and Baradar.While Russia was understandably happy at the humiliating exit of US forces from Afghanistan, delight was short-lived as the reality of a terror force ruling Afghanistan at the behest of Pakistan dawned in. Even though Russia still maintains an embassy in Kabul, Moscow, like India, is very seriously concerned about the long-term security impact of the Islamist Sunni Pashtun regime in Afghanistan.It is quite evident now that even though Taliban projects itself as a flag-bearer of Sunni Pashtun nationalism, it is really a medieval force based on 1000 year old Islamic theocracy and has an agenda of global jihad with massive stockpile of US arms at its disposal. Already, the top cadres of Taliban’s ideological brother Jaish-e-Mohammed are carrying US made M-4 assault rifles and night vision devices.After the group has refused to severe ties with Al Qaeda and other jihadi group present in Pakistan, there is clear and present danger of increased Islamic radicalization in the region. Russia is now worried about it, soon will be China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-russia-on-the-same-page-on-taliban-ruled-kabul-101631071068273.html
08-09-2021||India||Farmers spend night outside Karnal mini secretariat; bigger crowd expected today||Scores of farmers along with Samyukt Kisan Morcha leaders spent the night at the main entrance of the Karnal mini secretariat in Haryana on Tuesday.Several SKM leaders, including Rakesh Tikait, Gurnam Singh Charuni, Balbir Singh Rajewal, Yogender Yadav, Darshan Pal and Joginder Ugrahan were also present as the farmers made it clear that they will not go back until their demand of action against the former Karnal SDM Ayush Sinha is accepted.However, the government has extended the suspension of mobile internet and SMS for the next 24 hours till 12am, September 9.Controversial farmer activist from Punjab, Lakha Sidhana, also reached Karnal late night along with several followers. In his brief address, Sidhana slammed the BJP-led governments at the Centre and state for attempts to create rifts between farmers of Punjab and Haryana.Also Watch | Talks fail, agitated farmers pitch tent outside Karnal mini-secretariat“They tried to divide us on several occasions but Punjab is always with its younger brother Haryana and we will stay in Karnal until we force this government to accept our demands,” he added.“The political situation of Haryana is different from that of Punjab and I salute the farmers of Haryana who are fighting against the [CM Manohar Lal] Khattar government despite repeated lathicharge and FIRs,” he added.A huge gathering of farmers is expected in Karnal on Wednesday as there are reports that farm union leaders have given a call to Haryana farmers to reach Karnal.Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said elaborate security arrangements are in place to deal with any law and order situation.The movement of traffic on NH-44 remained normal even as a huge deployment of police and security forces continues in Karnal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-spend-night-outside-karnal-mini-secretariat-bigger-crowd-expected-today-101631070258914.html
08-09-2021||India||Global community must ensure Covid vaccine distributed equitably: Om Birla||Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla urged the global community to ensure that Covid-19 vaccines are distributed equitably around the world on Tuesday.While participating in the general debate on the topic ‘The global response to the Covid-19 pandemic challenges and multilateralism’s ability to deliver for the people ’ at the Fifth World Conference of Speakers of Parliament (5WCSP), the Lok Sabha speaker said the international community needs to push for global and national reforms to make a more just and equal world in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.Underlining India’s global response to the pandemic, Birla said that India has been at the forefront of undertaking prompt humanitarian assistance and relief operations during the pandemic. He mentioned that India supplied vaccines, medicines and other equipment to over 150 countries as a measure of our commitment to global health and well-being.Also Read | Covid-19 infection does not affect lung function in young adults, says new studyBirla stressed that the post-pandemic global economic recovery phase requires collaboration and cooperation between member countries, to stimulate the revival and rebounding of the global economy.The Lok Sabha speaker underlined that India was proactive in dealing with Covid-19 and the hallmark of our response to the pandemic has people and communities at the core of our efforts. Birla added that the initial measures taken by the country in the early days of the pandemic gave India the requisite time and resources to gear up its strategies to fight the virus.He also highlighted India’s focus on developing indigenous technologies. He underlined that the country has enhanced its production capacity of PPE kits, masks, face-covers, diagnostics, oxygen, drugs, ventilators and other accessories to fight the pandemic.Mentioning that India reopened its economy in phases after the initial lockdown, he informed the delegates that two major economic stimulus packages were announced immediately to provide much-needed relief to people. He added that these packages included the $110 Billion Atmanirbhar Bharat Yojana which is equivalent to 10 per cent of India’s GDP and the $23 Billion Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana relief package.He also mentioned that India has embarked on the world’s largest free-of-cost vaccination drive which has an ambitious target of inoculating 900 million citizens by the end of the year. Birla further said that with the strength and will of its people, India is making steady progress towards this lofty goal.On the sidelines of the Fifth World Conference of Speakers of Parliament, the Birla held bilateral meetings with the Presiding Officers of Parliaments of Italy, Mongolia and Guyana and discussed shared democratic values, strengthening the democratic ethos at the grassroot levels, women empowerment and the need for enhanced cooperation in cultural, economic, diplomatic and other areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/global-community-must-ensure-covid-vaccine-distributed-equitably-om-birla-101631070138741.html
08-09-2021||India||Central and NW India to receive widespread rain till Saturday||Several parts of central and northwest India are likely to receive widespread and heavy rain till Saturday, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD).A well-marked low pressure area is lying over southeast Madhya Pradesh and adjoining parts of north Vidarbha with its associated cyclonic circulation extending up to middle tropospheric levels-- up to 5 kms from earth’s surface. The well-marked low pressure area and its remnants are likely to move west north-westwards during the next 4-5 days, the weather department said.The monsoon trough is likely to lie south of its normal position for the next 4-5 days. A shear zone is likely to persist over south Peninsular India during the next 3 days, the weather forecaster said. A fresh low pressure area is likely to form over north and adjoining central Bay of Bengal around September 11, IMD has warned.Widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy rain is very likely over Telangana, coastal & north interior Karnataka, Vidarbha and Marathwada on September 7 before a reduction in intensity. However, it will continue over Madhya (central) Maharashtra, Konkan and Gujarat till September 11. Isolated extremely heavy rain (over 20 cm) is also likely over Madhya Maharashtra & Konkan on September 11.Widespread rain is expected over most parts of northwest India till September 11. Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Uttarakhand, east Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Punjab are likely to record heavy rain in this period, while rainfall is likely to increase over Odisha and Coastal Andhra Pradesh from September 11 onwards..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-and-nw-india-to-receive-widespread-rain-till-saturday-101631069358358.html
08-09-2021||India||Congress seeks postponement of NEET-UG 2021 citing students’ ‘mental health’||Congress leaders have put their weight behind students’ demand to postpone the National Eligibility Cum Entrance Test (NEET) for admission to undergraduate (UG) medical courses, abbreviated as NEET-UG, accusing the government of insensitivity to students’ concerns.On Tuesday, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi took to Twitter urging the Central government to postpone the NEET-UG 2021 exam, scheduled for September 12. The opposition leader alleged that the government was “blind” to students’ distress.Soon, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also hit out, accusing the government of not caring about the mental health of aspirants. “Time after time, the government pushes on against the legitimate demands of students across India. Why is it so hard for those in power to hear out and help those who are the future of our nation? Does their mental health and well being not matter?” she tweeted with #JusticeforNEETAspirants.Congress leader Shashi Tharoor said he was “inundated” with messages from NEET aspirants, seeking postponement of the exam. “Subjecting them to unreasonable exactions is shameful. It’s time the BJP worked for people, not for bureaucrats!” he tweeted on Tuesday.The party’s youth wing in Assam and Odisha held protests against the state and Central governments over the alleged manipulation of Joint Entrance Exam (JEE) Mains Examination, which led to the arrest of 7 people a few days ago. JEE is the national-level test for admission in undergraduate engineering courses.Shiromani Akali Dal leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal also accused the government of “insensitivity and arrogance”. She pointed out that students appearing for class 12 compartment exams will have to appear for NEET-UG examinations the very next day. She asked if this was the government’s idea of ‘Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas’- Modi government’s slogan for inclusive development with support from every section of the society.Over 1,400 students have signed an online petition on change.org to demand postponement of NEET 2021. The students argue that the medical entrance examination date is clashing with many other state and national-level entrance examinations and the Central Board of Secondary Examination (CBSE) private exams, and should therefore be postponed to next month. They say it will also give students sufficient time to prepare.#JusticeForNEETAspirants emerged as the no.1 trend on Twitter on Tuesday as thousands of students and social media users rallied to urge postponement.However, the Supreme Court declined to entertain pleas seeking postponement of the entrance examination on Monday and said that nearly 1.6 million students had burnt the midnight oil and any interference by the court will cause “pain and strain” to them. It however, allowed the students to approach the national testing agency, the authority that conducts the examination, for relief.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-seeks-postponement-of-neet-ug-2021-citing-students-mental-health-101631067858338.html
08-09-2021||India||Nipah outbreak in Kerala: Karnataka govt issues advisory||In view of the cases of Nipah virus being reported in Kerala, the Karnataka government on Tuesday issued an advisory to prevent a similar outbreak in the state. The virus has killed a 12-year-old boy in Kerala's Kozhikode and infected some healthcare workers.Also Read: Nipah is a potential threat; step up surveillanceThe Karnataka government has asked districts bordering Kerala to be extra vigilant. The district authorities have been asked to monitor those arriving from Kerala for symptoms like fever, altered mental status, severe weakness, headache, respiratory distress, cough, vomiting, muscle pain, convulsion and diarrhoea.In its advisory, the Karnataka government has also asked district authorities to develop a systematic surveillance system to identify clusters of encephalitis cases for early detection of Nipah outbreaks.They have also been asked to spread public awareness in this regard.The advisory further said, "Suitable samples to be collected with all necessary precautions from suspected or probable patients and sent to NIV Pune for laboratory confirmation."According to World Health Organization (WHO), Nipah is a zoonotic virus - which is transmitted from animals to humans - and also through contaminated food or directly between people. Fruit bats are the major carriers of this virus.It is not an airborne infection and in fact, is transmitted from bats and pigs. It is fatal not only for humans but animals too.Those infected with Nipah virus may showcase Covid-like symptoms. The common symptoms of Nipah Virus are cough, sore throat, dizziness, drowsiness, muscle pain, tiredness, and encephalitis that is the swelling of the brain causing a headache, stiff neck, sensitivity to light, mental confusion, and seizures. One may also become unconscious and it can ultimately lead to death.The Nipan virus was first spotted in Malaysia during an outbreak among pig farmers in the year 1999, according to WHO. It was first detected in India in Siliguri, West Bengal in 2001 when 45 people died. Kerala had reported several cases of it in 2018.The incubation period of the virus is two weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nipah-outbreak-in-kerala-karnataka-govt-issues-advisory-101631065808574.html
08-09-2021||India||Bharatiya Kisan Sangh to hold protest today||The Bharatiya Kisan Sangh (BKS) will on Wednesday hold a nationwide protest over its demand for guarantee of a “profitable price” for agricultural crops grown by small farmers. This protest by the BKS, an affiliate of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), will take place at a time when the central government is already engaged in a standoff with farmers over the three contentious agricultural laws passed in September last year.The RSS is the ideological mentor of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which is in power at the Centre.To register its protest, the BKS will stage sit-ins at 600 district headquarters. The outfit’s demand is that the Union government should come up with a formula to work out the profitable price of every crop, instead of focusing only on the Minimum Support Price (MSP) of certain crops. “There are 127 zones and each zone has different cost vis a vis labour and infrastructure wise. Then, one should chalk out a profitable price. This cannot be about only 6 per cent farmers; this should also be about the remaining 94 per cent farmers who are cultivating crops which do not attract MSP given by the government,” Mohini Mohan Mishra, the all-India secretary of the BKS, said earlier this week to news agency ANI.“There are several crops and farmers who do not get profitable price. This should be addressed by the Centre,” Mishra further said.However, the RSS affiliate has made clear its stance on farmers’ agitation which, it alleged, is “political.” Events such as these, Mishra said, are “politically motivated” and hence the BKS is not supporting that movement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharatiya-kisan-sangh-to-hold-protest-today-101631064517008.html
08-09-2021||India||Supreme Court to hear plea of Gauri Lankesh's sister against high court order||The Supreme Court is scheduled to hear on Wednesday a petition by Kavitha Lankesh, the sister of murdered activist-journalist Gauri Lankesh, in connection with the dropping of criminal charges against Mohan Nayak, one of the accused in the case. The top court had last month scheduled the hearing in the matter for September 8, with a Supreme Court bench led by Justice AM Khanwilker issuing a notice to Karnataka on the petition.Kavitha Lankesh, a filmmaker by profession, had filed the petition opposing the Karnataka high court's decision last April to drop charges against accused Mohan Nayak under the Karnataka Control of Organised Crimes Act (KCOCA). The state high court had quashed these charges after dismissing a report by the Bengaluru police commissioner as well as the supplementary charge sheet filed in the case.Lankesh insists that Nayak, according to a special investigation team (SIT) probe, is part of a ‘syndicate’ responsible for multiple instances of organised crime, including the murder of her sister – the journalist Gauri Lankesh – as well as those of other activists such as Narendra Dabholkar and Govind Pansare. According to Lankesh's petition, Nayak is also a close associate of Amol Kale and Rajesh Bangera, both of who are the chief accused in the case. The plea mentions that as defined by the KCOCA, Nayak was involved in “continuous unlawful activity” by providing shelter to the key accused individuals. It says that the Karnataka high court “failed to appreciate the fact that the sanction order under Section 24(2) KCOCA was neither challenged nor assailed, and only order under Section 24(1)(a) had been challenged.”Mohan Nayak, the accused in this matter, is represented by senior advocate Basava Prabhu S Patil. Pointing out that his client has already been in custody for three years now, he had asked the top court to provide an early date for the hearing.Notably, the Supreme Court had earlier this year said that Mohan Nayak would not be granted bail in the murder case until the plea filed by Kavitha Lankesh was decided upon.Gauri Lankesh, a noted journalist and activist, was shot dead on the night of September 5, 2017, from a close range in front of her Rajarajeshwari Nagar house around 8pm. The murder triggered a massive outrage across India with citizens voicing their protests against the alleged repression of journalists and activists in the country. The impact of the case was also seen as one extending beyond borders; this year, the Canadian city of Burnaby decided to observe ‘Gauri Lankesh Day’ on September 5 to mark her death anniversary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-to-hear-plea-of-gauri-lankesh-s-sister-against-high-court-order-101631062025547.html
08-09-2021||India||Delhi, Noida report surge in cases of viral fever among children, say doctors||The doctors in Delhi and National Capital Region (NCR) have said that they are witnessing a surge in viral cases amongst children. The development is extremely concerning at a time coronavirus disease (Covid-19) are showing a spike."We are in midst of an outbreak of viral fevers. We are getting a lot of viral fever cases in children. Almost 25 per cent of our OPDs consist of children coming down with fever commonly with symptoms like cold, cough and fever," Dr Nitin Verma, Director, General Pediatrics, Madhukar Rainbow Children Hospital in Delhi."There are simple virals and in few cases of H3N2 which is a form of swine flu we are also getting that," he added.Dr (Brig) Rakesh Gupta, director of GIMS, Noida said that six children have been admitted in the hospital with viral fever and one case is of dengue. "We are getting almost 30 patients daily in OPD with complaints of viral fever," he added.In Uttar Pradesh, cases of viral fever, dengue and malaria have seen a sharp spike. Firozabad in western part of the state has emerged as a hotspot, with majority of cases being reported from the district.According to health officials, vector indices were found to be high in the district.Cases of viral fever are being reported from new ares like Bareilly, Badaun, Moradabad and Pilibhit districts of the Rohilkhand region. Chief medical superintendent (CMS) of Badaun district hospital Vijay Bahadur Raj said that they are receiving 1,100 to 1,400 out patients every day and most of them complain of symptoms resembling to viral fever.On Tuesday, close to 400 new patients showing symptoms of viral fever were reported in Moradabad.The number of fever cases are rising in Delhi too, with the doctors blaming seasonal influenza for the surge.These patients are tested for Covid-19, in accordance with central government guidelines, almost all of which return negative. Currently, doctors said, seven of 10 fever cases are caused by the flu.They added that the flu this season is also, unusually, affecting entire families.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-noida-report-surge-in-cases-of-viral-fever-among-children-say-doctors-101631063427510.html
08-09-2021||India||Bhabanipur by-polls: Mamata Banerjee likely to launch campaign today||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee is likely to launch on Wednesday her campaign for the upcoming by-polls in the eastern state. The Trinamool Congress (TMC) has fielded Banerjee from the assembly constituency of Bhabanipur, which she previously represented as an MLA. In the assembly elections held earlier this year, the TMC supremo contested from Nandigram but was defeated by her former aide, Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Suvendu Adhikari, in a see-saw contest.Also Read | Bhabanipur by-polls: Mamata’s plans to ensure she remains the CM of BengalLast Saturday, the Election Commission of India (ECI) announced that by-polls will be held on September 30 for three constituencies in West Bengal, including Bhabanipur, with counting of votes scheduled for October 3. The other two seats where the exercise will be held are Jangipur and Samserganj. The poll panel’s decision came after repeated representations from the TMC in this regard. Banerjee, who took oath on May 5 for a third straight term as the chief minister, has to be elected as an MLA by November 5 to continue in office. TMC’s Sovandeb Chattopadhyay, who was elected from Bhabanipur, earlier vacated the seat for Banerjee to contest.Also Read | Bhabanipur by-polls announced. Why is it crucial for Mamata Banerjee? 10 pointsOn Tuesday, the Congress announced it won’t field a candidate against her while the BJP is yet to take a call on who its candidate will be.Also Read | Bengal BJP sends 6 names to fight Mamata Banerjee in Bhabanipur bypollIn the 8-phase assembly elections, which were held between March 27 and April 29, the Banerjee-led party secured a third straight term by winning 213 out of 292 seats for which polling took place. The BJP finished second-best with a haul of 77 seats. However, since then, its tally has come down as two legislators resigned to continue as Lok Sabha MPs while four, including Mukul Roy, have returned to the TMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhabanipur-by-polls-mamata-banerjee-likely-to-launch-campaign-today-101631061030626.html
08-09-2021||India||West Bengal makes RT-PCR mandatory for passengers arriving from 7 countries||The West Bengal government has made it mandatory for international passengers from seven more countries to undergo RT-PCR tests for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on arrival in the state. The new rule will come into effect from Wednesday and even apply on passengers who are fully vaccinated.These countries are Bangladesh, China, South Africa, New Zealand, Mauritius, Zimbabwe and Botswana, according to a state government official who spoke to news agency PTI.The decision was taken after a meeting on Tuesday to review the Covid-19 situation in the state. The rule is already in place for passengers from the United Kingdom and Brazil.As per the decision, the testing would be a paid service at the Netaji Subhas Chandra International Airport in Kolkata. If any passenger wants a free service, he or she would be sent to Chittaranjan National Cancer Institute in the city, according to officials.The order, however, doesn't mention anything about where these passengers will stay till the results of their RT-PCR tests are out.West Bengal reported 601 new cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday, which took the overall tally to 15,53,177. Seven persons succumbed due to the infection after which the death roll reached 18,522, according to state government's health bulletin.In the last 24 hours, 687 patients recovered from the disease in the state taking the total number of cured people to 15,26,268. The discharge rate improved slightly to 98.27 per cent.On Tuesday, 5,25,409 vaccine doses were administered in West Bengal and the number of people getting the vaccine has reached 4,46,52,376, a health department official said. The number of active cases in the state is 8,387.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/west-bengal-makes-rt-pcr-mandatory-for-passengers-arriving-from-7-countries-101631060779411.html
08-09-2021||India||C’garh CM’s father in 15-day judicial custody for remarks on Brahmins||A local court in Raipur on Tuesday sent Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel’s father, Nand Kumar Baghel, 86, to 15-day judicial custody for allegedly making derogatory remarks against the Brahmin community.The Bharatiya Janata Party, however, alleged that the CM got the case registered to “pacify the community in Chhattisgarh and Uttar Pradesh”.“Nand Kumar Baghel was arrested and brought from Delhi to Raipur on Tuesday,” said Raipur additional superintendent of Police, Tarkeshwar Patel. After his arrest, the CM’s father was produced in the court of Judicial Magistrate First Class (JMFC) in Raipur, district superintendent of police Prashant Agarwal said.The arrest comes days after the 86-year-old was booked for promoting enmity between different groups on the complaint of Sarv Brahmin Samaj. In its complaint, the outfit alleged that the CM’s father, at an event in Uttar Pradesh recently, urged people to “boycott Brahmins” and termed them “foreigners”. It also accused him of asking people to “evict” Brahmins from the country, an official had said citing the complaint.The CM’s father has not applied for bail so far, officials said. “This is my decisive fight against Brahminism and I will fight it till the Supreme Court,” Nand Kumar Baghel told reporters outside the court premises.The CM had earlier said “nobody is above the law”. “Every person is equal before my government...I honour him as his son but as a CM I cannot forgive him for such statements which disturb public order,” he said in a statement on Sunday after the FIR was filed.The BJP has said that Baghel is “trying to save his image”.“The people of the Brahmin community and other communities were not happy with CM Baghel and his government. Hence, a case was registered... The aim was to pacify the community in Chhattisgarh and UP… Through this arrest the CM is trying to save his image,” said Dharmlal Kaushik, senior BJP leader and leader of opposition in the state.Uttar Pradesh is scheduled to go to polls next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cgarh-cm-s-father-in-15-day-judicial-custody-for-remarks-on-brahmins-101631046369020.html
08-09-2021||India||SC dismisses plea of ex-KSPCB official over alleged forged resignation||New Delhi The Supreme Court on Tuesday refused to entertain a plea of former chairman of Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) against a state government notification relieving him from the post based on a resignation letter addressed to the chief minister.A bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana, however, accepted the contention of M Sudheendra Rao that the state government be asked to consider his representation against acceptance of resignation on May 2.“At this stage, it was brought to our notice by senior counsel that the petitioner has filed a representation dated May 10, 2020 to the Additional Chief Secretary to the government, Karnataka State Pollution Control Board, alleging certain allegations relating to his resignation dated May 2, 2020. In view of the above, it is open for the state government to take necessary action on the representation filed by the petitioner in accordance with law,” the bench said in its order.Rao, a qualified engineer, referred to his version saying that his resignation letter was forged and sent to the chief minister’s office where it was accepted in haste and the Karnataka High Court refused to entertain his plea against this acceptance.The bench, also comprising justices Surya Kant and Aniruddha Bose heard the submissions of senior lawyer V K Shukla and advocate Rohit Pandey on behalf of the former head of KSPCB.“Having heard senior counsel appearing for the petitioner and carefully perusing the material available on record, we see no reason to interfere with the impugned order passed by the High Court of Karnataka at Bengaluru dismissing the writ appeal of the petitioner. The Special Leave Petition is, accordingly, dismissed,” ordered the bench.It was claimed on behalf of Rao that some loose sheets of papers containing his signature were misused to fabricate the resignation letter.The senior lawyer contended forged document was treated as resignation letter of the chairman, who was qualified as an engineer and rendered his services as consultant to the Union government and several other organisations.The court, however, pointed out that the petitioner has already filed a criminal complaint in this regard, the police investigated the matter and filed a report.Rao has challenged the validity of the Karnataka High Court’s order, which dismissed his plea against acceptance of the resignation letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-dismisses-plea-of-ex-kspcb-official-over-alleged-forged-resignation-101631046116520.html
08-09-2021||India||Probe panel issues bailable warrant against Param Bir Singh for failing to appear before it||Mumbai: An inquiry commission headed by a retired high court judge on Tuesday issued a bailable warrant against former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh for not appearing before it.The Maharashtra government in March this year formed a one-member commission of Justice (retd) Kailash Uttamchand Chandiwal to conduct a probe into corruption allegations levelled by Singh against the then state home minister Anil Deshmukh. The commission had issued summons to Singh multiple times to appear before it, but he failed to do so, Hence, the panel issued a bailable warrant against him, a government lawyer said.Earlier, the commission had thrice imposed fines on Singh - ₹5,000 in June and ₹25,000 on two occasions last month - for failing to appear before it.Days after he was shunted out as Mumbai police commissioner and transferred to the Home Guards in March, Singh claimed in a letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray that Deshmukh used to ask police officers to collect money from restaurant and bar owners in Mumbai.Deshmukh, an NCP leader who resigned from the post of state home minister in April, has denied the allegations.The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) are probing the allegations made against Deshmukh by the senior IPS officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/probe-panel-issues-bailable-warrant-against-param-bir-singh-for-failing-to-appear-before-it-101631045635954.html
08-09-2021||India||Congress panel plans to start year-long events from Gandhi Jayanti||In its first meeting on how to mark 75 years of India’s independence, a high-powered committee of the Congress led by former prime minister Dr Manmohan Singh on Tuesday decided that the party would kickstart year-long events on Gandhi Jayanti with emphasis on special events at key places associated with the freedom struggle, like Jallianwala Bagh in Amritsar and Champaran in Bihar where Mahatma Gandhi led the first Satyagrah movement. The party also decided to focus on the role the farmers played in the freedom struggle.To chalk out the finer details of these events, the panel, which included former chief minister of Haryana, Bhupinder Hooda, former ministers AK Antony and Ambika Soni, among others, decided to form sub-committees, which would submit a final report to the former prime minister. This comes at a time when the government has launched a high-profile campaign called Azaadi ka Amrit Mahotsav to celebrate the landmark Independence celebrations in 2022.“We have to find a way that we can convey the role that so many people played in the freedom struggle, how to convey it to the young,” Hooda said, adding, “For instance, Dr Singh said that we have to highlight the importance of the Congress’ 1929 Lahore session- that was when the call for poorna swaraj or complete independence was first raised.”Over the last few weeks, the Opposition has reacted sharply against posters by the government body, Indian Council of Historical Research (ICHR), which omitted the country’s first prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru. While ICHR maintained that the poster was part of a series, the Congress in its meeting hinted at highlighting the role of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) during the freedom struggle.“People should know who helped the British and who fought against them, and our events should make it very clear,” said Pramod Tiwari, Congress’ Rajya Sabha MP and the member of the panel.During the discussion, it was decided that each sub-committee would frame strategy to mark the celebrations in three-four states and emphasis should be made to showcase the “real” history of the events surrounding India’s independence.The committee’s next meeting will be held after all suggestions are collated and submitted to Manmohan Singh..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/75-years-of-independence-congress-panel-plans-to-start-year-long-events-from-gandhi-jayanti-101631045035940.html
08-09-2021||India||BJP shortlists 6 candidates to fight Mamata Banerjee in Bengal by-election; Cong to sit out||Kolkata: The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) West Bengal unit on Tuesday proposed six names to the party leadership in Delhi to pick a candidate to be fielded against Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief Mamata Banerjee from Bhabanipur where the bypoll is scheduled on September 30, even as the Congress announced it would not field any candidate against the chief minister.“We have sent a list of six names to Delhi. The list includes the names of Priyanka Tibrewal and Biswajit Sarkar among others like Tathagata Roy,” said a senior BJP leader on condition of anonymity.Tibrewal, who is also an advocate, is the vice-president of the BJP’s youth wing in West Bengal. She was one of the petitioners in the post-poll violence cases in the Calcutta high court, which ultimately resulted in the court ordering a CBI probe.Biswajit Sarkar is the brother of BJP worker Abhijit Sarkar, who was murdered allegedly by TMC workers in Kolkata on May 2, the day election results were declared. Sarkar is among the petitioners who moved the Supreme Court in May, seeking the formation of a special investigation team for probing allegations of violence by TMC workers. The apex court allowed the high court to hear all the petitions.Abhijit Sarkar’s murder figured prominently in the National Human Rights Commission’s (NHRC) report that was submitted before the high court on July 13. Tibrewal represented many victims in the case, including Sarkar. The list also includes Tathagata Roy, veteran BJP leader and former governor of Meghalaya and Tripura, who recently slammed some of his party colleagues over the debacle in the West Bengal elections. Rudranil Ghosh, who was the BJP candidate in the constituency in the assembly elections earlier this year, also features in the list. He lost the contest to veteran TMC leader Sobhandeb Chatterjee, who has since vacated the seat for the chief minister to contest the bypoll.Talking to reporters on Tuesday, West Bengal Congress chief Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said, “The Congress high command in Delhi has decided that the party will not field any candidate against Mamata Banerjee. It is because that would help the BJP.”Last week, the Election Commission of India (ECI) announced that bypolls to three assembly seats in the state, including Bhabanipur in Kolkata, would be held on September 30. Counting of votes will take place on October 3. Apart from Bhabanipur, the bypolls will also be held to Jangipur and Samerganj assembly seats.Banerjee had won from Bhabanipur in 2011 and 2016. In the 2021 assembly polls, she, however, had decided to contest from Nandigram. Even though the TMC returned to power with a sweeping victory winning 213 seats out of the 292 seats where polls were held in eight phases in March and April, she lost by a narrow margin of 1,956 votes to her protégé-turned-adversary Suvendu Adhikari of the BJP.“It is good that good sense has prevailed, and the Congress has realised that fielding a candidate against Mamata Banerjee may help the BJP in turn. As far as the BJP’s candidates are concerned, they can field their central leadership. They would lose with such a huge margin that in future they would think twice before contesting an election,” said Tapas Roy, TMC leader and spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-shortlists-6-candidates-to-fight-mamata-banerjee-in-bengal-by-election-cong-to-sit-out-101631044316044.html
08-09-2021||India||Expert on farm-law panel asks SC to make report public, settle matter||A member of a Supreme Court-appointed panel of experts to examine the three contentious farm laws has urged the court to make its report public and decide the matter as thousands of farmers continue to oppose the legislation.The panel, which was set up by the Supreme Court in January this year, submitted its report in March.“More than five months have passed. It is painful to see farmers still protesting, being a representative of farmers myself. The court has so far not taken any interest in the report. It should be made public,” said Anil Jaysing Ghanwat, one of the experts on the panel.The committee scrutinised the three agricultural laws and held several rounds of meetings with a large number of farm organisations, regulated farm markets and food businesses. It is believed to contain several recommendations on policies regarding the agricultural economy that supports half of all Indians.Ghanwat said he has written a letter to the chief justice of the top court, urging him to take up the report as it has a bearing on “the agriculture economy, farm growth and farmers’ welfare”.The government passed a set of agricultural laws in September 2020 to ease restrictions in farm trade, allow traders to stockpile large quantities of food stocks for future sales and lay down a national framework for contract farming.Farmers claim the laws will hurt their livelihoods by eroding their bargaining power and leave them at the mercy of big corporations. This has set off a politically challenging farmers’ agitation in the country.On January 12, the top court put a moratorium on the new agricultural laws after fierce opposition from farm unions, who held 11 rounds of negotiations with the Union government that ended in a deadlock.The Supreme Court also set up a four-member panel, naming economists Ashok Kumar Gulati and PK Joshi as well as farm leaders Anil Ghanwat and Bhupinder Singh Mann to the committee. Mann dropped out, citing personal reasons. Ghanwat leads the Shetkari Sangathana, a farm organisation from Maharashtra.Farm unions rejected appeals to join the committee, saying at the time that they wanted nothing short of a repeal of the legislation.Ordering the committee to scrutinise the laws, the top court had said: “This committee will be for us. All of you people who are expected to solve the issue will go before this committee. It will not pass an order or punish you, it will only submit a report to us.”All four members proposed for the committee have either publicly endorsed the laws or want them amended. Like economist Ashok Gulati, a key figure in the committee who has been arguing for decades for a market-led, enterprise-driven agricultural economy, which supports half of all Indians. That has been a gripe among farm unions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/expert-on-farm-law-panel-asks-sc-to-make-report-public-settle-matter-101631043655341.html
08-09-2021||India||Study: Antibodies less effective against Delta variant of coronavirus||There was a six-fold drop in the ability of antibodies from a past infection to neutralise the Delta variant of the Sars-Cov-2, and a greater eight-fold reduction in the potency of antibodies elicited by vaccines, according to a peer-reviewed study led by researchers from India and the UK. The study, the authors say, combines findings from lab experiments and analysis of breakthrough cases to piece together signs of the Delta variant, or the B.1.617.2, being better at replication and resisting antibodies – these traits helped it rapidly overtake the Alpha (B.1.1.7) variant that was at the time the most transmissible version of the coronavirus.“We’ve shown that the delta variant is better at replicating and spreading than other commonly-observed variants. There’s also evidence that neutralising antibodies produced as a result of previous infection or vaccination are less effective at stopping this variant. These factors are likely to have contributed to the devastating wave in India during the first quarter of 2021, where as many as half of the cases were individuals who had previously been infected with an earlier variant,” said professor Ravi Gupta from the Cambridge Institute of Therapeutic Immunology and Infectious Disease, who is one of the authors. In comparison to the Delta variant, which was first found in India, the Alpha variant (first found in the UK) triggered only a 2.3-fold drop in potency of antibodies drawn from recovered Covid-19 patients. The study involved antibodies drawn from people who had a past infection, or received either the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine or the Pfizer-BioNTech shot. These were then made to neutralise the Alpha, Beta and Delta variants in a laboratory. This part of the analysis showed the most evasive variant was Beta (first found in South Africa), followed by Delta and Alpha. The second part of the study involved analysis of breakthrough infections among 112 healthcare workers in three Delhi hospitals, which showed that most were cases of Delta variant (99 infections) – confirming the mutated virus was more likely to cause disease in vaccinated people compared to other versions of the Sars-Cov-2. The study found a similar drop in the potency of lab-grown antibody therapy such as bamlanivimab and imdevimab.“Infection in vaccinated healthcare workers with the Delta variant is a significant problem. Although they themselves may only experience mild Covid-19, they risk infecting individuals who have suboptimal immune responses to vaccination due to underlying health conditions – and these patients could then be at risk of severe disease,” said Dr Anurag Agarwal, director, Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, who is also part of the study. The authors suggest due to this risk, infection control measures – such as masking, social distancing, and hand washing – must continue even in “post-vaccination era”. The study also addresses why the Delta variant appears to be fitter than the others, despite showing a lower antibody resistance than the Beta variant. It cites lab analysis that shows the Delta variant to be more efficient in entering human cells and replicating within.It achieves this in particular by mutating to make its fusion with the host cell more efficient. Once within a cell, they are also able to replicate more widely as compared to the Alpha variant, according to experiments conducted in epithelial cells (the lining) of the airway and the lungs as well as 3D organoids (mini-organs grown from airway cells). These clues explain what has been observed around the world, beginning with India in mid-April. The variant quickly swept through the country, overwhelming testing as well as treatment capacities. The variant then pushed up case trajectories in countries like the UK, where a large proportion of the population was vaccinated -- although the wide inoculation rate helped the country avoid its facilities from being overwhelmed, unlike in the case of the Alpha outbreak in the winter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/study-antibodies-less-effective-against-delta-variant-of-coronavirus-101631043417459.html
08-09-2021||India||AIMIM begins UP poll campaign: Owaisi slams BJP, says ‘Muslims harassed in UP’||Lucknow: All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) chief Asaduddin Owaisi on Tuesday said his party’s main aim was to ensure the defeat of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly elections, even as he attacked successive governments led by the Samajwadi Party (SP), Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and Congress for the poor plight of Muslims in the state. Launching the party’s poll campaign at Rudauli town in Ayodhya district on Tuesday, Owaisi said the AIMIM was ready to discuss pre-poll alliance with the SP or BSP, but the talk will be over the share of the Muslim community if the alliance came to the power in Uttar Pradesh. “Muslims constitute 19% population of UP whereas Yadav community leader becomes CM though they are mere 9% of the population. The Muslims are denied government jobs,” he said. Restricted to Hyderabad in Telangana for much of its 93-year-old existence , the party has, in recent years, expanded to Maharashtra and Bihar. It also tried to expand to West Bengal where it could not make a dent in this year’s assembly elections. “The Muslims in UP are harassed and exploited. They have been denied a share in the power, education and basic facilities. They have been denied justice. The Muslim community in UP is leaderless and no political party is interested in addressing the grievances of the Muslims. The interest of political parties is in the vote of the Muslim community,” he added“The Muslim community believed in the false promises made by the SP, BSP and Congress. Due to the support of the Muslims, their leaders became prime minister and chief minister. Today, the Muslims in UP are feeling cheated as they have been dumped by the parties who sought their vote in the name of secularism,” added the four-time Lok Sabha MP. Elections to the 403-seat Uttar Pradesh legislative assembly are scheduled for early next year. Earlier in the day, jailed gangster and former MP Atiq Ahmad and his wife Shaista Praveen joined the AIMIM in presence of Owaisi. A five-time legislator and one-time MP, Ahmad has more than 90 criminal cases, including those related to murder against him. He is lodged in a Gujarat jail. He was shifted there from Uttar Pradesh on the Supreme Court’s directions in 2019. Defending his decision to induct Ahmad, who has several criminal cases lodged against him, Owaisi asserted that even several BJP leaders face similar cases. “In UP, 37% of BJP MLAs have criminal cases; 116 BJP MPs have serious criminal cases and most of them have cases related to crime against women,” Owaisi said. The ruling BJP, however, sharply reacted to his assertion and the development. “Giving protection to a notorious criminal like Atiq Ahmed in the name of providing protection to the community, inducting him and his wife in AIMIM shows Owais’ mentality. But keep in mind that Yogi Ji will not allow Jinnah’s jehadi mentality to flourish in UP,” BJP Kannauj MP Subrat Pathak said in a tweet in Hindi. The AIMIM chief will address a ‘vanchit-shoshit samaj’ (deprived and victimised communities) conference in Sultanpur on Wednesday and in Barabanki a day later. The AIMIM has announced that it will field candidates for 100 assembly seats in Uttar Pradesh. It has also joined an alliance of smaller political parties to form Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha; this includes the Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) led by Om Prakash Rajbhar, Jan Adhikar Party led by Babu Singh Kushwaha, Rashtriya Uday Party led by Babu Rampal, Rashtriya Upekshit Samaj Party led by Premchanda Prajapati, and Janata Kranti Party led by Anil Singh Chauhan.Accusing the AIMIM chief of speaking the “language of the BJP”, Samajwadi Party state unit spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary said, “The Samajwadi Party has worked for the welfare and uplift of the Muslim community. The Muslim community in UP are with SP, they will not be misguided with the allegations of Owaisi.”UP Congress committee spokesperson Surendra Rajput said Owaisi has neither launched a movement over the Covid-19 mismanagement by the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh nor has he made his stand clear over the farmers’ protest over three farm laws. “On the direction of the BJP, he has come to UP to divide the Muslim community. The AIMIM is not interested in the welfare of the Muslim community in UP but it wants to disturb the communal harmony,” Rajput said.BSP state unit president Bhim Rajbhar said Owaisi has come to UP when the assembly elections are near. “He did not visit UP when the Muslim community were harassed by the ruling BJP. The BSP government has worked for the welfare of the Muslim community, several schemes for the Muslims were launched when BSP chief Mayawati was chief minister,” Rajbhar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aimim-begins-up-poll-campaign-owaisi-slams-bjp-says-muslims-harassed-in-up-101631043055868.html
08-09-2021||India||‘I don’t agree’: Goa withdraws Ganesh Chaturthi SOPs after CM tweets disapproval||PANAJI: The Goa government on Tuesday introduced, and then quickly withdrew ‘standard operating procedures’ (SOPs) issued for the upcoming Ganesh Chaturthi festival after Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant tweeted his disapproval.“I personally do not agree with some of the guidelines that were issued in the SoP, especially the one stopping priests from going to individual households for puja. Ganesh Chaturthi is the most important festival in Goa and such rituals are an integral part of it,” Pramod Sawant said on microblogging platform Twitter.“While the expert committee may have suggested such curbs, I have asked the administration to withdraw the SoP immediately. Chaturthi must be celebrated with full fervour while taking all the necessary precautions, given the pandemic”.The state government’s SOPs issued just hours earlier mandated that the otherwise extravagant Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations on September 10 should be toned down this year in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.
08-09-2021||India||Incarcerated Masarat Alam is new Hurriyat chairman||Six days after the death of separatist leader Syed Ali Geelani, his close aide Masarat Alam Bhat, who is in jail, has been appointed as the chairman of hard-line All Parties Hurriyat Conference (APHC), according to a press release apparently issued by the party.The APHC statement, which was mailed to some media outlets and was being circulated on the social media, read that the party had held a meeting in Srinagar during which, the decision was taken. The statement could not be independently verified. It said that a “consultative exercise was conducted with the members of the executive council of the APHC using different mediums to avoid arrests and Indian counter strategy”.“Masarat Alam Bhat has been elected as the next chairman of APHC. Shabir Ahmad Shah and Ghulam Ahmad Gulzar, both, elected as vice-chairmen,” the statement read.The statement said Gulzar will continue running the affairs of APHC with “regular guidelines” from the chairman.The APHC was apparently headless since June 29, 2020 when Geelani, its lifetime chairman, had announced his separation from the amalgam 17 years after he had launched the organisation. He had accused Hurriyat members of inaction after the revocation of Article 370 on August 5, 2019. Alam, the 49-year-old firebrand Hurriyat leader and Muslim League chairman, is currently in Tihar Jail since June 2019 in a case filed by National Investigation Agency under alleged terror funding. Shabir Shah is also in jail. Alam has been in jail for most of the time since his arrest in October 2010 following his alleged role in the mass public agitation that year. Alam continued to be in prison as authorities booked him in one case after the other under PSA, even though the court quashed his detention multiple times.He has 27 FIRs registered against him and has been booked under the public safety act (PSA) atleast 36 times, according to local media reports.He was released after more than four years in March 2015 triggering backlash against ruling Peoples’ Democratic Party which was then in coalition with Bharatiya Janata Party.The then state government arrested Alam again on April 17, 2015 on the charges of ‘sedition’ and ‘waging war against the state’ after he allegedly raised pro-Pakistan slogans in a rally, orgainsed to welcome Syed Ali Geelani in Srinagar. He was subsequently booked under public safety act. When alive, Geelani would often accuse the state government of vengeance for “prolonged and unlawful” detention of Masarat Aalam. The young separatist leader has been instrumental in framing marathon strike calendars in 2010 when over 120 youth were killed in security forces action to control spiraling anti-India protests on the streets on Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/incarcerated-masarat-alam-is-new-hurriyat-chairman-101631042395800.html
08-09-2021||India||If BSP voted to power, we will ensure security of Brahmins, says Mayawati||Bahujan Samaj Party leader Mayawati continued with her outreach to Brahmins ahead of the 2022 assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, promising to ensure the security of the Brahmin community if the party was voted to power next year. “Brahmins have agreed that under BSP’s rule, people from the Brahmin community were in better condition as compared to the current BJP’s rule. I assure the Brahmin community that if we come to power in the next elections, we will ensure their security,” she said while addressing the closing ceremony of ‘Prabudh Varga Sammelan’. “I promise that when the BSP forms the government in 2022, it will take care of the dignity, security and welfare of the Brahmin community in a similar manner as was done after the formation of the BSP government in 2007,” she added. The BSP leader’s assurance came days after she decided to take up the legal battle to secure bail for the 17-year-old widow of slain Brahmin gangster Vikas Dubey’s nephew, who too was shot in an encounter onJuly 8, 2020. Khushi Dubey has been booked under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, including murder and criminal conspiracy, and has been lodged at a juvenile centre in Barabanki for a year. The party is reaching out to the community as part of its effort to grow its traditional voter base (composed mostly of Dalits) in the state. The BSP had earlier announced that it would expedite the construction of the Ram temple at Ayodhya if it was voted to power in the assembly elections.In her first public appearance at the party office since the outbreak of the Covid pandemic last year, the 65-year-old former chief ministeralso announced to initiate a high-level inquiry into any atrocities by the current Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government against the community and compensate for economic losses suffered during the period.Giving a clarion call for a “Dalit-Brahmin” unity to bring her party back to power in the state, Mayawati said both the BJP and the Samajwadi Party (SP) have indulged in empty talks to win the votes of Dalits and Brahmins, but neither safeguarded their interests when in power.“Unlike them, the BSP stands firm on its ‘Kathni aur karni (words and deeds)’, and this can be testified from its rule in Uttar Pradesh from 2007 to 2012, when security and welfare of Dalits and Brahmins, along with other sections of the society, were given top priority,” she said. Interestingly, both the SP and the BJP have also been wooing Brahmins, the latter even inducting the Congress’ Jitin Prasada into its tanks with the objective of reaching out to Brahmins. The BSP leader also promised to focus on the development of the state and not build memorials, parks and museums in the name of Dalit icons, something that characterised her last stint in power. “If I form the government again, I will not concentrate on statues or memorials or parks but on governing the state to the best possible ability,” she said. Reaching out to the farmers’ community, Mayawati promised to see that the contentious agricultural laws passed last year are not implemented in the state if the BSP came to power. “Our government will not only ensure that farmers get a genuine price for their products but also see that the three farm laws are not implemented in the state. At least 500 farmers have died but the BJP government remains unmoved,” she said. The BSP leader also took note of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh chief Mohan Bhagwat’s remarks that the ancestors of Hindus and Muslims were the same, asking him to explain why the “BJP behaves as if Muslims are adopted”.In the 2017 state elections, the BJP won 325 seats out of a total of 403 Assembly seats. Samajwadi Party and its allies won 54 seats, and the BSP won a mere 19 .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/upelections-if-bsp-voted-to-power-we-will-ensure-security-of-brahmins-says-mayawati-101631042215888.html
08-09-2021||India||Covid-19: Panacea Biotech supplies 1 million Sputnik V doses||Indian pharma and vaccine major Panacea Biotec has supplied first batch of the Russian made anti-coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine, Sputnik V, manufactured in India for distribution and sale locally, the company announced on Tuesday.Panacea Biotec was the first company to locally manufacture the Russian vaccine in May this year.The batch comprises one million doses of the second component of the two-dose vaccine, and with that the possibility of more doses of the Russian-made vaccine to be administered as part of the national Covid-19 immunisation programme would increase.“The Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF, Russia’s sovereign wealth fund) and Panacea Biotec Ltd. (Company), one of India’s leading vaccine and pharmaceutical manufacturers, announce supply of the 1st shipment out of 1 million doses of the second component (human adenovirus serotype 5) of the Russian Sputnik V coronavirus vaccine manufactured by Panacea Biotec for sale in India,” said the company in a statement.Sputnik V is made by Russia’s Gamaleya Institute, and marketed globally by Russian Direct Investment Fund.Doses of the second component of Sputnik V have been manufactured at the Panacea Biotec’s state-of-the-art vaccine manufacturing facility in Himachal Pradesh.The company received necessary clearance from the Central Drug Laboratories (CDL), Kasauli on August 31, 2021.According to the company statement, full-scale production of the vaccine doses started at Panacea Biotec’s facilities this summer. The facilities comply with good manufacturing practice standards and are prequalified by WHO (World Health Organisation).“Panacea Biotec is pleased to have successfully produced and dispatched the first batch of Component II (Ad5) of Sputnik V vaccine. More batches are currently under production at our manufacturing facility in Himachal Pradesh,” said Rajesh Jain, managing director, Panacea Biotec.According to earlier statements, RDIF and Panacea have agreed to produce 100 million vaccine doses per year.The current batch of one million will be distributed in India through Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, a partner of RDIF and Panacea Biotec.Dr Reddy’s Laboratories has partnered with RDIF to be the brand custodian of the Sputnik V vaccine in India, and has the sole distribution rights of the first 250 million doses of the vaccine in India.“As announced by our partners, the RDIF and Panacea Biotec, supply of the second dose component manufactured by Panacea Biotec has now commenced. Dr. Reddy’s has initiated supply of the first dose component to partner hospitals all over India followed by equivalent quantities of the second dose component. With more batches of the second dose component to follow from the manufacturing site, we expect this momentum and supply to continue…,” said a spokesperson of Dr Reddy’s Laboratories.On availability of Sputnik V vaccine, Dr Reddy’s said, “For a comprehensive list of cities, towns, and hospitals where dose 1 of sputnik V vaccine is available, please visit www.drreddys.com/sputnik-vaccine. Currently in India, the vaccine is administered in two doses with a 21-day gap. Both doses should be taken from the same hospital.”India is the leading production hub for Sputnik V vaccine, with RDIF having reached agreements with a number of local pharmaceutical companies for manufacturing about 850 million doses to be produced annually. Besides Panacea Biotec, RDIF has tied up with Gland Pharma, Hetero Biopharma, Stelis Biopharma, Virchow Biotech and Morepen for production of the Russian vaccine.Sputnik V was registered in India under the emergency use authorisation procedure on April 12, 2021 and vaccination against coronavirus with the Russian vaccine started on May 14.Efficacy of the Sputnik V vaccine is 97.6%, based on the analysis of data on coronavirus infection rate in Russia among those vaccinated with both components of Sputnik V from December 5, 2020 to March 31, 2021.The vaccine is based on a proven and well-studied platform of human adenoviral vectors and uses two different vectors for the two shots in a course of vaccination, providing immunity with a longer duration than vaccines using the same delivery mechanism for both shots.India has so far vaccinated over 700 million beneficiaries with Covid-19 vaccine, of which 531 million have received at least one dose till Tuesday, according to CoWIN dashboard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/panacea-supplies-1-million-sputnik-v-doses-101631041796772.html
08-09-2021||India||Karnataka logs 851 fresh Covid-19 cases, 15 deaths||Karnataka health and medical education minister Dr K Sudhakar said on Tuesday that the government is working with a target to fully vaccinate the entire adult population by the end of November. In a video conference with deputy commissioners (DCs) and zilla panchayat CEOs of 23 districts, which are lagging behind in vaccination coverage, the minister said, “These 23 district administrations have been given a target to speed up coverage and complete the first dose for all by the end of this month. Target has been set to complete both the doses for all by November,” Sudhakar said. Currently, Udupi (83.77%), Kodagu (80.93%), and Bengaluru (80.54%) have the highest rate of vaccine coverage. “The target has been set to complete both the doses for all by November. Progress and achievement on testing, setting up of oxygen plants, and other civil works were also discussed,” the minister said. Experts, however, argued that the government’s claim is unrealistic. “We are still going at an average of 200,000 to 300,000 per day. It is a good number but at this rate, we won’t finish the entire population by November. While Bengaluru is showing higher numbers, in many districts, especially in north Karnataka, there is a shortage of vaccination. In these districts numbers (vaccine coverage) is below 50%,” said a Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) member, who didn’t want to be named. “But at this rate, there is a chance that the entire adult population might get their first dose of the vaccination. Now, during the second wave, the number of deaths was the biggest concern. If we are able to provide at least one dose to the entire adult population, we will be able to blunt the impact of a third wave,” the TAC member said. However, the health minister said that additional stock of the vaccine will be procured soon. “In August, we got 11 million doses from the Centre. Chief minister Basavaraj Bommai and I went to Delhi twice seeking increased vaccine allocation for Karnataka and considering our request, the Centre has increased our allocation,” the minister said. Sudhakar said BBMP has administered over 10 million doses in Bengaluru so far. “Our target is to make Bengaluru the first city in India where the entire population is fully vaccinated. We have directed the BBMP commissioner and other officials to work towards achieving this target,” he said. On Tuesday Karnataka administered 401,000 doses of the vaccine according to the Cowin portal. So far, 46 million people have received the vaccine in the state, out of which 11 million people received both doses while 34 million people got the first dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-logs-851-fresh-covid-19-cases-15-deaths-101631041617423.html
08-09-2021||India||Data shows potholes in 1,332-km Bengaluru roads||Damaged or potholed roads and traffic snarls have become a nightmare for over 12 million residents of Bengaluru, people and activists say, even as the government has given the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) a deadline to complete all pothole-covering works by September 30. At least 2,000 kms of roads in the city are damaged or have potholes, according to the state government, which have cost many lives over the years. “I had done a review the day before. I have told the BBMP to cover the potholes after the rains slow down. In the coming days, we will take this up on a war footing,” Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Tuesday. The statement comes barely hours after another life was snuffed out on a potholed road, prompting citizens and activists to allege that the BBMP and other civic agencies make lofty promises and waste tax money every year. The BBMP has a budget outlay of ₹9,287.81 crore for 2021-22. But 9.4 million vehicles crawl through the city’s killer roads. On Monday night, a 75-year-old differently abled man died after his two-wheeler hit a pothole in Kamakshipalya locality. “There is one incident that has come to our attention. It is a layout that comes under the BDA (Bengaluru Development Authority) and the incident took place on the road there. This should have definitely not happened but it has come to our attention,” BBMP chief commissioner Gaurav Gupta said. An old tactic used by the civic agencies is to blame each other for the mess on the roads. The BBMP has often blamed the Bengaluru Water Supply and Sewerage Board (BWSSB) and Bengaluru Electric Supply Company (BESCOM), among others, for digging up roads without permission and abandoning them after completion of their work. The BBMP is now trying to use an app (Geostamp) to monitor the covering of these potholes as a measure to streamline the work and speed up completion of an exercise that is taken up periodically in the city in the garb of development. All works taken up by the BBMP’s pothole-covering exercise will have to be uploaded in this app, officials said, including pictures, details of area covered among others in a bid to bring in transparency and efficiency. Karnataka’s revenue minister R Ashok said on Monday that 1,332 kms of major roads in the city are damaged because of potholes. Of the 85,791 number of roads in the over 198 wards in the city, 2653 (or 887 kms) are in poor condition by the government’s own admission. The government has given the BBMP a deadline to complete all pothole-covering works by September 30. V Ravichandar, an urban expert, said that the dug up roads make Bengaluru look like a “Mohenjo-daro excavation.” “Anywhere you drive, it is impossible to drive without potholes. It has become kind of a Mohenjo-daro excavation city which is perpetually dug up,” the urban expert earlier told Hindustan Times. The potholes and poor roads have even become a canvas for creative art work. Badal Nanjundaswamy, a renowned artist, recreated a simulation of an astronaut walking a crater-filled road in September 2019 that was dubbed “moonwalk”, which became global headlines for bringing to light the perennial and basic infrastructure challenges of a city that has been called India’s IT, technology, startup and aerospace capital. Nanjundaswamy has over the years created nearly 50 art works to get the attention of civic agencies, which include a mermaid in a water-filled pothole, a plastic yet realistic crocodile, a picture of Lord Yama or the god of death according to Hindu mythology painted around an open man-hole, among other pieces of art, that trend online but has, at least so far, had little impact on the agencies like BBMP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/data-shows-potholes-in-1-332-km-bengaluru-roads-101631041557069.html
08-09-2021||India||Case against man who died in pothole mishap||Adding insult to injury, the Bengaluru police on Tuesday registered a case of negligent driving against the 65-year-old differently-abled man who died after he fell from his scooter over a badly-dug up road in Kamakshipalya traffic police station limits on Monday night. “(A) case has been registered, post mortem has been done and body has been shifted. An FIR has been filed under 304 (A) and 279,” said one official from Kamakshipalya traffic police station, requesting not to be named. The case has been filed under 304 (A) or causing death by negligence against some officials of civic agencies and Section 279 or rash driving has been lodged against the deceased, Kurshid Ahmed. “It happened around 8.30-8.45 pm at night when it was raining in Vishweshwaraiah layout,” said the official cited above. While the police maintain that the deceased came on the wrong side of the road and was not wearing a helmet, few say that the road was dug up poorly on both sides of the road. Ironically, the incident took place in Sir M Vishweshwaraiah layout, named after one of India’s most renowned civil engineers, whose creations like Krishnaraja Sagara Dam constructed nearly a century ago stands to this day without a single problem. The pothole was filled with water as Bengaluru continues to receive heavy rains that exacerbated its infrastructure weaknesses which continues to claim more lives and adds to the challenges of the city’s over 12 million residents and 9.4 million vehicles. The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), however, has skirted responsibility stating that the locality comes under the Bengaluru Development Authority (BDA). “There is one incident that has come to our attention. It is a layout that comes under the BDA (Bengaluru Development Authority) and the incident took place on the road there. This should have definitely not happened,” Gaurav Gupta, the chief commissioner of the BBMP said on Tuesday. The BDA commissioner and chairman could not be reached for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/case-against-man-who-died-in-pothole-mishap-101631041555757.html
08-09-2021||India||B’luru civic body cuts Ganesh celebrations from 5 to 3 days||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) on Tuesday reduced the number of days to celebrate the Ganesh Pooja publicly in the city to three, despite the state government allowing five-day celebrations, chief commissioner Gaurav Gupta said in a circular.“Ganesha festival will not be allowed for more than three days in Bengaluru city. There should not be any procession while bringing the idol or during immersion,” he said.The order came after the BBMP commissioner met with senior district-level officers and Bengaluru police commissioner Kamal Pant. Speaking to reporters, Gupta said the BBMP had permitted the Ganesha festival celebrations for three days last year, which will continue this year. He said the decision to have it for only three days was taken after inputs from the police, suggesting there could be large gatherings participating in the public celebrations. Gupta also said that Ganesha idols made of plaster of Paris are banned. He asked people to immerse the traditional Ganesha idol, made up of biodegradable material at their homes in buckets or mobile tankers of the civic agency. “Idols installed at homes should be immersed at home only or in our mobile tank. Ganeshas installed at public places should be of (a maximum of) four feet height and should be immersed in mobile tanks. We are also creating immersion tanks. We have also decided to ban immersion of idols in lakes,” Gupta said.Pant said one Ganesha idol at a public place in each ward is permitted, for which the organizers will have to get the nod from the BBMP and then inform the deputy commissioner of police of the area. A BBMP official said the number of infections in the city is still on the higher side and hence decided to limit public celebrations to a maximum of three days. Karnataka government’s decision to allow Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations in the state has already raised concerns among experts. Even though the government decided to allow celebrations only in districts with a test positivity rate of less than 2%, and strict restrictions are imposed in districts where celebrations have been allowed, experts are questioning the decision.Dr N Manjunath, member of state Covid Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) and director of Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research, said that festivals could become potential super-spreaders if a large number of people are allowed to celebrate together. “A large number of people usually come out for festivals like Ganesh Chaturthi, and markets are often overcrowded. We have our Covid situation under control. Such overcrowding could undo it,” he said.Another TAC member, on the condition of anonymity, said that even though the government has put strict restrictions in place, implementation has been a problem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bluru-civic-body-cuts-ganesh-celebrations-from-5-to-3-days-101631041380762.html
08-09-2021||India||Viral fever cases spike in new regions of UP||Cases of viral fever, dengue and malaria have seen a sharp spike in Bareilly, Badaun, Moradabad and Pilibhit districts of the Rohilkhand region of Uttar Pradesh since last week, said the state health department officials on Tuesday.In Badaun, Vijay Bahadur Raj, the chief medical superintendent (CMS) of the district hospital said, “We receive 1,100 to 1,400 out patients every day and most of these patients complain of symptoms resembling to viral fever.” “So far we have around 50 confirmed cases of malaria in the Badaun but no case of dengue so far,” Raj added.Bareilly CMS, Dr Subodh Sharma said, “A 10-year- old child who had very low platelets count was brought to hospital. The child succumbed within hours of admission. He had dengue like symptoms we have sent his blood samples for confirmation.” The district health administration has set up dedicated dengue and malaria wards in response to the confirmed cases.On Tuesday, close to 400 new patients showing symptoms of viral fever were reported in Moradabad, while two cases each of dengue and malaria were confirmed in Moradabad. “We have sent 23 samples for dengue test and 280 samples for malaria... The results are awaited,” said MC Garg chief medical officer of Moradabad.In Pilibhit, the number of patients with viral fever-like symptoms was 500. Health administration also confirmed a case of dengue in a 12-year-old boy. District magistrate, Pulkit Khare said, “The health department is keeping a close watch on the cases of dengue and malaria, in the district and ensure proper treatment,” said the DM.The government health department officials have said that the spike in case of viral fever is a norm post-monsoon, asserting that the situation is under control.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/viral-fever-cases-spike-in-new-regions-of-up-101631041379228.html
08-09-2021||India||11 samples from contacts of Nipah victim test negative||Eleven samples collected from close contacts of a 12-year-old boy who died of Nipah this week tested negative for the disease on Tuesday in what was described by the Kerala government as a big relief for a state, which is struggling to control its Covid-19 cases.Talking to reporters in the state capital, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the Nipah situation was under control. The government has taken enough measures, and the deadly virus will be localised and contained effectively, he added.“Samples, including that of parents, were tested negative. The condition of those admitted to hospitals with symptoms is stable now. We are expecting more results from the National Institute of Virology (Pune),” Vijayan said.He added that four ministers were camping in Kozhikode in north Kerala to review the Nipah situation and help the district administration. Out of 257 contacts of the boy, 141 are health workers, and 51 of them have been hospitalised as a precaution. Only the primary contacts of the boy and those showing severe symptoms are being tested. Around 21 samples have been sent so far, some are getting tested in medical college lab with the help of NIV scientists camping in the city.At a time when the state is grappling with a high Covid-19 caseload -- Kerala reported 25,722 cases on Tuesday -- Nipah claimed the life of the boy on Sunday, leading to a high alert in Kozhikode and neighbouring districts. The region is reporting Nipah infections for the second time in four years. In 2018, it claimed 17 lives in the district.“Different teams are at work to trace the source of infection. Experts have recovered half-eaten rambutan fruits from the premises of the boy. They also found a fruit bat habitat near his house,” said state health minister Veena George, adding that a team from the National Institute of High-Security Animal Diseases Laboratory from Bhopal will be in the city on Wednesday.The fruit bat is considered the main carrier and reservoir of the virus.Though bats were suspected to be behind the outbreak in 2018, no expansive study was done on the source of the disease that infected at least 19 that year, 17 died, and two survived.“It is a great relief for us that all are negative. Among 11, include the boy’s parents and medical officials. We will localize and contain the outbreak as we did in 2018,” stressed the minister.Colleges to open from October 4The Covid cases reported in the state on Tuesday -- the daily positivity rate was 15.87% -- were also lower than what the state was reporting last week when the average positivity rate was over 20% and daily cases crossed 30,000 on three days last week.“The expert committee on pandemic has recommended to lift Sunday lockdown and night curfew. We can’t remain in lockdown forever. We have also decided to open colleges and higher educational institutions from October 4,” CM Vijayan said.Students above 18 and teachers should have taken at least one dose of the vaccine to attend classes. Vijayan said that 76.15% of the eligible population was vaccinated in the state. A decision on reopening schools will be taken later, he said.“We have no idea why the night curfew was imposed during night movement is very low. Good, finally it was withdrawn. It is time for the government to begin some serious studies. Our experiences show such infections are likely to crop up again, and it should share data with research bodies,” said Dr S S Lal, who was formerly with World Health Organisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/11-samples-from-contacts-of-nipah-victim-test-negative-101631041015774.html
08-09-2021||India||Kerala IAS officer booked for sending ‘obscene’ text to journalist||Kerala police on Tuesday registered a case against IAS officer N Prasanth for allegedly insulting the modesty of a woman journalist by sending her inappropriate stickers over WhatsApp while she reached out to him for an official reaction.Police told PTI that a case has been registered in the incident, which happened in February this year after obtaining legal advice on the issue.“We have registered a case under Section 509 of the Indian Penal Code,” police said.The section deals with the offence of insulting the modesty of any woman, utters any word, makes any sound or gesture, or exhibits any object, intending that such a word or sound shall be heard, or that such gesture or object shall be seen, by such woman, or intrudes upon the privacy of such woman.Prasanth, the Managing Director of Kerala State Inland Navigation Corporation (KSINC), was caught in a political controversy early this year after the corporation signed an MoU with a US firm on deep sea trawling.The reporter from a vernacular daily texted Prasanth introducing herself and sought a reply on the controversy. In the screenshots of the WhatsApp messages that were circulated, the journalist could be seen asking whether it was a good time to talk regarding a news story.To this Prasanth replied with just a sticker. When she replied saying the story was not to harm him, and asked him to give a statement regarding the controversy, he replied with an inappropriate and obscene sticker.A complaint was filed with the police by the Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ).The state government later in May had ordered a probe against the 2007 batch IAS officer for his alleged misbehaviour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-ias-officer-booked-for-sending-obscene-text-to-journalist-101631040957091.html
08-09-2021||India||Kerala CM welcomes high court’s order allowing second Covishield dose after 4 weeks||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday said that his government was in agreement with the High Court’s ruling, allowing second dose of Covishield after four weeks from the first jab to those who want it earlier, and said the ball was now in the Centre’s court.The CM, during a press meet held here, said it was now up to the central government to decide how to implement the Kerala High Court’s September 3 ruling and said that the chief secretary and the health secretary of the state government would be liaising with the Centre on this matter.He also said that priority in vaccination would be given to those who are due and “overdue” for their second dose of the vaccine.Vijayan further said that the state has till date administered over 3 crore doses, including both first and second jabs, of vaccine.Of these, 21,854,153 received the first dose of vaccine and 8,246,563 received the second dose, he said and added that Kerala’s vaccination rate was much higher than the national average.He said vaccination was hampered during the last few days due to vaccine shortage, but on Monday the state received 1 million doses and subsequently, the inoculation process has been going on smoothly.In the meeting, he also said it was being noticed that the micro containment zones and containment zones were not being updated properly on the Covid portal and district websites and to ensure that it happens, an IT expert from the Information Technology Mission will be temporarily appointed to each District Emergency Management Centre.In the last 24 hours, cases have been registered against 9,654 people for not wearing masks and legal action was taken against 8,852 for non-compliance with social distancing norms. A fine of ₹1,885,800 was also levied, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-cm-welcomes-high-court-s-order-allowing-second-covishield-dose-after-4-weeks-101631040898326.html
08-09-2021||India||TN planning service rights bill for public||The Tamil Nadu government is working towards enacting a Right to Services legislation to help ensure timely delivery of government services to people, officials familiar with the matter said. People line up in taluk offices and at e-seva centres for services, such as pensions and change in registrations, from across more than 50 state departments. A Chennai-based anti-corruption NGO, Arappor Iyakam, has submitted a draft of the Right to Services legislation to chief minister MK Stalin and urged the government to take feedback from the public before tabling a Bill in the assembly. Guaranteeing every citizen the right to obtain government services within a stipulated time has been a poll promise of the DMK. Governor Banwarilal Purohit, during his inaugural address in the assembly in June after the formation of the new government, said a Right to Services Act will be introduced to streamline the delivery of public services by government agencies. The NGO says that through this Act every person will have the right to obtain services within a stipulated time and an official violating this will be liable for punishment and that such systemic steps are important to curb bribery and corruption over time. “This is a citizen’s initiative by Arappor Iyakkam to provide feedback to the government on the key features required in the Tamil Nadu Right to Service Act,” said Jayaram Venkatesan, convener of the NGO. “A law that is aimed at making access to services effective and efficient needs to be passed after getting wide feedback from the people who are most affected due to the issues in delivery of such services.” The NGO surveyed 2,000 people on the issues they faced in Tamil Nadu while accessing citizen services from the government. Among the respondents, 93% of the people revealed that bribe was demanded from them for delivering service, 82% were dissatisfied with their experience, 28% pointed to delays in availing of services, and 11.5 % cited lack of transparency and clarity on the list of documents needed for applying. Only 29% of the people said the current e-Seva centres have helped them access services without paying bribes. Volunteers prepared the model Bill based on the public feedback as well as the good features available in the Right to Service Act of other states such as Punjab, Maharashtra, Kerala, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Draft bill of Citizen’s Charter and Grievance Redressal, 2011. Tamil Nadu previously was reluctant to pass this legislation. The NGO’s model Bill calls for the government to constitute an independent body, ‘Tamil Nadu Right to Service Commission’, to be led by a commissioner who is an appointee of the chief minister, leader of opposition and the chief justice of the high court who can deal with appeals on rejection of services and lack of responses. It guarantees that every applicant will have the right to obtain services within stipulated time, failing which officials face penalties, such as a salary cut and disciplinary action. A senior official of the department of finance, planning, human resources management, pensions and pensionary benefits, who is overseeing the Bill, said that public feedback is vital. “We are working on the Bill and we are looking into aspects of bribery, the process not being clear, not enough details being made available in offices and online,” the official said, not wishing to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-planning-service-rights-bill-for-public-101631040897216.html
08-09-2021||India||Andhra Pradesh to begin asset monetisation project in state||The Andhra Pradesh government too has begun efforts to monetize its non-productive assets to generate the much-needed extra revenue to tide over the grave financial situation.In the first step, the government has decided to hand over a 3.26 acre site in the heart of Vijayawada city for commercial development over the next 24 months under the ‘Mission Build AP.’ Though the expected revenue from the project has not been disclosed, official sources monitoring the project estimate that the income could be “substantial”.“Importantly, the project will create tens, if not hundreds of jobs, and boost the local economy,” a top official pointed out.The ‘Mission Build AP’ was launched in late 2019 and the Jagan Mohan Reddy government put some properties on sale. However, it is now stuck in a legal tangle, with the High Court staying the proceedings.“We are not selling the property in Vijayawada, where currently the State Guest House is housed. We are only giving it for development,” the official said. The SGH in Vijayawada once used to be the place of stay for all visiting dignitaries, including the President and the Prime Minister. However, half of it is now in a dilapidated condition and the other half also needs a facelift.As the state government is in no position to spend crores of Rupees for that, it has decided to monetize the prime asset.The Centre’s NBCC (India) Limited, which has been entrusted with the Mission Build AP plan, has appointed Rudrabhishek Enterprises Limited (REPL) to provide comprehensive architectural and engineering consultancy services for the development of the proposed project in Vijayawada.REPL has drawn up plans to reconstruct the State Guest House with a built-up area of one lakh square feet and a commercial complex with a BUA of 2.5 lakh square feet.REPL Chairman and Managing Director Pradeep Misra said the proposed project was being designed as an energy efficient campus with “unique and inspiring” space to work, rest and rejuvenate.The company would prepare a master plan, concept designs and a detailed project report and also assist in project coordination and bid process management, he said.REPL said in a release here on Tuesday that it was currently working on preparing GIS-based master plans of four clusters in 14 urban local bodies. It was also providing architectural and engineering consultancy services for the new government medical college in Madanapalle in Chittoor district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-pradesh-to-begin-asset-monetisation-project-in-state-101631040896167.html
08-09-2021||India||MP’s Kuno national park to be home to Cheetahs in 6 months||Cheetahs from Namibia and South Africa are likely to reach too India in the next four to six months, and be reintroduced in Kuno national park in Madhya Pradesh, Union environment ministry officials have confirmed. The move comes 74 years after the last of the big cats was killed in India. The cheetah was declared extinct in the country in 1952. “We are expecting African Cheetahs to arrive in the next 4-6 months. The Kuno national park is being prepared for reintroduction,” said Gaurav Khare, official spokesperson of the environment ministry. In the first phase, 12 to 15 cheetahs are likely to arrive later this year or early in 2022 but over the next five years 40 to 50 are likely to be reintroduced, SP Yadav, member secretary at the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA), which is overseeing the project, said.“Experts from South Africa visited Kuno and found the habitat suitable for reintroduction. In fact, they said it is better than some of their habitats in South Africa. Reintroduction will take months. First, we need to see if they (the cheetahs) are able to kill prey in a very large enclosure,” explained Yadav.Chital, chinkara and black bucks may be suitable prey for cheetahs in India, according to experts. Yadav said cheetahs don’t necessarily require grasslands, and that the forests of central India and parts of Rajasthan are best suited for them.“Our understanding is that their habitat is varied. The last time cheetahs were seen in the wild was in the Sal forests of Chhattisgarh,” said Yadav adding that “each Cheetah requires around 10 to 20 sq km area. They are small cats so they need a far smaller area than say a tiger. There is no record of a Cheetah attacking humans. Their prey base is mostly small ungulates (hooved mammals).”The International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) lists the Asiatic Cheetah to be critically endangered. With a historic distribution across southwest and central Asia to India, the Asiatic Cheetah is now only known to occur with certainty in Iran. The population is very small, the IUCN states. Because of extremely low numbers of the Asiatic Cheetah, African Cheetahs, another subspecies are being considered for reintroduction in India but the experiment has been criticised by some scientists.“Firstly, this is not reintroduction but introduction of African Cheetahs to India. They belong to the African continent. The Kuno Palpur sanctuary hasn’t been prepared for cheetahs which need large open areas and small catchable prey. The Chinkara group size in Kuno is very small and Chital group size is also shrinking due to loss of open grasslands. We have to be very cautious of zoonotic diseases also during this experiment. It would have been better if suitable habitat was developed before bringing them,” said Fayaz Khudsar, a wildlife biologist who conducted field research in Kuno in the late 90’s.The SC on January 28, 2020, approved the introduction of the African Cheetah in India on an experimental basis in a carefully chosen habitat which will be closely monitored to assess if the cat can adapt to Indian conditions. NTCA approached SC regarding introduction of African Cheetahs to India.The Wildlife Institute of India in collaboration with the Wildlife Trust of India assessed potential sites and as long back as 2010 recommended Kuno Palpur Wildlife Sanctuary in Madhya Pradesh; Shahgarh landscape in Jaisalmer (Rajasthan); and Nauradehi Wildlife Sanctuary in Madhya Pradesh for introduction of the African Cheetah.In 2013, SC imposed a stay on introduction of African Cheetahs to Kuno because it was an ideal habitat for the Asiatic Lion. The Asiatic cheetah was driven to extinction in India and the genetically very similar African cheetah which numbers about 12000 wild individuals, was favoured as seed stock for reintroduction. The International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN) whose opinion was sought by the Government in this regard, approved this proposal according to a note by Wildlife Trust of India.“There are several sites that are being surveyed for the Cheetah including Nauradehi Wildlife Sanctuary in Madhya Pradesh, Mukundara in Rajasthan, desert grasslands of Rajasthan or in Gujarat if you reclaim the grasslands. The Cheetah habitat in India historically is from Jammu to Tamil Nadu, very widespread and they were found in any habitat dry forests, grasslands, scrub forest etc. So, they will survive quite happily. In India they survived with lions, leopards and tigers. As long as there is enough food and there is protection they will regenerate on their own. Cheetahs in Namibia are being killed by farmers why not reintroduce them into their former habitat?” asked Divyabhanusinh Chavda, heads the Advisory Board at World Wide Fund For Nature, India. He is also a Cheetah expert.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mps-kuno-national-park-to-be-home-to-cheetahs-in-6-months-101631040837425.html
08-09-2021||India||Will celebrate Chaturthi in full swing, says TDP defying Andhra govt orders||Andhra Pradesh assembly’s main opposition Telugu Desam Party on Tuesday decided to defy orders of the state government disallowing public celebrations of Ganesh Chaturthi in September, and observe the festival in full fervour. TDP national spokesperson Pattabi Ram on Tuesday said that party MLAs and in-charges of all 175 Assembly constituencies have been instructed to organise and celebrate Ganesh Chaturthi in a “huge way” while following Covid-19 protocols. “We feel that it is a part of a larger conspiracy by Jagan Reddy to attack one religion,” he alleged. A day earlier, on September 6, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Andhra also held state-wide protests demanding the state government to allow public celebrations for the festival. Party leaders, including state president Somu Veerraju, general secretary Vishnu Vardhan Reddy, and others were detained by the police over the agitation. They were released the same day later. Both, Sudheesh Rambhotla, chief spokesperson for BJP in Andhra, and Pattabi Ram pointed out that the ruling Yuvajana Sramika Rythu Congress Party (YSRCP), led by chief minister Y. S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, held a big gathering to observe the memorial of Jagan’s father and former chief minister of erstwhile Andhra Pradesh Y. S . Rajasekhara Ready on September 2, contradicting their current stance on Covid-19 protocol. The YSRCP called the TDP’s stand on the issue hypocritical. “The decision was taken concerning the third (Covid-19) wave. We took a decision based on the central government’s guidelines. If we would have allowed it, then TDP would have said we are allowing it despite the pandemic, and now they are saying this,” said YSRCP MLA and spokesperson Abbaya Chowdary Kothari.Kothari pointed out that the BJP-ruled neighbouring state Karnataka has also placed restrictions on the Ganesh Chaturthi festival. “From our perspective, we are not trying to dictate anything to anyone. Everyone will celebrate the festival, but we don’t want massive rallies or public gatherings. Why are the TDP and BJP not questioning the centre on this?” he said. Political analyst Palwai Raghavendra Reddy opined that the TDP is in a “clueless” position in the state currently because the BJP is trying to take over the main opposition space. “On these issues, the BJP is taking an aggressive stance. The Telugu Desam is struggling as it cannot do too much Hindutva, which will benefit the YSRCP. The former will have to identify issues which are not religiously sensitive,” he added. Chief minister Jagan Mohan Reddy held a review meeting on September 2 and decided to continue the night curfew in AP from 11 pm to 6 am, owing to the festival season. Based on suggestions from health department officials, the government also decided to limit Ganesh (or Vinayaka) Chathurti celebrations within homes instead of public places. The Andhra government decided that Ganesh idols cannot be installed in public places and that immersions this year, along with processions, should be avoided. Before this, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla August 28 issued guidelines to chief secretaries of all states and Union Territories informing them that Covid-19 guidelines have been extended till September 30. In his letter to the chief secretaries, Bhalla stated that state governments and Union Territory administrations have been advised to take suitable measures to avoid large gatherings during the coming festive season. He added that if required, local restrictions may be imposed to curb such large gatherings. “In all crowded places, Covid appropriate behaviour should be strictly enforced,” he wrote in his letter.Ganesh Chaturthi, which falls on September 10, is widely observed in cities like Bombay and Hyderabad, wherein people gather in large numbers to immerse idols in lakes or other water bodies. Many also install Ganesh idols which are set up in public pandals. While not as widespread in AP, it is also observed similarly by a section of people every year in cities and districts. As of September 6, AP reported 739 new cases, taking the tally to 2,022,064. Over the last fortnight, the case tally of Covid-19 in the state have been around 1,000 marks per day on average.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-celebrate-chaturthi-in-full-swing-says-tdp-defying-andhra-govt-orders-101631040836926.html
08-09-2021||India||Covid-19: Karnataka issues advisory against travelling to Kerala||The Karnataka government on Tuesday issued an advisory, asking residents of the state to avoid travel to neighbouring Kerala which is currently grappling with a massive surge in Covid-19 infections and a new scare of the resurgence of Nipah virus.“ln view of the prevailing Covid-19 situation in Kerala, special measures are already in place for arrivals from Kerala. Further, it has been observed that students and employees arriving to Karnataka from Kerala though bringing negative RT-PCR reports are testing Covid-19 positive during repeat test and number of such case are considerably high in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi,” according to an order issued by Jawaid Akhtar, the additional chief secretary of the health and family welfare department of Karnataka.The new orders come hours after Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday morning said that he has asked for stricter measures to be implemented in borders between the two states.“At the time of sealing the Kerala border, we had asked for vaccination and testing and will make this stricter,” he said.The new orders are also significant because they come in the wake of the Nipah scare in Kerala.“I have asked our experts to learn everything about Nipah virus, how it spreads and what precautions should be taken and their suggestions. We have already kept an eye on it (Nipah) and will definitely try and do it in a manner to control it,” Bommai said.Karnataka believes that people travelling from Kerala and Maharashtra are the main source of the spread of infections in the state and has turned a blind eye on political events and other large gatherings of people within its own cities and districts.“Public is advised to defer their plan to visit Kerala till the end of October, 2021, if there is no emergency/urgency with a view to avoid a third wave of Covid-19 in Karnataka in the larger interest of public health,” the order states.“All administrators/principals of the educational/nursing/paramedical institutions are advised to instruct their wards who have not yet returned to Karnataka to defer/postpone their return till the end of October, 2021. Further, they should also advise their wards not to travel to Kerala till the end of October, 2021,” the order states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19karnatakaissues-advisory-against-travelling-to-kerala-101631040835586.html
08-09-2021||India||Cut ‘queerphobic’ text from MBBS books: Kerala HC||The Kerala high court on Tuesday directed the state medical education board to take necessary steps to remove discriminatory references against LGBTQIA (lesbian, gay, bi-sexual, transgender, queer, intersex and asexual) community from MBBS textbooks and check “queerphobic” contents.Hearing a petition filed by two NGOs named Queerythm and Disha representing the queer community, a division bench of Chief Justice S Manikumar and Justice Shaji P Chaly directed the board to redress their grievances and take immediate action.The petitioners pointed out inhuman and discriminatory remarks against their community in textbooks — references like “they consist of a group of people suffering from mental disorder, perversion and flaunting such identity is an offence”.They submitted a list of such references through their counsel Legith T Kotakkal and said such references are against the fundamental rights of the community. “Many such references are made in textbooks despite the fact that queer community rights are recognised by the Supreme Court and it decriminalised sex between consenting adults of the same sex,” the petition claimed.They said they had made a representation to the state authorities for correction earlier in March this year, but it was not responded to. They claimed that not only medical books but many other textbooks also contain such highly “queerphobic” and discriminatory contents.Even in the medical field, the petitioners claimed, due to the fear of being victimised due to the stigma attached to queerness, many members from the community are scared to reveal their sexual orientation.They also pointed out that last week, Madras high court had directed the Tamil Nadu medical board to revamp its curriculum and immediately remove references against LGBTQIA community based on a public interest litigation.Kerala was the first state to formulate a transgender policy in 2015 and also establish a transgender justice board in 2017. The state’s first metro in Kochi also employed many people from the community. But many activists working in the area say such measures remain only on paper, and the community needs acceptance, not sympathy.“We have set up a research desk to find out such discriminatory contents in curriculum. Despite many verdicts and new measures attitude towards the community is changing very slow. We have to speed up the pace,” said Syma S, a member of the government of Kerala’s Transgender Justice Board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cut-queerphobic-text-from-mbbs-books-kerala-hc-101631040835052.html
08-09-2021||India||Over 150 evacuated from flood-hit Sircilla in Telangana||The Telangana government Tuesday evacuated several people from the low-lying areas of Rajanna-Sircilla district, among other places inundated due to heavy rains that hit the state.The district is among the most affected areas in the state, with over 150 people evacuated from their homes. District superintended of police Rahul Hegde told Hindustan Times that water bodies were filling up due to heavy rains, which resulted in floods across parts of the Sircilla town and other rural areas. “In rural areas also water bodies are overflowing, so some roads were closed. Wherever it is receding slowly, the routes are opening up. Sircilla town flooded as there was a lot of rain, and we had to evacuate people from areas where rainwater reached two to three feet high,” Hegde said. The state government also deployed a section of its Disaster Response Force (DRF) to the flood-hit district. The DRF works under the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC).“Recently, DRF teams with 25 members were deployed at Siricilla Municipality for Monsoon Rescue operations. Incharge officers are appointed to supervise all the complainants attended by the DRF Teams. A dedicated Control Room established under the Directorate of EV&DM works round the clock with robust communication system and is closely monitoring the situation at the field,” said a press note from the GHMC. Given the weather warning by IMD, the chief minister of Telangana K. Chandrasekhar Rao (KCR), who is in New Delhi currently, on Tuesday asked state chief secretary Somesh Kumar to hold a meeting with all district collectors. Kumar, in a teleconference with collectors of 20 flood-affected districts, took stock of the situation and asked all officers to take steps and prevent loss of life or damage to any property.On Tuesday, ex-MLA and former cabinet minister Eatala Rajender who left the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi and joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), also provided breakfast and lunch for those whose homes were flooded in the Huzurabad assembly seat (Karimnagar district)Rajender resigned from the seat in June, after which he joined the BJP. He has been campaigning there ever since he resigned. Similarly, ex-MP and TRS MLC (daughter of KCR) K. Kavitha also provided food for people whose houses were flooded in Nizamabad townTwitter was awash with videos of the Sircilla district collectorate getting flooded. Congress leader and ex-member of Parliament Ponnam Prabhakar also posted a similar video, questioning the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi’s infrastructure work in Rajanna-Sircilla district.However, Hegde said that only the front portion of the collectorate’s premises was inundated and not the actual building. The rains were in accordance with the Indian Meteorological Department’s (IMD) alert for Telangana, which had issued an ‘extremely heavy’ rainfall warning for northern districts of Telangana for September 6 and 7. Warangal and some parts of Karimnagar district also witnessed flooding on Tuesday. Other parts of Telangana which witnessed flooding due to heavy rains were Nizamabad, Warangal and Karimnagar districts. In fact, in Nizamabad, the yet to be inaugurated collector office was also flooded on Tuesday. Similar situations were seen in Warangal town as well, where heavy rains battered roads apart from flooding other parts of it. However, no casualties were reported so far.In Hyderabad, parts of the city witnessed intermittent rainfall. However, the showers were not heavy, which eased the situation a bit, given that the state machinery and the public were expecting another flood-like situation. According to the IMD, on Tuesday, about 20 places in the state, especially the flood-hit areas, witnessed rainfall of over 200 millimetres. Nallabelly in Hanumkonda district recorded the highest rain at 258 mm, while Huzurabad in Karimnagar followed closely with 253.8 mm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-150-evacuated-from-flood-hit-sircilla-in-telangana-101631040780408.html
08-09-2021||India||Don’t carry photos of CM and public officers on kids’ items: Madras HC to TN government||The Madras high court on Tuesday directed the state to discontinue the practice of carrying photographs of chief ministers and other public functionaries on school bags, textbooks and stationery used by children. “It is abhorring that school books or school bags meant for school-going children, who do not have a right to vote, would carry photographs of public functionaries even if the functionary is the chief minister of the state,” the court said. “The state should ensure that such practice is not continued in future.” The first bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice PD Audikesavalu passed the orders in a public interest litigation (PIL) that sought these directions so that public funds are not wasted on carrying the names and photographs of previous chief ministers on textbooks, school bags and stationery. “However, photographs of the chief minister may be carried, but that should be restricted to advertisements in newspapers or some hoardings and certainly not used on textbooks or exercise books or any educational material at all,” the court said in its orders. Advocate general R Shunmugasundaram, appearing for the state, informed the court that chief minister MK Stalin has said in the on-going assembly session that the present government will ensure that school bags, textbooks and stationery bearing photos of leaders from the previous regime will continue to be used until they are exhausted. The AG added that Stalin has decided not to publish his photos in such materials. Given such a decision from the DMK government, the court said that no further order need be made except directing the state that extreme care and caution should be taken to ensure that public funds are not expended for publicity purposes of political leaders. With these observations, the court disposed of the petitions. This is however a new turn in political culture in the state. Last month, school education minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi told the assembly that Stalin’s decision to retain photos of former chief ministers late J Jayalalithaa and Edappadi Palaniswami on 6.5 million school bags and 1 million stationery items has saved ₹13 crore for the state exchequer. Tamil Nadu’s past chief ministers who made the transition from the world of films to politics enjoyed sycophancy and it was a common practice for their images to be erected as hoardings and banners. Both DMK and AIADMK have also introduced free and heavily subsidised schemes and offered free materials to the electorate such as colour TV, grinder, fans, cycles and bags for school students that often bear the names and photos of whichever party is in power. Once a government was in transition following elections, it was also common for the previous regimes’ schemes and materials to be discontinued and replaced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-carry-photos-of-cm-and-public-officers-on-kids-items-madras-hc-to-tn-government-101631040779212.html
08-09-2021||India||You will see a new Kerala Congress in six months, problems ironed out: K Sudhakaran||Last week, the factional feud within the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee came out in the open with the selection of 14 presidents of the District Congress Committee (DCC) and a series of disciplinary actions against few leaders for a public outburst. Speaking to Ramesh Babu, state unit chief and Kannur MP K Sudhakaran says while most of the differences have been “settled”, discipline is supreme to the party.The rumblings within the Congress are out in the open. For how long will the present stalemate continue? There is no big crisis as such, as portrayed by the media. In a democratic party like Congress, it is natural that differences will crop up and the present case is one such case. But discipline is paramount in the party. We have settled most of our differences. Opposition leader V D Satheesan called on senior leaders Oommen Chandy, Ramesh Chennithala and Thiruvanchoor Radhakrishnan to iron out wrinkles. I also met them. Since we have settled everything, All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary Tariq Anwar won’t be coming to the state now. We will carry everyone along, we will hear our seniors properly. There is no question of any neglect or step-motherly attitude. Our aim is to strengthen the party and turn it into a well-oiled machine. A strong party is the need of the hour.Can we call it a generational shift?The new leadership is a proper blend of fresh blood and experience, we need new ideas, mode and direction. It doesn’t mean seniors leaders will have to take a backseat. The new team will take a leaf out of their rich experience to reinvigorate the party. The party is supreme and the factions can take rest now. Senior leader Oommen Chandy said a couple of days back in Kottayam that the party is first and the groups are second.You said the Congress would be turned into a semi-cadre party soon. How do you plan to achieve this? Any plan to attract more youth? Yes, we will transform it into a new party in six months. It will be a semi-cadre outfit and you will see the differences soon. We will select 2,500 committed cadres -- 1,000 from Youth Congress and 1,500 from our trade wing INTUC. We will train and groom them. We have to attract more youth. There will be special drives at the grassroots and leaders will oversee them. All office-bearers will have to submit a performance report periodically. These posts are not showpieces, they will have to work on the ground. We will spot exceptional ones and groom them. We have to strengthen our students and youth outfits. In the 1970s and 80s, a surge of youth leaders catapulted the party to new highs in the state. We need a similar move. The Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Development Studies in the state capital started regular workshops for them. The new DCC chiefs will also attend such workshops. The party will have a new look and vigor and it will be visible in six months.How do you see the state tackling the pandemic?I don’t have to say it in detail, the records tell. The state continues to report more than 65 per cent of the total Covid-19 cases of the country and another deadly threat of Nipah has also emerged. This is the third onset of Nipah. No serious study was done. Even the source of the first outbreak in 2018 remains a mystery. My humble request to the government is to hear experts more and avoid politics. Kerala has the best health infrastructure in the country, despite this we are in a sorry state now. Inept handling and race for cheap publicity landed the government in such a mess. Hope the chief minister will realise his follies at least now and correct them.There are claims that the BJP is taking the space of the opposition Congress in the state. Do you agree?It is a baseless question. A desperate BJP tried its best to widen its base but its lone account (a single MLA in the last assembly) was also closed. We played a vital role in it. Among all state units, the BJP has the weakest one in Kerala, it doesn’t have a proper leader and infighting reigns supreme.What we witness these days is a secret understanding between the ruling CPI(M) and BJP. What happened to the gold and dollar smuggling cases? High-profile probes stopped abruptly after the chief minister’s right-hand man was grilled. The Lavalin case (in which chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s name allegedly cropped up) was deferred 28 times in court and most of the time, at the initiative of the probe agency (CBI). In return, the chief minister is protecting state BJP leaders in the highway heist and hawala cases (snatching of alleged funds meant for BJP electioneering in Thrissur in last April). The CPI(M)’s Congress-‘mukt’ Kerala will remain a day dream. I am sure people will expose this unholy alliance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/you-will-see-a-new-kerala-congress-in-six-months-problems-ironed-outksudhakaran-101631040775806.html
08-09-2021||India||Massive march in Karnal as talks with farmers fail||Thousands of farmers surrounded a key government building in Haryana chief minister’s bastion of Karnal on Tuesday evening, holding a massive show of strength and intensifying their protest over controversial police action on agitating cultivators last month. Farmers gathered at a mahapanchayat venue in Karnal, and later marched on foot to the mini secretariat building five kilometers away. They jumped over some barricades but didn’t face any serious police challenge on their way. Three rounds of talks with the district administration dissuading the farmers from blocking the highway and marching into Karnal town had failed earlier in the day. “Our talks with administration failed as they did not agree to our demands,” senior Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leader Joginder Singh Ugrahan said. “We have gheraoed the mini-secretariat. We don’t have to enter inside. We will sit outside peacefully,” farm leader Yogendra Yadav said. This is the second mahapanchayat by farmers, who clashed with the government last year over three controversial central laws, in two days. On Sunday, farmers held a similar mega event in Uttar Pradesh’s Muzaffarnagar, attended by hundreds of thousands of people. Karnal is the home constituency of Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar, who defended the August 28 police lathi charge that left some farmers injured and allegedly caused the death of one protester – a charge denied by the administration. The farmers vowed not to lift the blockade till the government lodged a case of murder against sub-divisional magistrate Ayush Sinha, who was caught on tape allegedly telling policemen to “break heads” if protesters crossed the line. Singh has since been transferred. The cultivators also demanded ₹25 lakh compensation to the farmerwho died on August 28 and ₹2 lakh each to the injured farmers.Farmers said that they will pitch tents at the entrance of the mini secretariat and that the sit-in protest will be organised on the lines of Singhu and Tikri border sites. For about nine months, farmers from Punjab, Haryana and other north Indian states have been sitting on the borders of the Capital to press for the repeal of the three laws. As night fell, farmers squatted outside the mini secretariat, shared food and water, and shouted slogans in support of the agitation against the central laws. Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait said the state government was not listening to the farmers. “The Khattar government should agree to our demands or else arrest us. We are ready to fill Haryana jails,” he tweeted. The farm unions had fixed September 6 as the deadline to meet the demands. The day began on a tense note as farmers mobilised early in the morning at Karnal’s grain market even as the administration rushed 40 companies of paramilitary forces, diverted traffic, suspended mobile internet services in five districts, and barricading every corner of Karnal. The administration had earlier signalled that it will not let the farmers march towards the town but later blinked after the massive mobilisation. Deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav, Karnal’s inspector general of police Mamta Singh and superintendent of police Ganga Ram Punia were among the officials who took part in the talks. The administration invited an 11-member delegation, comprising BKU Haryana unit chief Gurnam Singh Charuni, Rakesh Tikait, Balbir Singh Rajewal and Darshan Pal, for talks but the negotiations broke down after three rounds. The farm leaders returned to the grain market to meet supporters and strategise. Later in the day, the farmers began their march to the mini-secretariat. Police had installed several layers of barricades but the protesters removed them without facing police resistance. Addressing the mahapanchayat earlier, Yadav said, “We have come to ask the government which Constitution, which law gives an IAS officer permission to give orders to break the farmers’ heads.... Under which law are police allowed to carry out brutal lathi charge resulting in the death of one and injuries to several others.”In the afternoon, the Karnal district administration and police quoted ground intelligence reports and said that some “elements” had reached the grain market armed with lathis, iron rods and other weapons. They added that “all such elements will be strictly dealt with in accordance with law”. “Ground intelligence reports indicate that some elements from Rambha, some from Nissing and some from other places have reached the Anaj Mandi armed with lathis, jellis, iron rods etc. It does not show a good intention on their part,” the administration said. “Karnal district administration and police is warning such mischievous elements not to take the law into their hands and maintain public order. All such elements will be strictly dealt with in accordance with law,” a notice issued by the administration added.The farmers launched their agitation against the three central laws last year, arguing that the new regulations will end government-regulated markets and assured minimum crop prices. The government has denied the allegations and offered to put the laws on hold for 18 months -- an offer rejected by the farm unions that press for complete repeal of the legislation. On August 28, protesters were hurt in the clash with police in Karnal as farmers tried to march towards the venue of a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) meeting, in which the chief minister and other senior state leaders were present. Farm leaders also claimed that a protester died later, an allegation rejected by the administration.Hours after the clashes, a video clip showed Sinha was purportedly heard instructing a group of policemen: “Hit them hard…We shall not allow this cordon to be breached. We have enough force available. No one should break the cordon and reach me. If someone does, make sure he has a broken head.”The IAS officer alleged the video was edited and consisted only of selected portions of his overall instructions to the police.The viral clip triggered immediate outrage with the Opposition demanding a probe and the government sought a report from local officials. The CM admitted that Sinha’s choice of words was wrong but he defended the police action. Deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala also condemned Sinha’s instructions to the police and assured action against the officer.The 2018-batch IAS officer has since been transferred out of Karnal and posted as additional secretary of Citizen Resources Information Department (CRID), as per a government order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/massive-march-in-karnalas-talks-with-farmers-fail-101631040716217.html
08-09-2021||India||UP outbreak: Kin of Mathura village victims mourn loss||KOH (MATHURA): Koh stirs to life early in the morning. The young men go to factories in Mathura, an hour’s drive away, and other men and women head to the fields or cowsheds. The village of roughly 350 households is a patchwork of red, green, pink and blue brick houses with piles of cow dung, mulch, and water strewn along the few pucca roads. Open drains run alongside. The locals don’t seem to mind, walking barefoot and skipping over the garbage. The village is built on a slope, so putrid water drains into a large pond on the far edge of the settlement. A temple stands nearby, looking outwards into shrubs and bushes.Over the past fortnight, however, a blanket of silence has fallen over the usual village chatter, pierced by the occasional wail of a heartbroken mother. In that period, the village has lost nine children to dengue and another 130people have fallen sick to the viral fever that has killed at least 54 people in the region, according to government estimates. Koh is the among the worst affected areas by the outbreak that first became public on August 18 from Firozabad but quickly spread across the region. The government later clarified that the “mysterious disease” initially reported was, in fact, dengue. A central team later classified a majority of the deaths as being caused by dengue, with the others attributed to scrub typhus and leptospirosis. In the village, people don’t go out anymore, instead congregating on the courtyard of houses where new victims emerge, mourning and offering condolences to families of victims as young as four. Some distraught relatives make the rounds of the local temple, others call up local moneylenders and banks because most families are poor and financially stretched by hospital costs. Ved Prakash, 37, is one of them. The labourer’s five-year-old daughter, Honey, died on August 23, while on their way to a hospital. “On August 5, Honey got a fever but after giving her medicines from the local doctor, her condition worsened. We admitted her to a private hospital in Mathura where she was treated for 20 days. On August 23, we decided to take her to Jaipur to a better hospital but she passed away on the way,” said Prakash, biting back tears. Eleven of the 12 members in his house are down with fever. “The adults did not need to be admitted but all four of my daughters were. After Honey passed away, my youngest daughter was put on ventilator. For all these admissions at the private hospital, we had to shell out ₹4.5 lakh by taking loans and selling gold jewellery. Even after doing everything, I could not save my gudiya,” he added. After a visit by chief minister Yogi Adityanath on August 30, the government has also stepped up treatment and mitigation efforts. “In Firozabad, some officers of the health and urban development departments have been found lax in discharging their duties. It should be examined and action should be initiated against guilty officers,” the chief minister said on Monday. But as locals from Koh said the outbreak has also spotlighted poor health infrastructure and public hygiene, especially in the hinterlands where awareness is low. Inadequate facilitiesIn Koh, the primary health centre is 10 km away but is poorly staffed. Villagers said they didn’t “trust” the government facilities. “The first death due to fever was reported at our village on August 11 of four-year-old Ramiya. Her parents had gone to the district hospital in Mathura and had to wait over 1.5 hours just to get and even after getting admission, no doctor attended her for eight hours. She had to be taken to a private hospital and eventually passed away,” said Harender Singh, the village chief. Between August 11 and 20, three more children died, one of them Singh’s nephew Avneesh. “My Nandagopal has been snatched away from me, our family’s future is gone,” said Lilawati, the child’s grandmother, clutching a smiling portrait of the nine-year-old and referring to him with one of Lord Krishna’s names. Mathura is considered the birth place of the Hindu God. “On August 15, Avneesh woke up with fever and cold sweat. Soon, his condition worsened, with red spots on the body. He said he felt a hundred ants were biting him. He was admitted in a private hospital in Farah (a block in Mathura) for two days after which we decided to shift him to a bigger hospital on August 20. However, he died on the way before we could reach the hospital,” said Singh. He said he informed Mathura chief medical officer Rachna Gupta on August 20but alleged that he didn’t receive a response. “She took the matter lightly. That is when on August 21, I decided to inform a local journalist about it. After the report was published in the local newspaper, a medical team from the CMO office came to our village on August 22,” said Singh.Since then, a medical team comprising a doctor, a pharmacist, a lab technician and a nurse have set up a temporary 24x7 health care centre where all cases of fever are being screened for malaria and dengue. Two ambulances are also stationed at the village to ferry patients to the local community health centre.“The nine deaths are of paraxia of unknown origin (PUO) who have clinical symptoms of dengue. However, a death audit of these cases is being done to ascertain the exact cause of death,” said Dr Munish Paurush, district surveillance officer, Mathura. Villagers also say two sanitation workers have sprayed medicine in wild bushes and drains – the first time this has happened in twoyears. But they are still seething. “When hospital bills started increasing, many villagers had to mortgage their lands, jewellery and even their house to pay for the treatments of their children,” said Singh.Blame gameThe spate of deaths has sparked a blame game with villagers alleging the government was initially lax, and the administration refuting the charges. Gupta said that immediate action was taken by the district health department. “The village pradhan decided to inform the media before informing the local health officials about it. However, immediate action was taken by us which has helped control the deaths and the fever cases, as compared to nearby districts which has become an epicentre of the outbreak,” she said. She added that there was no “mystery fever”. “While a death audit will ascertain the cause of deaths, there are several infections that people are being screened for, these include Dengue, Malaria, Japanese Encephalitis (JE), Scrub Typhus and Laptopirisis,” said Gupta. Official data shows the block – which comprises four villages other than Koh – has reported 177 cases of dengue, 16 cases of malaria, 29 cases of scrub typhus, 45 cases of laptopirisis, and 2 cases of Japanese Encephalitis since August 21. Gupta said 16 of the 352 houses were found to have larvae and stagnant water. “Stagnant water was found in coolers and trays of fridges in people’s houses. Our medical team had to go door to door to get these cleaned and larvae was found as well. District health department regularly carries our awareness programmes to inform people about the dangers of stagnant water in houses,” she added. She said cases were now under control. But back at the village, locals say it will take a long time for things to be back to normal. They point to the many locked houses, after at least 40 families fled the village due to fear of the fever. “The families left in the village have sent their women and children to their maternal villages,” said Singh. Nearby villages have shunned Koh and told local residents that the deaths were the reason of a curse. In response, village elders revived a small temple on the outskirts the village which was shut for a year since its priest passed away. “We feel that we were disrespectful to the gods which is why this is happening to our village,” said Savitri Devi, a resident. The children still left in the village carry knots of red thread on their arms. “My dadi has given me this to protect me from the evil eye,” said Rinku, 7. (with inputs from Hemendra Chaturvedi in Agra)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-outbreak-kin-of-mathura-village-victims-mourn-loss-101631040178597.html
08-09-2021||India||Pegasus row: Centre hints at filing second affidavit in SC||New Delhi:The Union government on Tuesday signalled a rethink of its previous stand against filing a detailed response in the Supreme Court on a clutch of petitions demanding a court-monitored probe into the alleged surveillance of Indian citizens using Pegasus spyware. This came on a day the apex court was expected to pass orders on the constitution of a committee and other ancillary issues related to an independent inquiry.On August 17, the Centre told the top court that it has nothing to add to its three-page affidavit on the Pegasus snooping matter filed on August 16 which neither confirmed nor denied the use of the military-grade spyware to hack phones of ministers, politicians, businessmen, activists and journalists. Following this, the bench, headed by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana, said it would consider passing some orders on the constitution of an expert committee at the next date of hearing.But on Monday, solicitor general Tushar Mehta told the bench, which also included justices Surya Kant and AS Bopanna, that the government is yet to take a final call on filing the second affidavit, as suggested by the court earlier.When the matter was taken up, Mehta, representing the Union government, submitted that there is some difficulty in a decision on the additional affidavit since he could not consult the officers concerned.“There is some difficulty regarding a call on filing the second affidavit. Please, consider accommodating me till Thursday or Monday,” the SG requested the bench.To this, the CJI said: “But you have already filed an affidavit.”Mehta replied: “Yes, my lords. We filed one affidavit, and this court had enquired if we wanted to file another one. I could not ensure that stand. For some reason, some officers were not there; then I could not meet, etc. It (the stand) could not be found.”The SG requested adjourning the matter till Thursday or next Monday.Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing in the petition filed by journalists N Ram and Sashi Kumar, said that there was no objection if the government is reconsidering its previous stand on filing a comprehensive affidavit.Accordingly, the matter was adjourned to September 13.The Pegasus row erupted on July 18 after an international investigative consortium reported that the phones of Indian ministers, politicians, activists, businessmen and journalists were among the 50,000 that were potentially targeted by Pegasus, Israeli company NSO Group’s phone hacking software. According to this consortium, Pegasus can switch on a target’s phone camera and microphone, as well as access data on the device, effectively turning a phone into a pocket spy.Responding to a bunch of petitions filed by lawyers, politicians, journalists and civil rights activists, the Union ministry of electronics and information technology filed the three-page affidavit on August 16 that refused to confirm or deny whether it used the Israeli Pegasus spyware for surveilling Indians. The Centre instead offered to set up an expert committee to look into the controversy and “dispel any wrong narrative spread by certain vested interests”.The bench tried to know whether the government would come clean on the purchase or use of Pegasus but the SG consistently maintained that a committee should rather be allowed to delve into the issue, adding that “whatever interception was done, it was done in the interest of national security”.The case was adjourned by a day on August 16 to enable the government to decide on filing a comprehensive reply.On August 17, the court observed that it is “not averse” to setting up an expert committee to look into the alleged surveillance of Indian citizens with Pegasus spyware but expects the government to bring sufficient facts on record regarding the interception regime in India.The government, however, replied that any disclosure on its using or not using Pegasus spyware would come at the cost of national security and insisted that it will divulge such information only before the proposed committee, which, it said, can report to the top court.It also added that all interceptions were being done in accordance with the statutory procedure, and it would not wish to put out in the public domain details of the software used for lawful surveillance by filing any additional affidavit.Following the Centre’s refusal, the court on August 17 issued a formal notice to the government on the batch of pleas filed by petitioners in the case, a list that includes advocate ML Sharma, former minister Yashwant Sinha, Rajya Sabha MP John Brittas, the Editors Guild of India, journalists N Ram and Sashi Kumar, journalists Paranjoy Guha Thakurta, Rupesh Kumar Singh, Ipshita Shatakshi, SNM Abdi, and Prem Shankar Jha, and civil rights activists Jagdeep S Chhokar and Narendra Mishra.Deferring the matter for August 17, the bench once again asked SG Mehta to consider filing a detailed reply while observing that the court would ponder over the future course of action in the meantime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pegasus-row-centre-hints-at-filing-second-affidavit-in-sc-101631039815418.html
08-09-2021||India||Elgar accused Rona Wilson gets bail to join deceased father’s mass||A special NIA court on Tuesday granted temporary bail for 15 days to activist Rona Wilson, an accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, to attend a mass organised for his father, who died last month, at his native place in Kerala.Special judge D E Kothalikar granted the temporary relief from September 13 to Wilson on a personal bond of ₹50,000 and one or two sureties in the same amount. Kothalikar also directed the accused to surrender his passport to the court before leaving for his native place Neendakara in Kollam city of Kerala.The court also said that Wilson should not leave the limits of his native place and maintained that no prayer for extension of the bail will be entertained.Wilson had moved the special court seeking temporary bail to visit Kerala after his father, Jacob, died on August 18. The last rites were performed on the following day. In his plea, Wilson said that he had last met his father in 2018 in Alappuzha. Wilson was arrested nearly two months later by Pune Police in connection with the Elgar Parishad-Bhima Koregaon violence case. He is currently in judicial custody and lodged in Taloja jail in Navi Mumbai.As per customs, Wilson said, a function is organised on the 30th-day of his father’s death, which falls on September 16. He also annexed a letter from St Sebastian Church about the function.Appearing for the NIA, special prosecutor Prakash Shetty told the court there were chances of Wilson carrying out some illicit activity if released on bail, and that he may also influence witnesses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/elgar-accused-rona-wilson-gets-bail-to-join-deceased-father-s-mass-101631039337348.html
08-09-2021||India||Magistrates can’t push UAPA charge sheet deadline: SC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday lay down an important proposition of law, holding that a judicial magistrate is not competent to extend the time period for filing of a charge sheet in a case registered under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA), 1967. A three-judge bench, headed by justice Uday U Lalit, said that only a special court designated under UAPA will be authorised to deal with the issue of extending the time for filing of charge sheets in such cases.The order would also imply that a magistrate is not competent to extend the remand of an accused in UAPA cases. According to the bench, which also included justices S Ravindra Bhat and Bela M Trivedi, a “court” under the UAPA has to be construed as a special court, or a sessions court in the absence of a special court, and it cannot include a “magistrate” as mentioned under Section 167 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC). The Supreme Court also turned down a suggestion by amicus curiae (friend of the court) and additional solicitor general SV Raju to refer the issue to a larger bench of five judges for an authoritative interpretation of what a “court” would mean. “In so far as time to complete investigation is concerned, a magistrate will not be within his jurisdiction to extend the time for filing of the charge sheet...such a power is non-existent,” held the bench, adding the only competent authority to consider the request in terms of UAPA will be a special court or a sessions court, in absence of a notification for a special court. The bench was hearing an appeal filed by four accused, who were denied bail by a court in Bhopal in March 2014 on the grounds that a magistrate extended the time for filing of charge sheet in their case from 90 days to 180 days. The Madhya Pradesh high court upheld this order in September 2017. Filing of the charge sheet was directly connected to grant of bail in the case. The accused wanted default bail on the grounds that the police failed to conclude its probe and submit a charge sheet within the stipulated period of 90 days.Appearing for the accused, senior counsel Siddharth Dave contested the order of extension of time, contending that a judicial magistrate is not competent to examine a request for extension of time in UAPA cases. Dave added that “court” had to be understood in light of Section 2(1)(d) of UAPA which means a court which can try such cases whereas a magistrate cannot try UAPA cases. Called to assist the court, ASG Raju, however, said that a magistrate is equally entitled to extend the time period for a charge sheet. Raju emphasised that Section 167 of the CrPC stands modified by Section 43D(2)(b) of UAPA, which entitles a court to give time to investigators the maximum period of 180 days for filing the charge sheet instead of usual 90 days. The ASG said that a “court” has to mean a court under CrPC and would therefore, include even a magistrate for the purpose of extending time for filing a charge sheet. He said that a magistrate’s order of extending a remand will also be a perfectly valid order since UAPA mentions only the “court” and not a “special court” or a “designated court”. He also said that the definition of a “court” has not been properly examined in light of Section 167 of CrPC by the Supreme Court in its 2020 judgment in Bikramjit Singh’s case, and hence, the issue requires to be referred to a five-judge bench for determination. But the bench said that the issues being raised are covered by the 2020 judgment and there is no need to refer the matter to a larger bench. In the facts of the case, the court granted bail to the four accused after holding that the magistrate’s order of extending the time period is not a valid order and therefore, the accused are entitled to default bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/magistrates-can-t-push-uapa-charge-sheet-deadline-sc-101631039218527.html
08-09-2021||India||Jharkhand assembly clears 75% quota in private jobs for locals||Ranchi: A select committee of the Jharkhand assembly has cleared with some changes a key piece of legislation that accords 75% reservation to locals in all existing jobs up to ₹40,000 per month in the private sector.The Jharkhand State Employment of Local Candidates Bill, 2021 was originally tabled in the assembly’s budget session in March, when it was referred to the panel for deeper examination. The six-member select committee, formed by the Speaker, was chaired by state labour minister Satyanand Bhokta. Among the changes made in the original Bill include adding the words “private sector” in the amended bill, changing its name to “The Jharkhand State Employment of Local Candidates in Private Sector Bill, 2021”. The new amendments also increased the salary bracket from ₹30,000 to ₹40,000, and added a new clause that brought public sector undertakings under the purview of this law.Once notified, the Act will make Jharkhand the third state in the country, after Andhra Pradesh and Haryana, to have passed a law reserving jobs for locals in the private sector. “With submission of the report, the amended bill will now be notified as an Act. The government will form the related rules and regulations to implement it. This is a landmark law as people, especially those who are displaced for setting up industry, are often forced to protest and hit the streets for jobs would now have a legal backing. Otherwise now they are often threatened with cases for raising their voice. With increasing privatisation and the Centre pushing for NMP (national monetisation pipeline), this law would prove to be boon for the locals,” said CPI (ML) legislator Binod Singh, one of the members of the select committee.BJP legislator and former health minister Ramchandra Chandrvanshi, who was also a member of the select committee, said they cleared the Bill because it was in the interest of the state.While the new law does not fix quota for any vulnerable groups, including displaced or social groups, as done in government jobs as part affirmative action, the amended bill adds a new clause saying that attention will be given for their representation. “During the process of employment of the local candidates, attention will be given to the representation of the displaced due to the establishment of the concerned institution, local candidates of the concerned district and all classes of the society,” said sub-clause (ii) of Section 4 of the new law.The amended bill also expanded the monitoring committee for implementation and addressing complaints. Now the deputy commissioner in each district will chair the committee with local MLAs, and employment and labour department officers as members of the committees. Earlier, only the deputy commissioner was given the sole right to settle disputes. Andhra Pradesh had become the first state in 2019 to pass a Bill imposing 75% quota for locals in private industrial jobs. In June this year, Haryana passed a law , reserving 75% quota for local people in private sector jobs with monthly salary less than ₹50,000.“This bill aims at checking the migration of work force from the state. If people get jobs here, no one would want to go out for menial jobs. Reserving jobs for locals also helps in checking people who arrive from other states and eventually settle here,” principal general secretary of ruling Jharkhand Mukti Morcha Supriyo Bhattacharya said. Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries president Praveen Chhabra said the industry won’t find it difficult to implement the new law as majority of the work force in the lower rung consist of locals.“Majority of the unskilled and semi skilled labours in majority of the industrial units here are anyway locals. So it shouldn’t be a problem. As far as the skilled workforce is concerned as the salary bracket is being increased, finding such hands locally won’t be a problem if the government parallelly runs skill development programmes in association with the industry,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/select-committee-of-jharkhand-assembly-clears-75-quota-in-private-jobs-for-locals-101631039217299.html
08-09-2021||India||Supreme Court gives bail to 97 convicts who served 20 yrs in Uttar Pradesh jails||The Supreme Court has ordered 97 prisoners languishing for over 20 years across different jails in Uttar Pradesh to be released on bail after it was noted that the convicts would have been entitled to premature release under the state’s policy for prisoners who have served 20 years of their sentence.The order was passed by a bench of justices Indira Banerjee and JK Maheshwari on two petitions filed by a set of 66 convicts in one petition and 31 convicts in another.Representing their case, advocate Rishi Malhotra told the court that the case of the petitioners highlighted a “shocking and sorry state of affairs” in Uttar Pradesh where the prisoners were still in prison despite being entitled to premature release.The Supreme Court also issued notice to the Uttar Pradesh government to ascertain on record the entitlement of convicts for premature release as per the policy of August 1, 2018.The bench also granted bail to the 97 convicts, saying, “Since the petitioners have been in jail for over 20 years, they shall be released on ad interim bail subject to the terms and conditions to be imposed by the trial court to its satisfaction.”The two petitions raised a question of law on the ground that the UP government, on July 28, amended its policy of August 1, 2018 on premature release and introduced a condition that only those convicts who have attained the age of 60 years or more would be entitled under the 2018 policy.Malhotra said, “It is a settled law that it is the policy which was in existence at the time of conviction which would be applicable and not the policy which is applicable at the time of consideration for premature release of a convict.”He urged the Supreme Court to determine whether the state government could defeat the statutory right of these 97 petitioners who became entitled to release as per the August 2018 policy after serving 20 years.He underlined that the change in policy by the Uttar Pradesh government came after the Supreme Court, on May 4 this year, ordered the release of about 32 convicts lodged in Uttar Pradesh’s jails. When the state failed to act on the direction, a contempt petition was filed, following which all the 32 convicts, who had undergone over 20 years of incarceration, were released.On August 25, another bench of the Supreme Court, while considering the case of 18 convicts in UP jails whose appeals were not heard for years together, noted that there are nearly 7,214 convicts across various jails in the state who have undergone more than 10 years in jail and are awaiting a decision on their criminal appeals.The Supreme Court further noted that an “astronomical” figure of 1.83 lakh criminal appeals are pending decision with the Allahabad high court and Lucknow bench and sought a response from the high court to remedy this situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-gives-bail-to-97-convicts-who-served-20-yrs-in-uttar-pradesh-jails-101631038616875.html
08-09-2021||India||PM Modi launches key education initiatives for ‘education revolution’||From educational tools for the differently abled to an assessment framework for schools to a new teacher’s training programme, Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched several important educational initiatives which he said were aimed at ushering an “education revolution” in the country and placing India’s educational system on the “global map”.Addressing the inaugural session of an educational conclave organised by the union education ministry under its ongoing “Shikshak Parv” celebration, the PM said “we have to constantly redefine and redesign our teaching-learning process in order to make our education sector world-class; in this rapidly changing era, our teachers also have to learn about new systems and techniques rapidly.”The PM also announced the launch of Vidyanjali 2.0, a portal that will facilitate donations, contributions from Corporate Social Responsibility funds, and volunteering, all aimed at developing and improving schools. “Vidyanjali 2.0 is like a platform for the country’s resolution of ‘Sabka Prayas’ with ‘Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas’. In this society, our private sector has to come forward and contribute to increasing the quality of education in government schools,” Modi said. The PM recently added a fourth element to his government’s mission statement, “with everyone, for everyone’s progress, and building trust in everyone” -- “with everyone’s efforts”. Among the initiatives launched by the PM were the Indian Sign Language Dictionary (audio and text embedded sign language video for the hearing impaired, in conformity with Universal Design of Learning) and talking Books (audio books for the visually impaired). Dr Satendra Singh, a disability right activist, said the dictionary will help to have a uniform sign language in the country. “Internationally, several countries have their own sign languages. For instance, the United States and the United Kingdom have their own sign languages. But within India, due to the existing geographical variations, we see different variations of sign languages in different regions. It becomes very difficult to have a uniform sign language to use in education. This dictionary will address the issue. As far as talking books are concerned, there are several softwares and resources already available like that for people with visual disability,” he said. The PM also announced the launch of the School Quality Assurance and Assessment Framework of CBSE to provide global parameters of attainment as standards in schools affiliated to it. According to the ministry, it’s being “operationised” now.Noting that “inclusivity” and “equitability” in education is must for any country to progress, the PM said, “The National Digital Education Architecture, N-DEAR is likely to play a major role in eradicating inequality in education and its modernization. N-DEAR will act as a ‘super-connect’ between various academic activities in the same way the UPI interface revolutionized the banking sector.” The government, in Union budget 2021-22 announced the setting up N-DEAR to strengthen the country’s digital infrastructure for education.Asserting that the initiatives launched are not just policy-based but also participation-based, the prime minister said, “If we are in the midst of a transformation period, fortunately, we also have a modern and futuristic new National Education Policy (NEP) 2020. These transformations in the education sector are not just policy-based but also participation-based”Speaking on the occasion, Union Minister for education and skill development Dharmendra Pradhan said, “Shikshak Parv will encourage innovative practices to ensure not only spread of education at all levels but also to improve quality, institutionalise inclusive practices and enhance sustainability in the schools.”The ‘shikshak parv’ is being observed between September 5 and September 17 to recognise the contributions of teachers. Between September 8 and September 17, the ministry will conduct webinars on themes including technology in education, nurturing inclusive classrooms, foundation literacy and numeracy, and other practices and initiatives which can be adopted by the schools across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-launches-key-education-initiatives-for-education-revolution-101631038315626.html
08-09-2021||India||Bengal govt challenges HC order on Suvendu in his security guard’s death case||The West Bengal government on Tuesday moved the division bench of Calcutta high court against the order of a single-judge bench, which stayed a probe by the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) into the death of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Suvendu Adhikari’s security guard in 2018. Adhikari, who is the leader of opposition in the West Bengal Legislative Assembly, did not appear before the investigating agency in connection with the case on Monday. On Tuesday, the matter was mentioned by a state lawyer before a division bench presided over by justice Subrata Talukdar with regard to filing an appeal against the single bench order. The state’s appeal is likely to be taken up for hearing on Wednesday. “I was surprised to see the way the high court provided a shield to Adhikari. Police filed a case on the basis of a complaint lodged by the victim’s wife and were probing the death of his bodyguard. The court gave the person (Adhikari) a shield and said he can’t be arrested. Then what was the need of a police case? We have several questions against the high court order. This case has added to our questions. We would carry on our campaign against this without disrespecting the court,” Trinamool Congress MP Saugata Roy said. Reacting to the state’s move, state BJP chief Dilip Ghosh said: “The state has moved the Supreme Court against the high court order on post poll violence. In most cases, the state has suffered a face loss in the court. It is being proved in the court that the state is not abiding by the law. The people who voted the party to power becomes doubtful in such cases as to whether they have voted the right party to power.” In July, the CID initiated a fresh probe into the death of Adhikari’s security guard who reportedly died by suicide in 2018, officials familiar with the matter said. The victim’s wife lodged a complaint on July 10, demanding a fresh investigation into the case. Adhikari was with the Trinamool Congress at the time; he defected to the Bharatiya Janata Party in late 2020; and defeated chief minister Mamata Banerjee from his constituency Nandigram. On Monday, the single bench of Justice Rajasekhar Mantha stayed proceedings against Adhikari in connection with the case lodged in Contai, in Purba Medinipur district.The court also stayed proceedings against him in a case of an alleged political clash in Nandigram and a case of snatching lodged in Nandigram and Panskura police stations, respectively, in the district. The court, however, allowed investigation against the BJP leader in an alleged job scam case registered with Maniktala police station in Kolkata and in another case where he is accused of threatening the police at Tamluk. It also directed that no coercive action (read: arrest) can be taken against the BJP leader in connection with these.Adhikari is not a named accused in the cases filed in Contai and Maniktala police stations.The order was passed by the high court in Adhikari’s petition seeking the court’s intervention in criminal proceedings filed against him by the police or an order transferring investigation of the cases to CBI.The TMC and the BJP fought a high-intensity election, which the former won in a landslide. Since then, the TMC has accused the BJP of using central agencies such as CBI to target it; the BJP has accused the TMC of targeting its workers and supporters after the election results were announced. While the CBI is investigating some of the cases of post-poll violence in a court monitored probe, the Enforcement Directorate is investigating the role of TMC leader Abhishek Banerjee, who is also Mamata Banerjee’s nephew, in a case involving illegal coal mining. Meanwhile, a clutch of cases has also been registered against Adhikari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-govt-challenges-hc-order-on-suvendu-in-his-security-guard-s-death-case-101631037715442.html
08-09-2021||India||Kolkata teacher, son found murdered in flat; six detained: Police||A 45-year-old school teacher and her 13-year-old son were found dead with their throats slit, in their flat at Parnasree in southwest Kolkata on Monday night, police said. The woman’s husband and his son’s tutor are among those being interrogated in the case, they added. According to news agency PTI, at least six persons have been detained in connection with the case.The bodies were discovered by the woman’s husband, Tapan, when he returned home from work, police said, adding that the role of more than one person was suspected behind the crime. “The two bodies were found with their throats slits in adjacent rooms. The bodies have been sent for post mortem and an investigation is underway. A few people have also been questioned,” an officer from the detective department of Kolkata Police said on condition of anonymity. Tapan, who works in a private bank, told police the matter came to light when he came home and found all the lights switched off. He said he had also called Susmita before reaching home but did not get a response. “I called my wife before reaching home but her mobile phone was switched off. After returning from the office, I could see from the road that the lights were switched off in our flat. I knocked but no one responded. I eventually broke open the door and found them in a pool of blood,” Tapan told reporters. Police said Tomojit’s tutor had visited the flat at around 5 pm but returned when no one responded to his knocks. Tomojit, a student of Class 8, was found in his uniform, leading police to believe that he was attending classes online at the time of the incident. Neighbours told police that they did not hear any screams or see anything suspicious near the flat. While the woman’s mobile phone was missing from the flat, blood stains were found in the washroom. “We are probing all angles. Sniffer dogs have been deployed. An investigation is going on,” a senior officer involved with the probe said, preferring anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kolkata-teacher-son-found-murdered-in-flat-six-detained-police-101631037356597.html
08-09-2021||India||Former cop Pradeep Sharma was paid cash to kill Mansukh Hiran: CBI||Encounter specialist Pradeep Sharma was assigned the task of killing Thane trader Mansukh Hiran, owner of the explosives-laden SUV found abandoned near the South Mumbai residence of billionaire Mukesh Ambani, the charge sheet filed by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on September 3 said. It added that he was paid a “huge amount of cash” for the killing by the prime conspirator in the case, another policeman Sachin Vaze, and that he got the car accessories shop owner killed through his accomplice Santosh Shelar. The charge-sheet revealed that on March 2, two days before 48-year-old Hiran was done to death, Vaze ensured his presence at a meeting, also attended by another policeman Sunil Mane and Sharma, so that the two policemen knew how he looked. “The task was assigned to Pradeep Sharma (A-10),” states the charge-sheet.”Pursuant to the conspiracy, accused Pradeep Sharma (A-10) contacted, accused Santosh Shelar (A-6) and enquired if he could carry out the murder in lieu of monetary consideration,” it stated, adding, that “accused Santosh Shelar (A-6) accepted the task.”Vaze and Mane have both been dismissed from service. Sharma resigned in 2019 to contest the state elections as a Shiv Sena candidate (he lost). All three have been arrested. The March 2 meeting came a week after a green Mahindra Scorpio was found abandoned near billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s residence, Antilia, on Carmichael Road in South Mumbai, with 20 lose gelatin sticks and a threatening note addressed to the Ambanis. Investigators at the National Investigation Agency believe this may have been an attempt by Vaze to burnish his credentials as an investigator (by solving a case he had himself orchestrated), although there is no evidence of this. Nor is there evidence to support another prevalent theory in Mumbai -- that this was plain old extortion.  It emerged that the car was in Hiran’s possession, and had been borrowed by Vaze, but reportedly returned a few weeks before the incident. Soon questions began to be aired about Vaze’s involvement in the case, and whether he had himself planted the explosives. Then, Hiran went missing, and then turned up dead. According to the charge sheet, on March 3, Vaze met Sharma and handed over huge amount of cash in a bag. “Investigation has further established that, on 03.03.2021 accused Sachin Vaze (A-1) met accused Pradeep Sharma (A-10) at PS (Pradeep Sharma) Foundation office, Andheri (East), Mumbai during eventing time and handed over a rexine bag containing large amount of cash (bundles of Indian currency note of Rs.500 denomination).”It added that after receiving the cash, Sharma called Shelar and obtained details of the vehicle, a red Tavera, that he intended to use to kill Hiran and dispose the body, and passed on the same to Vaze.The charge-sheet further added that, as agreed between Vaze and Mane, on the evening of March 4, Mane called Hiran, using a SIM provided by cricket bookie Naresh Got on the basis of bogus documents, pretending to be a police officer from Malad.Vaze, according to the charge-sheet, had already convinced Hiran to escape to a “safe place” to evade arrest and interrogation by various agencies, especially the Maharashtra ATS that was then investigating the matter. Hiran readily agreed to meet the officer near Suraj Water Park along Ghodbunder Road in Thane.Mane picked up Hiran and handed him over to Shelar, who was waiting in the Tavera along with three others, Manish Soni, Satish Mothukari and Anand Jadhav.The quartet smothered Hiran in the vehicle and dumped the body in a creek . The next day, the body was found in the creek. NIA subsequently took over investigations in both the cases and revealed that it was all handy work of Vaze, out of desperation to “restore his lost glory.”NIA later also arrested encounter specialist Sharma and four others, Shelar, Jadhav, Soni, and Mothukari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-encounter-specialist-pradeep-sharma-was-paid-cash-to-kill-mansukh-hiran-cbi-101631037002093.html
08-09-2021||India||District-wise estimates of Covid-19 vaccination coverage in India||India has administered at least one dose of a Covid-19 vaccine to 539.6 million people by September 7. In absolute terms, this makes India the largest country in terms of number of people who have received at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine (comparable data from China is not available). But absolute numbers do not matter; what matters is the share of population which has been vaccinated. For example, Israel has completely vaccinated 5.5 million people. But relative to its population, this is 62.7%, compared to just 17.7% for India (the proportion of fully vaccinated adults).With most decisions involving non-pharmaceutical interventions to prevent the spread of the pandemic, such as lockdowns, being taken at the local level (not just in states but even districts), it will help to know the share of the adult population that has been vaccinated across districts.HT has estimated the share of vaccinated population at the national and state level by using the population projections for March 2021 by the National Commission on Population. No such projections exist at the district-level. So far, this has been an important handicap in assessing vaccination coverage at the district-level.To be sure, the government is likely to have population data at the granular level, but this is not available in the public domain.In a two-part series, HT uses a reasonable proxy for population estimates for adults in India by district. The first part will describe how we arrived at these population estimates and summarise the status of inter-district inequality in vaccinations. The second part will track the trajectory of inter-district inequality in vaccinations over time.The next-best estimation for district-wise populationCovid-19 vaccines are only being administered to people who are 18 or above. This means the database of voters could be a good proxy (in India, the voting age is 18 years).HT has used the number of electors at the district level in the 2019 general elections available from the Election Commission of India. Data compiled by the Trivedi Centre for Political Data (TCPD) maps assembly constituencies to districts. This can be used to calculate the number of electors in these districts. There are a total 662 districts in the TCPD database. HT has mapped the 754 districts given in the government’s Co-WIN dashboard back to these 662 districts.Because, these are 2019 numbers, adult population for a district thus calculated is likely to be an underestimate by 3.74% of the projected adult population for 2021 at the national level. To be sure, there are differences across states. For instance, the number of electors is more than the projected adult population in Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka, Odisha, and Tamil Nadu. In all other states, the number of electors is lower than projected adult population. However, the estimation error is largely the same across states. Median deviation across the 23 states and UTs (Union Territories) for which projections are available is -4.05%.Best and worst performing districtsOn the basis of the data on electors, the share of adults who had received at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine by September 5 was 57.8%. The share of fully vaccinated adults was 17.6%. As expected, these figures are close to but slightly higher than the estimates – 55.7% with one dose and 17% with both doses – generated using the projected population by the National Commission on Population.Population projections using electoral roll data shows that top five fully vaccinated districts are Kolkata (76.1%), Diu (72%), Leh in Ladakh (71.7%), Gurgaon (64.3%), and Papum Pare in Arunachal Pradesh (59.6%).The five least fully vaccinated districts are all in Uttar Pradesh: Kanpur Rural (2.97%), Budaun (4.35%), Kannauj (4.57%), Hardoi (4.67%), and Chitrakoot (4.75%).The best five districts by share of adults given at least one dose are Diu (210%), Kolkata (184%), Solan in Himachal (170%), Gurgaon (150%), and East Sikkim (149%). To be sure, these numbers could be bigger than 100% not only because the adult population might have increased, but also because people from neighbouring districts might be getting their shots here.The bottom five districts on this metric are Mahbubnagar in Telangana (18.76%), Kanpur Rural in Uttar Pradesh (20.02%), Narayanpur in Chhattisgarh (20.14%), Senapati in Manipur (23.51%)and Kiphire in Nagaland (24.36%).But best and worst districts do not capture a state’s overall performanceThe performance of the best and worst districts is not an indicator of the performance of their respective states. Kolkata, for instance, has delivered 4.2 times the number of total doses per 100 adults as West Bengal and Gurgaon 2.3 times than Haryana. Kiphire in Nagaland, has delivered 0.45 times the number of total doses per 100 adults as the state, Kanpur rural 0.42 times as Uttar Pradesh, and Narayanpur 0.38 times as Chhattisgarh. All these districts are among the top and bottom 10 districts by variation from state-level vaccination figures. Vaccinations in most districts are, however, close to the state-level figures. The ratio of this coverage (district to state) for most (60%) districts is in the 0.8-1.1 range.The rural-urban divide in vaccinationWhether India’s vaccination drive has reached rural areas is an important question. While using the number of electors as a proxy for adult population, HT has used total population figures from 2011 census to classify a district as rural (more than 60% population in rural areas), urban (less than 40% population in rural areas), and mixed (40%-60% population in rural areas).Urban, mixed and rural districts had 14.5%, 13.9%, and 71.6% of the total adult population on the basis of the number of electors. Not all states and Union territories had all three categories of districts. For example, Bihar had only mixed and rural districts, and Goa only urban districts. Up to September 5, the share of adults who had received at least one dose was 75.6% for urban districts, 61.41% for mixed districts and 53.56% for rural districts. The corresponding numbers for full immunisation are 28.01%, 21.36%, and 14.80%.This is the first of a two-part data journalism series on vaccination coverage by districts in India. The second part will look at how district-wise inequality has changed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/districtwise-estimates-of-covid-19-vaccination-coverage-in-india-101631036575437.html
08-09-2021||India||African Cheetahs to be experimentally introduced in India in the next 4-6 months||Cheetahs from Namibia and South Africa are likely to reach too India in the next four to six months, and be reintroduced in Kuno national park in Madhya Pradesh, Union environment ministry officials have confirmed. The move comes 74 years after the last of the big cats was killed in India. The cheetah was declared extinct in the country in 1952.“We are expecting African Cheetahs to arrive in the next 4-6 months. The Kuno national park is being prepared for reintroduction,” said Gaurav Khare, official spokesperson of the environment ministry.In the first phase, 12 to 15 cheetahs are likely to arrive later this year or early in 2022 but over the next five years 40 to 50 are likely to be reintroduced, SP Yadav, member secretary at the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA), which is overseeing the project, said“Experts from South Africa visited Kuno and found the habitat suitable for reintroduction. In fact, they said it is better than some of their habitats in South Africa. Reintroduction will take months. First, we need to see if they (the cheetahs) are able to kill prey in a very large enclosure,” explained Yadav.Chital, chinkara and black bucks may be suitable prey for cheetahs in India, according to experts. Yadav said cheetahs don’t necessarily require grasslands, and that the forests of central India and parts of Rajasthan are best suited for them.“Our understanding is that their habitat is varied. The last time cheetahs were seen in the wild was in the Sal forests of Chhattisgarh,” said Yadav adding that “each Cheetah requires around 10 to 20 sq km area. They are small cats so they need a far smaller area than say a tiger. There is no record of a Cheetah attacking humans. Their prey base is mostly small ungulates (hooved mammals).”The International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) lists the Asiatic Cheetah to be critically endangered. With a historic distribution across southwest and central Asia to India, the Asiatic Cheetah is now only known to occur with certainty in Iran. The population is very small, the IUCN states. Because of extremely low numbers of the Asiatic Cheetah, African Cheetahs, another subspecies are being considered for reintroduction in India but the experiment has been criticised by some scientists.“Firstly, this is not reintroduction but introduction of African Cheetahs to India. They belong to the African continent. The Kuno Palpur sanctuary hasn’t been prepared for cheetahs which need large open areas and small catchable prey. The Chinkara group size in Kuno is very small and Chital group size is also shrinking due to loss of open grasslands. We have to be very cautious of zoonotic diseases also during this experiment. It would have been better if suitable habitat was developed before bringing them,” said Fayaz Khudsar, a wildlife biologist who conducted field research in Kuno in the late 90’s.The SC on January 28, 2020 approved the introduction of the African Cheetah in India on an experimental basis in a carefully chosen habitat which will be closely monitored to assess if the cat can adapt to Indian conditions. NTCA approached SC regarding introduction of African Cheetahs to India.The Wildlife Institute of India in collaboration with the Wildlife Trust of India assessed potential sites and as long back as 2010 recommended Kuno Palpur Wildlife Sanctuary in Madhya Pradesh; Shahgarh landscape in Jaisalmer (Rajasthan); and Nauradehi Wildlife Sanctuary in Madhya Pradesh for introduction of the African Cheetah.In 2013, SC imposed a stay on introduction of African Cheetahs to Kuno because it was an ideal habitat for the Asiatic Lion.The Asiatic cheetah was driven to extinction in India and the genetically very similar African cheetah which numbers about 12000 wild individuals, was favoured as seed stock for reintroduction. The International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN) whose opinion was sought by the Government in this regard, approved this proposal according to a note by Wildlife Trust of India.“There are several sites that are being surveyed for the Cheetah including Nauradehi Wildlife Sanctuary in Madhya Pradesh, Mukundara in Rajasthan, desert grasslands of Rajasthan or in Gujarat if you reclaim the grasslands. The Cheetah habitat in India historically is from Jammu to Tamil Nadu, very widespread and they were found in any habitat dry forests, grasslands, scrub forest etc. So, they will survive quite happily. In India they survived with lions, leopards and tigers. As long as there is enough food and there is protection they will regenerate on their own. Cheetahs in Namibia are being killed by farmers why not reintroduce them into their former habitat?” asked Divyabhanusinh Chavda, heads the Advisory Board at World Wide Fund For Nature, India. He is also a Cheetah expert.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/african-cheetahs-to-be-experimentally-introduced-in-india-in-the-next-4-6-months-101631015333563.html
08-09-2021||India||J&K L-G launches portal to redress migrants’ property grievances||The lieutenant governor (L-G) of Jammu and Kashmir Manoj Sinha on Tuesday launched an online portal (http://jkmigrantrelief.nic.in) for the registration of complaints by Kashmiri migrants about distress sale, encroachment or other grievances regarding property in the union territory. According to the government, applications filed on the portal will be addressed in a fixed timeframe under the Public Services Guarantee Act, 2011 by the revenue authorities. The district magistrates, who are the competent authority, will have to undertake surveys or field verification of properties and update all registers within a period of 15 days and submit a compliance report to the divisional commissioner.In 1997, the government of Jammu and Kashmir had brought in the J&K Migrant Immovable Property (Preservation, Protection and Restraint on Distress Sale) Act, 1997 for preventing distress sale of properties belonging to migrants who were forced to leave in the aftermath of terrorism in the Valley. The services through the portal will be applicable to all migrants irrespective of their faith. Also Read | ‘Placed under house arrest’, tweets Mehbooba MuftiAs per government data, 44,167 families are officially registered as Kashmiri migrant families. Those who are not registered as Kashmiri migrants but have fled from the Valley are also eligible to register their complaints on the portal, said a government official.“Following complaints that despite the provisions of the Act, little has been done by way of restoring rights or preventing distress sales, the government has decided to launch the portal to allow all those who migrated to lodge their complaints and these will be addressed in a time bound manner,” said the official.Any violation of the Act will be taken cognizance of by the district magistrates with timely action for eviction, custody and restoration of such properties, the official said.Agnishekhar, a writer, poet and a member of Panun Kashmir, a group of Kashmiri Pandits who seek a separate homeland, said the launch of the portal is laudable. “We have been demanding declaring the sale of all properties under distress and duress as null and void. This forceable sale of properties was also a form of genocide and it was the inability of the government that prevented it,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jk-l-g-launches-portal-to-redress-migrants-property-grievances-101631004293012.html
