09-09-2021||India||Centre has ordered 66 crore doses of Covishield from Serum Institute of India, to be supplied by December: Sources||Centre has placed a purchase order for 66 crore doses of Covishield vaccine from the Serum Institute of India (SII), sources told news agency PTI on Thursday. The doses will have to be supplied by December of this year, the report said.SII has been scaling up production by enhancing the manufacturing capacity of Covishield to more than 20 crore doses per month. Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, on the other hand, has not been able to start on the production of the 28.50 crore doses of Covaxin, the order for which was put in July by the Union government, reported PTI.The announcement comes days after Prakash Kumar Singh, director, government and regulatory affairs at Pune-based SII, wrote to NITI Aayog Member (health) Dr V K Paul and Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, stating that the manufacturer has supplied 60 crore of the 65 crore doses administered in the country so far.Also Read: Allow Covishield 2nd dose after 4 weeks: Kerala HC to Centre"We at Serum Institute of India (SII), under the able leadership of our CEO, Adar C Poonawalla, feel proud to be part of this world's largest COVID-19 vaccination drive and pleased to share that till date the SII alone has supplied more than 60 crore doses of Covishield to Government of India, state governments and private hospitals,” Singh said in his written communication in late August."This has only been possible because of visionary leadership of our prime minister, continuous guidance provided by your kind self from time to time, valuable support of Team GoI and farsighted vision of our CEO," he added.SII has also supplied 12 crore doses of Covishield in the month of August, the company said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-has-ordered-66-crore-doses-of-covishield-from-serum-institute-of-india-to-be-supplied-by-december-sources-101631208376509.html
09-09-2021||India||Unemployment rate in India rose to 10.3% in Oct-Dec 2020: Survey||India's unemployment rate for all ages increased to 10.3 per cent in October-December 2020, as compared to 7.9 per cent in the corresponding months a year ago, according to a periodic labour force survey by the National Statistical Office (NSO). Labour force participation rate for all ages in urban areas also saw an increase, as per the survey. It was at 7.3 per cent in the October-December quarter of 2020, up from 37.2 per cent in the same period a year ago.The unemployment rate is defined as the percentage of unemployed persons in the labour force, while labour force refers to the part of the population which supplies or offers to supply labour for pursuing economic activities for the production of goods and services and therefore, includes both employed and unemployed persons.The periodic labour force survey was launched in 2017. The quarterly survey gives an insight into labour force indicators namely unemployment rate, worker population ratio, labour force participation rate, distribution of workers by broad status in employment and industry of work in current weekly status etc.Eight bulletins of the periodic survey corresponding to quarters ended December 2018, March 2019, June 2019, September 2019, December 2019, March 2020, June 2020 and September 2020 have already been released. The latest bulletin is the ninth in the series.The rise in the unemployment rate comes in the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic, which suspended commercial activities for a long time, leading to people losing jobs countrywide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unemployment-rate-in-india-rose-to-10-3-in-oct-dec-2020-survey-101631208164777.html
09-09-2021||India||Tamil Nadu extends ban on festivals till Oct 31, says events could become Covid ‘super spreaders’||The Tamil Nadu government on Thursday extended its ban on religious gatherings in the state until October 31, as part of its efforts to prevent a third wave of Covid-19 infections in the state. Chief minister MK Stalin announced the extension of the ban, which has been imposed on top of the existing Covid-19 restrictions in the state until September 15."கொரோனா நோய்த் தடுப்பு நடவடிக்கைகளை தீவிரப்படுத்த, திருவிழாக்கள், அரசியல், சமூகம் மற்றும் மதம் சார்ந்த கூட்டங்களுக்கு ஏற்கனவே விதிக்கப்பட்டுள்ள தடை அக்டோபர் 31-வரை நீட்டிப்பு" என மாண்புமிகு தமிழ்நாடு முதலமைச்சர் @mkstalinஅவர்கள் அறிவித்துள்ளார் pic.twitter.com/F5yDWznXDHIn its order, the TN government expressed concerns that such events (festivals, political, social and cultural gatherings) could become potential super spreaders of Covid-19. The high caseload in neighbouring Kerala and the advent of Nipah virus have also been factored in making the decision, the order showed. The state referred to a report by the Union ministry of home affairs which had warned that a third wave is highly possible during the months of September and October.The order assumes significance as the Ganesh Chaturthi festival is set to be celebrated on September 10. While the DMK government has banned public installation of idols and celebrations across the state, K Annamalai, leader of the state’s BJP unit, has said that the party would celebrate the festival by placing deities outside the gates of 100,000 homes. He also called upon the people to do the same.விநாயகர் சதுர்த்தி நல்வாழ்த்துக்கள்!- மாநிலத் தலைவர் K.அண்ணாமலை அறிக்கை@annamalai_k #VinayagarChathurthi2021 pic.twitter.com/Ub1qrxlIi4However, for celebrating the birthdays and the death anniversaries of national/state leaders, district heads have been allowed to garland their icons and a maximum of five people from the families of such leaders and five more from the political fraternity have been allowed, conditional to a pre-approved permission by the district administration. No let up would be allowed in following Covid appropriate behaviours such as using masks and maintaining social distance.Also read | Section 144 in Mumbai till September 19, no Ganesh Chaturthi procession allowedPreviously on August 30, the state government had directed the public to celebrate the festival in their homes. It said that processions and public installation of the deities would not be allowed. The festival is usually the occasion for a long procession of many Ganesh-idols that would be taken to be dissolved in water bodies such as ponds and beaches. However, in view of the pandemic, the government had denied permission for any processions and allowed individuals to take the deities from their homes and dissolve them in nearby water bodies. The people were also advised to place them in nearby temples, after which the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HRCE) department in the state would arrange for dissolving them methodically.In the state capital Chennai, the shore has been completely locked down for immersing the idols, especially in the stretch between Santhome and Napier Bridge.With reference to the spread of Covid-19 and the recent Nipah virus outbreak in Kerala, the TN government said that surveillance has been bolstered in bordering districts and buses to Kerala have also been suspended.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-extends-ban-on-festivals-till-oct-31-says-events-could-become-covid-super-spreaders-101631205103622.html
09-09-2021||India||Vaccine inequality across districts is high, but it is decreasing||Is there vaccine inequality across districts? This analysis has been constrained by the non-availability of population data by districts. Such numbers are only available in census figures, which are now ten years old. The first part of this two-part data journalism series built alternative estimates of India’s adult population across districts by using the 2019 electoral roll. The second and concluding part will track vaccine inequality as a dynamic variable across districts and try and understand how it has evolved over the course of India’s Covid-19 vaccination programme. It will also try and chart out the possible trajectory going forward. Inequality was increasing across districts until June, but it is coming down now The best way to measure inter-district vaccine inequality is by looking at the gap between districts which have performed well and those which have not. Individual comparisons, such as the gap between best and worst districts, can be misleading here. This is because such districts can be outliers. HT has looked the share of vaccinated population by classifying all districts into quartiles (from bottom 25% to top 25%) for each day of vaccination. The comparison shows that inter-district vaccine inequality in terms of share of vaccinated population with at least one dose has almost continuously decreased. This comparison starts from April 1, which is when India opened vaccination for everyone over the age of 45. First dose coverage in the bottom three quartiles has almost consistently caught up with the coverage in the top 25% districts. The coverage in bottom 25% districts was 26% of the coverage in top 25% districts on April 1 and is now 43% of the coverage in the top 25% districts. Chart 1: First dose vaccination coverage quartile-wise The inequality in second doses has decreased less consistently than for first doses. On April 1, coverage in the bottom three quartiles was at 25.76%, 40.53%, and 59.82% of the coverage in the top quartile. This gap increased for the bottom three quartiles at different rates initially. From July 2, inter-district vaccine inequality started coming down for all three bottom quartiles for the population which has received both doses as well. Chart 2: Second dose vaccination coverage quartile-wise Weight for laggard districts in overall population is higherWhile declining inequality is a welcome development, it is still quite high. What makes the challenge even more important is the fact that laggard districts have a bigger share of population than their top-performing counterparts. For example, the bottom 25% of districts (in terms of first dose coverage as on September 5) had a share of 32.5% of the total adult population. This number was just 17.3% in the top 25% of districts. The same trend holds as far as median vaccination coverage is concerned. Districts below the median mark have 59% of the country’s adult population. See Chart 3: Weight of population in each quartile by vaccination coverage Have districts pulled up or slipped down drastically? Have districts performing badly in the initial phase of vaccination shown a drastic improvement and vice versa? This is a possibility, theoretically speaking. Our analysis shows that this not very likely. Of the 157 districts which have been in the bottom quartile (by share of population which has received at least one dose), only two (Morigaon and Lakhimpur in Assam) have managed to make it to the top quartile so far. The reverse also holds true. Only two districts (Janjgir Champa and Koriya in Chhattisgarh) among the 157 districts which have been in the top quartile have fallen to the bottom quartile. In coverage of first doses, 336 of 628 districts were in the same quartile on September 5 as they were on April 30 (a month after vaccination was opened up for all adults). Among the rest of the districts, 232 have jumped only one quartile (112 going up; and 120 going down). Only 56 districts have jumped two quartiles (30 up, 26 down). Projecting inter-district inequality in vaccinations, going forwardHow will vaccine inequality look like if the current pace of vaccination in districts holds? Exact projections for the first two charts shown above would have been possible if the breakup of first doses by manufacturer was available. This is because the two major vaccines, Covidshield and Covaxin, have different waiting periods between the first and second dose. However, the number of total doses administered per 100 adults can tell us about the pace of vaccine administration in different districts. Here too the gap is decreasing currently. The bottom quartile has (adjusted for population) administered doses amounting to 40.3% of top quartile. If the pace in all districts remains the same as the pace in past 15 days, this will increase to 42.3% in the next 15 days and to 43.1% in the next 30 days. This is the concluding part of a two-part data journalism series on district-wise vaccination coverage in India. The first part built district-wise adult population estimates and used them to look at district-wise and rural-urban inequality in vaccinations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccine-inequality-across-districts-is-high-but-it-is-decreasing-101631204574281.html
09-09-2021||India||DRDO to develop new early warning jets for IAF under ₹11,000 crore project||India’s Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) on Wednesday cleared a Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) proposal to develop new airborne early warning and control (AEW&C) aircraft for the Indian Air Force using Airbus jets bought from Air India, people familiar with the developments said on Thursday. The project is estimated to be worth around ₹11,000 crore, said one of the officials cited above. It was cleared along with the much-delayed purchase of 56 C-295 medium transport aircraft to replace the IAF’s ageing fleet of Avro-748 planes. The C-295 project is estimated to be worth ₹22,000 crore. The IAF inducted its first indigenously developed AEW&C system, mounted on a Brazilian Embraer-145 jet, in February 2017, beefing up its capability to detect enemy aircraft and missiles. The Netra AEW&C system was developed by the DRDO and has a range of around 200 km. The new AEW&C system, most likely to be mounted on the Airbus A321 aircraft, is expected to be more advanced than the Netra system, the official said. Currently, two Netra systems are in service. The IAF also operates three Israeli Phalcon airborne warning and control system (AWACS) mounted on Russian IL-76 heavy-lift planes. The system has a range of 400 km. The IAF needs more such systems to cover the eastern and western sectors during offensive operations, experts have said. The approval for the new AEW&C jets comes at a time when government has sharpened its focus on promoting self-reliance in the defence manufacturing sector and positioning itself as an exporter of military hardware. Airbus Defence and Space and Tata Advanced Systems Limited (TASL) will jointly execute the C-295 project to equip the air force with the new transport aircraft under the Make-in-India initiative in the aerospace sector. Airbus will supply the first 16 aircraft in flyaway condition while the remaining 40 will be assembled in India by TASL. In the last one year, the government has imposed a ban on the import of 209 defence items that will be implemented progressively from 2021 to 2025. AEW&C systems are covered under that ban. From raising foreign direct investment (FDI) in defence manufacturing to creating a separate budget for buying locally made military hardware and notifying two lists of weapons/equipment that cannot be imported, the government has taken a raft of measures to boost self-reliance in the defence sector over the last two years. Other than AEW&C systems, the 209 weapons and systems that cannot be imported include artillery guns, missile destroyers, ship-borne cruise missiles, light combat aircraft, long-range land attack cruise missiles, basic trainer aircraft, specified types of helicopters and next-generation corvettes. India has set aside ₹70,221 crore this year for domestic defence procurement, accounting for 63% of the military’s capital budget. Last year, the ministry spent over ₹51,000 crore, or 58% of the capital budget, on domestic purchases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drdo-to-develop-new-early-warning-jets-for-iaf-under-rs-11000-crore-project-101631202114793.html
09-09-2021||India||Initial findings from Biotech's nasal vaccine show 'promising results': Govt||The findings of the phase one trial of Bharat Biotech International Limited’s nasal vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) have been promising, the Centre informed on Thursday, adding that it will prevent virus entry into the body. "Rest can be said once we have more findings. We should wait for the results," Dr VK Paul, a member of Niti Aayog, said.After developing India’s first indigenous anti-Covid shot, Covaxin, the Hyderabad-based pharmaceutical company is now developing an intranasal jab for the country. It received regulatory approvals to conduct the second and third phase trials of the intranasal vaccine, BBV154, in August. Bharat Biotech's nasal vaccine clinical trial's principal investigator is Dr Sanjay Rai.The Phase 1 medial trial was conducted on health groups volunteers in the age group of 18-60. In a statement earlier, the ministry of science and technology said the vaccine was "well-tolerated" by the volunteers. The vaccine is being developed with support from the department of biotechnology (DBT) and Biotechnology Industry Research Associate Council (BIRAC).According to Bharat Biotech's website, the nasal route for the vaccine has "excellent potential for vaccination due to the organised immune systems of the nasal mucosa." It will also be easier to administer and will not require trained health care workers. The nasal vaccine will also eliminate needle-associated risks such as injuries and infections. "It is ideally suited for children’s and adults," the company said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/initial-findings-from-biotech-s-nasal-vaccine-show-promising-results-govt-101631200941143.html
09-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: BRICS leaders call for peace in Afghanistan, adopt resolution and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.BRICS leaders adopt resolution, calling for peace in AfghanistanAmid the escalating crisis in Afghanistan, leaders of BRICS (Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa) countries adopted a "New Delhi Declaration" on the war-torn country, calling for refraining from violence and settling the situation by peaceful means. Read More68 primary contacts free of Nipah virus as 7 more samples turn negative: Kerala health minister Veena GeorgeKerala health minister Veena George on Thursday said that seven more samples have tested negative for the Nipah virus, taking the total number of people tested negative so far to 68. Read MoreTaliban may hold oath-taking ceremony on 9/11 anniversary: ReportsTaliban may hold the oath-taking ceremony on September 11, on the 20th anniversary of the 9/11 attacks in the United States, reports have claimed. Read More'Virat, Rohit don't bowl at all, should try to bowl few overs': Kapil Dev feels India need to develop more all-roundersThe legendary former captain Kapil Dev feels even though the current Indian cricket team has plenty of promising talent, the one area they need to strengthen is that of all-rounders. Read MoreThe Matrix Resurrections trailer: Priyanka Chopra sends Keanu Reeves chasing white rabbits, watchThe first trailer for The Matrix Resurrections is out. The fourth film in the Matrix franchise marks the return of Keanu Reeves as Neo. Read MoreWorried about heart problems post Covid-19? Here's what you need to doRecovered from Covid-19 but feel something is not right even after weeks and months of your recovery? Do you often feel exhausted and wonder if your palpitations, dizziness or shortness of breath could be associated with any heart trouble? Read MoreGoogle Pixel 6 series teased with a new Instagram post, YouTube videoWe know the Pixel 6 series is coming, and lots of dates have been tipped for its launch already. However, Google is yet to officially announce launch dates. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-brics-leaders-call-for-peace-in-afghanistan-adopt-resolution-and-all-the-latest-news-101631198931934.html
09-09-2021||India||Ram temple likely to be open to public by 2023, construction as per schedule||The construction work of the Ram temple structure is proceeding as per the schedule and the temple is likely to be open for devotees by 2023, PTI reported quoting a source. The structure will be made using Rajasthan's pink stone, also known as Bansi Paharpur. No steel will be used in the construction, the report said.The temple campus will include a museum, a research centre a gaushala and a yagya shala. Special focus will be on the conservation and development of heritage structures like Kuber Tila and Sita Koop. The entire temple complex has been designed on zero discharge concept and green building features, the report said.As of now, the excavated area is being filled with 'Engineered Fill' in 48 layers to ensure the structural longevity of the temple. The construction will be based on the zero discharge concept and green building features. "About four lakh cubic feet of stone (Bansi Paharpur) will be used in the construction of the temple. No steel will be used in the construction of the temple. It has been decided to use Jodhpur stone for the Parkota (complex) of the temple. The plan to enable devotees to have darshan of Lord Shri Ram by the year 2023 seems within reach," an insider told PTI.The design of the structure is in full compliance with Central Building Research Institute norms. It was developed by the institute only after a computerised simulation for any earthquake track of 2,500 years, the report said.VHP national general secretary Milind Parande earlier said that the foundation of the temple will be completed by the end of this month and the first week of October this year. "The construction of the temple of Lord Ram in Ayodhya is going on ahead of time. The foundation of the temple will be completed by September-end or in the first week of October. Bhagwan Ram Lalla will sit in the 'garbhagriha' by December 2023," he had said.Some members of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Railways have recently inspected the construction of a new railway station in Ayodhya, which is also modelled on the Ram temple.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ram-temple-likely-to-be-open-to-public-by-2023-construction-as-per-schedule-101631200075325.html
09-09-2021||India||BRICS leaders adopt resolution, calling for peace in Afghanistan||Amid the escalating crisis in Afghanistan, leaders of BRICS (Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa) countries adopted a "New Delhi Declaration" on the war-torn country, calling for refraining from violence and settling the situation by peaceful means. The leaders also called for an inclusive intra-Afghan dialogue to ensure stability, civil peace, law and order in Afghanistan. The summit was chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and saw participation from his counterparts -- Vladimir Putin of Russia, Chinese President Xi Jinping and Brazil President Jair Bolsonaro. The meeting was also attended by South African President Cyril Ramaphosa.This comes in the backdrop of the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan after the US and its NATO allies withdrew from the country, leading to the collapse of the government. "The withdrawal of the US forces and its allies from Afghanistan has led to a new crisis in Afghanistan," said the Russian President, while noting, "it is still unclear how this will affect global and regional security."Speaking at the virtual summit, Putin also said, "It is for good reason that our countries have paid special attention to this issue."Advocating for Afghanistan which has been ravaged by the years of war that has killed thousands of locals and plunged the country into a major humanitarian crisis, Putin also said that he wants the "world stay away from their internal affairs and respect their sovereignty". "The citizens of this country have fought for decades and deserve to exercise the right of defining what their state will look like on their own," he noted.Meanwhile, PM Modi in his opening remarks said the BRICS platform has been useful for focussing attention on the priorities of the developing countries. "Today we are an influential voice for emerging economies of the world. This platform has also been useful for focussing attention on the priories of the developing nations as well," he said.The theme for the Summit is 'BRICS@15: Intra-BRICS cooperation for continuity, consolidation and consensus'. The summit this year coincides with the 15th anniversary of the BRICS.The BRICS brings together five of the largest developing countries of the world, representing 41 per cent of the global population, 24 per cent of the global GDP and 16 per cent of the global trade. This was the second time Prime Minister Modi chaired the BRICS summit. Earlier, he had chaired the Goa summit in 2016.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/brics-leaders-adopt-resolution-calling-for-peace-in-afghanistan-101631198584408.html
09-09-2021||India||68 primary contacts free of Nipah virus as 7 more samples turn negative: Kerala health minister Veena George||Kerala health minister Veena George on Thursday said that seven more samples have tested negative for the Nipah virus, taking the total number of people tested negative so far to 68. All contacts have been tested for the infection after they were found to be in close contact with a 12-year-old boy who lost his life to the disease on Sunday last week. The people currently in isolation due to the fear of the disease were at the Kozhikode Medical College in the state.The minister further said that no “unnatural fever or death” were found after a house to house survey in Chathamangalam village in Kozhikode.“7 more samples of people in isolation (for possible cases of Nipah virus) at Kozhikode Medical College turned negative today. A total of 68 samples tested negative. House-to-house survey conducted in Chathamangalam,no unnatural fever or death [were] reported,” news agency ANI quoted the health minister as saying.Also read | What Kerala learnt from third outbreak of Nipah virusEarlier in the day, George confirmed that 15 reports came negative and the total number of people who tested negative for Nipah stood at 61. With seven more new negatives, the total now reached 68. As many as 274 primary contacts of the victim (the 12-year-old boy) have been identified so far, she said, adding that all of them were being observed. The list also included 149 healthcare workers and 47 people from other districts outside Kozhikode. While seven people were found exhibiting mild symptoms of fever, the health conditions of all people under observation was stable, the minister also said.Following the first case on September 5, the area within a three-kilometre radius of the victim’s residence was declared as a containment zone by the state, wherein the house-to-house survey was conducted. George said that the survey did not find any unforeseen illness or deaths and called it good news. However, 89 people with no history of contact with the victim had also shown minor symptoms of fever during the survey. Their samples would be collected for testing and mobile labs would be used for the same.On the Covid-19 front, Kerala saw no respite as 26,200 new infections of the disease were logged on the day while 114 more people died. So far, 4,309,694 people have been infected with the coronavirus and the death toll was recorded at 22,126, a bulletin from the state health department showed. The state currently has 236,345 active cases of the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/68-primary-contacts-free-of-nipah-virus-as-7-more-samples-turn-negative-kerala-health-minister-veena-george-101631198374385.html
09-09-2021||India||IAF inducts Barak 8 air defence system that can hit multiple targets 70km away||NEW DELHI: The Indian Air Force on Thursday inducted a medium range surface-to-air-missile (MRSAM) system capable of knocking out aerial threats such as enemy fighter jets, missiles, helicopters and unmanned aerial vehicles at a range of 70 km. Defence minister Rajnath Singh described the capability as a “game changer” in air defence.India and Israel have jointly developed MRSAM or the Barak 8 air defence system that includes advanced radar, command and control systems, and mobile launchers. The missile is powered by a locally-developed rocket motor and control system for high manoeuvrability in the terminal phase.“With the handing over of the MRSAM system to IAF, we have taken a giant leap towards achieving ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ (self-reliant India). The MRSAM will prove to be a game changer in air defence,” Singh said at the induction ceremony in Jaisalmer.The system has been developed jointly by the Israel Aerospace Industries and the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO). Other firms involved in the project include Israeli firm Rafael, Bharat Electronics Limited, Bharat Dynamics Limited and Larsen & Toubro.DRDO chief G Satheesh Reddy handed over the first firing unit of the system to IAF chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria in Singh’s presence.“The system is capable of hitting multiple targets simultaneously up to a range of 70 km, even in bad weather. Its success in a string of stringent tests is a proof of its reliability,” the defence minister said.A naval version of the MRSAM is already deployed on a few Indian warships to boost their anti-air warfare capabilities. The army too has placed orders for the MRSAM but it has not yet inducted the system. India and Israel have inked separate deals worth around $3 billion over the last four years for advanced surface-to-air missile systems for the three services.“The MRSAM system was long-awaited. Its induction now will boost the IAF’s air defence capability significantly. The impending arrival of the S-400 missile defence systems from Russia will make those capabilities even more formidable,” said Air Vice Marshal Manmohan Bahadur (retd), former additional director general, Centre for Air Power Studies.India is set to soon begin induction of the S-400 Triumf air defence missile systems ordered from Russia in October 2018. New Delhi has placed orders for five such missile systems capable of destroying a variety of aerial threats, including enemy fighter jets and missiles, at a range of 400 km, and expects the first deliveries by the year-end.Singh said MRSAM was one of the best missile systems available globally and the project highlighted the close partnership between Indian and Israel in the defence sector. The minister said the MRSAM project strengthened the defence industrial bases of both India and Israel, and was “a win-win situation” for both countries. It has also led to the creation of new test facilities and other infrastructure in the country, he said.Israel has been among India’s top three arms suppliers during the last five years, according to a report published by the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (Sipri) in March 2021. India’s top three arms suppliers during 2016-20 were Russia (accounting for 49% of India’s imports), France (18%) and Israel (13%).Singh said geo-political changes impacted trade, economy, power politics and the security scenario. “In such a situation, strengthening our security and self-reliance has become a necessity, not an achievement.”The minister said the global scenario was transforming very fast. “Equations between countries are also changing rapidly according to their interests. Whether it is the South China Sea, Indian Ocean Region, Indo-Pacific or Central Asia, uncertainty can be seen everywhere,” Singh said.The MRSAM induction ceremony took place after Singh and minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari jointly inaugurated an emergency landing facility for the IAF on the Satta-Gandhav stretch of NH-925A near Barmer. The two ministers also witnessed aircraft operations on the new landing facility, which supports landing of all aircraft in the air force’s fighter and transport fleets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-inducts-barak-8-air-defence-system-that-can-hit-multiple-targets-70km-away-101631198455089.html
09-09-2021||India||Assam bans single-engine pvt boats after Brahmaputra accident, search on for missing||The Assam government on Thursday banned all single-engine boats from plying on Brahmaputra—a day after a collision between a small private boat and bigger government-operated one killed one passenger. Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma ordered the move following a spot inspection of Wednesday’s accident site between Nematighat in Jorhat district and Kamalabari in Majuli district. “All single engine private boats are banned from plying immediately. Those who want to switch to marine engine will be provided with ₹10 lakh each or 75% subsidy by Majuli district administration,” he said. “From now four ferries of inland water transport department will operate between both banks of the river. Ro-pax (roll on-roll off passenger ferries) ferries would also serve passengers and we are bringing two more passenger vehicles from Guwahati,” Sarma added. The accident took place around 4 pm on Wednesday when the smaller boat on way from Nematighat to Kamalabari hit the bigger one operated by inland water transport department coming from the other side. The private boat, which was carrying 92 passengers, capsized within minutes killing a 28-year old college lecturer. While 89 passengers were rescued and accounted for two are still missing. There was no major damage to the bigger boat and none of its passengers were injured. Sarma directed the Jorhat administration to file a criminal case on the accident. He said a high level inquiry would also be ordered. On Wednesday, three officials of inland water transport department were suspended following the accident. The CM ordered rescheduling of boat timings and directed regular monitoring by magistrates. A new set of guidelines on operating passenger boats would be issued soon. “Construction of the proposed bridge connecting Nematighat and Majuli will begin from November this year and would be completed within four years,” Sarma informed. Search operations continued on Thursday to trace the two missing passengers of the capsized boat. “We resumed our rescue operations from 6:00 am on Thursday. On Wednesday night, we had located the capsized boat, which had flowed several kilometres downstream. Our team cut a portion of the overturned boat to look for missing persons, but no one was found there,” informed Hari Ram Yadav, assistant commandant, 1st battalion, NDRF-Assam. The opposition Congress on Thursday targeted the BJP-led-government in the state for failing to take adequate preventive and safety measures that resulted in the boat accident. The party accused the BJP of laying the foundation stone of the Jorhat-Majuli bridge twice (once in 2016 and again in 2021) without even starting work. “We’ve had enough of ‘bhumi pujans’ and foundation stone laying ceremonies. Instead of focussing on such steps, the BJP governments at the Centre and Assam should concentrate on development and making lives of people safer,” Assam Congress president Bhupen Borah said in Guwahati while addressing a press conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-bans-single-engine-pvt-boats-after-brahmaputra-accident-search-on-for-missing-101631197254484.html
09-09-2021||India||Union health ministry announces new Covid-19 vaccine tracker: What we know so far||The Union ministry of health and family welfare on Thursday, during a regular press briefing on efforts against the Covid-19 pandemic, announced a new vaccine tracker is being developed in India that would contain week-by-week data and update on vaccine doses administered.Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan made the announcement and director-general of the Indian Council of Medical Research Dr Balram Bharagava said that the tracker would be available on the ministry’s official website in a “few days’ time.”Also read | Centre waiting for scientific validation of Covid jabs for children: VK Paul“As the health secretary (Bhushan) has said, we have tried to develop [the] India Covid-19 vaccine tracker,” Dr Bhargava said. He added that the tracker has been done for having data synergy between CO-Win portal, the Union health ministry’s Covid-19 portal and the ICMR’s national Covid-19 testing database. “These data have been synergised based on the ICMR identification number and on the basis of mobile numbers and we have been able to get a vaccine tracker which is going to be online very soon in the ministry of health’s website,” he further said.Here is what we know so far about the Covid-19 vaccine tracker being developed, which Bhushan called an “ambitious intervention.”Meanwhile, more than 716 million vaccine doses, including the 8,651,701 doses in the last 24 hours, have been administered in the country as of 7am on the day, the Union health ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-health-ministry-announces-new-covid-19-vaccine-tracker-what-we-know-so-far-101631194188833.html
09-09-2021||India||'We are an influential voice': PM Modi's opening remarks at 13th BRICS summit||BRICS is an influential voice for emerging economies of the world and the countries must ensure that it becomes more productive in the next 15 years, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said in his opening remarks of the 13th BRICS summit, being attended by Russian President Vladimir Putin, Chinese President Xi Jinping, South African President Cyril Ramaphosa and Brazil's Jair Bolsanaro."It is a matter of great pleasure for me and India to chair this summit for the 15th anniversary of the summit. India has received full cooperation from all BRICS partners during its chairmanship. I am deeply grateful to all of you for this. The BRICS platform has witnessed several achievements in one and half decades," he said."Today we are an influential voice for emerging economies of the world. This platform has also been useful for focussing attention on the priories of the developing nations as well," he added.Thanking the partners for full cooperation during India's presidency, PM Modi said BRICS has also adopted a counter-terrorism action plan.The summit comes at a time when the Taliban have declared a new interim government in Afghanistan and the situation in the country is being discussed on all global platforms.Chinese President Xi Jinping said the five countries of the grouping -- Brazil, Russia, India, China, South Africa -- have supported multilateralism and taken part in global governance in the spirit of equity justice and mutual assistance. "Over the past 15 years, our five countries have enhanced strategic communication and political trust in the spirit of openness, inclusiveness, and equality and explored a sound path to interact with each other. Our five countries have sought synergy between our development policies and drawn on our complementarities. We have made solid progress in various areas of cooperation in the spirit of pragmatism, innovation. And we have forged ahead on our common journey of development," Xi Jinping said.Vladimir Putin commented on the situation in Afghanistan as he said it is still unclear how what is happening in Afghanistan will affect global and regional security."The withdrawal of US forces and its allies from Afghanistan has led to a new crisis, and it's still unclear how this will affect global and regional security. It is for good reason that our countries have paid special attention to this issue. Afghanistan should not become a threat to its neighbouring countries, a source of terrorism and drug trafficking," Putin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-are-an-influential-voice-pm-modi-s-opening-remarks-at-13th-brics-summit-101631192601695.html
09-09-2021||India||‘Self-reliance in defence necessity due to fast changing global scenario’: Rajnath Singh at MRSAM induction||Union defence minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday said that the current global scenario was changing in fast and unexpected ways which has necessitated the strength and self-reliance of India. Singh made the remarks during his address at the event to induct the Medium Range Surface to Air Missile (MRSAM) system into the Indian Air Force (IAF).“Today the global scenario is changing very fast, and in an unexpected way. In this, the mutual equations of countries are also changing rapidly according to their interests. Whether it is South China Sea, IOR or Indo-Pacific or Central Asia, uncertainty can be seen everywhere,” Singh said. He cited the recent changes in Afghanistan, where the Taliban rapidly seized power, as one such example to the fast-changing global scenario.Also read | Rajnath Singh inaugurates emergency landing strip for IAFThe minister further said that such conditions made self-reliance in India’s security measures a necessity and not a mere achievement. “The impact of changing geo-politics can also be seen on trade, economy, power politics and in turn the security scenario. In such a situation, the strength and self-reliance of our security becomes a necessity, not an achievement,” he said.Further stressing on the need for self-reliance, the minister said that defence modernisation is the government’s priority with the changing times. “Our defence modernisation is our priority with the changing times, we are continuously moving forward towards that. You will be aware that many such policy decisions have been taken in the recent few years, which take us towards not only modernization but also towards self-reliance in the long term,” he said.Calling the MRSAM "one of the best state-of-the-art missile systems available in the world today,” Singh handed it over to the IAF at the Air Force Station in Jaisalmer. He hailed the day as “very special” for the air force and also the entire defence sector. He further said that the missile is capable of hitting multiple targets simultaneously up to a range of 70 kilometres even in bad weather. “Its success in many stringent tests is a testament to its reliability,” he added.During his address, Singh also said that he believed that the missile system would be a game changer in the country’s air defence system and also called its induction a great example of the steps towards self-reliance in the defence sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/selfreliance-in-defence-necessity-due-to-fast-changing-global-scenario-rajnath-singh-at-mrsam-induction-101631192455175.html
09-09-2021||India||1st shot of Covid-19 jab is 96.6% effective in preventing death: Centre||India has inoculated 18% of its adult population against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) so far, the Centre informed on Thursday amid the mega vaccination drive against the virus. In a press meet in Delhi, Niti Aayog member for health, Dr VK Paul informed that 18% of the adult population have been administered both doses of the jab, while 58% have received the first dose. "It should be 100%. No one should be left behind... those left should get administered to develop herd immunity," said Paul. The Niti Aayog official also informed that the first dose of vaccine is “96.6 per cent effective in preventing death" and two shots are 97.5 per cent effective. The government cited data between April and August to support the statistics, as they urged people to get vaccinated. Meanwhile, the cumulative number of total Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country so far has crossed 72 crore on Thursday, the official also mentioned.The Centre also said that the country is still going through the second wave of Covid-19 and "it is not over yet.""As many as 35 districts in the country are still reporting a weekly Covid positivity rate of over 10% while in 30 districts it is between five-to-ten per cent," the officials informed.About resuming physical classes in schools, the government officials said no scientific body or evidence suggests that vaccination of children should be a condition for reopening schools. "This criterion is not acceptable anywhere in the world, no scientific body, epidemiological evidence suggests it as a condition...However, vaccination of staff is desirable," Paul also said.India rolled out its vaccination drive in January, since then the country has been inoculating beneficiaries at a record pace. "The pace of vaccination and coverage is rapidly increasing," said Rajesh Bhushan, Union health secretary, adding, "The average per-day dose administered has increased from 20 lakhs in May to 78 lakhs in September."Bhushan also said that the number is expected to climb even higher in the coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/18-of-adult-population-have-received-both-doses-of-covid-19-vaccine-centre-101631190915150.html
09-09-2021||India||‘Kerala accounts for 68.59% of India’s Covid-19 cases’, says health ministry; cautions second wave not over||The southern state of Kerala accounts for 68.59% of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases India reported last week, health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said on Thursday, adding that in the past 24 hours the state contributed 32,000 cases to India’s single-day tally of 43,263. Bhushan also cautioned that the country is still in the throes of the second wave, and it is not over yet.“43,263 reported in the past 24 hours, over 32,000 from Kerala. Almost 68% of total cases in last week were from Kerala. We're still witnessing the second surge, it's not over,” Bhushan said at a media briefing.In terms of fatalities, Kerala reported 181 deaths on Thursday against India’s single day death toll of 338. However, till date the highest number of fatalities has been recorded by Maharashtra.Also Read: What Kerala learnt from third outbreak of Nipah virusThe southern state’s latest jump in Covid-19 cases comes after a week-long decline in the daily tally of cases. An increase in the number of daily Covid-tests has led to the sudden spike in cases. A total of 1,71, 295 tests were conducted in the previous 24 hours, of which 30,196 turned out to be positive, bringing the test positivity rate (TPR) to 17.63%.“It is natural that cases will go up once tests are increased. The state should have increased tests a couple of months back,” public health expert Dr SS Lal told Hindustan Times.The Kerala unit of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) alleged that more than half the tests conducted were antigen tests instead of reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test, which was once considered to be the ‘gold standard’ of Covid-tests by the health ministry.In cities like Delhi, which witnessed a brutal second wave, 70% of the total tests conducted to identify infected patients in the last five months were RT-PCR tests, according to government data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-accounts-for-68-59-of-india-s-covid-19-cases-says-health-ministry-cautions-second-wave-not-over-101631191319953.html
09-09-2021||India||IIT-Madras tops NIRF overall ranking for third time, five DU colleges make it to top 10||The Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Madras continues to remain the top among institutes across the country for the third consecutive year followed by the Indian Institute of Science (IISc) Bengaluru and IIT-Bombay according to the sixth edition of the Ministry of Education’s National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) rankings announced on Thursday.According to the NIRF 2021 rankings announced by Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan, seven Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs), including IIT Madras, IIT Delhi, IIT Bombay, IIT Kharagpur, IIT Kanpur, IIT Guwahati and IIT Roorkee, made it to the list of top 10 in the overall rankings category. Besides, Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) in Delhi and Banaras Hindu University (BHU) in Uttar Pradesh ranked ninth and tenth in the overall rankings.The institutions have been ranked under 11 different categories --- overall, university, colleges, engineering, management, pharmacy, law, medical, architecture, dental and research. For the first time, the ministry has added the research category in NIRF. The IISc Bengaluru topped the research category list followed by IIT-Madras, IIT-Bombay and IIT-Delhi.The IISc Bengaluru also topped the ‘university’ category followed by JNU, BHU, and Calcutta University. Jamia Millia Islamia University in Delhi jumped from position 10 to position sixth in the concerned category this year. The Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) also made it to the top ten by securing the 10th position in the category.Even as the Delhi University (DU) slipped by one position both in ‘overall’ and ‘university’ categories, five of its colleges figured in the top 10 list of ‘colleges ranking’ category. For the fifth time in a row, Miranda House college ranked as the top college in the country, followed by Lady Shri Ram College for Women (LSR), both in Delhi, Loyola College in Chennai, and St. Xavier’s College in Kolkata. DU’s St Stephen’s College, Hindu College and Shri Ram College of Commerce (SRCC) have ranked eighth, ninth and 10th, in the college rankings.In the ‘engineering category’, eight IITs, including those in Madras, Delhi, Bombay, Kanpur, Kharagpur, Roorkee, Guwahati and Hyderabad, secured the top eight positions. The National Institute of Technology (NIT) Tiruchirapalli and Suratkal have ranked ninth and tenth in the category.The All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Delhi ranked first in the ‘medical institutes’ category followed by PGIMER Chandigarh and Christian Medical College, Vellore. Like last year, Indian Institutes of Management (IIMs) Ahmedabad, Bangalore and Calcutta retained their first, second and third ranks, respectively, among the B-Schools in the country.The National Law School of India University, Bangalore, retained its first position in “Law category” for the fourth consecutive year. Emphasising on the need to develop ranking frameworks, the education minister said, “A robust and a role model ranking framework will serve as India’s contribution to the global learning landscape. So, we must ensure that our ranking framework emerges as a benchmark not only in the country, but also globally, especially for the developing economies. We should develop regional ranking frameworks.”Pradhan said that the new National Education Policy (NEP) also provides an opportunity to internationalise our education system. “We must work collectively to bring more and more institutions under our ranking framework and also establish India as a preferred global study destination,” he said.According to a statement issued by the ministry, the number of institutions which applied to participate in the overall rankings increased from 2426 in 2016 to 4030 in 2021. Besides, the total number of applications for ranking in various categories has increased from 3565 in 2016, to 6272 in 2021.Under the NIRF ranking, the institutes are evaluated on five broad generic groups of parameters including Teaching, Learning and Resources (TLR), Research and Professional Practice (RP), Graduation Outcomes (GO), Outreach and Inclusivity (OI) and Perception (PR). Reacting to being at the top for the third consecutive year, IIT-Madras director Bhaskar Ramamurthi said, “We are delighted to maintain our pre-eminent position in the NIRF rankings yet again. IIT Madras continues to excel in teaching, research, and innovation, and has launched several new initiatives to implement the NEP. ”Besides, Vice-Chancellors of JNU, BHU and Jamia congratulated their students and faculty members for making it to the list of top 10 universities. “This achievement is all the more significant because of the challenging time the country and university has been facing due to Covid-19 pandemic and also in the light of increased competition in the ranking,” said Jamia VC Najma Akhtar.“Even during the Covid-19 pandemic, we made sure that teaching and research is not hampered and for that we put in place all the necessary arrangements. We are working hard in order to take the university to the top 500 institutions of the world,” said BHU V-C VK Shukla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iitmadras-tops-nirf-overall-ranking-for-third-time-five-du-colleges-make-it-to-top-10-101631191195541.html
09-09-2021||India||UP districts saw outbreak of D2 dengue, says health ministry; urges caution||As several districts in Uttar Pradesh are battling the outbreak of viral fever, the Indian Council of Medical Research on Thursday confirmed that they have found the D2 strain of dengue in these specimens. This strain is deadlier and often cause haemorrhage. It also impacts the platelet count. "The only prevention is to stop the breeding of mosquitos. Dengue is also a deadly disease," ICMR chief Dr Balram Bhargava said. This dengue outbreak was reported from Ferozabad, Mathura and Agra in Uttar Pradesh, while mosquito-borne diseases overall are on the rise across the country, the health ministry said."We must have adequate preparation to fight dengue and malaria, apart from Covid as these cases are on the rise and also because of the monsoon season. We must cover ourselves and use mosquito repellant, mosquito nets and should not allow mosquitos to breed," Niti Aayog chairman Dr VK Paul said."Do not take any fever lightly. Be it malaria, dengue or Covid. Our focus should not move from Covid, but dengue can be deadly too and there is no vaccination. It is also difficult to tell who is more susceptible to dengue. And then there is no vaccination," Dr Paul added.After Uttar Pradesh, dengue and viral fever cases rose in Delhi as well. As per the data released by the Municipal Corporation of Delhi, 73 cases of dengue were reported in August. The number of dengue cases recorded this year (125) is the highest since 2018. Around 27 cases of the other mosquito-borne disease, malaria and 32 of chikungunya, have also been reported in Delhi so far this year. "1,100-1,200 patients are coming in the medicine department, while 400-500 patients are coming to the children's OPD every day. Some viral cases are also coming from the NCR area; patients from areas like Ghaziabad, Noida are also coming to LNJP after being referred here," Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director of Loknayak Jaiprakash Hospital said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-districts-saw-outbreak-of-d2-dengue-says-health-ministry-urges-caution-101631190677176.html
09-09-2021||India||100-day plan for India's aviation sector: Know what it has to offer||Union minister Jyotiraditya Scindia on Thursday unveiled the Centre's 100-day plan to give the much-needed fillip to the civil aviation sector.Addressing the media in New Delhi, the civil aviation minister said the Centre has placed eight policy targets for the next 100 days, including setting up of five new airports, six heliports and commissioning of 50 new commercial routes under the Udan scheme.The Union minister said the 100-day plan will be implemented from August 30 till November 30 and will comprise 16 key points, four of which are under infrastructure, eight under policy targets, and another four under reforms.“We have a 100-day plan for the ministry based on which we'll be answerable to the stakeholders transparently. Under this 100-day target, we have three main foundations — infrastructure, policy targets and reforms initiative,” Scindia said at the meeting.The minister announced that four airports would be made operation or developed optimally under the 100-day plan. The Centre has allocated ₹255 crore to make Kushinagar airport in Uttar Pradesh operational and landing and take-off of Airbus 321 Boeing 737 flights.“Kushinagar is not only important for Uttar Pradesh but also the entire country, as it is the hub for the Buddhist tourism circuit,” Scindia said. The minister said a new terminal will come up at Dehradun airport in Uttarakhand, to facilitate passenger capacity from the existing 250 to 1,800 after the Centre pumped in ₹457 crore for its revamp.He also said that Agartala airport will also be upgraded to increase its capacity from 500 passengers per hour to 1,200 per hour at an estimated cost of ₹490 crore.The civil aviation minister said a new airport at Jewar in Uttar Pradesh will come up and the government has earmarked ₹30,000 crore for it. The airport is expected to have a capacity of two crore passengers every year.“In the first phase, ₹9000 crore will be invested and capacity will be increased to 1.2 crore passengers every year. By the fourth phase, the passenger capacity will be expanded up to seven crore,” he said, adding that, “Jewar and Delhi airports will emerge as the country's futuristic transit hubs.”Last week, the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority inked a pact with the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation to prepare a feasibility report of a metro rail corridor to link Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport and the proposed airport at Jewar In Noida.The minister said the six new heliports would be developed in Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand under the regional air connectivity scheme Udan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/100day-plan-for-india-s-aviation-sector-know-what-it-has-to-offer-101631186670576.html
09-09-2021||India||Kanhaiya Kumar denies joining Congress, meets party leaders||CPI leader and former JNU Students’ Union president Kanhaiya Kumar has denied rumours that suggest he is planning to switch over to Congress following his meeting with a few Congress leaders. “There is no truth in it. I am in mainstream politics and am a member of a registered national party. When in politics, one interacts with so many people. Currently, I am in Delhi to attend the party’s national executive,” said Kanhaiya, while talking to HT.People aware of the development within the Congress say that Kanhaiya had met Rahul Gandhi twice in the recent past. “Prashant Kishor was present during both the meetings. Negotiations are in the final stages,” claimed a Congress leader from Bihar, wishing not to be named. Kanhaiya however, denied any such meeting. “What has fanned the rumours is my photograph with Congress leader Nadeem Jawed with whom I had lunch recently in Delhi. Nadeem Jawed is a former National President of NSUI, former General Secretary of Indian Youth Congress, former National President of Congress Minority Cell and Media Panelist. He posted our photographs on social media. As far as Prashant Kishore is concerned, we have been interacting often after my defeat in the Lok Sabha elections of 2019,” said Kanhaiya. There has been speculation in political circles about Kanhaiya switching sides after a censure motion was passed against him in the CPI meeting held at Hyderabad in the last week of January for indiscipline. The censure motion was taken up after Kanhaiya’s supporters had roughed up Indu Bhushan, the office secretary, in the party office at Patna on December 1. Local leaders said Bhushan was attacked because the Begusarai district council meeting had been postponed and Kanhaiya had not been informed about the change.Congress leaders in the know said that Nadeem, former Congress MLA from Jaunpur has been given the responsibility of convincing the former JNU Students’ Union president and they had had several rounds of conversation. Congress, which is losing ground in Bihar, is now desperately looking for leaders who can instill confidence in the party fold. Congress got 10 seats in the February 2005 assembly elections, which came down to 9 in October 2005. In the 2010 assembly elections, the Congress had to be content with just four seats. In the 2015 assembly elections, when the Congress became a part of the grand alliance with RJD and JD-U, the party won 27 seats. However, their tally again came down to 19 in the 2020 assembly polls. At the same time, in the Lok Sabha elections 2019, Congress got just one seat in Bihar. The Congress has been eyeing Kanhaiya since last year when the CPI leader organized his Jana Gana Mana rally in Patna’s Gandhi Maidan on February 27. What surprised people was the presence of two Congress leaders -- MLAs Shakeel Ahmad Khan and Awadhesh Singh--- who shared the dais with him. Khan, a former Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) Students’ Union president like Kanhaiya, insisted later that their presence there was only to support the cause as the rally was part of a campaign against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and the proposed-then-denied National Register of Citizens (NRC.To drive home his point that he was not getting close to Congress, the former JNU president cited the example of his meeting with the Bihar CM earlier this year. “When I met Nitish Kumar and a JD(U) minister earlier this year, there was speculation that I was joining JD(U). Why should I when they are in alliance with the BJP,” he reasoned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-jnu-president-kanhaiya-kumar-denies-joining-congress-101631187527240.html
09-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: SC turns down plea to change centres for NEET exam and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Supreme Court refuses change of centre for NEET-PG examThe Supreme Court on Thursday turned down a plea by nine doctors for a change of examination centres for the upcoming National Eligibility Entrance Test- Post Graduate (NEET-PG) test on Saturday on account of Covid-19 restrictions and the fact that some of them were required to visit states where Covid-19 cases were still on the rise. Read moreWill 3rd wave of Covid-19 hit India: Top expert answersThe chairman of the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) Dr NK Arora on Thursday elaborated on a range of issues concerning the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic in India. Read moreSourav Ganguly thanks MS Dhoni for accepting BCCI offer to be Team India's mentor in T20 World CupFormer India captain and current BCCI president Sourav Ganguly in his first reaction after BCCI's major announcement on Wednesday night, thanked MS Dhoni for accepting the board's offer to be mentor of the Indian side for the T20 World Cup. Read moreSaif Ali Khan, trolled for naming sons Jehangir and Taimur, reacts to negativity: 'We are good people, we pay our taxes'Actor Saif Ali Khan, who along with his wife Kareena Kapoor Khan, has been trolled for naming their sons Jehangir and Taimur. He has now spoken about how he reacts to negativity. Read moreFord to stop local production in India, will only offer high-end cars via importFord Motor Co. has decided to shut both its manufacturing facilities in India and has blamed the decision on lack of profitability. Read moreGanesh Chaturthi fashion cues from Deepika Padukone, Arjun Kapoor, other celebsThe festival of Ganesh Chaturthi or Vinayaka Chaturthi celebrates the arrival of Ganesh to earth from Kailash Parvat with his mother Parvati/Gauri. It also marks the birth of Ganesha whom Hindus consider the god of wisdom and prosperity. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-sc-turns-down-plea-to-change-centres-for-neet-exam-and-all-the-latest-news-101631186029115.html
09-09-2021||India||Supreme Court refuses change of centre for NEET-PG exam||The Supreme Court on Thursday turned down a plea by nine doctors for a change of examination centres for the upcoming National Eligibility Entrance Test- Post Graduate (NEET-PG) test on Saturday on account of Covid-19 restrictions and the fact that some of them were required to visit states where Covid-19 cases were still on the rise.Convincing the doctors to shed their fears, the bench of justices UU Lalit, S Ravindra Bhat and Bela M Trivedi said, “Today people are travelling everywhere. You go to the airport, every flight is completely booked.”Senior advocate Meenakshi Arora, appearing for the doctors, said that one of the petitioners was posted at Varanasi for Covid-19 duty where Covid-19 situation is largely under control and had to appear for the NEET-PG test in Kerala. “At this time there won’t be too many people travelling to Kerala which is recording a surge in Covid-19 cases on a daily basis,” Arora said. Other petitioners too were required to travel inter-state between Delhi, Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka.The bench said, “With so many people being vaccinated, the severity of the Covid-19 pandemic is not as it was earlier. Life is going on as usual.”Arora pointed out that these are young doctors on Covid-19 duty who had exercised the option of their centres before March 15 based on the nearest centre to the area of their posting. The exam was scheduled for April 18 and was postponed to September 11 by a notification dated July 13.Four out of the nine petitioners had to travel either inside or outside of Kerala. The petition filed through advocate Charu Mathur said, “Those currently located in the state of Kerala and travelling long distances to reach the centre will not only expose themselves to the virus but will also be a health hazard for thousands of others. Further, most of the candidates will travel along with their parents to the examination centre and thus their parents will be severely exposed to the deadly virus.”Arora further stated that considering the Covid-19 surge in Kerala, the top court had recently put off the Class 11 physical examinations scheduled to start from September 6. She pointed out that the window for registration and opting centre was opened from August 16 to 25 for those candidates who became eligible under the Government decision to provide 27% quota for other backward classes (OBC) and 10% quota to economically weaker sections (EWS) in 50% of all India quota PG medical/dental seats. “See the absurdity of providing the option to those who registered in August but not for us,” Arora submitted.The bench said, “We had made an exception a week back for two doctors who were in their seventh and eighth month of pregnancy, allowing them a change of examination centre in view of their difficulty to travel. But in your case, you were well aware of the examination being held. We will dismiss your petition.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-refuses-change-of-centre-for-neet-pg-exam-101631184826426.html
09-09-2021||India||Will 3rd wave of Covid-19 hit India: Top expert answers||The chairman of the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) Dr NK Arora on Thursday elaborated on a range of issues concerning the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic in India.The chief of the Covid-19 working group said that the country is witnessing around 30,000-45000 cases of coronavirus infection every day for the past several weeks, especially from Kerala and some northeastern states and a few districts of Maharashtra. “If we follow the genomic analysis of SARS-COV-2 viruses circulating during June, July and August, no new variants have emerged and on the basis of sero-survey conducted during July, the ongoing Covid-19 cases represent the susceptible individuals who are not yet immunised. They are affected as part of the last phase of second wave,” Dr Arora said.In the last serosurvey conducted in July, between 66% and 70% of the people were found to be infected with the Covid-19 virus, signalling that around 30% of the people are still prone to infection. The health expert said these set of people can get infected at any time, if they are unvaccinated. “Hence any complacency on the part of any of us throughout the country will cost hugely since the 30% people can be infected and many of them can develop severe diseases, like we witnessed during April and May this year,” Dr Arora said.He stressed that following Covid-appropriate behaviour is both essential and critical, especially during the upcoming festive season. He cautioned that the emergence of new mutation around this time can contribute to the arrival of the third wave of Covid-19.Efficacy of Covid-19 vaccines against Delta variantThe effectiveness values we see in media mostly refer to the effectiveness against symptomatic disease, Dr Arora said, highlighting that it is “generally 60-90% for different vaccines.”“Most of the vaccines are not adequately effective in preventing Covid-19 infection and, therefore, it is repeatedly emphasised that even after vaccination, the person can spread the infection,” the expert said. He stressed the need for maintaining Covid-appropriate behaviour.The most important value of the Covid-19 vaccines is their effectiveness to prevent severe disease, need for hospitalisation and death. All the vaccines currently available in India and elsewhere are over 90-95% effective for protecting the beneficiary from severe disease and death. Can an affected person donate plasma?Dr Aroraa said research by ICMR revealed that plasma therapy was not useful for most patients with severe Covid-19 infection requiring hospitalisation.Similar studies from other parts of the world have failed to prevent death or reduction in hospital stay. It for these reasons, the ICMR has removed plasma therapy as part of the treatment guidelines for severe Covid-19 infection, Dr Arora said.“Having said that, if someone is infected, there will be generation of antibodies in their body along with cell-based immunity. Antibodies are measurable and can also be called as visible immunity. The cell-based immunity can also be termed as invisible immunity and as important as antibodies. These immunity components prevent disease and severity when such person gets re-infection with Covid-19,” Dr Arora said.Recently an antibody mixture was introduced in the market by a company, but that did not show much benefit, he said. This antibody mixture also was based on the principle of plasma therapy. It was observed that if plasma or antibody is given to the patient in first week or early part of infection, then there can be some benefit.A paper published recently mentions that if someone has got natural COVID infection and has recovered, then the immunity of that person will protect him for long duration and in case if such person also takes vaccine, then the individual has a double barrelled protection against infection and the disease.What about booster dose?The requirement of booster dose in our country cannot be decided on the basis of the situation and decisions taken in western countries, the NTAGI chief said.“Local evidence based on the studies done in different parts of the country will guide the need for our people. This will be considered in the context when 70% to 80% of the population in our country is already infected. Overall a considerate decision will be taken based on the best available scientific evidence with the overall objective to provide optimal protection to our people,” Dr Arora said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-3rd-wave-of-covid-19-hit-india-top-expert-answers-101631175710269.html
09-09-2021||India||Minor gangraped in Bhopal, 3 held; BJP cancels membership of one of the accused||Three persons, including a leader of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), have been arrested for allegedly raping a minor girl in Bhopal. Police said the minor had come to Bhopal from Agra and was raped in a hotel room in the Madhya Pradesh, capital, according to an ANI report.Action was taken based on footage from the hotel, said Bhopal superintendent of police Sai Krishna Thota.#UPDATE | BJP cancels the primary membership of its Dindori office in-charge Manish Nayak who is a co-accused in the gangrape of a minor girl in BhopalFollowing the arrests, the BJP cancelled the primary membership of its Dindori office in-charge Manish Nayak, one of the accused in the case.According to reports, among those jailed is also a functionary of the Janata Dal (United), identified as Dinesh Awadhiya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/minor-gangraped-in-bhopal-3-held-bjp-cancels-membership-of-one-of-the-accused-101631181790157.html
09-09-2021||India||Muslims always expected to prove they don’t stand for violence: Mufti||Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti on Thursday said that Muslims are always expected to prove that they don’t stand for violence.In a series of tweets, former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti said that her statement on the Taliban following Sharia law was deliberately distorted.“Not surprised that my statement on Sharia has been deliberately distorted. Cant point fingers since most countries that claim to uphold Sharia have failed to imbibe its true values. They are only fixated with restricting women through do’s & dont’s, dress codes etc,” Mehbooba Mufti tweeted.On Wednesday, Mufti said the Islamist militant group must follow the ‘real’ Sharia law, which comprises women’s and children’s rights.“If they follow [the real Sharia law] and govern Afghanistan accordingly, then they will be able to share business relations with other countries of the world,” she was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The PDP president said Thursday that in the history of Islam there have been examples of empowered women.“Hazrat Khadija Tul Kubra, Prophet SWA first wife was an independent & successful business woman. Hazrat Ayesha Siddique led the Battle of Camel & headed a force of 13000 soldiers. Islamic history is full of such examples of emancipated & empowered women,” Mufti said.Mehbooba Mufi said that India has become polarised. “But at a time when India has become so polarised, there is increasing Islamphobia & Afghanistan crisis has only worsened it.Muslims are always expected to prove that they don’t stand for violence. I can see why my statement is being used as click bait to further this impression,” she tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/muslims-always-expected-to-prove-they-don-t-stand-for-violence-mufti-101631181466422.html
09-09-2021||India||Assam CM bans private ferries, orders high-level probe into Jorhat boat mishap||Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Thursday said a high-level investigation will be conducted into the accident near Nimati ghat in Jorhat where two boats collided in the Brahmaputra on Wednesday leading to the death of a woman as search operation continued for two others. A criminal case will be registered in the mishap and three officials have been suspended.Sarma, who visited the boat accident site in Jorhat district further said plying of private ferries will be stopped from Thursday, while those who wish to convert their single-engine boats to marine engines will receive a subsidy from the government.Assam CM Himanta Biswa Sarma visits the boat accident site near Nimati Ghat in Jorhat district"Have directed Jorhat Dist Admin to register a criminal case on the accident. A high-level inquiry will also be instituted today," he says pic.twitter.com/lleZWGerEvAssam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Thursday said a high-level investigation will be conducted into the accident near Nimati ghat in Jorhat where two boats collided in the Brahmaputra on Wednesday leading to the death of a woman as search operation continued for two others. A criminal case will be registered in the mishap and three officials have been suspended.Sarma, who visited the boat accident site in Jorhat district further said plying of private ferries will be stopped from Thursday, while those who wish to convert their single-engine boats to marine engines will receive a subsidy from the government.|#+|“From today, plying of private ferries will be stopped as they do not have marine engines. If owners wish to convert single-engine to marine engine, the government will provide a grant of ₹10 lakh with 75 per cent subsidy,” the chief minister was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Sarma, who met those who were injured in the accident at Jorhat Medical College and Hospital, said, "Have directed the Jorhat district administration to register a criminal case on the accident. A high-level inquiry will also be instituted."A bridge connecting Jorhat and Majuli was under construction, he said, adding a group of ministers would review its progress. “Three officials of the Inland Water Transport Department have been placed under suspension,” Sarma said."Of the 90 people who were on board, a woman has died and two are missing. I hope we will have a clear picture by the evening," he added.Earlier the National Disaster Relief Force (NDRF) said rescue operations continued in Brahmaputra river in Jorhat where two boats collided and one of them capsized."Seventy passengers were on the boat that capsized. A woman has died. The operation continued throughout the night. It is still underway," an NDRF official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-cm-bans-private-ferries-order-high-level-probe-into-jorhat-boat-mishap-101631178327364.html
09-09-2021||India||What Kerala learnt from third outbreak of Nipah virus||Kerala health officials hit a blind alley in 2018 when Nipah virus first broke out in Kerala since there was no known treatment for the disease, but three years later they were better prepared when the zoonotic virus revisited for the third time. Though it claimed the life of a 12-year-old boy last Sunday, reports from ground zero suggest its threat is receding fast.“We are really relieved that other than the index case, no other infection has been reported so far. We will strengthen our surveillance and speed up efforts to pinpoint the source of infection,” said state health minister Veena George, adding that the lessons from the 2018 outbreak helped the administration contain it quickly.But the origin of the virus and its carrier are still unknown as was the case in the earlier two outbreaks-- 2018 in Kozhikode when 17 lives were lost and 2019 in Ernakulam when a youth was saved after long hospitalisation.Experts say the state will have to formulate a proactive strategy to face the increasing threat of recurring zoonotic diseases and not wait for the outbreak to act. The state needs to strengthen its surveillance system backed by enough scientific studies, they say.They point to the initial confusion to buttress their point. When the Nipah-infected boy was rushed to the government medical college hospital in Kozhikode on Aug 30, he was diverted to a private hospital without conducting any tests or diagnosis, merely on the pretext that there was no ventilator to spare.As was the case during the 2018 outbreak of the virus, a private hospital, Malabar Institute of Medical Sciences, sent the boy’s samples to the National Institute of Virology in Pune for testing, which helped in the virus’ early detection. Now, state health minister Veena George has ordered a probe into alleged lapses on the part of the medical college hospital.“Yes, we have learnt many lessons on the curative side, but are yet to learn enough surveillance lessons. The boy was in four different hospitals before he was admitted to the MIMS. In an epidemic, surveillance is the key, but we become alert only after the onset,” said Dr SS Lal, a public health expert who worked with the World Health Organization.He said that while 70% of the health sector is in the hands of the private sector in the state, the government still keeps it in the dark and attempts to hijack all credits for political reasons.Unlike 2018, when the virus was diagnosed after four deaths, this time the boy’s status as Nipah positive was confirmed hours before his death, allowing for quick contact tracing, route mapping and sealing of the area around his residence. “I was unconscious for more than 10 days and heard about Nipah for the first time in life when I was about to be discharged. We have a robust health system and committed workers. And this really helped contain the scourge this time,” said M Ajanya, a nurse, first Nipah patient to be cured in 2018.After the first outbreak, many promises such as setting up of a high-end animal testing lab, virology institute, a scientific study on bats (chiropterology) and a treatment protocol for separate zoonotic diseases, were made. Experts say most of these were yet to be met.“The most important is to find out how the boy got infected and whether it is the index case. Since zoonotic diseases recur frequently, we need an integrated team of experts from all fields to study it,” said Dr NM Arun, an internal medicine expert.Experts add that though the fruit bats are considered to be the main carriers of Nipah virus, a clear link or interface between bats and human beings is yet to be established.Experts said that Covid containment protocols such as masking, physical distancing and no overcrowding also helped the state blunt the impact of Nipah. “Covid-19 protocol and its prevention techniques came in handy for containing Nipah also.Unlike earlier incidents, we have to identify the source of the virus to check its further outbreak,” said another public health expert Dr Padmanabha Shenoy. According to the World Health Organization (WHO) guidelines, at least 70% of Nipah infections can be fatal.“Zoonotic diseases are here to stay. We need a permanent single window mechanism for early detection and warning to prevent outbreak of such diseases. More research is also needed in the area,” said Dr Prejit Nambiar, a teacher at the Kerala Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, who specialises in zoonoses and food safety. He said a close interaction is necessary between medical experts, veterinary professionals, environmental scientists and wildlife professionals to tackle this.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-kerala-learned-from-3rd-outbreak-of-nipah-virus-101631175945802.html
09-09-2021||India||Nitin Gadkari's promise to IAF chief: Airstrip in 15 days instead of 1.5 years||Union minister of road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari said on Thursday his department had achieved a couple of feats in recent times, besides building an airstrip for the Indian Air Force (IAF) in 15 days.Speaking at the inaugural of an emergency landing strip for IAF planes on the Satta-Gandhav stretch on National Highway 925 in Barmer, Gadkari said IAF chief RKS Bhadauria had said it usually took one-and-a-half years to build an airstrip. “I told him that we will construct these for you instead in 15 days of good quality,” the Union minister was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. We made 3 world records. Despite COVID,we constructed 38 kms road per day,highest in the world. 2nd is construction of 2.5-km 4 lane road in 24 hrs on Mumbai-Delhi express highway. 3rd refers to construction of 26-km single lane road from Bijapur to Solapur in a day:Nitin Gadkari pic.twitter.com/pR2AUeHzrmSpeaking about three world records, Gadkari said, “Despite (the prevalence of) Covid-19, we constructed 38km of road per day -- highest in the world. Second is the construction of a 2.5-km 4-lane road in 24 hours on the Mumbai-Delhi express highway. The third refers to construction of a 26-km single lane road from Bijapur to Solapur in a day,” the Union minister said.Also read | Rajnath Singh in Rajasthan; IAF to get MRSAM missile, landing strip on highwayGadkari  further said the defence ministry had his department’s full support in building an airport in the area. “There's no airport here in an area of around 350km. I told CDS Bipin Rawat that we can give land to build a defence airport and a civil airport nearby. They have our full support and will take guidance from Air Force authority,” he added.The Union minister said three helipads have been constructed in Kundan Pura, Singhaniya and Bakasar villages of Rajasthan according to the requirement of the forces.Earlier, a Hercules C-130J plane of the IAF, carrying Gadkari, defence minister Rajnath Singh and Chief of Defence Staff Bipin Rawat, conducted a mock emergency landing on the national highway. NH-925 is India's first national highway to be used for emergency landing of IAF aircraft.The defence minister said a total of 20 emergency landing strips, similar to the one in Barmer, were being developed across the country. The strips would also help in relief operations during natural disasters, he added."Many helipads are also being built with the help of the Union Roads Ministry. This is an important step to strengthen our security infrastructure," he added.The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has developed the 3-km section of Satta-Gandhav stretch of NH-925 as an ELF for the IAF.Singh said, "By creating a strip so near the international border, we have given a message that we will stand up for unity, diversity and sovereignty of our country at whatever the cost."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nitin-gadkari-s-promise-to-iaf-chief-airstrip-in-15-days-instead-of-1-5-years-101631174667787.html
09-09-2021||India||Rajya Sabha polls in Puducherry, 5 states on October 4||The Election Commission on Thursday announced schedule for elections to the Rajya Sabha, the Upper House of Parliament, for five states and the Union territory of Puducherry. Except for Puducherry, the polling exercise in states will constitute bypolls as members of Parliament (MP) from four states resigned for various reasons while the representative from Maharashtra, Rajeev Satav, passed away in May due to post-Covid complications.Also Read | Congress MP Rajeev Satav dies of post-Covid complications in PuneAs per the schedule announced by the poll panel, votes for all five states and Puducherry will be cast on October 4. The counting of votes will take place on the same day. The elections were necessitated as the term of N Gokulakrishnan, who represents Puducherry in the Council of States, will end on October 6, while MPs from Assam, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu (two members) and West Bengal stepped down from their posts.Among those who resigned, Bengal’s Manas Ranjan Bhunia joined chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s cabinet, while Biswajit Daimary from Assam, who was elected to the House earlier this year, became Speaker of the Assam legislative assembly. In Tamil Nadu, KP Munusamy and R Vaithilingam, were elected as members of the Tamil Nadu assembly. Finally, from Madhya Pradesh, former Union minister Thawarchand Gehlot was appointed as the governor of Karnataka by president Ram Nath Kovind.Also Read | Union minister Thaawarchand Gehlot appointed Karnataka Governor, says will live up to expectationsThe detailed schedule for the elections can be accessed on the Election Commission’s website or by clicking here and here. However, it is to be noted that the schedule is same for all four states and UT of Puducherry.The Rajya Sabha, which is also called the House of elders, has a maximum strength of 245, of whom 233 members are elected and 12 are nominated by the president of India. They serve a term of six years each. The Upper House is different from the Lok Sabha in that MPs are not elected directly by voters, but by elected members of state legislative assemblies. Also, unlike the Lower House, the Rajya Sabha is never dissolved as one-third members retire after every two years and polling is held to fill up the vacancies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajya-sabha-polls-in-puducherry-6-states-on-october-4-101631173910045.html
09-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: Resistance leader says 60% of Panjshir 'still under control' and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 1pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Made tactical withdrawal’: NRF leader says 60% of Panjshir still under controlNRF leader Ali Nazary said in an interview that 60 per cent of Panjshir is still under the NRF control. Read moreAustralian foreign, defence ministers to reach tomorrow for 2+2 ministerial talkMarise Payne and Peter Dutton will arrive tomorrow to hold talks with their Indian counterparts S Jaishankar and Rajnath Singh respectively. Read more‘…that’s why he’s found a place for himself’: Chief selector Sharma explains why Ashwin was named in T20 WC squadChief selector Chetan Sharma stated that good performances in the IPL went in favour of Ashwin as hence, he was named in the squad. Read moreSaba Ali Khan opens up on Kareena Kapoor and Saif Ali Khan naming their son Jehangir: 'No one else has a say'Saba Ali Khan has opened up about her brother, actor Saif Ali Khan and his wife, actor Kareena Kapoor Khan naming their younger son Jehangir. Read moreOla Electric postpones S1 e-scooter sale to September 15 due to website glitchThe ride-hailing company had to postpone its first EV sales by a week to September 15, as it faced technical difficulties with its website. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-resistance-leader-says-60-of-panjshir-still-under-control-101631168692647.html
09-09-2021||India||No jeans, t-shirts during meetings: A DM in Uttarakhand says it's not graceful||A district magistrate in the hill state of Uttarakhand has asked all employees to refrain from wearing jeans and t-shirts during meetings with senior officials. Failing to comply with the dress code would attract necessary action against the employees concerned, said Bageshwar DM Vineet Kumar.A report in ANI said the order was issued after finding employees coming to office and meeting officials at higher levels “inappropriately dressed”. The DM said it was not graceful.Uttarkhand | All district officials, employees must follow the dress code in office and not wear jeans, t-shirts during meetings with higher officials; due compliance of the order should be ensured or else necessary action will be taken against them: Vineet Kumar, DM, Bageshwar pic.twitter.com/vBllaDcEsP"It is often coming to the notice that the district-level officers and employees are always participating in meetings, wearing jeans and T-shirts in front of their higher officials, without following the dress code. Being a government employee, it is not graceful," Kumar was quoted as saying.He further said such practices tarnished the image of the office management.In order to maintain a professional curriculum in the office, the magistrate has now instructed all the employees and district-level officers to wear proper uniform during office hours, the report further said."Necessary action will be taken against those who will violate this norm," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-jeans-t-shirts-during-meetings-a-dm-in-uttarakhand-says-it-s-not-graceful-101631170700599.html
09-09-2021||India||Rajnath Singh inaugurates emergency landing strip for IAF, to induct MRSAM missile next||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday inaugurated the Emergency Landing Facility for the Indian Air Force (IAF) on the Satta-Gandhav stretch of National Highway (NH) 925A along with Union road transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari. Speaking at the inauguration ceremony, Rajnath Singh hailed the “great feat” and said that the NHAI is preparing emergency landing fields at 20 locations and also constructing helipads in many other regions. “This emergency landing field and the three helipads will not only be useful in the time of war but to carry out rescue and relief operations during any natural disaster,” he said. Later in the day, Singh will also be inducting the Medium Range Surface to Air Missile (MRSAM)/Barak-8 weapons system for the IAF in Rajasthan's Jaisalmer.The Emergency Landing Facility (ELF) is part of a national highway that, for the first time ever, will be used for emergency landings of the Indian Air Force aircrafts. Video clips shared by the ANI news agency showed that a Sukhoi Su-30 MKI fighter aircraft and a Jaguar jet landed at the national highway in Rajasthan's Jalore, showcasing the stretch of road that will be used for more such emergency landings of the armed forces.#WATCH | In a first, Jaguar aircraft carries out a touch and go landing at the emergency landing field on the national highway in Jalore, Rajasthan pic.twitter.com/e2FIPHUUa2#WATCH | For the first time, a Sukhoi Su-30 MKI fighter aircraft lands at the national highway in Jalore, Rajasthan pic.twitter.com/BVVOtCpT0HEarlier this day, the Union defence minister tweeted: “Leaving New Delhi for Barmer on a day-long visit to Rajasthan. Shall inaugurate the Emergency Landing Facility on NH-925A near Barmer, along with the Minister for Road Transport & Highways, Shri @nitin_gadkari. I shall also be attending the MRSAM induction ceremony in Jaisalmer.”According to the Union ministry of road transport and highways, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) had developed a three-kilometre section of the Satta-Gandhav stretch of NH-925A from Km. 41/430 to Km. 44/430 as an Emergency Landing Facility for the Indian Air Force. It is a part of the newly developed two-lane paved shoulder of Gagariya-Bakhasar and Satta-Gandhav Section having a total length of 196.97 kilometres and costing ₹765.52 crores under Bharatmala Pariyojana.An official statement from the road transport ministry said, "This project will improve connectivity between villages of Barmer and Jalore districts located on the international borders. The stretch is located in the western border area will facilitate the vigilance of the Indian Army as well as strengthen the basic infrastructure of the country."The Indian Air Force will be inducting the Medium Range Surface to Air Missile (MRSAM)/Barak-8 weapons system in Rajasthan's Jaisalmer later in the day. Defence minister Rajnath Singh will be attending the induction ceremony.The MRSAM missile system, jointly developed by India and Israel, is expected to provide a significant boost to the country's air defence and combat capabilities. The two countries had successfully carried out tests earlier this year at a facility in India, which showed off the advanced medium-range missile equipped with advanced phased-array radar and interceptors with advanced RF seekers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-in-rajasthan-iaf-to-get-mrsam-missile-emergency-landing-strip-on-highway-101631166909344.html
09-09-2021||India||India has administered over 715 million Covid vaccine doses till now||India administered at least 715 million Covid-19 vaccine doses by Wednesday, September 8, according to government data.By 7pm on Wednesday, 715,254,153 vaccine doses were given across states and union territories. This includes beneficiaries who, since the commencement of the nationwide drive, have received both doses, and the corresponding number of those who have been vaccinated with their first dose. As many as 7,380,510 doses were administered on the day. Of this, 5,042,806 beneficiaries were vaccinated with the first dose and 2,337,704 beneficiaries received the second dose of vaccine.In the 18-45 age group, 366,3276 were given the first dose while 1,245,991 doses were given as the second dose on the day. Cumulatively, 285,704,140 persons in this age group across the country received their first dose and 38,599,523 have received their second dose since the start of the vaccination drive.
09-09-2021||India||J&K leader TS Wazir found dead under mysterious circumstances in Delhi||Former member of Jammu and Kashmir legislative council and a senior National Conference leader from Jammu, Tarlochan Singh Wazir (67), was found dead in Delhi’s Moti Nagar area under mysterious circumstances on Thursday morning, police officers said.“He was found dead in the Moti Nagar area of Delhi. His family members have left for Delhi. As of now we don’t have any other details with us,” a senior police officer said. Some reports suggest that Wazir was murdered but this has not been confirmed as yet. Moti Nagar is a neighbourhood located in West Delhi.HT has learnt that Wazir was supposed to go to Canada but went missing in Delhi on September 2.Wazir was a prominent leader from Jammu and he regularly raised issues faced by the Sikh community. As president of the J&K motor transporters’ association, he also fought for their rights.Stiffly opposed to Sikh radical groups and their ideology, Wazir was a close confidante of NC leaders Farooq Abdullah and Omar Abdullah. Expressing his shock at Wazir’s death Omar said he met him only a few days ago.“Shocked by the terrible news of the sudden death of my colleague Sardar T S Wazir, an ex member of the Legislative Council. It was only a few days ago that we sat together in Jammu not realising it was the last time I would be meeting him. May his soul rest in peace,” he tweeted.Wazir was once jailed in infamous Chopra murder case for sometime but was later acquitted of all the charges.Wazir’s body has been sent for post-mortem. Police have initiated an investigation into the reasons behind his death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-and-kashmir-leader-ts-wazir-found-dead-under-mysterious-circumstances-101631168985326.html
09-09-2021||India||Australian foreign, defence ministers to reach tomorrow for 2+2 ministerial talk||Australian foreign minister Marise Payne and defence minister Peter Dutton is scheduled to arrive in India on Fri to hold ‘2+2’ ministerial dialogue with external affairs minister S Jaishankar and Union minister for defence Rajnath Singh. The meeting between the ministers of both the nation, scheduled on Saturday, is aimed at boosting bilateral defence ties and strategic cooperation in the Ind-Pacific region, in the wake of China's growing aggressiveness.India and Australia are part of the strategic Quadrilateral Security Dialogue group, or the Quad, as it is colloquially called, along with the United States and Japan. Its first inklings go back to 2007 but a recent resurgence is largely seen as an initiative to post-pandemic recovery and maritime security across the Indo-Pacific. The heads of the member states of Quad group are scheduled to meet in the at Washington, DC on September 23 ahead of the UN General Assembly.The ‘2+2’ ministerial dialogue, people familiar with diplomatic parlays said, will focus on cooperation in areas of maritime security. India and Australia have been partnering with each other on ramping up strategic ties over the past few years. The navies of India and Australia recently took part in the Malabar exercises that also featured the US and Japan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/australian-foreign-defence-ministers-to-reach-tomorrow-for-2-2-ministerial-talk-101631164771859.html
09-09-2021||India||Decomposed body of ex-J&K MLC TS Wazir found in Delhi flat, probe on||The decomposed body of former member of Jammu & Kashmir Legislative Council and National Conference (NC) leader Trilochan Singh Wazir was found in a flat in West Delhi on Thursday. Family members of the 67-year-old veteran politician have left from Jammu. Wazir’s body has been sent for post-mortem. Delhi Police has registered a case of murder under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code. The decomposed body of 67-year-old Trilochan Singh Wazir (former member of Jammu & Kashmir Legislative Council) has been found in a flat in Basai Darapur area of West Delhi, says DCP (West) Urvija Goel (Visual from outside the flat where Singh's body has been found) pic.twitter.com/mnmvdiIPJHAccording to local media reports, Wazir had recently taken part in a meeting of the NC that was held in Jammu. Wazir was president of Jammu & Kashmir Transporters Welfare Forum (TWF) and a popular leader.Expressing his shock at the sudden death of his party colleague, former chief minister and NC leader Omar Abdullah said it was only a few days ago that they met in Jammu.“Shocked by the terrible news of the sudden death of my colleague Sardar T. S. Wazir, ex member of the Legislative Council. It was only a few days ago that we sat together in Jammu not realising it was the last time I would be meeting him. May his soul rest in peace,” he wrote on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/decomposed-body-of-ex-j-k-mlc-ts-wazir-found-in-delhi-flat-probe-on-101631164318703.html
09-09-2021||India||India records 43,263 fresh Covid-19 infections, active cases rise to just below 400,000-mark||India’s fresh infections of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) rose by nearly 6000 cases as 43,263 people tested positive, taking the cumulative nationwide infection tally to 33,139,981, the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) dashboard showed on Thursday. This marks a rise of 14% from 37,875 cases that were reported on Wednesday.Also Read | Will Indians socialise this festive season? Here's what this survey foundThursday’s data also showed a rise in the number of active patients, with the tally of such cases rising by 2358 to 393,614. In the same period, 338 related fatalities took place, taking overall death toll to 441,749. Daily recoveries, meanwhile, stood at 40,567, and the number of recovered cases rose to 32,304,618.Also Read | AIIMS to begin Phase 2/3 trials of Bharat Biotech’s nasal Covid-19 vaccine within couple of weeks: ReportsRecoveries, deaths and active cases comprise 97.48%, 1.33%, and 1.2% of the overall caseload, respectively, the data showed.As 1,817,639 more samples were tested for Covid-19, the daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.38 per cent, staying below 3 per cent for 10th straight day, while the weekly positivity rate, too, remained below 3 per cent for 76th consecutive day. Total number of samples tested for the contagious disease is at 536,817,243. COVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes @PIB_India @mygovindia @COVIDNewsByMIB #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/K8u8bqxxWiWith more than 8.6 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines administered in the last 24 hours, the country’s cumulative vaccination coverage is at 716,597,428. This includes beneficiaries who, since the commencement of the nationwide drive, have received both doses, and the corresponding number of those who have been vaccinated with their first dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-43-263-fresh-covid-19-infections-active-cases-rise-to-just-below-400000-101631163219533.html
09-09-2021||India||There should be greater multidisciplinarity in higher education: Vice prez Naidu||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Wednesday called for greater multidisciplinarity in higher education while virtually inaugurating the Moturi Satyanarayana Centre for Advanced Study in Humanities at KREA University. He stressed that several careers in the near future would require a holistic knowledge of diverse fields.In his address at the event, Naidu remarked, “My appeal to parents is to encourage and infuse in children curiosity for arts, literature and social sciences from a young age. In a race to make it to the top national institutions of science and engineering, we are ignoring essential subjects in school such as languages and social sciences. In addition, rote learning practices will ruin the creative abilities of a child. We must rather produce engineers, doctors and scientists, who come up with innovative solutions to the challenges faced by humanity.”Naidu called for a revival of the liberal arts and their integration with the STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics) curriculum. He added that exposure to arts and social sciences nurtures creativity, critical thinking, and social awareness and leads to better teamwork and communication skills among students. These qualities are in high demand in the 21st century where no sector of the economy works in a silo, he mentioned. Naidu highlighted that India has had a culture of holistic education since ancient times, and noted that the National Education Policy 2020 further strengthens holistic education. The Vice President lauded the efforts of colleges like IIT Bombay, which has recently introduced an interdisciplinary undergraduate course that includes liberal arts, science and engineering in one programme. He suggested that other institutions must explore providing such multidisciplinary courses.Furthermore, Naidu emphasised the importance of updating students from the humanities background with the latest technological developments, so that they are able to effectively apply this knowledge in their research studies. “While technical institutions should integrate arts into their curriculum, students from the arts and humanities background should be given options to gain exposure to scientific disciplines such as computing, artificial intelligence and other such frontier areas. They must be abreast with the latest technological developments and skillfully apply these advances in their own research work,” he said. Naidu suggested that such centres should encourage innovative research in social sciences by encouraging and enabling diverse voices. He suggested that scholars in the social sciences should work closely with the practitioners and policy-makers to get a better understanding of social issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/there-should-be-greater-multidisciplinarity-in-higher-education-vice-prez-naidu-101631163525091.html
09-09-2021||India||Stick to curriculum, no provocative lectures: Kerala varsity to faculty members||The Central University of Kerala has recently issued a circular asking its faculty and staff members to refrain from making any provocative or “anti-national” lectures and statements. The university said employees should “abstain from giving any type of provocative lectures or statements that are anti-national and will be against the interests of the nation” failing which strict action would be initiated against the individuals concerned.The circular, signed by registrar Rajendra Pilankatta of the Kasargod-based university, was issued on September 2, a report in The Indian Express said.The move came in the wake of the suspension of an assistant professor whose comment on the Sangh and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) created a controversy earlier this year.The professor Gilbert Sebastian had allegedly described saffron outfits and the Narendra Modi government at the Centre as proto-fascist during a lecture for first-year post-graduate students on “Fascism and Nazism” on April 19. The report said the professor of the Department of International Relations and Politics was also allegedly critical of the Union government’s decision to export Covid-19 vaccines and called the move unpatriotic.Vice chancellor H Venkateshwarlu has said the latest directive was brought in considering previous controversies that had led to unnecessary resentment on the campus.“We expect the faculty members to stick to their curriculum. To deviate from it and express their views or political opinions will create unnecessary resentment or friction among the students and workers,” he was quoted as saying in an article in The Hindu.He further said students may continue to express their views and opinions on issues during open debates or seminars, but faculty members need to refrain from such acts and stick to their curriculum in classes.Meanwhile, Gilbert, whose suspension was revoked after he offered an explanation, has reportedly written to the VC against an executive council meeting that said he had “given a letter of regret, withdrawal of the utterances he made in the class; and future assurance of not repeating.’’Stating that the minutes on withdrawal of his suspension was unacceptable to him, the professor said, “What I had expressed in the letter was clearly a non-admission (of) regret since my views in the class have been misconstrued by others. What I withdrew was any incidental remarks. EC’s observation that my ‘statement in the class was anti-national’, (was) uncalled for and regrettable as it is an unfounded allegation.”The executive council had earlier also expressed concern over the VC’s decision to withdraw Gilbert’s suspension order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stick-to-curriculum-no-provocative-lectures-kerala-varsity-to-faculty-members-101631161137350.html
09-09-2021||India||Top US envoy meets RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat||Charge d’Affaires of the United States Embassy Atul Keshap called on Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat on Wednesday. According to a Sangh functionary the meeting was a “courtesy call”. Keshap tweeted about the meeting and said, “Good discussion with @RSSorg Shri Mohan Bhagwat about how India’s tradition of diversity, democracy, inclusivity, and pluralism can ensure the vitality and strength of a truly great nation.”As part of the Sangh’s outreach, Bhagwat meets heads of missions and ambassadors. He has also interacted with the members of the foreign press corps. In the past several ambassadors have called on the RSS chief. In 2019, German Ambassador Walter J Lindner met Bhagwat at the organisation’s headquarters in Nagpur. RSS chief Bhagwat has recently been involved in a minority outreach attempting to address key political issues facing the community.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-us-envoy-meets-rss-chief-mohan-bhagwat-101631161665102.html
09-09-2021||India||Will Indians socialise this festive season? Here's what this survey found||Amid fears over a potential third wave of the coronavirus pandemic, the central government, last month, directed states and Union territories to tighten curbs ahead of the upcoming festive season. Many festivals have already passed, while several others will be celebrated in the coming days and months.Also Read | Tighten curbs ahead of festivals: Centre to statesWhile most people stayed at home during the festive season last year, as the first wave of Covid-19 swept through the country, a recent survey has found that this year, many people intend to socialise during the festive season despite concerns of a possible fresh wave. The poll was conducted by online platform LocalCircles among 27,000 respondents from 12,000 households in 312 districts spread across the country. 67 per cent of those surveyed were men, while 33 per cent were women. Also Read | Covid-19 third wave is already here, people must celebrate Ganesh Chaturthi at home: Mumbai mayor“Thousands of citizens on our platforms have been reporting since early August that family, relatives, friends, neighbours and colleagues have been frequenting their homes and vice-versa. Many have also been getting back their domestic helps or service providers for repairs and services which they had to earlier postpone due to the second wave in April-June,” the report, released on Wednesday, stated.Also Read | 28% Indians plan to travel during Aug-Sept amid fear of Covid third wave: ReportHere’s what the survey found:(1.) 80 per cent Indians to leave home: 17 per cent respondents said they will visit their relatives, while 8 per cent were of the opinion that they will leave home to visit friends or associates. 22 per cent said they might recall domestic helps, or visit service providers. Overall, from across 80 per cent households, one or more respondents were willing to leave home during festivals.(2.) 59 per cent to visit relatives or friends: 23 per cent respondents said they to go to meet their relatives, while 11 per cent opined they will meet friends, neighbours or associates. 5 per cent responded that they will meet someone else, if not relatives or friends. Overall, respondents from 59 per cent households said they will visit relatives, friends or others.(3.) 48 per cent ready to celebrate festivals: The number of those who said they will celebrate every festival stood at 18 per cent while 7 per cent each said they will attend functions such as birthday celebrations, anniversaries or work-related events. Overall, 48 per cent looked ready to celebrate the upcoming festivals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-indians-socialise-this-festive-season-here-s-what-this-survey-found-101631159208632.html
09-09-2021||India||Assam boat accident: Search operations resume for 2 missing passengers||Teams from National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) began operations on Thursday morning to trace the two missing passengers of the capsized boat, which collided with a larger boat a day earlier on the Brahmaputra river in Assam. Officials said that as per new information available till 8.30am on Thursday, the capsized boat had 87 passengers. Initially it was suspected that the boat was carrying over 100 passengers. “Of the total passengers, one woman who was rescued died later in hospital, 84 others have been rescued or accounted for and two others are missing. Rescue operations, which continued till late Wednesday night have resumed again on Thursday morning,” Ashok Kumar Barman, deputy commissioner, Jorhat, said. Also Read | Assam boat accident: Army to join rescue operations today | 10 pointsAround 4pm on Wednesday, two boats collided and the smaller one of the two capsized around 100 metres away from the Nematighat bank between Kamalabari in Majuli district and Nematighat in Jorhat district.The deceased passenger has been identified as Parimita Das, a resident of Guwahati who was working as a lecturer at a college in Majuli. The two missing persons are Jaan Baruah, a resident of Lakhimpur, and Dr Bikramjit Baruah, a resident of Jorhat. “We started our rescue operations from 6.00am on Thursday. At present, four NDRF teams are involved in the search for the two missing persons,” informed Hari Ram Yadav, assistant commandant, 1st battalion, NDRF, Assam. “On Wednesday night, we located the capsized boat, which was found several kilometers downstream. Our team cut a portion of the overturned boat to look for missing persons, but no one was found there,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-boat-accident-search-operations-resume-for-2-missing-passengers-101631159684797.html
09-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: Internet to remain suspended in Karnal as farmers' stir continues||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Internet to remain suspended in Karnal as farmers stir enters third dayMobile internet and SMS services will continue to remain suspended in Karnal on Thursday as farmers’ agitation against administration excess during an earlier protest entered the third day in the district. Read MoreAssam boat accident: Army to join rescue operations today | 10 pointsThe Centre has assured all help to Assam government in rescuing people after a boat accident in Jorhat which left one woman dead and four other persons missing. Union home minister Amit Shah on Wednesday spoke to Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma over the phone and said the central government is continuously monitoring the situation. Read MoreUN warns of ‘incredible fear’ among Afghan women as Taliban rule returnsThe United Nations warned on Wednesday that the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan and the subsequent position of the new rulers on women's rights have generated an “incredible fear” across the country. “The lack of clarity of the Taliban's position on women's rights has generated incredible fear,” said Alison Davidian, a senior UN official. “And this fear is palpable across the country.” Read MoreTaliban's latest diktat: Permission needed for protests, purpose and slogans must be shared with ministryThe Taliban on Wednesday introduced several 'conditions' to restrict protest in Afghanistan. The move comes days after the regime said it won't tolerate any resistance to their rule. The decision will raise eyebrows around the world, as several countries have denounced the seizure of power by Taliban. Read MoreBiden ousts Trump-appointed officials from military academy advisory boardsThe Biden administration in the United States has asked 18 members of the military service advisory boards, including 11 officials appointed by former president Donald Trump, to either resign or be fired. Read More'He has to come in, there is no question about it': Gavaskar suggests changes for India for 5th Test against EnglandIndia were without two of their premier fast bowlers in the Oval Test – Mohammed Shami and Ishant Sharma – and arguably the best spinner in the world in Ravichandran Ashwin – and yet they managed to script a terrific comeback in the fourth Test to beat England by 157 runs and acquire a 2-1 lead. Read MoreNew mom Nusrat Jahan dodges question on her ‘better half’: ‘The father knows who the father is’Actor-politician Nusrat Jahan, who welcomed a baby boy last month, made her first public appearance on Wednesday after embracing motherhood. She attended the opening of a salon in Kolkata. At the event, she was asked a question about her ‘better half’ and she chose not to take any names. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-internet-to-remain-suspended-in-karnal-as-farmers-stir-continues-101631157496150.html
09-09-2021||India||Internet to remain suspended in Karnal as farmers stir enters third day||Mobile internet and SMS services will continue to remain suspended in Karnal on Thursday as farmers’ agitation against administration excess during an earlier protest entered the third day in the district.Issuing a statement, the Haryana government said the services were being banned "to stop the spread of misinformation" through social media platforms and will remain in effect till 11.59pm on Thursday. The order was being issued “to prevent any disturbance of peace and public order” in Karnal, read the statement signed by additional chief secretary Rajeev Arora.In view of farmers' agitation in Karnal, Haryana Govt suspends mobile internet & SMS services in the district "to stop the spread of misinformation"; the order to remain in effect till 11:59 pm today pic.twitter.com/EtN0IfZjQdTalks between the farmers and the district administration failed to yield any positive result on Wednesday as the former continued their blockade of the mini secretariat in Karnal.Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait said the sit-in outside the key government building would continue and the agitation would gradually mirror the one being held for months along the borders of Delhi against the three central farm laws. Tikait said farmers from Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, and other places would join the stir in Karnal if their demand was not met. The farmers have sought action against officials who had allegedly ordered a lathi charge on agitators during their protest against a BJP event in Karnal on August 28 .Preparing for a long haul, farmers were seen pitching tents, arranging langar, hookahs, medicines, fruits, tea and snacks at the protest site on Tuesday. For entertainment, troupes of Ragini singers have arrived. Even CCTV cameras have been installed around the protest site and young volunteers were seen monitoring the movement of people.The latest agitation began with a massive kisan mahapanchayat organised on Tuesday afternoon to press for the demands, including action against Karnal sub-divisional magistrate Ayush Sinha, who allegedly directed police to hit farmers on the head if they crossed the barricades on August 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/internet-to-remain-suspended-in-karnal-as-farmers-stir-enters-third-day-101631157185289.html
09-09-2021||India||Widespread rain over N-W, central and west India till Sunday: IMD||Widespread and heavy rain is likely over many parts of northwest, central India and the west coast till Sunday in association with the movement of a low pressure system, the India Meteorological Department said.There is a low pressure area over southwest Madhya Pradesh and its neighbourhood. It is very likely to move west-northwest wards during the next 24 hours. The western end of the monsoon trough is running to the south of its normal position and likely to remain so during the next four days. The eastern end is running to the north of its normal position and is likely to shift to the south of its normal position from Friday.Also Read | Mumbai unlikely to get heavy rain next week, says IMDA shear zone is very likely to persist over south peninsular India during the next 24 hours. A fresh low pressure area is likely to form over the north and adjoining central Bay of Bengal around Saturday. It is likely to become more marked during the subsequent 24 hours. Under the influence of these systems, widespread rainfall is likely over Konkan, Goa, Gujarat state and Coastal Karnataka and scattered to fairly widespread rainfall over Madhya Maharashtra and Marathawada till Sunday.Isolated heavy to very heavy rain is likely over Konkan, Goa, coastal Karnataka, Gujarat till Sunday.Isolated extremely heavy rain (over 20cm) is also likely over Gujarat and over Konkan and Goa till Thursday.Scattered to widespread rainfall is likely over most parts of northwest India till Sunday with heavy rain likely over Jammu & Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana, over Uttar Pradesh and West Rajasthan till Saturday; over Uttarakhand and East Rajasthan till Sunday. Rainfall is likely to increase over Odisha and Coastal Andhra Pradesh from Saturday and over Chhattisgarh, Telangana and Gangetic West Bengal from Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/widespread-rain-over-n-w-central-and-west-india-till-sunday-imd-101631156624442.html
09-09-2021||India||AIIMS to begin Phase 2/3 trials of Bharat Biotech’s nasal Covid-19 vaccine within couple of weeks: Reports||Phase 2/3 trials of Bharat Biotech International Limited’s nasal vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) are likely to begin “within a couple of weeks” at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi, according to news agency ANI. The Hyderabad-based company received regulatory approvals to conduct the second and third phase trials of the intranasal vaccine, BBV154, in August.Also Read | First nasal vaccine developed by Bharat Biotech gets nod for Phase 2/3 trialFor these two stages, mandatory permission from AIIMS Ethics Committee will be required for which an application has already been submitted. Upon receiving the panel’s nod, the exercise will be conducted by administering two doses to volunteers, with a gap of four weeks between the two.The trials will take place under the leadership of Dr Sanjay Rai. The third phase will commence only after the preceding stage has been fully completed.It is to be noted that BBV154 is the first of its kind Covid-19 jab to undergo human trials in the country. Phase 1 of the exercise was conducted on health groups volunteers in the age group of 18-60 and was “well tolerated,” the ministry of science and technology had said earlier. The vaccine has been developed with support from the department of biotechnology (DBT) and Biotechnology Industry Research Associate Council (BIRAC).BBV154 is the first intranasal jab in the country to reach late-stage trials, according to Dr Renu Swarup, secretary, DBT.Bharat Biotech has also developed India’s first home-made anti-Covid shot, Covaxin, which, along with Covishield, is the most-widely used vaccine in the nationwide inoculation drive, which began on January 16. In its Phase 3 clinical trials, Covaxin demonstrated 77.8% efficacy against symptomatic Covid-19 and 93.4% against severe form of the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiims-to-begin-phase-2-3-trials-of-bharat-biotech-s-nasal-covid-19-vaccine-within-couple-of-weeks-reports-101631153280592.html
09-09-2021||India||Assam boat accident: Army to join rescue operations today | 10 points||The Centre has assured all help to Assam government in rescuing people after a boat accident in Jorhat which left one woman dead and four other persons missing. Union home minister Amit Shah on Wednesday spoke to Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma over the phone and said the central government is continuously monitoring the situation.Biswa expressed his gratitude to the home minister for extending the help.The head-on accident between a larger government vessel (which belonged to the state's inland water transport) and a smaller private ferry occurred around 4pm on Wednesday, roughly 100m from the Nematighat bank in Jorhat district. The boat sank in the Brahmaputra; officials said the water level in the river is high due to monsoon rains.Here are the latest updates about the ongoing rescue operation:1. The woman who died has been identified as Porimita Das from Guwahati. She was working as a faculty in a college in Majuli.2. Three injured people are undergoing treatment at the Jorhat Medical College and Hospital, a doctor said.3. National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) is engaged in the rescue operation and its chief Satya Narayan Pradhan said that there were 120 people onboard the two boats.4. The Army will join the operations on Thursday with some advanced machines, Jorhat Deputy Commissioner Ashok Barman said.5. Chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said at least 42 people have been rescued and the capsized boat has been located 1.5 kilometres away from the spot. Sarma will visit Nimati Ghat on Thursday, according to a statement from his office.6. Meanwhile, three officials of the inland water transport (IWT) department have been placed under suspension for alleged negligence of duty, while senior ministers admitted that there were lapses and the "guilty" will be punished, news agency PTI reported.7. Assam power minister Bimal Bora, who reached Nematighat on Wednesday night, said, "There must be some lapses. Otherwise, this accident would not have taken place. These all will be looked into in the coming days."8. The Assam Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA) has opened helpline numbers to disseminate information related to the accident. These are 1070, 1079 and 1077.9. President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed grief over the boat accident. "My thoughts go out to the victims, survivors and their families. Rescue and relief efforts are on to save as many lives as possible,” Kovind said on Twitter on Wednesday.10. Expressing deep concern over the accident, PM Modi assured all help from the Centre in the rescue operation and said that he is with the people of Assam in this hour of distress||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-boat-accident-33-missing-army-to-join-rescue-ops-today-10-points-101631153229597.html
09-09-2021||India||HC stays road project leading to Goa waterfall until wildlife board’s nod||Tourism exists for (benefit of) protected areas and not vice-versa, and demands for having one must be subservient to conservation interests, the Bombay High Court in Goa observed on Wednesday, as it stayed the construction of an ‘all weather’ road leading to the world-famous Dudhsagar Falls which is currently only connected via a kutcha road. The court’s observation came while hearing a plea filed by an environmental NGO, the Goa Foundation, challenging the decision of the Goa Public Works Department (PWD) to pursue the construction of a paved road leading up to the falls. The bench, comprising justices M S Sonak and M S Jawalkar, said that besides regular annual repairs, all other works proposed by the PWD “ought not to proceed until the final disposal of this petition or until the respondents obtain necessary approval from NBWL (National Board for Wildlife), whichever is earlier.”“From the material placed on record, at least prima facie, the CWW (Chief Wildlife Warden) has not considered whether such a project is necessary for the purpose of PA (protected area). Rather, the material on record, prima facie, suggests that the project is mostly to cater to almost 4.5 lakhs tourists that visit the Dudhsagar Waterfalls by using the existing kutcha road,” the order read. The Goa government had embarked on the project to upgrade the existing kutcha road into an all-weather road usable throughout the year, in the second week of August. The project involves replacing the kutcha road surface with lateritic soiling with murram duly compacted and laying interlocking pavers over a 15 cms bed of cement and concrete. The project also involves providing cross drains, ramps, parking bay, retaining walls, culverts, crash barriers and random rubble masonry. Besides these, the project involves providing a toilet block and guard room among others at a cost of ₹31 crore or thereabouts, covering a stretch of approximately 12 kms. “This can hardly be regarded as routine repair or maintenance works on the existing kutcha road. For an integrated project of this nature, at least prima facie, approval from NBWL is necessary,” the high court observed. “In such matters, the precautionary principle will have to be applied because the damage to the eco-sensitive PA (protected area) will be much greater if the proposed works proceed without any approval from NBWL. Since there is no bar to undertaking routine repair and maintenance works to the kutcha road as are undertaken every year, even the balance of convenience is not in favour of the respondents,” the bench noted. In its affidavit, the state forest department claimed that since the road was being repaired and is not a fresh project, it does not have to go through the normal procedures laid down by the Supreme Court and to have the project approved by the State Board for Wildlife and thereafter, by the standing committee of NBWL.The present route to Dudhsagar is closed between June and October as it becomes non-motorable during the monsoons which, the Goa Foundation argued, offers “the wildlife and forest a much needed breather of at least five months due to the monsoon and the turbulent nature of the Dudhsagar River.” That, the petitioner added, will be lost if the all-weather road is allowed to be completed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-stays-road-project-leading-to-goa-waterfall-until-wildlife-board-s-nod-101631151816170.html
09-09-2021||India||India's 1st emergency landing strip on highway to be inaugurated in Barmer today||Union ministers Rajnath Singh and Nitin Gadkari will inaugurate an emergency landing strip at Gandhav Bhakasar section on National Highway-925 in Barmer, Rajasthan, on Thursday for Indian Air Force (IAF) planes.An IAF plane, carrying the two ministers, will conduct a mock emergency landing on the national highway. Singh, the Union defence minister, will also visit Jaisalmer where he will interact with IAF personnel."Raksha Mantri Shri @rajnathsingh will be visiting Barmer and Jaisalmer in Rajasthan tomorrow. He will review the operations, attend the MRSAM induction ceremony and also interact with the IAF personnel stationed in Jaisalmer," Singh's office posted on Twitter on Wednesday.Raksha Mantri Shri @rajnathsingh will be visiting Barmer and Jaisalmer in Rajasthan tomorrow. He will review the operations, attend the MRSAM induction ceremony and also interact with the IAF personnel stationed in Jaisalmer.This is the first time that a national highway (NH-925) will be used for emergency landing of IAF aircraft.The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has developed a 3-km section of Satta-Gandhav stretch of NH-925A, as an emergency landing facility (ELF) for the IAF. It is part of a newly developed two lane paved shoulder of Gagariya-Bakhasar and Satta-Gandhav section having a total length of 196.97 km. The project will cost ₹765.52 crore under the Bharatmala Pariyojana.In October 2017, fighter jets and transport planes of the IAF had conducted mock landings on the Lucknow-Agra Expressway to show that such highways can be used by the IAF planes for landing in case of an emergency.The Lucknow-Agra Expressway is a state highway and comes under the Uttar Pradesh government.Apart from the Emergency Landing Strip, 3 helipads (size 100 x 30 metres each) have been constructed in Kundanpura, Singhania and Bakhasar villages in this project, according to the requirements of the Air Force/Indian Army, which will be the basis for strengthening the Indian Army and security network on the western international border of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-1st-emergency-landing-strip-on-highway-to-be-inaugurated-in-barmer-today-101631151180602.html
09-09-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi to begin 2-day Jammu visit today||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi will arrive in Jammu on Thursday on a 2-day visit for which his itinerary includes a walk to the famous Vaishno Devi Temple. This will be Gandhi’s second visit to Jammu and Kashmir within a month; he was in Srinagar on August 9 and 10 when he inaugurated the party’s new office in the city.Also Read | Rahul calls for restoration of J&K statehood“Shri Rahul Gandhi will be in Jammu tomorrow for a two-day tour and visit to Mata Vaishno Devi Temple. Stay tuned to our social media platforms for his interactions,” the Congress said on its Twitter handle on Wednesday. Shri @RahulGandhi will be in Jammu tomorrow for a two day tour & visit to Mata Vaishno Devi Temple. Stay tuned to our social media platforms for his interactions. FB: https://t.co/NPOcx48kHNYT: https://t.co/g2POk7bvU1Insta: https://t.co/C0Mr9TzMxd pic.twitter.com/aTo1PMMx9dSpeaking to news agency ANI, Ghulam Ahmed Mir, who heads the party’s Jammu and Kashmir unit, laid out Gandhi’s schedule. “The first thing he will do is pay obeisance to Mata Vaishno Devi. However, unlike other leaders who use choppers and horses to visit the temple, we believe that he has made up his mind to walk on foot from Katra to the temple. On his return, he will, once again, walk on foot. We have not scheduled any political engagements on the first day of his tour,” Mir said.He added that from Katra, the Wayanad MP will go to Jammu by car and attend a small party function there. “We have not stopped Congress workers from organising small programmes to welcome the former party president, on his way back from Katra. After the event in Jammu, he will also interact with some local party leaders,” Mir said.The J&K Congress president further informed that Gandhi plans to visit all districts “when the situation is better” and try to highlight the problems of the people on the ground.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-to-begin-2-day-jammu-visit-today-101631148937885.html
09-09-2021||India||PM Modi to host India's Paralympics stars today, mark most successful season yet||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is all set to meet the Indian contingent of the 2020 Summer Paralympics on Thursday (September 9), just as he had earlier met with all the Olympians who returned after participating in the multi-sports event in Tokyo. Announcing on Sunday that the Prime Minister will be hosting the Paralympians this week, Union minister for youth affairs and sports Anurag Thakur said that Modi has always had a “vision” for inclusive participation in sports, so creating more opportunities for specially-abled athletes was a part of that idea.“He [the Prime Minister] had hosted the Olympians when they arrived in India, and now he is going to host the Paralympians as well,” the sports minister later told reporters, adding a congratulatory word for all the medallists this year. He pointed out that in 2016, the contingent for the Paralympics was 19 and now in 2021, the country's para-athletes managed to win 19 medals.The 2020 Summer Paralympics in Tokyo was held from August 24 to September 5 this year entirely behind closed doors due to the prevailing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation. Just like the Olympics, the multi-sports event was branded as Tokyo 2020 despite being delayed a year due to the pandemic.Although India's athletes have appeared in every edition of the Summer Paralympics since 1984, the event this year proved to be the most successful Paralympic season for the country yet, with the athletes securing a total of 19 medals - five gold, eight silver, and six bronze. Before this edition, India had won 12 medals (4 medals of each colour) in all previous Paralympics appearances combined.India at the 2020 Summer Paralympics saw several firsts - archer Harvinder Singh became the first Indian to win a medal in Archery, and Avani Lekhara scripted history by becoming the first Indian to win a medal in Shooting. She also became the first woman from the country to win a gold medal and become a multiple medalist at the Paralympics. Para-athlete Sumit Antil also set a new world record with a 68.55-metre Javelin throw this year, also winning a gold medal in the process.“It clearly shows that India has done well,” minister Anurag Thakur said. “Our medal tally has increased by about five times. It is a big achievement.”Prime Minister Narendra Modi has personally spoken to every Paralympian who won a medal for the country. He said on Sunday that India’s historic medal haul in the Tokyo Paralympic games would remain etched in the memory of every Indian and motivate generations of athletes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-host-india-s-paralympics-stars-today-mark-most-successful-season-yet-101631144469995.html
09-09-2021||India||Trial run of delivering vaccines by drones to begin in Telangana from today||The Telangana government will on Thursday hold a trial run of delivering medicines and vaccines using drones. It is a part of state government's ambitious 'Medicine From The Sky' project.In a statement, the K Chandrashekhar Rao government said that the trial flights will be conducted from September 9 to October 10 at Vikarabad (Hyderabad).On the first two days, the drones will be flying in the visual line of sight - between 500 and 700 metres from the base - and people present in the area will be able to see them with the naked eye, the government said in the statement.From September 11 onwards, drone flights will take place Beyond Visual Line of Sight (BVLOS) - for 9-10 km distances. These flights will be with consignments of vaccines, medical samples and other healthcare items, the statement further said.BVLOS drone flights are those that go beyond 500-700 metres from the eye's vision or beyond the visual line of sight.This will make Telangana the first state in the country to start trials of Beyond Visual Line of Sight (BVLOS) drone flights for delivery of Covid-19 vaccines, the state government said.The Centre too had recently taken initial steps towards delovering Covid-19 vaccines through drones. In June, HLL Infra Tech Services Limited, on behalf of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), invited expression of interest for delivery of medical supplies (vaccines/drugs) by Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) at select locations in India.The company said that ICMR will engage UAV operators to operate BVLOS in fixed pre-defined or pre-approved flight paths and deliver Covid-19 vaccine.Earlier this year, the ministry of civil aviation (MoCA) and directorate general of civil aviation (DGCA) granted conditional exemption to ICMR for conducting feasibility study of Covid-19 vaccine delivery using drones. The ICMR chose IIT-Kanpur as its partner for the project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trial-run-of-delivering-vaccines-by-drones-to-begin-in-telangana-from-today-101631147307228.html
09-09-2021||India||Tamil Nadu assembly adopts anti-CAA resolution||The Tamil Nadu assembly on Wednesday adopted a resolution urging the Centre to repeal the contentious Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) “to uphold the secular principles enshrined in the Constitution”.“This August House considers that the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019, passed by the Parliament in the year 2019 is not in tune with the secular principles laid down in our Constitution and also not conducive to the communal harmony that prevails in India,” chief minister MK Stalin, who tabled the resolution, told the House. “Therefore, to protect and ensure the unity and communal harmony in this country and to uphold the secular principles enshrined in the Constitution of India, this August House resolves to urge the Union Government to repeal the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019,” he added.The resolution was supported by the Pattali Makkal Katchi , part of the Bharatiya Janata Party-led National Democratic Alliance. While the BJP staged a walkout in protest, its ally and principal opposition, All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, left the premises even before the resolution was tabled. “||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-assembly-adopts-anti-caa-resolution-101631144373630.html
09-09-2021||India||Swachh Survekshan Grameen 2021: Cleanliness survey for villages to be launched today||The Swachh Survekshan Grameen, 2021, a survey of cleanliness, hygiene and sanitation to boost the government's push for Open Defecation Free (ODF) Plus status for villages, will be launched on Thursday, the Jal Shakti ministry has said. According to an official, the programme will be launched by Union Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and his deputy Prahlad Singh Patel. An expert agency has been hired to carry out the Swachh Survekshan Grameen, 2021, which will be launched under phase two of the Swachh Bharat Mission. The Department of Drinking Water and Sanitation had commissioned the 'Swachh Survekshan Grameen' in 2018 and 2019.The ministry said 17,475 villages in 698 districts of the country will be covered by the Swachh Survekshan Grameen. Around 87,250 public places, such as schools, Anganwadi centres, public health centres, markets, religious places will be visited for the survey, it said.Around 1,74,750 households will be interviewed for their feedback on Swachh Bharat Mission-related issues. Citizens will be mobilised to provide feedback online on sanitation issues."Swachh Survekshan Grameen, 2021, will be launched under the Swachh Bharat Mission Phase-two on September 9. As part of the 'Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav', Swachh Survekshan Grameen aims to support the acceleration of ODF-plus interventions and results in the country," the ministry said in a statement on Wednesday.ODF-plus is aimed at ensuring solid and liquid waste management.This includes ensuring all households, schools, panchayat buildings and Anganwadi centres in a village have access to toilets and that all public places and at least 80 per cent of households effectively manage their solid and liquid waste with minimal litter and minimal stagnant water.For the Swachh Survekshan Grameen survey, 30 per cent weightage will be given for direct observation of sanitation at public places, 35 per cent for citizen's feedback, including feedback from common citizens, key influencers at the village level, and 35 per cent for service level progress on sanitation-related parameters. A detailed protocol has been developed to guide the ranking of districts based on their performance on key quality and quantitative parameters, the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/swachh-survekshan-grameen-2021-cleanliness-survey-for-villages-to-be-launched-today-101631144515165.html
09-09-2021||India||Karnal stir to mirror Delhi agitation: Rakesh Tikait||Farm leaders blockading a key government building in Haryana’s Karnal town said on Wednesday that they’ll build a protest mirroring the agitation sites outside Delhi if the government didn’t meet their demands linked to controversial police action against cultivators last month.The statement came after talks between Karnal district officials and farmers, who held a massive mahapanchayat on Tuesday afternoon and later marched into town to surround the mini secretariat, broke down for a second consecutive day.“We will start a morcha at Karnal which will be parallel to the ongoing protests at Delhi borders and our leaders will stay here for further discussion,” said farm leader Rakesh Tikait after the meeting, announcing that the talks had failed.He was referring to protests by tens of thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and other north Indian states at Singhu, Tikri, Ghazipur and other spots outside Delhi for the past nine months. The protesters are pressing for the repeal of three controversial central laws on agriculture.Three rounds of talks between farmers and the government had failed on Tuesday, after which thousands of protesters pitched tents and sat down outside the mini secretariat building. They remained there on Wednesday.The district administration invited the farm leaders for talks at 2 pm to end the standoff. “We are demanding both FIR against the IAS officer and his suspension,” Rakesh Bains, Bharatiya Kisan Union (Haryana) spokesperson, who was part of the 11-member farmers team, said.Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said the talks that lasted three hours remained inconclusive but added that negotiations will continue.“Farmers were demanding action against the former Karnal SDM (Ayush Sinha), but how can action be taken without holding an inquiry?” he asked, urging the farmers to keep their protest peaceful.But the farm leaders blamed the administration. “The talks completely failed because the government is adopting an adamant attitude,” said Yogendra Yadav, a member of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, after the three-hour meeting. He said the government was not ready to suspend the IAS officer, let alone register a case against him.The farmers have vowed to not lift the blockade till the government lodged a case of murder against SDM Ayush Sinha, who was caught on tape allegedly telling policemen to “break heads” if protesters crossed the line during a rally on August 28. They also want him suspended. Sinha has since been transferred and posted as additional secretary of Citizen Resources Information Department (CRID), as per a government order.Karnal is the home constituency of Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar, who defended the August 28 police action that left some farmers injured and allegedly caused the death of one protester – a charge denied by the administration.The farm leaders alleged that the government was shielding Sinha. “It seems that the IAS officer posted in the CM’s city was obeying some special directions,” Yadav said.On August 28, around 10 protesters were hurt in clashes with police in Karnal as farmers tried to march towards the venue of a BJP meeting, in which the chief minister and other senior state leaders were present. Farm leaders claimed that a protester died later, an allegation rejected by the administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnal-stir-to-mirror-delhi-agitation-rakesh-tikait-101631143359436.html
09-09-2021||India||In Kerala, 46 suspected samples found negative for Nipah||Forty six people with symptoms of Nipah were found negative on Wednesday; said Kerala health minister Veena George in Kozhikode adding the north Kerala district was almost out of danger of a serious outbreak. The minister said samples of all close contacts of the dead boy, including his parents and health workers, turned negative but the government will maintain a strict vigil for three more weeks. Since a majority of immediate contacts are negative for the infection she feels the worst is over. “It is a great relief that all samples turned negative so far. But we will not lower our guard. All restrictions will be in force till the window period of the virus (3 weeks) is over,” she said.She said going by the preliminary reports bats are suspected to be the main carrier but more studies needed to pinpoint the triggering agent. Many experts said the affected areas are also infested with wild boars and their samples will also be taken for testing. A team from the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases Laboratory from Bhopal which arrived in the city will co-ordinate more such studies, she said. Forest Minister A K Saseendran, also camping in the north Kerala city, said special permission will be granted to capture boars and other wild animals for testing. Samples of domestic animals and pets were also taken to weed out suspicion, he said. Experts said strict protocol in place due to Covid-19, like masking, physical distancing and no overcrowding, helped the state to blunt the impact of the zoonotic disease again. “Due to Covid-19 protocol this time Nipah transmission will be limited. Prevention technique of Covid-19 really helped in fighting Nipah also,” said immunologist and public health expert D Padmanabha Shenoy. Many experts like him said the main source of the virus should be identified at any cost to check its further outbreak. This is the third time the state is witnessing the onset of the virus in four years. In 2018 it claimed 17 lives in Kozhikode, in 2019 a youth was infected in Ernakulam but was later cured and in 2021 it claimed the life of a 12-year-old boy in Kozhikode. Zoonotic diseases on the rise Amid the third onset of Nipah, recurring zoonotic diseases at regular intervals continues to worry people in Kerala. Several cases of Kyasnur forest disease, avian influenza, swine flu, anthrax and Nipah were reported from the state in recent years. Besides taking lives, such outbreaks affect social and economic mobility of people and cripple their lives_ culling of poultry, ducks and other domestic animals are regular to check their transmission. Experts have asked the government to formulate a multi-disciplinary approach to tackle such diseases and establish high-end labs for early diagnosis. They said zoonotic diseases will stay here as human activities continue to disturb natural habitat and the state needs a single window approach to tackle such maladies. “It is a fact zoonotic diseases appear at regular intervals in Kerala. Human and animal dependence, directly or indirectly, is more these days. We need a permanent single window mechanism for early detection of such diseases and early warning to the people. More research is also needed in the area,” said Dr Prejit Nambiar, a teacher at the Kerala Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, who specialised in zoonoses and food safety. He said a close interaction is necessary between medical experts, veterinary professionals, environmental scientists and wildlife professionals to tackle this. Many wildlife experts feel that such diseases can be checked by putting in place an effective surveillance mechanism and scientific disease management plans. In Kerala there are enough wetland and water bodies, a favourite habitat of avian guests and they can easily transmit diseases to domestic birds. “Animals like civet cats have almost turned urban as their natural habitat shrunk. Once found in forests only, peacocks are found in countryside in large numbers. Loss of habitats force monkeys, civets, bats and boars to human habitat so it is natural such diseases arise,” said wildlife expert Dr P S Esa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-kerala-46-suspected-samples-found-negative-for-nipah-101631139407506.html
09-09-2021||India||Rajasthan’s Barmer gets emergency landing facility on Satta-Gandhav stretch||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari will inaugurate an Emergency Landing Field (ELF) and also witness aircraft operations on the ELF on NH-925 on Thursday at Gandhav Bhakasar Section (NH-925) South of Barmer (Rajasthan). This is the first time that a National Highway will be used for emergency landing of aircrafts of IAF, according to an official release. NHAI had developed a 3.0 km section of the Satta-Gandhav stretch of NH-925A as an Emergency Landing Facility (ELF) for the Indian Air Force, which is part of a newly developed two lane paved shoulder of Gagariya-Bakhasar and Satta-Gandhav section having a total length of 196.97 km. The project will cost ₹765.52 crore under the Bharatmala Pariyojana. This project will improve connectivity between villages of Barmer and Jalore districts located on the international border. The stretch being located in the western border area will facilitate the vigilance of the Indian Army.Apart from this Emergency Landing Strip, three helipads (size 100 x 30 metres each) have been constructed in Kundanpura, Singhania and Bakhasar villages in this project according to the requirements of the Air Force/Indian Army, which will be the basis for strengthening the Indian Army and security network on the western international border of the country. The ELF was constructed in a time span of 19 months. The work for this ELF commenced in July 2019 and was completed in January 2021. At normal times, the ELF will be used for smooth flow of road traffic. But during the operations of ELF for Indian Air Force, the service road will be used for flow of road traffic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthans-barmer-gets-emergency-landing-facility-on-satta-gandhav-stretch-101631136523028.html
09-09-2021||India||Spike in viral fever cases triggers fear in Bihar||An early spike in viral infection in children has triggered panic among parents, who are rushing to hospitals with their wards, after two recent child deaths at a village in Saran sparked fears of a possible onset of the third wave of the coronavirus pandemic, said officials monitoring the situation. Government medical teams, comprising doctors, including microbiologists and phlebotomists to collect blood samples were dispatched to Gopalganj and Siwan on Wednesday. Doctors from the integrated disease surveillance programme (IDSP) unit on Tuesday visited Muzaffarpur, which has witnessed a spike in admission of children with viral fever. The state surveillance officer took stock of the situation at the Nalanda Medical College Hospital (NMCH) and the Patna Medical College Hospital (PMCH), both in Patna, on Wednesday. The state health department has directed all medical colleges and hospitals to prepare a list of viral infection cases at their facilities on a daily basis, said officials quoted above. Officials were also on the lookout for a quack who administered an injection to two children, suffering from fever and abdominal pain, leading to their death at Sirsha village in Amanaur block of Saran district on Monday. “We have around 50-60 cases of respiratory diseases due to viral infection out of the 90-95 children admitted in our paediatric intensive care unit (PICU), which has a capacity of 102 beds, said Dr Gopal Shankar Sahni, professor and head, department of paediatrics at the Sri Krishna Medical College Hospital (SKMCH) in Muzaffarpur. On Tuesday, 10-15 neonates were adjusted in the PICU, instead of keeping them in the “warmer” or neonatal intensive care unit (NICU), which resulted in having more number of patients than beds available in the PICU, said another senior paediatrician at the SKMCH. All 84 beds in the paediatric unit of Patna’s Nalanda Medical College Hospital (NMCH) were full on Wednesday. These included 22 beds of NICU, 15 of PICU and eight in the paediatric emergency. A day before, 87 children were admitted as against 84 beds available. “We have an additional 42 beds for paediatric Covid-19 patients in the maternal child health building, where total 106 beds are dedicated for Covid-19 patients. We may shift some children there in case of a surge in cases of viral fever. We do not have any Covid-19 patients for the last five days,” said Dr Binod Kumar Singh, professor and head of paediatrics and also the medical superintendent of the NMCH. There was an increase of 21% in admission of patients to the paediatric ward through the outdoor patient department (OPD) on Wednesday, as compared to admissions on August 31, said Dr IS Thakur, medical superintendent, PMCH, the oldest medical college in the state. The PMCH paediatric ward was almost full. “As many as 165 of our 190 beds in paediatrics department are occupied. The remaining 20-25 beds are reserved for clinical viva-voce of MBBS medicos, whose examinations are underway,” added Dr Thakur. Around 80% beds in the paediatric unit were occupied at AIIMS-Patna, said its professor and head, Dr Lokesh Tiwari. “As many as 42 of the 48 beds in wards; 10 of the 12 beds in PICU and two of the eight beds for multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children (MIS-C) are occupied. However, this is nothing unusual, as 70%-80% bed occupancy is the usual norm at our institute throughout the year. We have all kinds of patients, including 4-5 of respiratory illness,” said Dr Tiwari. As many as 24 cases of acute respiratory illness cases were reported at the Government Medical College Hospital (GMCH) at Bettiah. “We have 30 beds and are making arrangements for another 39 beds,” said Dr Pramod Tiwari, medical superintendent of the GMCH. Two similar cases have also been reported at Motihari, said Dr Anjani Kumar, civil surgeon of East Champaran district. The 76-bed pediatric ward of the Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) was overcrowded with children admitted during last four days with suspected viral infections. A surveillance team has collected samples for testing. The doctors, however, unequivocally said there was nothing to worry and that the manifestation of viral fever in children was an annual feature. “The onset of viral fever in children has been slightly early this year, but it has nothing to do with Covid-19. It normally begins before the onset of winter. The viral infection is acute bronchiolitis, which is associated with wheezing and cough and in a few cases fever and dengue. The infection is not at all fatal, but the fear of an anticipated third wave of Covid-19 is making parents panic and rush to doctors,” said Dr Nigam Prakash Narain, a retired professor and head, paediatrics, PMCH and former vice-president of the national Indian Academy of Paediatricians. “The infections are of four types — bronchiolitis, which affects children less than two years of age, and is caused either by respiratory syncytial virus or para-influenza virus; flu-like illness, dengue and adenovirus (2-3 weeks of severe cough with vomiting),” added Dr Nigam. First JE case in 2 years The state reported its first case of Japanese encephalitis (JE) in the last two years when 11-year-old Prahlad Kumar, son of Lalji Ram of Ramnagar village in West Champaran was admitted to the SKMCH on Tuesday. The condition of the patient was said to be serious. (With inputs from Sandeep Bhaskar in Bettiah and Bishnu K Jha in Darbhanga).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spike-in-viral-fever-cases-triggers-fear-in-bihar-101631133942891.html
09-09-2021||India||Odisha man kills 10-month old son, wife before hanging himself||A 32-year-old man in Ganjam district of Odisha killed his 10-month old son and wife before hanging himself over a domestic issue.Police officials in Ganjam district said on Wednesday morning, the bodies of Sujan Pradhan, his wife Sobha and 10-month old son Rumesh was found in his house in Kotabagada village under Chamakhandi police station. “The infant was strangulated while the woman apparently had her throat slit and Sujan hanged himself. Though there are no eyewitnesses, we suspect Sujan killed his son and wife and then killed himself,” said Thakur Prasad Patra, additional SP of Ganjam.According to the police, a blood-splattered hacksaw blade that is used to cut metal and wood was found at the spot. The additional SP said Sujan may have used the hacksaw blade to kill his wife.Quoting his elder brother who lived on another floor of the same house, police said, the couple were married two years ago and always quarrelled over one issue or the other.In a similar incident in July this year, a 55-year-old mason in Jagatsinghpur district had killed his wife and teenaged daughter with a sharp weapon and then hung himself over domestic disturbances. Loknath Pal of Jotachandpatana village of Jagatsinghpur first stabbed his 46-year-old wife and 18-year-old daughter Madhumita before hanging himself.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-man-kills-10-month-old-son-wife-before-hanging-himself-101631131425422.html
09-09-2021||India||Technical issues over Income tax e-filing portal being ‘progressively addressed’, says finance ministry||Finance Ministry on Wednesday informed that all the glitches over the e-filing portal of the Income Tax Department are being "progressively addressed" and there has been a positive trend reflected in the statistics of the various filings on the website.According to a statement issued by the Ministry, more than 8.83 crore unique taxpayers have logged in till Tuesday with a daily average of over 15.55 lakh in September."A number of technical issues are being progressively addressed and there has been a positive trend reflected in the statistics of the various filings on the portal. Over 8.83 crore unique taxpayers have logged in till September 7 2021 with a daily average of over 15.55 lakh in September 2021," the statement read."The Income Tax Return (ITR) filing has increased to 3.2 lakh daily in September 2021 and 1.19 crore ITRs for AY 2021-22 have been filed. Of these, over 76.2 lakh taxpayers have used the online utility of the portal to file returns," it added.Over 94.88 lakh ITRs have been e-verified out of which, 7.07 lakh ITRs have been processed, the statement added."It is encouraging to note that over 94.88 lakh ITRs have also been e-verified, which is necessary for processing by the Centralized Processing Center. Of this, 7.07 lakh ITRs have been processed," the statement informed."Taxpayers have been able to view over 8.74 lakh Notices issued by the Department under the Faceless Assessment/Appeal/Penalty proceedings, to which, over 2.61 lakh responses have been filed. An average of 8,285 Notices for e-proceedings are being issued and 5,889 responses are being filed in September 2021 on a daily basis," it added.The ministry further stated that 10.60 lakh Statutory Forms have been submitted including 7.86 lakh TDS statements, 1.03 lakh Form 10A for registration of Trusts/institutions, 0.87 lakh Form 10E for arrears of salary, 0.10 lakh Form 35 for Appeal.Further on Aadhaar- PAN linking, the Ministry said, "Aadhaar- PAN linking has been done by 66.44 lakh taxpayers and over 14.59 lakh e-PAN have been allotted. These two facilities are being availed of by over 0.50 lakh taxpayers on a daily basis in September 2021.""It is reiterated that the Department is continuously engaged with Infosys to ensure a smooth filing experience to taxpayers," it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/technical-issues-over-income-tax-e-filing-portal-being-progressively-addressed-says-finance-ministry-101631130910103.html
09-09-2021||India||India, EU to start formal talks on FTA this month, says EAM S Jaishankar||Progress has been made on the resumption of the India-EU free trade agreement negotiations and the formal talks would start this month, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said on Wednesday.Addressing the Annual Meeting of Romanian Diplomacy, Jaishankar stressed that the strategic convergence between India and the EU is reflected in their positions on key regional and global issues, including on Afghanistan and the Indo-Pacific. There was a landmark summit this May between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the 27 leaders of the European Union in Portugal and one of its important outcomes is the resumption of FTA negotiations that have remained stalled since 2013 from the time of the previous government, he said."Not just that there has already been some progress in that regard and actually the formal talks start this month," Jaishankar said.India and the European Union had announced in May the resumption of talks for a free trade agreement, eight years after its suspension, and agreed to launch negotiations for two key pacts on investment protection and geographical indications."We have also agreed to conclude early an investment agreement, and one on geographical indicators. The India-EU connectivity partnership is also important for its bilateral implications, its quality connotations and its third country possibilities," Jaishankar said.Asserting that India's economic weight and political influence has already grown substantially, he pointed out that India is a member of the G20, a non-permanent member of the Security Council, of the EAS, BRICS, SCO, QUAD, SAARC, BIMSTEC and IORA ."So there is a long list out there. In our own vicinity, the Neighborhood-first policy pursued since 2014 has strengthened connectivity, contacts, and commerce. India's growth is a tide lifting the larger region in the quest for prosperity," he said.Jaishankar said that towards South East Asia and beyond, the 'Act East' policy has added security, connectivity in greater societal context to a robust economic partnership.This has now further developed into what has become known as an Indo-Pacific Vision that contemplates opportunities much more seamlessly, he said."To the west, a link-West outlook has actually transformed our ties with the Gulf states and fashioned a strategic construct that goes beyond energy, trade and the diaspora. To the South, the 'SAGAR Maritime initiative' has taken an integrated view of cooperation with various islands, and littoral states, with Africa an ambitious development partnership and a larger footprint," Jaishankar said."I'm sure that this will be duly noted by Romanian diplomats. Between our national and EU engagements, there is every reason to be optimistic about our continued cooperation," he said.The Covid-19 pandemic has clearly made all nations of the world much more aware of external risks and vulnerabilities and it has raised questions about the centralised aspects of globalisation, and highlighted the importance of trust and transparency, Jaishankar said.An issue that has emerged strongly on the global agenda, is the requirement for resilient and reliable supply chains, he noted.India and Romania have a significant convergence in our outlook of the world and of its contemporary challenges, the external affairs minister asserted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-eu-to-start-formal-talks-on-fta-this-month-says-eam-s-jaishankar-101631127711528.html
09-09-2021||India||BJD MLA Prasanta Jagdev accused of assaulting BJP leader in Odisha; suspended||BHUBANESWAR: The Biju Janata Dal (BJD) on Wednesday suspended its Chilika legislator Prasant Jagdev from the party hours after he allegedly beat up a BJP leader over the distribution of assistance for building houses and ration cards near Chilika lake.Jagdev, who has courted controversies over his strong-arm tactics, allegedly thrashed BJP’s Niranjan Sethi when he protested delays in the distribution of cards under the National Food Security Act and assistance for construction of houses under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana in Balugaon area of Khurda district. Jagdev also attacked a photojournalist and snatched his mobile. A video clip of the incident was circulated widely on social media platforms.A one-line announcement from the BJD president Naveen Patnaik followed.“Shri Prashanta Kumar Jagdev, MLA, Chilika Assembly Constituency is hereby suspended from Biju Janata Dal with immediate effect,” Patnaik’s order said.Later Prasanta Jagdev was also removed from the post of president of Khurda district’s planninng committee.“Prasanta Jagdev pounced on me like a goonda (ruffian),” Sethi told reporters. Following the incident, scores of BJP workers staged a dharna in front of the Balugaon police station demanding the arrest of the BJD legislator.In August last year, Jagdev was accused of misbehaviour with a junior engineer with the Chilika Development Authority when he stayed at the authority’s Scientist Hostel. The MLA was allegedly inebriated when he threatened engineer Jagabandhu Sahu after an altercation.In December 2018, Prasanta Jagdev allegedly threatened former Begunia sarpanch Naba Swain at the block office in the presence of district officials. The protesters alleged that though Swain lodged a complaint against Jagdev on January 4, no action was taken against the MLA.Earlier in November 2016, he allegedly flung a kerosene lantern at the woman tehsildar of Bolgad when she was mapping a plot of land. In July 2016, Prasanta Jagdev and his supporters were accused of assaulting BJP activists over showing black flags to the then food supply minister Sanjay Kumar Das Burma in Boudh district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjd-mla-prasanta-jagdev-accused-of-assaulting-bjp-leader-in-odisha-suspended-101631130702610.html
09-09-2021||India||Inter-caste marriage: SC grants protection from arrest to man||New Delhi: The Supreme Court Wednesday granted protection from arrest to a man accused of kidnapping a woman who married him against the wishes of her parents.A bench of Justices Ajay Rastogi and Abhay S Oka noted that the application filed by the man seeking pre-arrest bail was pending before the Calcutta High Court since April, 2021 and despite his best efforts the plea could not have been taken up for hearing.The top court said that ordinarily, if an application is pending before the High Court for seeking pre-arrest bail, there was no occasion for this Court to interfere in the instant petition under Article 32 of Constitution.“But looking in the facts brought to our notice that the petitioner nos.1 and 2 have solemnised their marriage and documentary evidence is on record, petitioner no.1 is on family way and the FIR which has been registered under Section 365 (kidnapping or abduction with intent secretly and wrongfully to confine person) of Indian Penal Code on December 12, 2020, the apprehension of the petitioner no.2 (man) certainly cannot be doubted,” the bench said.The apex court said that in the peculiar facts and circumstances of this case and taking note of the material on record, it was of the considered view that the man, at this stage, needed indulgence of this court.“Accordingly, we direct that petitioner no 2 (man) shall not be arrested in reference to the FIR registered under Section 365 of IPC for a period of three months and we request the High Court to consider the application for pre-arrest bail filed at his insistence for early hearing,” the bench said.The apex court granted liberty to the man to file an application for further extension of time before the High Court in pending.The top court was hearing a joint petition filed by a woman and her husband contending that they both are major and have solemnised their marriage on December 8, 2020.Since it is an inter-caste marriage it is not acceptable by the parents, they said adding that due to this reason, an FIR under Section 365 of IPC has been registered at the behest of the father of the woman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/intercaste-marriage-sc-grants-protection-to-man-101631130223742.html
09-09-2021||India||States to take call on door-to-door Covid vaccination: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Wednesday left it to the states to decide on implementing door-to-door Covid-19 vaccination, saying that a general order cannot be issued for the entire country considering the diversity of conditions across states.The court was hearing public interest litigation (PIL) filed by the Youth Bar Association of India seeking door-to-door Covid vaccination for all citizens, particularly the elderly, special persons with disabilities, the less privileged and weaker sections of society, and those who were unable to register online.While directing the petitioner to approach the ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) with their suggestions, the bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, Vikram Nath and Hima Kohli said, “The vaccination programme is already underway and has progressed considerably. At this stage, it is difficult for us to issue general directions having regard to the diversity of conditions existing in the country. Any direction by us should not impinge upon the administrative power of the state governments to take any decision, including door-to-door vaccination.”In July, the Bombay high court asked the Maharashtra government to consider providing door-to-door vaccination for the elderly and those bedridden or wheelchair-bound.The top court said it was aware of the Bombay high court order but reminded the petitioner, “These are not matters where with one brush you can pass a direction for the entire country. Can you say the same conditions exist in Ladakh as in Uttar Pradesh or any urban area has the same conditions as prevailing in rural areas?”The court also asked the petitioner organisation, comprising mostly lawyers, whether they had checked the feasibility of carrying out such an exercise.“These are matters of research and for you to just come to court and seek directions is not enough. You have just picked up an issue and want door-to-door vaccination. Nobody has applied their mind if this is feasible. When you ask for such relief, you do not understand the diversity of this country and the complexity of the problem.”The petition had relied on the fact that vulnerable sections of the population should be first attended to through a door-to-door vaccination policy. This way, the petition argued, there will be a minimum risk of getting infected by avoiding a visit to the vaccination centres. The petition also sought directions for drawing out a standard operating procedure (SOP) on a door-to-door vaccination facility and a toll-free 24X7 portal for this purpose.The vaccination policy is being monitored by the court in a separate suo motu proceeding wherein a National Task Force has been constituted as part of measures to contain the spread of Covid-19. The court clarified that its present order will not have any bearing on the suo motu proceedings. When the petitioner’s lawyer Bably Singh sought a time-bound order for the government to consider their suggestions, the bench replied, “We will not pass such order as you cannot imagine how pressurised the officials of the ministry of health and family welfare are. You can make concrete suggestions that may be considered at the appropriate level. They will certainly make a decision.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-to-take-call-on-door-to-door-covid-vaccination-supreme-court-101631129384069.html
09-09-2021||India||46 more test negative for Nipah virus, Kerala minister says worst is over||As many as 46 people with symptoms of Nipah tested negative on Wednesday in Kozikode, said Kerala health minister Veena George, adding the north Kerala district is almost out of a serious outbreak.The minister said samples of all close contacts of a boy who died due to Nipah on Sunday, including his parents and health workers, turned negative, adding that the government would maintain strict vigil for three more weeks. Since majority of immediate contacts are out of infection, George said the worst was over.“It is a great relief all samples turned negative so far. But we will not lower our guard. All restrictions will be in force till the window period of the virus (3 weeks) is over,” the minister said, adding 21 more results will be expected any time while 50 people with symptoms are still in the hospital and another 190 under observation.She said that going by the preliminary reports, bats are suspected to be the main carrier, but more studies needed to pinpoint the triggering agent. Many experts said the affected areas are also infested with wild boars and their samples will also be taken for testing.A team from the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases Laboratory from Bhopal, which has arrived in Kozikode city, will co-ordinate more such studies, George said.Forest minister AK Saseendran, also camping in the north Kerala city, said special permission will be granted to capture boars and other wild animals for testing. Samples of domestic animals and pet were also taken to weed out suspicion, Saseendran said.Expert said strict protocol in place due to Covid-19, like masking, physical distancing and no overcrowding, really helped the state to blunt the impact of zoonotic disease again.“Due to Covid-19 protocol this time, Nipah transmission will be limited. Prevention technique of Covid-19 really helped in fighting Nipah also,” said immunologist and public health expert D Padmanabha Shenoy.Like Shenoy, many experts said the main source of the virus should be identified at any cost to check its further outbreak. This is the third time the state is witnessing the onset of virus in four years. In 2018, the viral infection claimed 17 lives in Kozhikode; in 2019, a youth was infected in Ernakulam but later cured; and in 2021, a 12-year-old boy died due to Nipah virus in Kozhikode.Zoonotic diseases on riseAmid third onset of Niaph, recurring zoonotic diseases at regular intervals continues to worry the state. Several cases of Kyasnur forest disease, avian influenza, swine flu, anthrax and Nipah have been reported from the state in recent years.Besides loss of human lives, such outbreaks also affect social and economic mobility of people and cripple their lives. Culling of poultry, ducks and other domestic animals has also become regular to check their transmission. Experts have asked the state government to formulate a multi-disciplinary approach to tackle such diseases and establish high-end labs for early diagnosis. They said zoonotic diseases are here to stay as human activities continue to disturb natural habitat and the state needs a single-window approach to tackle such maladies.“It is a fact that zoonotic diseases appear at regular intervals in Kerala. Human and animal dependence, directly or indirectly, is more these days. We need a permanent single-window mechanism for early detection of such diseases and early warning to the people. More research is also needed in the area,” said Dr Prejit Nambiar, a teacher at the Kerala Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, who specialised in zoonoses and food safety.He added that a close interaction is necessary among medical experts, veterinary professionals, environmental scientists and wildlife professionals to tackle the situation.Many wildlife experts feel that such diseases can be checked by putting in place an effective surveillance mechanism and scientific disease management plans. In Kerala, there are enough wetland and water bodies, a preferred habitat for avian guests, which can easily transmit diseases to domestic birds.“Animals like civet cats have almost turned urban as their natural habitat shrunk. Once found in forests only, peacocks are found in countryside in large numbers. Loss of habitats force monkeys, civets, bats and boars to human habitat. So, it is natural such diseases arise,” said wildlife expert Dr P S Esa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/46-more-test-negative-for-nipah-virus-kerala-minister-says-worst-is-over-101631128604590.html
09-09-2021||India||J&K Police seize laptop, phones of 4 journalists||The Jammu & Kashmir Police on Wednesday seized laptops and mobile phones of four journalists, following raids at their respective houses here, officials familiar with the matter said.Raids were conducted at the residences of Showkat Motta, former editor-in-chief of a weekly magazine, Hilal Mir, who is working for a Turkish media outlet, freelance reporter Azhar Qadri Shah Abbas, and a reporter who has been associated with several local publications, the officials said. The journalists were later taken to Kothibagh police station, where their laptops and mobile phones were seized for technical evaluation before being released, the officials said. People familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity that the raids were part of investigation into a blog post that allegedly instigates people against the country.Condemning the police action, Reporters Sans Frontières tweeted: “@RSF_inter firmly condemns as crude intimidation this morning’s police raids at the residence of 4 journalists .”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jk-police-seize-laptop-phones-of-4-journalists-101631128128886.html
09-09-2021||India||I-T attaches Sasikala assets worth ₹100 crores||The Income Tax department on Wednesday attached a property worth ₹100 crore of expelled All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) interim general secretary VK Sasikala at Payyanur village on the outskirts of Chennai in a disproportionate assets case.“This is a routine follow up action under the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 1988,” said an I-T department official on the condition of anonymity.According to officials, a bungalow and its adjacent land totalling about 49 acre, which was purchased in 1994, has now been taken over by the I-T department. A government notice to this effect was pasted by officials on the entrance walls and gate of the property.The department continues to seize properties belonging to Sasikala based on a 2014 court judgment on the disproportionate assets case where former Karnataka special court Judge John Michael Cunha listed properties as disproportionate assets of former Tamil Nadu chief minister J Jayalalithaa, Sasikala and her family members - Ilavarasi and Sudhakaran.Last September, the I-T department attached an under-construction bungalow owned by Sasikala and located opposite to Jayalalithaa’s sprawling residence in Chennai’s Poes Garden. The bungalow on 22,000 square feet land was being constructed for Sasikala to live in once she was back from prison. So far, more than 60 properties belonging to Sasikala have been attached by the I-T department.After Jayalalithaa’s death in 2016, the Supreme Court upheld Cunha’s order and Sasikala and her two relatives were jailed for four years in a Bengaluru prison in February 2017.At the time when I-T officials were at her property, Sasikala, who lives in the heart of Chennai, was visiting the home of a loyalist and former AIADMK MLA P Vetrivel, who died last year due to Covid-19. On Wednesday, Sasikala released an audio clip, condoling the death of former presidium chairman Pulamailpithan, who recently supported her, and passed earlier in the day. Pulamailpithan also wrote songs when AIADMK leaders M G Ramachandran and Jayalalithaa were celebrated actors in Tamil films. “He had a lot of affection for Thalaivar (MGR) and Amma Jayalalithaa. He spread Dravidian messages to the common people through his songs. His songs were a boost for the AIADMK cadre,” Saiskala could be purportedly heard saying in the audio clip.Since her release from prison, Sasikala has been trying to reclaim her position in the AIADMK, which is now under the dual leadership of her former loyalists - O Panneerselvam and Edappadi Palaniswami.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-attaches-sasikala-assets-worth-100-cr-under-benami-transactions-prohibition-act-101631127943681.html
09-09-2021||India||Madras high court sets aside order allowing 16-year-old girl to write NEET this year||The Madras high court has set aside a single-judge order that permitted a 16-year-old student to write the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) for medical admissions this year, for which a candidate’s minimum age should be 17 years as of December.The National Testing Agency (NTA), which conducts the NEET opposed Sree Harini’s plea to write early. The high court, which had earlier permitted the student, later rejected her request upon the NTA’s plea challenging the first order. The court stated that it would be unfair to other students and courts across the country which will be flooded with such applications. NEET is scheduled for September 12.The CBSE student, who hails from Tamil Nadu’s Kumbakonam in Thanjavur district, had topped her school in Class 10 and this year she scored 487/500 in her Class 12 board exams. As per NeuroPsychological reports, she also had an Intelligence Quotient (IQ) of 143.“We tested her first at age two because her speech stuttered and the doctors said that she had the maturity of a 4-year-old that was affecting her speech,” said the petitioner’s father G Saravana Kumar, a paddy farmer. Again, in Class 10, she received a certificate of ‘superior intelligence’. In 2019, on her behalf, her father submitted a representation to the NTA seeking permission to participate in NEET 2021, which was rejected.But only this year, they filed a writ petition seeking to quash the rejection order. A single-judge bench permitted her to appear for NEET subject to her IQ results tested at the National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences (NIMHANS), Bengaluru. With a certificate from NIMHANS and the court order, the father and daughter went to Delhi and approached NTA in August as she could not apply online due to her age. The NTA then filed a writ appeal challenging the single judge’s direction.The petitioner’s counsel ARL Sundaresan argued that she has been assessed to have a high-performance IQ, Verbal IQ and had performed intellectually superior range and her overall memory functioning was also in a superior range and has been certified as eligible for educational service for the cognitively gifted. But she would attain the minimum age of 17 to appear for NEET only next May.A division bench of Justice Pushpa Sathyanarayana and Justice Krishnan Ramasamy on Tuesday declined to grant the student permission to write the exam this year, citing several reasons, including “instant proceedings cannot alter the minimum age, even though this aspect wasn’t in the prayer.” “The prayer of the writ petitioner to permit her to write the examination would tantamount to exempting her of the age prescribed. When there is no such exemption clause available in the Regulations, we cannot traverse beyond the age prescribed,” the court said in its orders.However, the court said that concerned authorities might consider age relaxation by giving advance notice in a phased manner for the benefit of candidates, saying that a judicial review to reduce the age limit or exempt a student should be refrained.The court also noted the distinction made by the counsel for the National Medical Commission (NMC) between intelligence and maturity. While ‘intelligence’ is having or showing the ability to understand, learn and think, ‘maturity’ means the ability to respond to a situation in an age-appropriate.The judges also drew in the status of medical aspirants from rural and poor backgrounds, who do not have access to coaching classes, the latest textbooks and the internet to prepare for NEET. “Many of the students clear the NEET only on a second or subsequent attempt, including those meritorious ones, as they need more time to cover the larger syllabus,” the court said. “While so, if the candidates like the petitioner, who has not fulfilled the age criteria are allowed to write the examination, in the event of her success, it may deprive a seat to another meritorious student, who may not have the age and ability to write the NEET for the second time or third time.”That NEET puts these students at a disadvantage while competing with urban and affluent students is also a raging political issue in Tamil Nadu, based on which the state government plans to introduce legislation seeking exemption from the examination. Harini has been preparing herself for the NEET and hoped to be the first doctor in her family. “She aims to study in AIIMS or JIPMER,” her father said.After the court, the father and daughter left Chennai to their home on Wednesday morning. “She is upset. Such an intelligent girl has to wait for an entire year to write an entrance exam because she is underage,” said the father.Justice Krishnakumar, who said he concurred with “every word” written in the lead judgement (by Pushpa Sathyanarayana), but went into the student’s plight pointing out that the she became ineligible to write the exam this year because she was given a double promotion from Class 7 to 9 and now she lacks 4 months and 5 days to complete the age of 17 years as on December 2021. He added that there was no objection by the CBSE all along.“Thus, while permitting the first respondent to clear 12th board of examination even before age of 16 by CBSE, which is controlled and managed by the Union of India, considering her intelligence and maturity, the MCI, which is also controlled and managed by the Union of India, cannot take away the legitimate expectation of the respondent by denying her the opportunity to appear for NEET 2021 examination, which will hit by ‘doctrine of legitimate expectation’ and amounts to a denial of the right guaranteed under Article 14 of the Constitution of India,” the justice said.However, he concurred that since an age bar is in force, the student cannot be permitted to write NEET early and that the Medical Council of India has to look at the concern of such students and come up with some solution.The father said with just a few days to go for NEET he wouldn’t be able to go for a further appeal. “I wish I can take this to the Supreme Court for an urgent hearing, but we don’t have the means for more expenditure.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madras-high-court-sets-aside-order-allowing-16-year-old-girl-to-write-neet-this-year-101631127942547.html
09-09-2021||India||J&K arms licence racket under lens again after 24 arrested in Kerala||The Kerala police’s arrest of 23 men, all from Rajouri district of Jammu & Kashmir, for carrying fake arms licences has once again focused attention on a large arms licence racket in the erstwhile state that is being investigated by the Central Bureau of Investigation. It wasn’t immediately clear whether any of the licences were issued by the deputy magistrates accused of issuing hundreds of thousands of permits to people outside J&K, usually on the basis of fake documents, and in exchange for money.The 24 arrested, 19 in Kochi and five in Trivandrum, all work as security guards for various security agencies, and all are on ATM duty. Deputy commissioner of police, law and order, Trivandrum, Vaibhav Saxena said: “A week ago five men were arrested in Thiruvananthapuram for carrying invalid arms licences; 19 others, who also hailed from Rajouri, have been arrested in Kochi after we gave a list to the Kochi police commissioner. Their licences were also found to be fake”. “We have got a report from Rajouri ADC which says that these licenses do not exist in their records/data base,” he added. The fake licences, the police officer said, were issued by a Rajouri man, who also sold them guns. “He was the one who gave a fake licence to these men for ₹6000 per license. He had also charged ₹13000-14,000 for single barrel and double barrel guns,” said the DCP, who added that this person’s identify can’t be divulged “at this stage.” None of the men have a criminal record, the officer said. “It seems to be a recruitment scam. To get the jobs , these men obtained licences.”The men were all hired by a private security agency SISCO. The DCP said SISCO actually had outsourced the human resource part to some other agency. He said that while the banks and the security firm have to check, the primary responsibility is that of the licence holders who have to inform local law enforcement authorities that they had just moved into the area, and carried arms licences. It is understandable that the guards did not do this; they knew the licences were fake and would not stand scrutiny. Out of the five men arrested in Trivandrum, four are under judicial custody and one under police custody. They have been arrested under arms act and for forgery of documents. The deputy commissioner of police, law and order, Kochi, Aishwarya Dongre, said, “We have arrested 19 men in Kochi and they are also from Rajouri. They also carried fake arms licences. We have seized their weapons and a probe is on”. “During investigation we found that Maharashtra-based agency recruited people from highly- sensitive areas without checking their antecedents. We have also shared some of the seized documents with central agencies,” said a police officer requesting anonymity, adding that after the incident, credentials of all such agencies will be checked. He said earlier there were some complaints against the security firm for using stars and insignia resembling the ranks of police and armed forces officers..“A police team has been sent to Rajouri,” Dongre said. Rajouri district police chief, SSP Sheema Nabi Qasba said she doesn’t have “in depth knowledge of the case because, primarily Kerala police is investigating it” “Their police team, I think, has come but I am not privy to the investigation or names of the accused,” she said. Rajouri district commissioner Rajesh Kumar Shawan didn’t respond to repeated calls and messages seeking comment. The Kerala police acted on the basis of a tip off by central agencies. On July 24, CBI conducted searches in multiple locations in Jammu and Kashmir and Delhi in connection with investigation in the illegal arms licence case. Between 2012 and 2016, deputy commissioners of various districts in Jammu and Kashmir fraudulently and illegally issued bulk arms licences in lieu of monetary consideration. It is believed that around 280,000 licences were issued thus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jk-arms-licence-racket-under-lens-again-after-24-arrested-in-kerala-101631127881844.html
09-09-2021||India||Karnataka logs 1,102 fresh Covid-19 cases, 17 deaths||Karnataka logged 1,102 new Covid-19 cases and 17 deaths on Wednesday, taking the total number of infections to 2,958,090 and the toll to 37,458.The day also saw 1,458 discharges, taking the total number of recoveries in the state so far to 2,903,547.Out of the total number of cases, 338 were from Bengaluru Urban, as the city saw 277 discharges and five deaths, a health department bulletin said.Active cases in the state stood at 17,058.While the positivity rate for the day stood at 0.64 per cent, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) was 1.54 per cent.Behind Bengaluru Urban in number of fatalities was Uttara Kannada with four, Dakshina Kannada (3), Mysuru (2), followed by others.Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 338, Dakshina Kannada 200, Udupi 133, Mysuru 64, followed by others.Bengaluru Urban district topped the list of positive cases, with a total of 1,240,310, followed by Mysuru 176,687 and Tumakuru 119,545.Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban tops the list with 1,217,150, followed by Mysuru 173,457 and Tumakuru 117,766.Cumulatively a total of 44,738,122 samples have been tested in the state so far, out of which 169,621 were on Wednesday alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-logs-1-102-fresh-covid-19-cases-17-deaths-101631127764032.html
09-09-2021||India||Want ‘healthy relations’ with all neighbours of Afghanistan, say Taliban||The new Taliban setup in Kabul has said it desires healthy relations with all neighbours of Afghanistan based on mutual respect, even while assuring that Afghan soil will not be used against the security of any nation.A statement of the Taliban’s leadership office outlining the policies of the new so-called cabinet announced on Tuesday further said the new regime is “committed to all international laws and treaties, resolutions and commitments that are not in conflict with Islamic law” and Afghanistan’s national values.The statement was signed by the Taliban’s reclusive chief, Haibatullah Akhundzada, who has been named the supreme leader with the final control over religious, political and security affairs.“We want strong and healthy relations with our neighbours and all other countries based on mutual respect and interaction. Our relations with those countries will be based on the highest interests and benefits of Afghanistan,” the statement said.“Our message to our neighbours, the region and the world is that Afghanistan’s soil will not be used against the security of any other country. We assure all that there is no concern from Afghanistan and we expect from them the same,” it added.The statement further assured foreign diplomats, embassies, consulates, humanitarian organisations and investors in Afghanistan that they “will not face any problem”, and that the Taliban was “doing its best for their complete security and safety”.“Their presence is [the] need of our country, so they should carry out their work with a peace of mind,” the statement said.The Taliban setup said it is “committed to all international laws and treaties, resolutions and commitments that are not in conflict with Islamic law and the country’s national values”. It also called on all countries to “value building strong and cordial political, diplomatic and good relations with us and to also cooperate with us”.“We do not want enmity with anyone. Afghanistan is the common home of all. We will respect all their rights and legitimate aspirations and use their potential to rebuild the country,” the statement said.Experts, however, noted the statement was silent on an important condition from the peace deal signed by the Taliban and the US in February 2020 – the need for the group to sever its ties with al-Qaeda and other foreign terrorist groups. Many of the 33 members of the interim setup, including Akhund, Abdul Ghani Baradar and Sirajuddin Haqqani, are subject to UN sanctions for their links to terrorism.The experts also noted that the statement was largely silent on protecting the rights of women and children and preserving the gains of the past two decades –key demands of the international community.The statement only said the Taliban “will take serious and effective steps towards protecting human rights, the rights of minorities as well as the rights of the underprivileged groups within the framework of the demands of the sacred religion of Islam”.Describing the media as an “important element of the country”, the statement said the Taliban will “work for the freedom, functioning and improvement of the media quality”. It added, “We consider it our duty to take into account the sacred precepts of Islam, the national interests of the country and impartiality in our broadcasts.”The caretaker cabinet will work to uphold Islamic rules and Sharia law while securing Afghanistan’s borders and ensuring lasting peace and development. The statement described education as “one of the most important requirements of the country”, and said the setup will “provide a healthy and safe environment for religious and modem sciences to all countrymen within the framework of Sharia”.In the economic field, the Taliban said it will manage domestic revenues transparently, provide special opportunities to international investment and different sectors of trade, and fight unemployment effectively.The statement said the Taliban values all talented and professional people, such as scholars, doctors, scientists and engineers, and called on people not to leave the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/want-healthy-relations-with-all-neighbours-of-afghanistan-say-taliban-101631127762593.html
09-09-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: SEPT 9, 1951 Nehru chosen Congress President||New Delhi: The month-old Congress crisis over the resignation of Mr. Nehru from the party executive, which had been swelling like a tide, was resolved today by the A.-I.C.C. asking Mr. Nehru to become Congress President. The Prime Minister has agreed to shoulder the responsibility of this new office, even though for a temporary period. From tomorrow he becomes Congress President as well in succession to Mr. Tandon.The A.-I.C.C., which met in camera today for an emergency session at 5 p.m. at Constitution Club for two hours, passed a resolution by a huge majority-only four members out of the 295 present voting against-requesting Mr. Nehru “to undertake the responsibility of Presidentship and continue to guide the Congress in these critical days." Pandit Pant moved the resolution and Mr. S. K. Patil seconded it. The A.-I.C.C. passed another resolution accepting the resignation of Mr. Tandon from the Congress Presidentship. “While regretfully accepting the resignation," said the resolution, "the A.-I.C.C. places on record its deep appreciation of his great services to the Congress as its President." The resolution which was also passed by a big majority-only eight or nine members voting against-was moved by Pandit Pant and seconded by Mr. Atulya Ghosh. Both the retiring and incoming Presidents spoke to the A.-I.C.C. Mr Tandon placed his resignation before the A.-I.C.C. and asked for its acceptance. He made a brief statement dwelling on the situation leading to his resignation; how he could not see his way to reconstituting the Working Committee as demanded, holding the demand as "neither constitutional nor proper." I cannot accept Mr. Nehru's resignation because at present he is the symbol of our nation," he said with his customary dignity, and added: "At the same time, from the point of view of the constitution and propriety I cannot fulfil his desire.”After his speech, Mr Tandon stepped aside from the presidential chair, but on Mr Nebru's insistence that Mr Tandon continue to preside over the A.-I.C.C. deliberations both today and tomorrow, he consented to do so. Mr Nehru, it is understood, in a calm and conciliatory manner, addressed the A.-I.C.C. for about 45 minutes. The address was more in the nature of self-introspection, not only for himself but for every Congressman: To put the Congress house in order and to brace up the organization for grappling with the pressing problems of the day. Mr Nehru, it is learned, said the Congress should be transformed into a live organization again. The prestige of the Congress which successfully struggled for freedom had been declining and a wall was rising between the people and the Congress. Young men were tending to turn away from it, he said. Mr Nehru, it is understood, told the A.-I.C.C. that even at the Nasik Congress he wanted to keep out of the Working Committee and that he wanted to give a " shock " to the Congress. He disclosed that at the very first meeting of the Working Committee after the Ahmedabad session he had stated that the Committee should be reconstituted. There was no question of giving offence to anybody nor of bringing pressure on anyone. Mr Nehru referred to the "shock " he had given to the Congress since he resigned from the executive a month ago, and said: " The shock seems to have worked well for the past three weeks, so much so that everybody has been discussing the Congress only. They had even forgotten to talk about a war between Pakistan and India." He wanted to know, he said, how the people reacted to his resignation and he thought no harm had been done by it. Rather some good had resulted. The resignation, he thought, had served the Congress If there were any apprehensions in my mind about the propriety of the shock, these have now vanished completely. In America, he pointed out, millions and millions of dollars were spent on publicity, but the Congress did not have to spend a pie and had received tremendous publicity these days through this "shock." Both Congressmen and non-Congressmen had talked of Congress and foreigners too. It all  showed the Congress was not a dead body. Mr Nehru expressed it as his belief that the Congress had to fulfil an important role in the country and that it would remain a powerful organization. AWAKE He is believed to have asked Congressmen to awake to the realities of the day. He instanced how Mr Churchill won the war for England but was thrown out of office  when the war was over. Perhaps it was an easier thing to win a war than to solve the problems of the day. "If we are not alive to the realities and have a proper grasp of them, the organization will fade away. We won, a great battle and we cannot afford to be lost in trivialities." Mr Nehru is reported to have said it was not good to combine the Congress Presidentship with the Prime Ministership, but as he was also one of those who created a hiatus he could not run away from it. "One should not be bashful in this matter. When you direct me to shoulder a responsibility I cannot be a coward and refuse. You must trust me and I must trust you and we must come to deliberate decisions, he added. Mr Nehru spoke of Mr Tandon. He said: '' Our friendship is spread over 39 years. Though we did not agree always we have mutual affection and, therefore, there is no question of personality in this controversy. I have been feeling that the Congress is slipping away from the common man and, therefore, it is necessary to revitalize it." TANDON'S STATEMENT The following is the text of Mr Tandon's opening statement at the A.-I.C.C.: " I am placing this my resignation from the Congress Presidentship before you and I request you to accept it. "To put it briefly, the reason for my resignation is that by a letter dated August 6, Mr Nehru tendered his resignation from the Working Committee and in spite of my efforts and those of the Working Committee he has not agreed to withdraw the same. His demand has been that the whole Working Committee should be dissolved and a new Committee constituted. I have not been able to agree to this, since to my mind this demand is neither constitutional nor proper. “More than a half of the members of the Working Committee were selected after consultation among five senior Congressmen, namely, Mr Nehru, Sardar Patel, Maulana Azad, Mr Rajagopalachari and myself, on September 27. The rest of the names were selected on October 16. Mr Nehru was not present on that date, but the other four took full part in the consultation. The Working Committee has, to my knowledge, done nothing which might raise the question of its reconstitution. "Mr Nehru seems to believe that by giving a shock to the Congress and bringing about a change in the Working Committee he will create a psychological effect in favour of the Congress. I am not able to accept this view. I believe that the work done by the Working Committee during the last ten months has helped in raising the moral standard of the Congress. The situation that has been created by the resignation of Mr Nehru is, I think, definitely detrimental to the interests of the Congress.SYMBOL OF NATION "I cannot accept the resignation of Mr Nehru because at present he is the symbol of our nation. At the same time from the point of view of the constitution and of propriety I cannot fulfil his desire. Out of this dilemma I have no other way out but to place my resignation before you and I request you to relieve me of the responsibility of Presidentship. 'I have to inform you that Maulana Azad resigned from the Working Committee on August 15 and that the other members of the Committee have tendered their resignations within the last two days." The A.-I.C.C. is meeting again tomorrow at 2-30 p.m. This session, unlike today's, will be open to the Press but not to visitors. Congress circles believe in Mr Nehru's Working Committee would be included not less than half the members of the outgoing Committee. It is learned that he will invite Mr Tandon to join the Committee. Earlier in the day, the Committee met informally for nearly an hour when the mediators in the crisis, Pandit Pant, Dr B. C. Roy and Mr Lal Bahadur Shastri, reported failure of their efforts. The Nebru-Tandon correspondence relating to the crisis is expected to be released tomorrow. Mr Nehru will be ' at home ' to members of the A.-I.C.C. at his residence tomorrow at 6 p.m.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-this-day-sept-9-1951-nehru-chosen-congress-president-101631127600331.html
09-09-2021||India||Theatre commands to be functional in 2 to 3 years: Officials||The creation of theatre commands to best utilise the military’s resources could take two to three years, with senior officers from the three services being assigned key responsibilities to finalise the joint structures, people familiar with the developments said on Wednesday. “The three services have nominated C-in-C ranked officers (senior three-star officers) to finalise the organisational structure and other aspects of theatre commands. These officers will submit a detailed report with their proposals in a year, after which the creation of theatre commands will begin,” said a senior official, one of the people cited above. “The officers will then start raising theatres. That will take two to three years. Right now, they are dual tasked --holding their current C-in-C appointments and laying the groundwork for setting up theatre commands. We are making good progress,” the official added. This indicates a slight revision in timelines. HT reported in February that India was set to begin the initial roll-out of its long-awaited theaterisation plan, with the Air Defence Command and the Maritime Theatre Command likely to be launched by May this year, though the commands would take two years to be fully operational. Theaterisation has the full backing of the government. Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday said discussions on the creation of joint commands and their implementation were progressing well and fast, indicating that differences between stakeholders on the theaterisation model are being addressed, and India is on course to set up theatre commands. “Whenever a change takes place, everyone wants to understand the change and its effects,” the official said. In June, the government formed an eight-member panel under Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat to fine-tune the theaterisation plans and bring all stakeholders on board, especially the Indian Air Force, for speedy roll-out of the new joint structures. The Indian military’s theaterisation model, a long-awaited reform, will have inbuilt flexibility to fall back on the current command and control structures to deal with any contingency during the transition phase, the official said. Stabilisation of theatre commands could take up to five years, and it is critical to ensure that there is a mechanism to swiftly return to the pre-theaterisation status quo if a crisis unfolds when the restructuring is underway. The armed forces currently have 17 single-service commands spread across the country. The Indian Army and the Indian Air Force have seven commands each, while the Indian Navy has three. Creating theatres would involve merging the existing commands (except the Udhampur-based Northern Command). In July, Indian Air Force chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria flagged concerns about the theaterisation model, arguing that it was critical to first get the structure right, even as General Rawat gave out details of the plan to achieve jointness and brushed aside the reservations. The current theaterisation model under consideration seeks to set up four new integrated commands for synergy in operations --- two land-centric theatres, the Air Defence Command and the Maritime Theatre Command. The Indian Army’s Northern Command is the only single-service command that will stay outside the scope of the military’s theaterisation drive because of its critical role. The Udhampur-based Northern Command is responsible for guarding the country’s borders with Pakistan and China in the north, and is the nerve centre of counterterrorism operations in Jammu & Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/theatre-commands-to-be-functional-in-2-to-3-years-officials-101631127582549.html
09-09-2021||India||Govt approves purchase of 56 C-295 transport aircraft||India’s Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) on Wednesday cleared the much-delayed purchase of 56 C-295 medium transport aircraft to replace the Indian Air Force’s ageing fleet of Avro-748 planes, the defence ministry announced on Wednesday.The deal is expected to be worth $2.5 billion.Airbus Defence and Space and Tata Advanced Systems Limited (TASL) will jointly execute the project to equip the air force with the new transport aircraft under the Make-in-India initiative in the aerospace sector. Airbus will supply the first 16 aircraft in flyaway condition while the remaining 40 will be assembled in India by TASL.The Avro replacement project was in the works for almost a decade.“Sixteen aircraft will be delivered in flyaway condition from Spain within 48 months of signing of the contract, and 40 aircraft will be manufactured in India by Tata consortium within ten years of signing of the contract. This is the first project of its kind in which a military aircraft will be manufactured in India by a private company,” the ministry said in a statement.While the C-295s are meant to replace the Avro-748 transport planes, the new aircraft will also be suitable for demanding roles that the AN-32 currently undertakes. The aircraft can operate from short, unprepared airstrips and carry out a variety of missions in all-weather conditions.“We have made good progress with the light combat aircraft and a variety of helicopters. But transport aircraft is one area where a lot needs to be done. The C-295 project will help create an ecosystem for building transport aircraft in India,” said Air Marshal Anil Chopra (retd), director general, Centre for Air Power Studies.The defence acquisition council accorded its acceptance of necessity (AoN) to replace the Avro planes with 56 new aircraft in 2012. Under India’s defence procurement rules, an AoN by the council is the first step towards buying military hardware. The Avro-748 entered service in the early 1960s and has been long due for replacement.“All 56 aircraft will be installed with indigenous electronic warfare suite. The project will give a boost to aerospace ecosystem in India wherein several MSMEs spread over the country will be involved in manufacturing parts of the aircraft,” the statement said.The programme will allow the Indian private sector to enter into the technology intensive and highly competitive aviation industry and will augment domestic aviation manufacturing resulting in reduced imports and expected increase in exports, it said.“The programme will act as a catalyst in employment generation and is expected to generate 600 highly skilled jobs directly, over 3,000 indirect jobs and an additional 3,000 medium skill employment opportunities…It will involve development of specialised infrastructure in the form of hangars, buildings, aprons and taxiway,” it said.The project will involve setting up servicing facilities for the C-295 in India. “It is expected that this facility will act as a regional MRO (maintenance, repair and overhaul) hub for various variants of C-295 aircraft,” it added.The contract will also have an offset clause. India’s offset policy stipulates that in all big-ticket capital purchases, the foreign vendor has to invest at least 30% of the value of the purchase in the country to boost indigenous capabilities.“The original equipment manufacturer (Airbus) will also discharge its offset obligations through direct purchase of eligible products and services from Indian offset partners giving further boost to economy,” the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-approves-purchase-of-56-c-295-transport-aircraft-101631127461846.html
09-09-2021||India||Last infra project inaugurated by BSY in shambles||Redeveloped at a cost of ₹5.5 crores, (Cobblestone road ) at Commercial street was the last infrastructure project BS Yediyurappa inaugurated in July while he was the chief minister. Redeveloped under the Smart City Project, Commercial Street began showing signs of the damage just a day after the inauguration, and close to two months later the entire footpath of one of the busiest streets in the city is in shambles. Commercial Street is one of the prominent shopping destinations in the city. On Tuesday, large gaps were found on cobblestone pavements. Merchants on the road claim that the large gaps on the footpath have become a hazard for the walkers. “A day after the road was reopened, rainwater started entering into the stores. The entire road was dug up for work, which was delayed over six months. We were okay with it because it would help up, but the work is very bad. Now just months after that the pavement has been dug up again,” said Rajesh Jain, one of the shopkeepers on the Commercial Street. Another shopkeeper said that just days after the road was inaugurated, the civic agencies began digging up the road. “We were told that since the quality of the tiles was not good, they were replacing them. But in the days that we followed, they were undertaking piping work on the streets. If the work was not completed what was the hurry to reopen it?” asked the shopkeeper who didn’t want to be named. Sreejith Nambiar, a shopper said that the pavement was not just in a bad shape but was dangerous for pedestrians. “They have removed sections of tiles across the pavement, and they are deep. If someone is not paying attention, they could easily twist their ankle or even fall. This is dangerous,” said Nambiar, who works with an e-learning firm in the city. According to BBMP officials, the cobblestones were replaced after revenue and city-in charge minister R. Ashok during an inspection on August 14 ordered the contractor to replace tiles due to bad quality. Rajendra Cholan, managing director at Bengaluru Smart City Limited said that the tiles on the pavements are being removed as part of the repair works. The official said that work of removing faulty tiles on the pavements began on Tuesday. “All pipe laying and other works have been completed. This will take care of the flooding problems and we have cleared drains on the streets as well. As soon as we finish repairing the tiles, the tiles on the main road as well will be repaired,” he said. However, a trader said the pace of work is slow. “They have just left the removed tiles by the road, and it has been there for a while now. We have just restarted our businesses and we were hoping that the authorities will finish the work during the lockdown, but we are back to square one where they are digging up the road again,” said Mohammad Haneef, who runs a bag shop. Mayank Rohatgi, secretary of Bangalore Commercial Associations said authorities should find a permanent solution to the problem. “We have raised the matter since the day after we saw damage on the road. We are glad that they have taken up the work, we hope it will be done at the earliest,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/last-infra-project-inaugurated-by-bsy-in-shambles-101631127403793.html
09-09-2021||India||Karnataka border district issues alert as 12-yr-old boy dies of Nipah in Kerala||After Kerala reported the first death due to the Nipah virus, Dakshina Kannada district issued alerts on Wednesday. Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner KV Rajendra issued an alert and appealed to the people to exercise caution and has directed the health department officials to take all precautionary measures. “A 12-year-old boy died of Nipah virus infection in Kozhikode district of Kerala on September 3. Since Dakshina Kannada district shares its border with Kerala and a large number of people commute for health and education purposes, a Nipah alert has been announced,” he said in a statement. According to the city administration, apart from the ongoing Covid-19 testing at the checkpoints between Kerala and Karnataka, health department officials have been asked to conduct checks for Nipah as well. District officials said that body temperature is being checked using thermal scanners and those with any symptoms will be sent back at various checkpoints. Nipah is a zoonotic virus that spreads from animals to humans and is also transmitted directly between people. It can cause acute respiratory illness and fatal encephalitis besides fever, headache, cough, and throat pain, the DC said and asked people to inform the health department immediately if any person is found experiencing the symptoms. The officials also said that the police are keeping a tab on the supply of fruits to the district from Kerala. Even though three districts in Karnataka share a border with Kerala, Dakshina Kannada has been a point of concern due to frequent travel between the Kasaragod in Karnataka and Dakshina Kannada. For the residents of Kasaragod, Mangaluru city in Dakshina Kannada is a lifeline. Even though Mangaluru and Kasaragod are on either side of a map, they are closely knit, say local residents. From anywhere in Kasaragod, Mangaluru is just 10-50 km away and the closest city in Kerala, Kannur, is more than 100 km away. “We have been keeping a close vigil on the checkpoints because of the Covid-19. Even though there were some problems earlier, now the system (checking passengers coming to Karnataka) is in place. We will continue to monitor the system, especially after the new developments (detection of Nipah). We are in constant touch with our counterparts in Kerala,” said Rajendra. Dakshina Kannada district on Wednesday reported 200 new Covid-19 cases. The district is recorded the second-highest number of cases after Bengaluru city, which recorded 338 new cases. The district also recorded 3 Covid-19 related deaths and the active cases in the district is at 2,131.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-border-district-issues-alert-as-12-yr-old-boy-dies-of-nipah-in-kerala-101631127402486.html
09-09-2021||India||Ex-Infosys exec slams article criticising firm||A day after general secretary of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) defended a controversial article published in its affiliate Hindi magazine Panchajanya on September 5, in which it alleged that Infosys supported ‘anti-national’ forces, a former senior executive at the I-T giant on Wednesday hit back at the statements saying that those who were earlier issuing nationalist certificates to individuals are now extending the same to companies. “Earlier they were giving nationalist certificates to individuals, now they are giving it to companies. It is bad when a lot of capital is coming into the country. When we are celebrating entrepreneurs in the ecosystem, creating unicorns. You cannot discredit unicorns and companies which have put the company in the global map . It is a sad thing,” V Balakrishnan, the former chief financial officer (CFO) of Infosys told Hindustan Times on Wednesday.Manmohan Vaidya, the general secretary of the RSS on Tuesday defended a controversial article in Panchajanya, calling the magazine as the “herald of a Dharam Yudh” or righteous war.In his comments, Vaidya said that Panchajanya heralds the “Dharam Yudh” and when you have good people on the wrong side, then you will have to shoot arrows against them as well.Despite a section of the RSS distancing itself from the magazine’s article, the comments by Vaidya have raised apprehensions within corporate India and their periodical targeting.The four-page article, which appeared as the cover story in the current edition of the weekly magazine with the headline ‘Saakh Aur Aaghaat’ (‘reputation and affront’), accused Infosys of trying to destabilise the Indian economy and also accused it of helping “naxals, leftists and the tukde tukde gang”.The article comes in the backdrop of glitches in the new Income Tax e-filing portal developed by Infosys. Last month, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman summoned the firm’s CEO, Salil Parekh, and asked him to fix the glitches in the I-T portal by September 15.RSS spokesperson Sunil Ambekar on Monday tried to distance the organization from the magazine, earlier believed to be a mouthpiece of the Sangh. “As an Indian company, Infosys has made seminal contribution in progress of the country. There might be certain issues with a portal run by Infosys, but the article published by Panchjanya in this context only reflects individual opinion of the author,” Ambekar said in a post on Twitter.A mail sent to Infosys seeking comment went unanswered.“I don’t think that this person who made the comments understands that Infosys is a 100% Indian company and one of the top companies of India,” TV Mohandas Pai, another former top executive of Infosys said. “He should talk to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to understand what companies like Infosys have done for the country,” he added.Pai said that he was not clear what was driving such statements against the company.The controversial episode has put the BJP in a tight spot where it cannot publicly defend the company or its ideological parent. The Karnataka government, which has used the success of Infosys and Wipro to put Bengaluru on the global map and attract new investments, has also maintained a stoic silence.“BCIC (Bangalore Chamber of Industry and Commerce) strongly condemns the use of phrase anti national against Infosys. Infosys is a crown jewel of India and is a pride of India in IT sector. The company that stood for governance values and technology which made India proud can never ever be “Anti National.”” KR Sekar, the president of the industry body said on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/exinfosys-exec-slams-article-criticising-firm-101631127343702.html
09-09-2021||India||Nitish Kumar holds meet to assess floods, asks for quick survey of crop loss||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Wednesday held a high-level meeting to review the flood situation and drought in the state and directed government officials to provide compensation to the farmers for crop losses after proper assessment.The CM said that the agriculture department, disaster management department and the concerned district magistrates should carry out panchayat-wise assessment, including those farmers who could not do any sowing due to early floods, so that assistance could reach all those affected by floods. “The assessment should be completed in 3-4 days. After that the ministers’ in-charge of the concerned districts will sit with the DMs to give it final shape,” he added.He also asked for an assessment of those districts, which have received less rainfall. Though technically none of the Bihar districts has so far been declared drought-hit this year, the impact of floods has been unprecedented, with crops on over five-lakh hectares damaged.The CM also pointed to the extensive damage due to floods, which has affected nearly 70-lakh population spread across 26 districts, and asked the water resources department for a comprehensive long-term plan for a permanent solution to the problem, which hits Bihar every year.The Bihar chief minister also directed the animal husbandry and fisheries department to do their assessment so that assistance could reached those affected by the floods in the state. All the DMs of the flood-affected districts, the ministers and officials of different departments were present at the meeting, which went on for over five hours.The review meeting was called after a central team’s visit to take stock of the flood situation and damage caused. The team, which visited the state on Monday, returned on Tuesday evening after doing an aerial survey of Darbhanga, Bhagalpur and adjoining areas and holding talks with government officials.During the meeting, a power point presentation was also made to throw light on the situation, relief and rehabilitation measures initiated and how the state had to face floods in three phases this year, starting from June 13. The government claimed to have distributed relief worth ₹477.32-crore among 795538 families, while the remaining would receive it by September 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nitish-kumar-holds-meet-to-assess-floods-asks-for-quick-survey-of-crop-loss-101631126802734.html
09-09-2021||India||Jharkhand CM seeks to meet Modi to discuss caste census||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren on Wednesday said he has sought appointment from Prime Minister Narendra Modi to meet with an all-party delegation from the state to discuss the issue of caste-based census.Speaking in the legislative assembly on the issue raised by ruling Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) legislator Sudivya Kumar, Soren also invited the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to join the delegation.“I have written to the Prime Minister seeking his time. I want to lead a delegation of all parties to present our views on caste census. I want members from both treasury and opposition benches to join us,” said Soren.Reacting to the CM’s statement, senior BJP legislator and former minister Neelkanth Singh Munda said while his party was ready to cooperate on caste census, the CM should also take up the issue of “dwindling population of tribals in the state”.Sudesh Mahto, former deputy CM and president of AJSU Party, an ally of the BJP, asked Soren to also inform the House about his electoral promise of expanding other backward classes (OBC) reservation in the state to 27% (from existing 14%). AJSU Party too has taken a clear stand in favour of caste census.“It’s is good that you have sought time on caste census, let us know what happened to the 27% OBC reservation. That should not be an issue now as the Centre has already delegated the power of deciding on list of OBCs to the states,” Mahto said.To this, the CM said the state government was working on it and he was in favour that a unanimous resolution on OBC reservation should also go to the Centre from the state assembly.The development comes weeks after an all-party delegation from neighbouring Bihar, led by chief minister Nitish Kumar, met PM Modi on August 23 to demand a caste census in the country. While speaking to the press after the meeting, Rashtriya Janata Dal’s Tejashwi Yadav, leader of opposition in the Bihar assembly, suggested the caste census could be a part of the normal decadal census, which anyway counts religious groups and Scheduled Castes (SCs) and Scheduled Tribes (STs) separately.The last caste-based census was conducted and released in 1931, while in 1941, the data was collected but not made public. In 2011, a socio-economic caste census was carried out but the data was again not made public on grounds of “discrepancies”.Holding a caste-based census is a sensitive issue for the government in view of the assembly elections due in seven states next year. Many political parties have come together demanding a caste-based census.BJP allies such as the JD(U), Apna Dal and Republican Party of India-Athawale have raised the demand for holding a caste-based census. Many opposition parties such as the Congress, Nationalist Congress Party, Rashtriya Janata Dal and Samajwadi Party are also demanding that the exercise should be held.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jharkhand-cm-seeks-to-meet-modi-to-discuss-caste-census-101631126682758.html
09-09-2021||India||10 injured in CPM, BJP clashes across Tripura||At least 10 people were injured in fresh clashes between BJP and CPM workers which erupted in different parts of Tripura on Wednesday, police said, adding that two persons were arrested so far in connection with the matter.Besides, two CPM party offices and nearly six vehicles were set on fire while offices were ransacked at Bishalgarh in Sepahijala district, Udaipur in Gomati district and, Agartala and Hapania in West District. “A case has been registered at Udaipur after one Mafiz Miah was injured. Two persons have been arrested so far,” a senior police official in Agartala said on condition of anonymity. The two sides had earlier clashed on Monday at Sonamura in Sepahijala district of the state, police said. Trouble began in Udaipur town after CPM’s youth wing Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) took out a procession and a few activists from the rally allegedly attacked a BJP activist, news agency PTI reported. A group of BJP activists retaliated by attacking the DYFI procession. The CPM alleged that the BJP cadres later broke the gate of the former’s party office at Bishalgarh with the help of a bulldozer before setting the premises ablaze. The BJP cadre also ransacked CPM’s Sadar office and party headquarters at Melarmath in Agartala, the party said. “I was inside the party headquarters when the BJP workers came and destroyed our party documents, threatening us to stop all political programmes. Few vehicles in front of our office were also set on fire. It is an attack on democracy,” Left convener Bijan Dhar said. Later in the evening, the BJP alleged that seven of their activists were injured after they were attacked by CPM cadres in Agartala and Udaipur. “We noticed that CPM leaders, especially former chief minister Manik Sarkar, have been involved in instigation of violence for a few days. We have organised protest rallies throughout the state against their attack on our activists two days back,” a BJP leader said on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-injured-in-cpm-bjp-clashes-across-tripura-101631126503396.html
09-09-2021||India||SC upholds extension of ED chief’s term, says exceptions only in rare cases||The Supreme Court on Wednesday signed off on the extension granted to Enforcement Directorate chief Sanjay Kumar Mishra , saying that the government has power to appoint the Director of Enforcement for a term beyond two years but that extensions beyond the date of the individual’s superannuation should be rare, in exceptional cases, and for a reasonably short period of time.Mishra’s term comes to an end in November 2021 and the court has said he should not be granted any further extension. Mishra superannuated in May 2020.The decision of the Court came on a petition filed by NGO Common Cause which challenged the Government’ decision of November 13, 2020 to retrospectively grant an extension to Mishra by converting his original tenure of two years beginning November 19, 2018 into a three-year one. The decision met the approval of the High-Powered Committee chaired by Central Vigilance Commissioner in the interest of supervising some important investigations handled by ED that were at a crucial stage.A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and BR Gavai said, “We do not intend to interfere with the extension of tenure of the second respondent (Mishra) in the instant case for the reason that his tenure is coming to an end in November, 2021. We make it clear that no further extension shall be granted to the second respondent .”The Court upheld the power of the Central government India to extend the tenure of Director of Enforcement beyond the period of two years. But ”we should make it clear that extension of tenure granted to officers who have attained the age of superannuation should be done only in rare and exceptional cases,” it added . The Court said that a reasonable period of extension could be granted to facilitate the completion of ongoing investigations but “any extension of tenure granted to persons holding the post of Director of Enforcement after attaining the age of superannuation should be for a short period.” The High-Powered Committee entrusted with appointment of ED Director under the CVC Act has to record reasons for granting such extension, the Court held.The Government argued in Court that Section 25(d) of CVC Act laying down the tenure of Director Enforcement to be “not less than two years” gave discretion to the Government to fix a tenure beyond two years notwithstanding the retirement age of 60 years applicable under Rule 56 of All India Service Rules. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said that the Enforcement Director occupies an important post , probing money laundering crimes having cross-border and trans-national ramifications and that under the present Director, the agency managed to recover a sum of nearly ₹9000 crore in the investigation of three cases involving Vijay Mallya, Nirav Modi and Mehul Choksi. The NGO’s petition, argued by senior advocate Dushyant Dave, submitted that this decision of the Government would play havoc with the system and give the government a free hand to keep officers of their choice beyond retirement for an unreasonable period.The bench held, “There is no proscription on the government to appoint a Director of Enforcement beyond a period of two years.” On the words ‘not less than two years’ occurring in Section 25(d) of the CVC Act, the bench said, “There is no scope for reading the words to mean not more than two years” and said that a Director of Enforcement can be appointed for a period of more than two years by following the procedure prescribed under Section 25 of the CVC Act.To this extent, the present incumbent Mishra’s extension order was held to be justified as he was holding the rank of an Additional Secretary to the Government of India on the date when the extension order was issued. Further, there was no allegation made by the petitioner stating that the extension of tenure was exercised for any unauthorized purpose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-upholds-extension-of-ed-chief-s-term-says-exceptions-only-in-rare-cases-101631126143815.html
09-09-2021||India||Dharmendra Pradhan BJP’s poll incharge in UP, Gajendra Shekhawat in Punjab||The Bharatiya Janata Party kicked off its preparations for elections in five states to be held in 2022 by appointing four Union ministers and a former chief minister in charge of the party’s election efforts in these. Three other Union ministers, several ministers of state, and senior partly leaders and parliamentarians will assist them. The BJP is in power in four of the five states. Union minister for education and skill development, Dharmendra Pradhan, has been given charge of the politically significant state of Uttar Pradesh, which sends the largest number of members to the Lok Sabha. According to senior party leaders, his nomination to the position is an indication of the party projecting him as an OBC (Other Backward Classes) face. “He is an OBC himself and has a good understanding of the caste matrix. He also has the advantage of having worked as an election in-charge in Bihar. Since this election will see mobilisation of the OBC castes, his appointment is crucial,” said a party functionary who asked not to named. Pradhan was most recently in charge of Nandigram in West Bengal during the assembly elections. The party’s Suvendu Adhikari won the election defeating his mentor and West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee. The “co-incharges” are Union minister for information and broadcasting, Anurag Thakur, the minister of state for parliamentary affairs Arjun Ram Meghwal, MoS for agriculture Shobha Karanjdale, MoS education Annupurna Devi, former national general secretary Saroj Pandey, MP Vivek Thakur and former minister in Haryana Capt Abhimanyu. Thakur was appointed as in-charge of the District Development Council (DDC) elections held in Jammu and Kashmir in 2020. “His performance in the DDC elections was appreciated in the party. He is also is a young leader who has a good connect with the youth,” said a second party functionary who asked not to be named. Union minister for parliamentary affairs, Pralhad Joshi has been given charge of Uttarakhand. BJP MP from West Bengal Locket Chatterjee and BJP spokesperson RP Singh will be the co-incharges for the state where the BJP changed three chief ministers within a year. “In Uttarakhand the intra-party issues have now been settled, but Joshi will have to strike a balance between the aspirations of the people from the hill and the plains,” said the second leader. In Uttarakhand the party faces challenges on account of governance issues that in turn led to the frequent change in leadership. “The issue of frequent changes (of CMs) is an issues, but the party is hopeful that with new CM (Pushkar Dhami) in the seat it will come back to power,” said a BJP leader from Uttarakhand who asked not to be named. Union minister for Jal Shakti Gajendra Shekhawat has been given charge of Punjab where the party will be contesting on its own for the first time after breaking away from its ally, the Shiromani Akali Dal. The party faces a daunting task in the state, as farmers in Punjab have been in the forefront of the ongoing stir against the farm laws. “Shekhawat’s familiarity with issues pertaining to agriculture and his friendly demeanour are seen as advantages,” said the second leader. Union minister for urban development Hardeep Singh Puri, MoS for external affairs Meenakshi Lekhi and Lok Sabha MP Vionod Chawda will be co-incharges in Punjab. Bhupendra Yadav, Union minister for labour and environment will be in-charge of Manipur. MoS, social justice, Pratima Bhaumik and Assam minister Ashok Singhal have been named the co-incharges for Manipur, where the BJP is also in power. Yadav, is also the party’s prominent OBC face. Also in-charge of Gujarat and Bihar, he is considered a confidant of the party brass. “Both Yadav and Pradhan have a deep understanding of the organisational matters. They understand the dynamics of electoral politics,” said the first functionary. Former Maharashtra CM Devendra Fadnavis has been given charge of Goa where the party faces a slew of challenges including the anger over the handling of the Covid-19 pandemic. Union minister for culture and tourism G Kishen Reddy and MoS, railways, Darshana Jardosh will be the co-incharges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pradhan-bjp-s-poll-incharge-in-up-shekhawat-in-punjab-101631125904128.html
09-09-2021||India||Focus on terror in United States, Russia talks with India||India has conveyed to top security and intelligence officials of the UK, the US and Russia its concerns over Pakistan’s links with the Taliban and foreign terrorist groups operating in Afghanistan, and the need for steps to prevent instability spilling over into the wider region, including India.The officials of the three countries made a beeline for India to discuss the situation in Afghanistan following the Taliban takeover and its implications for regional security -- an indication, also, of the understanding among the world’s powers that India is an important stakeholder in the issue.Richard Moore, the head of the UK Secret Intelligence Service or MI6, was the first of the visitors over the past week, and he was followed on Tuesday by Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) director William Burns. Both spy chiefs and their teams met national security adviser Ajit Doval and top members of the National Security Council Secretariat, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity.On Wednesday, Doval met Nikolay Patrushev, secretary of Russia’s security council. Patrushev visited India at Doval’s invitation for high-level bilateral consultations on Afghanistan, the external affairs ministry said.At these meetings, the Indian side pointed to Pakistan’s long-standing links with the Taliban and other foreign terror groups operating in Afghanistan, and also raised the special responsibility that Islamabad has in ensuring that Afghan soil is not used to spread terrorism, the people cited above said.The Indian side also highlighted the links between Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) and terror groups such as Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) that are active in Afghanistan.The visits came against the backdrop of the old guard of the Taliban tightening its grip on power in Afghanistan a little more than two weeks after the group marched into Kabul on August 15, following the chaotic collapse of the Ashraf Ghani government. Just three days after a visit to Kabul by the ISI chief, Lt Gen Faiz Hameed, the Taliban on Tuesday announced a 33-member interim setup led by veteran political leader Mohammad Hasan Akhund, a close aide of the group’s founder, Mullah Mohammad Omar, who died in 2013.The people cited above said the meetings with the MI6 and CIA chiefs and the Russian security official looked at the way forward on Afghanistan, especially at a time when Russia and China appear to be veering towards the possible recognition of the Taliban dispensation.Burns and his team interacted with Doval and key members of the National Security Council Secretariat, including deputy national security adviser Rajinder Khanna and Lt Gen (retired) VG Khandare, the secretariat’s military adviser, the people said.While the external affairs ministry announced Patrushev’s visit, there was no official word from any side on the trips by the British and American spy chiefs. A spokesperson for the British high commission said: “We do not comment on intelligence matters.”The high-level India-Russia consultations on Afghanistan were the first such review of the situation after the fall of Kabul to the Taliban, and involved officials from the external affairs and defence ministries and security agencies. Both sides expressed deep concern at developments in Afghanistan and there was convergence on major issues, such as the need for Taliban to adhere to their commitments and the threat posed by foreign terrorists in Afghanistan to Central Asia and India, the people said.There was also convergence on the threat posed by the flow of weapons to terror groups and smuggling across Afghanistan’s borders and the high chances of the war-torn country becoming a hub for opium production and trafficking.India and Russia also discussed concrete forms of bilateral cooperation among their security agencies, including upgrading consultations and exchange of information, the people said.A statement issued by the Russian embassy noted the importance of letting Afghans define the “parameters of the future state structure of Afghanistan”, and the need to prevent any escalation of violence. The two sides also discussed humanitarian and migration problems in Afghanistan, and the prospects for joint efforts by India and Russia to create conditions for “launching a peaceful settlement process on the basis of an intra-Afghan dialogue”, the statement said.The meeting between Doval and Patrushev was a follow-up to the phone conversation between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Vladimir Putin on August 24, during which the two leaders agreed to remain in close touch on the Afghanistan issue.Patrushev later met Modi and discussed cooperation on a wide range of issues, and ways to develop the bilateral special and privileged strategic partnership. Patrushev also meet external affairs minister S Jaishankar and exchanged views on international and regional problems, including the situation in Afghanistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/focus-on-terror-in-us-russia-talks-with-india-101631125783460.html
09-09-2021||India||Centre opens NDA to women after SC push||Nudged by the Supreme Court, the Union government has taken a decision to throw open the doors of the National Defence Academy (NDA) to women cadets -- although it has also sought an exemption for this year’s admission, exams for which are to be held in November. The development came weeks after the top court directed that women can also sit for the upcoming NDA examination while holding that the policy that restricts their entry into the elite institution is based on “gender discrimination”. The Centre on Wednesday informed the top court that the decision to allow women in the joint defence service training institute of the Indian armed forces was made on Tuesday evening, in consultation with the three chiefs of the armed forces and the competent authority in the government. A bench, headed by justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul, appreciated the government’s decision and asked for a detailed affidavit by September 20on the manner in which the policy is going to be implemented and the timeline for execution. “We do hope defence forces value the important role women are performing. You may go at a comfortable pace, but redressal must take place...The armed forces play an important role in the system, for forming an immensely essential function. We would not easily interfere in their roles and would rather want them to take a proactive approach towards gender equality, instead of the court stepping in,” said the bench, which also included justice MM Sundresh. The court observed that the armed forces are respected but, “they need to do more towards gender equality. A dynamic approach needs to be adopted”. Breaking the glass ceiling that endured for 65 years, the top court on August 18 rejected the government’s argument that the restriction against women from training at the Pune-based NDA was a policy decision while issuing the interim order to let them sit for the upcoming exam in November. It had also implored the government to “take a more constructive view of the matter”. The order was passed on a petition filed by Kush Kalra for equal opportunity for women at NDA and the Indian Naval Academy. Appearing for the petitioner, senior counsel Chinmoy Pradip Sharma and advocate Mohit Paul contended that the categorical exclusion of eligible female candidates from NDA was unconstitutional and done entirely on the basis of their sex. Under the current eligibility criteria, only male candidates who have cleared Class 12 level or its equivalent, and are in the age group of 16-and-a-half and 19 are eligible to apply. Those who clear the NDA exam are called for interview by the Service Selection Board (SSB) and following a medical exam, candidates are recruited in the Indian Army, navy, and air force wings of NDA, and for the INA course for pre-commission training. NDA was commissioned in 1955. On Wednesday, additional solicitor general Aishwarya Bhati appeared on behalf of the Centre and began her submission by saying that the nudge and the push by the court has yielded results. “I have a rather delightful piece of news to share with your lordships. Your lordships’ nudging, persuading and pushing has made a difference. The decision has been taken at the highest level of the forces, with all the three armed forces’ chiefs, and the government that girls will be inducted in armed forces through the NDA. This decision was taken late last evening,” Bhati told the bench, which also included justice MM Sundresh. Bhati, however, sought an exemption from admitting women in the NDA for the current year, and requested the court to consider directing a status quo for the November-exam this year. She said the policy decision will entail various changes in curriculum, procedure, training infrastructure, billets, etc. At this justice Kaul remarked: “We were only nudging the authorities to do certain things themselves. After all, we know that they are best suited to evolve such changes. The court steps in when nothing has happened. It is not a very happy situation for us either.” On her part, the ASG said that the “thought process” was already there and the plan was in the seeding stage when the court passed the interim order to allow women to take the next entrance exam for the NDA. “If you had told this to us at the previous hearing, we would not have done anything at all. We are conscious of the complexity of the armed services where induction can take place; whether it can take place or not; in what time and manner it can take place. We are not oblivious to all this. But we only wanted to push you,” retorted the bench. Adverting to Bhati’s plea regarding the status quo for the upcoming exam, the bench said: “We are conscious that reforms cannot happen in one day. We only want progress to be made. We will see depending on what you are doing now; what is the proposal for the future; what still remains to be examined; which areas you are exploring. We will see if more nudging is required or we are comfortable with your pace. But we must have some timelines.” In its order, the bench said that it is “glad” to note that the armed forces have taken the decision for induction of women into the NDA and related issues are being examined. “ASG Aishwarya Bhati seeks time to place the development or the future plan before us. We compliment the ASG for the proactive role in persuading the armed forces in taking an approach which is in furtherance of gender equality. We hold over the matter for two weeks,” stated the court, fixing September 22 as the next date of hearing. The bench also heard another plea for admission of girls into the Dehradun-based Rashtriya Indian Military College (RIMC), argued by advocate Manish Kumar on behalf of NGO Centre for Reforms, Development and Justice. Kumar said that the latest advertisement issued by RIMC has yet again excluded girls. Old boys’ association of RIMC also intervened in the matter with certain suggestions. The bench asked Bhati to look into these pleas and get back with a reply on the next date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-opens-nda-to-women-after-sc-push-101631125721776.html
09-09-2021||India||SC extends interim relief to The Wire journalists in FIRs filed by UP Police||The Supreme Court on Wednesday directed news portal ‘The Wire’ to approach the Allahabad high court for quashing criminal cases lodged against its journalists in Uttar Pradesh and protected them from arrest for two months. The Foundation for Independent Journalism, the company which publishes The Wire, approached the top court on August 26 along with three of its journalists for an order to quash the criminal cases lodged against them by the Uttar Pradesh police accusing them of spreading disharmony, enmity and feelings of hatred between different groups of people in the society. Senior advocate Nithya Ramakrishnan, who represented the petitioners, told the court that journalists did not seek any special protection but this was a question of muzzling freedom of press. The bench of justices L Nageswara Rao, BR Gavai and BV Nagarathna said, “We are aware about your press freedom and we do not want press freedom to be muzzled. But at the same time, we do not want to open the floodgates for quashing petitions to be filed under Article 32. You approach the high court.”The counsels for the petitioners urged that arrest was imminent as the investigating officer in the Barabanki FIR had summoned the Editor and journalists to obey the summons, failing which non-bailable warrants shall be procured. In the other FIRs, the accused journalists are yet to hear from the police authorities.The bench, while allowing the petition to be withdrawn, granted protection from arrest in connection with the three FIRs for a period of two months.The three FIRs lodged this year on January 31, June 15 and June 24 related to news stories published by the news portal which related to demolition of a disputed structure at Barabanki, an interview with the kin of a person allegedly killed in farmer agitation, and a video purportedly showing miscreants chopping off the beard of an aged Muslim man. The FIRs lodged at Rampur, Ghaziabad and Barabanki accused the portal and its journalists of offences under the Indian Penal Code of Section 153A (promoting disharmony), Section 295A (insulting religion or religious beliefs) and Section 505 (spreading false and mischievous news) besides criminal conspiracy and common intention relatable to the above crimes. The petition, filed by advocate Shadan Farasat, said, “These provisions which deal with actual offences against communal harmony are presently being subverted and misused and used to gag any media reportage on incidents that may have a communal/religious/political angle. In these circumstances, it is essential that the contours of these offences particularly in the context of action against journalists or media houses be clearly set out, so that they are not used by police authorities to muzzle constitutionally protected (freedom of) speech.”Interestingly, the issue of use of Sections 153A and 505 of IPC against media channels and journalists is already pending consideration in a separate matter before the top court. Two news channels – Aamoda Broadcasting (ABN Andhra Jyoti) and Shreya Broadcasting (TV5) had approached the top court questioning FIRs registered against them in Andhra Pradesh accusing their reporting of fomenting communal disharmony and amounting to sedition.On May 31 this year, the top court stayed any coercive action against the two media houses and said, “The ambit and parameters of the provisions of sections 124A, 153A and 505 of the Indian Penal Code 1860 would require interpretation, particularly in the context of the right of the electronic and print media to communicate news, information and the rights, even those that may be critical of the prevailing regime in any part of the nation.”The present petition cited this case and said, “To posit reporting – especially the verbatim claims of citizens who are or say they are victims of crime – as tending to create disharmony or as an inherently criminal act is most pernicious, and this mode of criminalizing expression deserves relief and remedial measures from this court, else no journalist will be able to report fearlessly and the media will become caught in the criminal process for simply doing its job.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-extends-interim-relief-to-the-wire-journalists-in-firs-filed-by-up-police-101631125422541.html
09-09-2021||India||Centre signs peace agreement with Nagaland insurgent group: Home ministry||The Union government on Wednesday signed a fresh ceasefire pact with Niki Sumi-led Khaplang faction of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland (NSCN-K) in New Delhi. The development is being seen as a boost to the ongoing Naga peace process for which the Centre is holding peace talks with NSCN (IM) and a conglomeration of seven Naga nationalist political groups (NNPGs). The new ceasefire agreement is for a period of one year with effect from September 8, 2021. The agreement is subject to adherence to the existing ceasefire ground rules signed by the two sides. The ceasefire agreement was signed by Union home ministry’s additional secretary (NE) Piyush Goyal on behalf of the central government while Nikato Pilot Sumi and Abel Zingru Thuer signed for NSCN (K) Niki group. A home ministry statement said the ceasefire agreement is a significant step in Naga peace process and making the Northeast insurgency-free. “In fulfilling the vision of Prime Minister Narendra Modi of ‘Insurgency free and prosperous North East’ and in a significant boost to Naga peace process, under the guidance of Union Home Minister Amit Shah, the government of India enters into a ceasefire agreement with National Socialist Council of Nagaland (K) Niki Group,” the ministry said in the statement .The NSCN (K) in 2015 unilaterally abrogated its 2001 ceasefire agreement with the Centre, after which the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) declared the group as a banned outfit and an “unlawful association”. The chairman of Ceasefire Monitoring Group (CFMG Nagaland), Lt. Gen. (retired) AS Bedi, was also present during the signing of the pact on Wednesday. While speculations are rife over the Niki-led NSCN (K)’s move calling truce with the Centre, people aware of the matter, said the group was firm to remain a separate entity. However, the onus is on the Centre to decide whether it would ask the NSCN (K) to either join hands with the NSCN (IM) or the NNPGs in the peace talks, or to start fresh talks with the group. The latter would mean the Centre get into negotiations with the group and perhaps even sign another accord, which might prolong the protracted Naga political issue. However, the coming of the Niki-led NSCN (K) into ceasefire with the Centre is also being seen as a positive move for the Naga peace process as the Naga civil society has been appealing to all the political groups to come together and thrash out issues so as to bring the long-pending Naga political issue to an honourable and an acceptable settlement. The development comes days after a tripartite agreement among five insurgent groups of Assam, the Centre and the state government was signed to end years of violence in the Karbi Anglong region. After abrogating the ceasefire agreement with the government of India in 2015, the NSCN (K) led by its leader SS Khaplang went on to establish a strong base in neighbouring Myanmar. However, Khaplang died of a cardiac arrest at Taga in 2017 in Myanmar’s Sagaing Region under Naga self-administered zone. Subsequently, the group, which was taken over by Khaplang’s relative Yung Aung split into different factions, of which the Niki-led NSCN (K) is one. Niki Sumi is a prime accused in the ambush on the Indian Army in Manipur which claimed the lives of 18 soldiers and charges have not been dropped yet. The National Investigation Agency had announced a reward of ₹10 lakh on Niki Sumi.The NSCN (K) operates to establish a sovereign state bringing all Naga inhabited areas of Myanmar and India under one administrative setup. The Centre has been in a ceasefire agreement with the Isak-Muivah faction of the NSCN (NSCN-IM) since 1997 and had signed the professed historic “Framework Agreement” in August 2015, while a conglomeration of seven different Naga national political groups (NNPGs) was also involved in separate talks with the Centre since 2017 and had arrived at an “agreed position” in 2017. Another breakaway faction of the NSCN (K) led by Khango Konyak is already in peace talks with the Centre under the aegis of the NNPGs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-signs-peace-agreement-with-nagaland-insurgent-group-home-ministry-101631125302582.html
09-09-2021||India||37 cases of side effects linked to Covid-19 vaccines in govt’s new AEFI report||The Union health ministry’s latest analysis of adverse events following immunization (AEFI) shows that 61 out of 88 cases that of severe or serious side effects chosen for analysis have a consistent causal association to vaccination, and 37 were vaccine-related reactions. There were five deaths in this clutch of cases but these were not directly linked to the vaccine, according to the government report that HT has accessed.This is the fifth AEFI report of the government and experts said its findings reinforce the safety of the vaccines. The government has been analysing AEFI instances in batches – this report pertains to 88 cases selected at random between January 16) when coronavirus vaccination was launched in India) and March 30. In this period, 64.3 million doses were administered.Apart from five deaths, all other severe and serious adverse reaction cases recovered, according to the report, which said that three deaths were coincidental and not linked to vaccination– such cases are when a cause of death other than a vaccine is established upon investigation. The two remaining deaths were classified by experts in the indeterminate category.Also Read| ‘Won’t stay silent’: WHO chief reiterates moratorium on Covid-19 booster shotsMost of the side effects, which were in 22 cases, were related to anxiety following vaccination – which does not directly implicate the product. In two cases, the reactions were related to immunisation error, the report added.“61 out of 88 cases for which causality assessment has been done found to have consistent causal association to vaccination, of these 61 cases, 37 were vaccine product related reactions 22 cases were immunization anxiety related reactions, and 2 cases were immunization error related reaction. 18 cases have inconsistent causal association to vaccination (coincidental — not linked to vaccination) including 3 death cases. 9 cases were in indeterminate category including 2 death cases,” said the ministry’s AEFI report.The result of the causality assessment for these 88 cases was completed on June 28, 2021, after a thorough review, deliberation and approval by the national AEFI committee.Vaccine product related reactions are those that can be attributed based on current scientific evidence. Examples of such reactions are allergies and anaphylaxis.Indeterminate reactions occur soon after vaccination but there is no definitive evidence in current literature or clinical trial data that this could have been due to the vaccine. Further observations, analysis and studies are required.Unclassifiable events are events that have been investigated but there is not enough evidence for a diagnosis due to missing information. When this relevant information becomes available, the case may be reconsidered for causality assessment.A dedicated group has been formed both at the state and central level, to conduct causality assessment of AEFIs following Covid-19 vaccination. The results of causality assessment done by this expert group are discussed in the national AEFI committee meeting for final approval.The medical specialists include cardiologists, neurologists, pulmonary medicine specialists, and obstetrician-gynaecologists as members of the causality assessment sub-committee at the national level.Also Read| Covax cuts supply forecast for 2021, to have access to 1.425 billion doses“The surveillance happens not just for Covid-19 vaccination; in fact the country has a robust AEFI surveillance system as India vaccinates a large number of children and even pregnant women each year. A well-oiled system is in place for the purpose, and surveillance post Covid-19 vaccination is now a part of that system,” said a senior central government official aware of the matter, on condition of anonymity.The final analysis of the cases is sent to the Union health ministry’s immunisation division that stores all data related to immunisation in the country at the central level, including Covid-19 immunisation.Experts also say that the percentage of adverse reactions that have been reported so far is minuscule in comparison.“It has been well-established that vaccines are safe and should be taken without hesitation. Vaccinating a significant percentage of our population will eventually help in containing the disease transmission,” said Dr Srikant Sharma, senior consultant, department of medicine, Moolchand Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/37-cases-of-side-effects-linked-to-vaccines-in-govt-s-new-aefi-report-101631124942652.html
09-09-2021||India||TDP chief Naidu alleges AP police abetted suicide of TDP members, writes to top cop||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) supremo and former Andhra Pradesh chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu on Wednesday accused a section of the state police of harassing his party members and abetting their suicide in Prakasam district. Naidu shot-off a letter to state director general of police (DGP) Goutam Sawang on the issue, claiming “continued deterioration of law and order” in AP. In his letter, Naidu stated that a false case was booked against two TDP leaders, M Srikanth and P Rathaiah in Mogilicherla village under the Lingasamudram police station in Prakasam district. The former chief minister alleged that both were harassed and beaten on September 5 after being picked up by the district police, leading to their death by suicide.“After physically harassing, abusing and threatening them, the police left them at 2 am in the early hours of September 6. Again, at 6.30 am on September 6, the Lingasamudram SI (sub-inspector) threatened and called them to the police station. Frightened and afraid of further police harassment, Srikanth and Rathaiah took poison,” stated Naidu’s letter to the DGP. Naidu said the police was in “connivance” with the ruling YSR Congress Party (YSRCP), and was “persecuting” those with opposing political views and beliefs for the past two and half years. However, the Prakasam district police contradicted Naidu’s statements on the issue. Prakasam district superintendent of police Mallika Garg however denied any bias or wrongdoing. “Rathaiah had a dispute with a woman named Geeta as the latter was dumping manure on a pathway in their village. Geeta had support from the YSRCP, and with the help of some others, she lodged a police complaint against Rathaiah, who was associated with the TDP,” she told Hindustan Times. Garg added a case was first registered against both sides after a local TDP leader named Gopal Rao got into a scuffle with one of the YSRCP leaders accompanying Geeta when he allegedly made an offensive comment against Rao. “The aggressor was from the TDP. Later, both sides were called to the police station, and the TDP workers were arrested and given station bail. A case was also registered against the YSRCP members as well,” Garg said. Rathaiah and Srikanth died by suicide a day after the incident on September 6.Refuting any wrongdoing by the police, DGP Sawang also said that it was a small incident between two neighbours which led to an issue. “It is normal to have such issues in every village. It happens frequently, and the police in this case acted quickly,” he said, when asked about Naidu’s allegations. Naidu’s letter, however, stated that it was “appalling to note the one-sided” leaning among a section of the police. He further alleged that some cops were favouring the ruling YSRCP and constantly harassing TDP leaders and sympathisers.Prior to this on August 30, Naidu had written to Sawang requesting withdrawal of “false” cases registered against TDP leaders in connection with a state-wide protest against the rise in fuel prices on August 28. Then, too, he questioned the police and alleged political bias.The YSRCP, however, denied any interference in police functioning. “The AP police department over the last two-and-a-half years received awards from independent third parties. Why would external parties keep rewarding them (if it was biased)?,” questioned Rajiv Krishna, advisor to the AP government and YSRCP spokesperson.Krishna stated that the ruling YSRCP was not concerned with the TDP. “The people have given the CM a fantastic mandate. The CM has gone on record to say that all government schemes are for the public without worrying about their political affiliations,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/naidu-alleges-ap-police-abetted-suicide-of-tdp-members-writes-to-dgp-101631091682136.html
09-09-2021||NA||Breaking news highlights: WHO chief urges halt to booster shots for rest of 2021||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:Antony Blinken warns US getting 'closer' to giving up on Iran nuclear dealUS Secretary of State Antony Blinken warned on Wednesday that time was running out for Iran to return to a nuclear deal after a scathing report by the UN atomic watchdog and Tehran's signals that it would take a while to return to talks. Read moreWHO chief urges halt to Covid booster shots for rest of 2021The World Health Organization (WHO) said on Wednesday that rich nations with large supplies of vaccines against Covid-19 should refrain from offering booster shots through the end of the year and make the doses available for poorer nations. Theatre commands to be functional in 2-3 yearsThe creation of theatre commands to best utilise the military’s resources could take two to three years, with senior officers from the three services being assigned key responsibilities to finalise the joint structures, people familiar with the developments said on Wednesday. Read More‘Want healthy relations with our neighbours': Taliban The new Taliban setup in Kabul has said it desires healthy relations with all neighbours of Afghanistan based on mutual respect, even while assuring that Afghan soil will not be used against the security of any nation. “We want strong and healthy relations with our neighbours and all other countries based on mutual respect and interaction. Our relations with those countries will be based on the highest interests and benefits of Afghanistan,” the statement said.Doing 'everything in our power' to start charter flights from Afghanistan: USUS doing 'everything in our power' to start charter flights from Afghanistan, says Secretary of State Antony Blinken.RBI lifts UCO Bank out of corrective action list after four yearsReserve Bank of India said on Wednesday it has taken UCO Bank out of prompt corrective action restrictions, subject to certain conditions and continuous monitoring, news agency Reuters reported. CPM headquarters in Agartala; motorbike set on fireCPM headquarters in Agartala was ransacked and a motorbike was set on fire in front of the office. In Sepahijala district, a CPM party office was set on fire. A clash also occurred between CPM and BJP at Udaipur in Gomati district.China announces aid worth USD 31 million to AfghanistanChina announced on Wednesday that it would donate 200 million yuan (US$31 million) worth of aid, including grains, winter supplies and coronavirus vaccines to Afghanistan, a day after the Taliban announced the formation of an interim government in Kabul.PM Modi meets Russia's secretary of security councilWas happy to meet Mr. Nikolai Patrushev, Secretary of the Security Council of Russia. His visit allowed useful discussions between both sides on important regional developments. pic.twitter.com/v0cwJH1yAFCentre, NSCN (K) sign ceasefire agreementGovernment of India on Wednesday signed a fresh ceasefire pact with the Niki Sumi-led Khaplang faction of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland (NSCN-K) in New Delhi. The development is being seen as a boost to the ongoing Naga peace process for which the Centre is holding peace talks with NSCN (IM) and a conglomeration of seven Naga nationalist political groups (NNPGs).The new ceasefire agreement is for a period of one year with effect from September 8, 2021. The agreement is subject to adherence to the existing ceasefire ground rules signed by the two sides.Pak wants Taliban-led Afghanistan to be invited to future regional gatheringsPakistan foreign minister Shah Mohammed Qureshi on Wednesday proposed the idea of inviting Taliban leaders in future regional meetings during a virtual gathering of foreign ministers of nations which are neighbours of Afghanistan, news agency Reuters reported. Read MoreAfghanistan's ex-president Ashraf Ghani issues statement, quashes corruption allegationsStatement 8 September 2021 pic.twitter.com/5yKXWIdLfMMaharashtra govt prohibits public from visiting  Ganesh mandalsMaharashtra Government prohibits public from visiting Ganesh mandals on Ganesh Chaturthi, asks mandal organisers to make darshan available online or through other electronic means. Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) approves procurement of transport aircraft for IAFCabinet Committee on Security (CCS) approves procurement of 56 C-295 MW transport aircraft for Indian Air Force.China says it will maintain communication with Taliban-led Afghanistan govtChina on Wednesday said the formation of a provisional Taliban government in Afghanistan was a “necessary step” in pursuing a post-war reconstruction, adding that it is ready to maintain communication with the new leaders. Read MoreTalks between farmers, Karnal admin remain inconclusiveTalks with Karnal district admin lasted for three hours but failed. Officers are not ready to suspend him (SDM Ayush Sinha) and lodge a case against him. The officers are getting directions from Chandigarh. So we have decided to continue our protest here: BKU leader Rakesh TikaitDozens feared missing after two ferries collide in Assam's Brahmaputra river; rescue ops onCollision between two ferries on Brahmaputra between Kamalabari (Majuli) and Nematighat (Jorhat). Dozens feared missing as one ferry is reported to have capsized. NDRF and SDRF teams start rescue operations.West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee to file nomination for Bhabanipur bypoll on FridayTrnamool Congress supremo and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee to file her nomination for Bhabanipur bye-election on September 10.MI6, CIA chiefs and Russia’s Security Council secretary make beeline for IndiaTop security and intelligence officials of the UK, the US and Russia have made a beeline for India to discuss the situation in Afghanistan following the Taliban takeover in Kabul and the implications for regional security. Read MoreNecessary step, will maintain communication: China on new Taliban govtChina on Wednesday said the formation of a provisional Taliban government in Afghanistan was a “necessary step” in pursuing a post-war reconstruction, adding that it is ready to maintain communication with the new leaders.It is a “necessary step for Afghanistan to restore domestic order and pursue post-war reconstruction,” Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson, Wang Wenbin told state English broadcaster, CGTN, in an interview.EU warns Taliban govt in Afghanistan not 'inclusive and representative'The European Union warns Taliban, says govt not 'inclusive, representative', reports AFP.Delhi reports 41 new cases, zero deathsDelhi reports 41 new cases, 13 recoveries and zero deaths in the last 24 hours. Active cases 414. Positivity rate 0.05%Russia's emergency situations minister dies during drills: ReportRussia's emergency situations minister dies during drills, reports multiple news agencies. Yevgeny Zinichev, 55, “tragically died in the line of duty during inter-agency exercises to protect the Arctic zone from emergency situations, while saving a person's life," the ministry said in a statement carried by Russian news agencies.NSA Russia secretary of security council discuss bilateral cooperationDuring India-Russia consultations, attention was paid to intensifying joint work of the both country's special services and military bodies. An exchange of views took place on the military, political and socio-economic situation in Afghanistan, informs the Russian embassy in India. During consultations, Secretary of Russia's Security Council, Nikolai Patrushev and NSA Ajit Doval discussed deepening bilateral cooperation in security with an emphasis on further interaction on anti-terrorist track, combating illegal migration and drug trafficking, informs Russian Embassy.Union Cabinet approves MSP for rabi crops for marketing season 2022-23The Union Cabinet has approved MSP for rabi crops for marketing season 2022-23.Taliban arrests 5 journalists in KabulAs many as five journalists from Etilaatroz, a daily newspaper in Kabul, have been arrested by the Taliban, said ToloNews, Afghanistan's biggest independent TV netwoCentre approves PIL schemeUnion Cabinet has approved Production Linked Incentive (PLI) scheme for Textiles. Incentives worth ₹10,683 crores will be provided over 5 years.Union Cabinet approves remunerative price of ₹290/quintal for sugarcane farmersUnion Cabinet approves highest ever fair and remunerative price of ₹290/quintal for sugarcane farmers.Another 20 samples test negative for Nipah virus in Kozhikode: Health ministerAnother 20 samples have tested negative for the Nipah virus in Kozhikode. Currently, 68 persons are under isolation in the Nipah ward of Government Medical College. Their health is stable: Kerala Health Minister Veena GeorgeUttarakhand governor Baby Rani Maurya resignsUttarakhand Governor Baby Rani Maurya (in file pic) has submitted her resignation to President Ram Nath Kovind, says the Governor's Secretary, BK Sant pic.twitter.com/bI4rIE6B2WUttarakhand governor Baby Rani has stepped down from her post, says Governor's secretary BK Sant.SC refuses to entertain PIL seeking ‘door to door Covid-19 vaccination’Supreme Court refuses to entertain a PIL filed by Youth Bar Association of India, seeking direction to governments to take appropriate measures for providing 'door to door Covid-19 vaccination of all citizens', particularly for elderly, differently-abled and weaker sections.BJP announces election in-charges for poll-bound statesMaharashtra LoP Devendra Fadnavis, Union ministers Bhupender Yadav and Gajendra Singh Shekhawat appointed BJP's in-charge for the upcoming Assembly elections in Goa, Manipur, and Punjab respectively.Tejashwi Yadav, Chirag Paswan meet in PatnaBihar: LJP leader Chirag Paswan meets RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav in Patna pic.twitter.com/veGQF9iUsVBihar LoP Tejashwi Yadav meets LJP MP Chirag Paswan in Patna.No public celebration of Ganesh Chaturthi in DelhiDelhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) prohibits public celebrations of Ganesh Chaturthi, in view of Covid-19.TN CM Stalin seeks repeal of CAATamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin moves resolution in state assembly urging Centre to repeal CAA.Supreme Court upholds extension of ED director's tenureSupreme Court upholds Centre's decision to extend tenure of Enforcement Directorate (ED) director SK Mishra's till November 2021 despite his reaching retirement age in May last year. No further extension for Mishra though.Bihar Congress leader Sadanand Singh passes awayवरिष्ठ कांग्रेस नेता सदानंद सिंह जी के निधन की खबर व्यथित कर देने वाली है। उनके जाने से बिहार के राजनीतिक व सामाजिक जगत में उभरा शून्य जल्द भरा नहीं जा सकेगा। हमारी संवेदनाएं उनके परिजनों के साथ है। ईश्वर उन्हें अपने श्री चरणों मे स्थान दें।ॐ शांति।।#SadanandSingh pic.twitter.com/GyD9modk7kCongress legislative party leader in Bihar Sadanand Singh passes away, Bihar deputy CM Tarkishore Prasad pays tribute.Will hold meeting to decide on future course of action, says Rakesh Tikait"The administration has tried to give an explanation about the SDM's earlier action. We will hold a meeting with farmers to make a decision on our further actions," says BKU spokesperson Rakesh Tikait on Karnal protest.Protesters begin pitching tents outside mini-secretariat in KarnalFarmers begin to install tents outside mini-secretariat in Karnal. Protesters , including women, from various districts reach protest site.Bomb explosions outside BJP MP's residence in Bengal, says governorWanton violence in WB shows no sign of abating. Bomb explosions as this morning outside residence of Member Parliament @ArjunsinghWB is worrisome on law and order.Expect prompt action @WBPolice. As regards his security the issue has been earlier been flagged @MamataOfficial."Bomb explosions outside the residence of Member of Parliament Arjun Singh this morning is worrisome," tweets West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar.India logs 37,875 new Covid-19 cases and 369 deathsIndia's cumulative Covid-19 tally rises to 33,096,718 with 37,875 fresh infections. Toll rises to 441,411 with 369 fatalities.Sit-in at Karnal mini-secretariat continuesHaryana | Farmers continue sit-in protest at Mini Secretariat in Karnal Farmers held a march & gheraoed mini secretariat yesterday after district admin refused to compensate injured protesters & to take action against admin officials over lathi-charge on farmers on Aug 28 pic.twitter.com/7aldRI1ZW3Farmers continue sit-in protest at mini-secretariat in Haryana's Karnal.Earthquake of magnitude 7.0 jolts MexicoThe United States Geological Survey (USGS) has announced that a 7.0 magnitude quake struck southwest Mexico. The quake was initially measured by the USGS at magnitude 7.440 killed in Indonesia prison fire: OfficialsA fire at a jail in Indonesia's Banten province has killed 40 people, reports Reuters citing govt officials.Australia's New South Wales logs nearly 1500 new Covid-19 casesNew South Wales, Australia's most populous province, records 1480 new Covid-19 cases, up from 1220 on September 7. With nine new deaths, total fatalities in latest outbreak rise to 148.Rakesh Tikait shares images from Karnal sit-inकरनाल मिनी सचिवालय धरना स्थल से आज रात्रि की तस्वीरें #farmersprotest #करनाल pic.twitter.com/3K1A7aZANwBharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait took to Twitter to share photos from the ongoing sit-in at the mini-secretariat in Karnal.Blinken to appear before Senate committee to testify on Afghanistan withdrawalUS secretary of state Antony Blinken will, on September 14, appear before the Senate Committee Foreign Relations Committee to testify on the United States' military withdrawal from Afghanistan.Mexico: 17 patients dead after floods hit hospitalAt least 17 patients lost their lives after floods swept through a hospital in central Mexico, disrupting the power supply and oxygen therapy, authorities said Tuesday.Farmers' sit-in at Karnal mini-secretariat continuesFarmers continue their indefinite sit-in at Karnal mini-secretariat demanding, among other things, suspension of then SDM Ayush Sinha for August 28 lathi-charge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-september-08-2021-101631057905018.html
