10-09-2021||India||India, Australia working for ‘early harvest’ trade deal, says foreign minister Marise Payne||India and Australia are working towards an “early harvest” trade deal that will prepare the grounds for a comprehensive economic cooperation agreement, Australian foreign minister Marise Payne said on Friday. Australia’s trade minister Dan Tehan and India’s commerce minister Piyush Goyal have “instructed officials to work out an ambitious timeframe for striking a trade deal”, Payne said while delivering an address at an event organised by the Observer Research Foundation (ORF). “We are working towards an interim agreement as an early outcome with a comprehensive economic cooperation agreement to follow,” she said, adding that this would be a welcome development for Indian and Australian businesses seeking to diversity and grow markets. “It’s also a vital vote of confidence in a rules-based international order for which India and Australia are long-term champions,” she said. Participating in a question-and-answer session after her speech, Payne said the two sides were engaged in regular discussions on how to make progress towards a trade agreement. The “early harvest” trade deal is expected to be concluded towards the end of this year, she said. Payne delivered the address shortly after she and defence minister Peter Dutton arrived in New Delhi to participate in the maiden India-Australia 2+2 dialogue of the defence and foreign ministers. The decision to elevate the dialogue to the ministerial level was made last year. Dutton also held talks with his Indian counterpart Rajnath Singh on Friday. She also talked about China’s coercive approach and the environment of strategic competition in the region, and said Canberra will continue to constructively engage with Beijing without compromising on national interests in any way. Australia attaches importance to its long-standing relationship with China that has a strong economic component, Payne said. China’s rise has contributed to strengthening the growth of the Indo-Pacific “but with that growth and development into a strong and significant power, comes in our view, a degree of responsibility and how one uses that power”, she said. She added, “Australia will always engage constructively with China but we will always consider the advancement of our national interests in doing so...what we have seen in recent times has certainly presented challenges for the relationship because we have considered that some of those actions have threatened Australia’s national interests.” The Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad, which includes India, Australia, Japan and the US, had rapidly evolved over the past two years to forge innovative and flexible responses to challenges facing the four democracies that have shared interests in the region, Payne said. The Quad is also not aimed at any country and is working on crucial issues such as Covid-19 vaccines, climate change and countering “manipulative, deceitful and dangerous” misinformation on social media, she said. Australia and India also share a common vision for an open, inclusive and resilient Indo-Pacific region where states cooperate and resolve differences based on international rules, she added. Payne spoke on a number of other issues, including trade and investment, cooperation in critical minerals, emerging technologies and steps to ensure the return of Indian students to Australia. She said Australia is trying to ensure that the next generation of technologies is shaped by standards and rules that uphold and protect shared democratic values and promote human dignity. She also announced that Australia will contribute $10 million for the India-led Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure and another $1 million for the International Solar Alliance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-australia-working-for-early-harvest-trade-deal-says-foreign-minister-marise-payne-101631298541429.html
10-09-2021||India||These 5 Indian states are administering Covid vaccines faster than foreign countries||The central government on Friday mentioned the names of five states, which are inoculating coronavirus vaccines faster than some of the top foreign nations, including the United States.“With the aim of vaccinating all eligible citizens by the end of 2021, India is leading the world with its high vaccination pace! You too can strengthen the country’s endeavour in this fight against Covid-19 by getting vaccinated,” an official statement on Twitter read.According to a graph shared by the Centre, Uttar Pradesh is leading the chart by administering an average of 11.73 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses per day. It is followed by Gujarat, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Haryana.Uttar Pradesh is vaccinating at a faster pace than the United States, which is inoculating 8.07 lakh doses on an average per day. UP’s vaccination rate is also higher than Mexico, Russia, France and Canada (in order).Also Read | Biden's six-step plan to fight Delta surge. All you need to knowHere are the data of the states with respect to their corresponding countries:1.     Gujarat is administering an average of 4.80 lakh Covid-19 doses as against Mexico’s 4.56 lakh in a day.2.     Karnataka is administering 3.82 lakh coronavirus vaccine doses on average per day as opposed to Russia’s 3.68 lakh.3.     Madhya Pradesh is inoculating 3.71 lakh Covid-19 vaccines on average in comparison to 2.84 lakh by France each day.4.     Haryana is vaccinating 1.52 lakh beneficiaries on average daily as against 85,000 by Canada in a day.With the aim of vaccinating all eligible citizens by the end of 2021, India is leading the world with its high vaccination pace!You too can strengthen the country's endeavour in this fight against #COVID19 by getting vaccinated! #IndiaFightsCorona @MoHFW_INDIA pic.twitter.com/7zuTFOK8tBIn another tweet, the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) stated that India’s single-day cumulative vaccination coverage is more than the European Union (EU), Arab League nations, NATO countries, the G7 nations, and ASEAN.As per the post, India is administering 6.82 million Covid-19 vaccine doses on average in a single day as opposed to ASEAN’s 3.23 million, G7 nations’ 2.92 million, NATO countries’ 2.89 million, Arab League’s 1.27 million and EU countries’ 1.13 million average daily jabs.
10-09-2021||India||In Karnataka, as discontent within JD(S) grows; national parties benefit||The Janata Dal (Secular) or JD(S) is scheduled to meet on Monday not just to discuss the party’s strategy in the 10-day session between September 13-24 of the state legislature but also decide the next course of action against growing discontent within its ranks.In the last few weeks, the party’s top leadership was heard making scathing remarks against at least three of their legislators that include GT Deve Gowda, SR Srinivas (Vasu) and now K Srinivas Gowda who represent Chamundeshwari, Gubbi and Kolar constituencies respectively.Considering the party has just 32 legislators in the 225-seater lower house of the state legislature, the possible disciplinary action and growing discontent within the party against them constitutes a problem for the former Prime Minister HD Deve Gowda and former chief minister HD Kumaraswamy-led regional outfit.“It (taking disciplinary action) is still under discussion and nothing has been decided. This issue is likely to come up on Monday,” HK Kumaraswamy, state president of the JD(S) told Hindustan Times on Friday.“The session is on for two weeks and we will get an idea on this (containing growing dissent),” he added.The dissent within the JD(S) comes at a time when the party continues to be relegated to the end of the political battle that is mainly being fought between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress. With the BJP actively moving forward to take their footprint deeper into Old Mysuru Region or Vokkaliga belt, the JD(S) stares at further erosion of its only stronghold in the state ahead of the 2023 assembly elections.All three legislators who possibly face disciplinary action could not be reached for comment.The JD(S), whose support mainly stems from the Vokkaligas, believed to be the second largest caste group in the state, is now running short of options to keep its flock together, analysts said.“The JD(S) is nothing but a fill-in-the-gap party. They will go with whoever assures them power,” said a north Karnataka-based political analyst, requesting not to be named.He added that the party’s “unprincipled” political functioning will further add to its oblivion in the state as workers get disenchanted with its functioning and enamoured by the BJPs rise.The JD(S) is the only major political outfit that has allied both with the BJP and the Congress in the past and had bitter fall outs, albeit temporarily. The party continues to have alliances at the local level with the two national parties that have added to the disenchantment of grass root level workers ahead of the soon-to-be held Zilla and Taluka panchayat elections and the 2023 assembly polls. The JD(S) is in talks with the BJP in Kalaburagi district where the Urban Local Body (ULB) polls on September 3 has given the former a chance once again to play “Kingmaker”-- a role it has played in state and local administration on more than one occasion.The BJP is also trying to mobilise support in the southern districts of Karnataka where JD(S) draws most of its strength in terms of elected representatives to the lower house of the legislature.The BJP is eyeing an outreach to the Vokkaliga community by first forming a board and doling out a whopping ₹500 crore for it and now having an advantage to play to the benefit of the community in the raging caste census row. The Vokkaligas have so far firmly stood behind HD Deve Gowda.The dominant communities like Vokkaligas and Lingayats have now come together to oppose the release of the findings of the caste census data that was commissioned by the Siddaramaiah-led Congress government in 2015 as a way to safeguard their dominant position in the state.A group of extremely backward castes approached the Karnataka High Court in August to compel the Basavaraj Bommai-led BJP government to release the findings of the caste census as a way to block attempts by more dominant communities from moving up the reservation ladder.Another Benglauru-based analyst said that it would be more beneficial for the BJP to side with the dominant communities’ demand rather than depend on the support of a fragmented backward classes group who are not known to vote en masse.“(HD) Deve Gowda, Kumaraswamy and HD Revanna, who is liked by all political parties, will continue to be Kingmakers and this could go up to 2023 elections also. We cannot rule them out,” Professor Chambi Puranik, a political analyst said.He added that those leaving the party or considering it are doing so to secure their own future or that of their family’s and not because of ideological reasons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-karnataka-as-discontent-within-jd-s-grows-national-parties-benefit-101631297581377.html
10-09-2021||India||'Monitor emergence of new mutants': PM Modi chairs Covid meet amid 3rd wave threat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi emphasised the need for constant genome sequencing of Covid-19 test samples to actively monitor the emergence of any new mutants in the high-level review meeting he chaired on Friday, the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) said in a press release.The officers present in the meeting informed the Prime Minister that Indian SARS-CoV-2 Consortium on Genomics (INSACOG) has 28 laboratories all over the country to aid genome sequencing of collected samples, and the lab network has been linked to hospitals for clinical correlation. “Sewage sampling is also being done for genomic surveillance. PM was apprised that states have been requested to share SARS CoV2 positive samples with INSACOG regularly,” the PMO said.INSACOG was set up by the Union health ministry in December of last year to monitor genome sequencing of the virus strains in circulation. A consortium of 28 laboratories located in different parts of the country work as the INSACOG. Genomic surveillance of the viral strains of Covid-19 is crucial because it helps determine the incidence and prevalence of the variants of concern (VOCs). INSACOG had identified the highly transmissible double mutant strain last year as a VOC.The briefing comes days after the health ministry’s announcement on September 6, stating that 16,000 Covid-19 samples had been sent to INSACOG for genomic sequencing in the months of July and August. The ministry released this information after media reports emerged alleging that the genome sequencing and analysis of samples have dropped sharply in India.The Prime Minister also reviewed the status of oxygen plants coming up across the country. He was briefed about the concentration of cases in a few geographies, districts with high test positivity as well as the week on week test positivity rate in the country. As he interacted with the officials, he was informed about the ongoing vaccination drive taking place all over the country. The official release stated: “PM reviewed the status of augmentation of bed capacity for pediatric care and augmentation of facilities supported under ‘COVID Emergency Response Package II’. It was also discussed that States have been advised to redesign and orient primary care and block level health infrastructure in these areas to manage the situation in rural areas.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monitor-emergence-of-new-mutants-pm-modi-chairs-covid-meet-amid-3rd-wave-threat-101631294234334.html
10-09-2021||India||Odisha sounds alert, cautions parents as more children complain of MIS||The Odisha government has cautioned parents about the multi-system inflammatory syndrome (MIS), a post-Covid-19 complication where different body parts such as the heart, lungs, kidneys, brain, skin, eyes, or gastrointestinal organs suffer inflammations.Odisha Director of Public Health Niranjan Mishra said the condition was not so common during the first wave of the pandemic last year, but of late there have been reports of MIS after the second wave of infections.“Children who have developed MIS can be cured if diagnosed early and treated. It can be fatal in case of delayed diagnosis. High-grade fever, diarrhoea, vomiting and severe headache are major symptoms, which need to be watched by the parents and immediately reported,” he said, adding that separate paediatric wards equipped with oxygen supply have been set up in all district headquarter hospitals. MIS cases can also be admitted in a general paediatric ward.Senior paediatric specialist Dr Arijit Mohapatra said he has treated at least 50 MIS cases since last year in his hospital and the number is rising since the last one month. “The antibody test of several children came out positive indicating they were infected. Currently, three patients are undergoing treatment for MIS,” said Dr Mohapatra.He said MIS cases are mostly seen among children a month and a half after they test positive for Covid-19 and get cured. “In MIS cases, the children have high fever lasting for several days as well as gastrointestinal distress, including diarrhoea and abdominal pain. The children have rashes, conjunctivitis and cracked lips. The parents need to watch out for these signs and immediately consult paediatricians,” said Dr Mohapatra, whose hospital treated a child for MIS for more than 18 days.Nearly 39 children below the age of 18 years have succumbed to Covid-19 so far, but there is no record of any casualties due to MIS in the state. President of the Odisha chapter of the Indian Association of Paediatrics, Dr Bijay Panigrahi said as MIS in children is akin to post-Covid-19 complications in adults, immediate treatment is necessary. “Though it is not infectious like Covid, but the treatment is expensive as the children need to be given steroid injections and immunoglobulin injections. This is a life-threatening infection, but treatable if detected early. Parents need to be careful about the symptoms,” said Dr Panigrahi.Public health activists said the state government should start awareness campaigns in rural areas to make parents immediately bring their children to hospitals in case they develop MIS symptoms. “As the injection is quite expensive the government should make it available in all district hospitals,” said Gouranga Mohapatra, state convenor of Jana Swasthya Abhiyan, an NGO working for public health.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-sounds-alert-cautions-parents-as-more-children-complain-of-mis-101631292660956.html
10-09-2021||India||Chhattisgarh CM’s father, arrested for hate speech, freed on bail after 3 days||RAIPUR: Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel’s father, Nand Kumar Baghel, who was arrested for allegedly making derogatory remarks against the Brahmin community, was released on bail from a Raipur jail on Friday evening, his lawyer said.Nand Kumar Baghel, 86, was arrested by the Chhattisgarh police on Tuesday. Since he did not seek bail when he was produced before a judge following his arrest, the court remanded him in judicial custody for 15 days. His lawyer Gajendra Sonkar, said he subsequently moved a bail application and sought a hearing.“After hearing the arguments, Judicial Magistrate First Class (JMFC) Janak Kumar Hidko granted him bail on Friday,” Sonkar said.Nand Kumar Baghel walked out of prison hours later after spending three nights behind bars.Nand Kumar Patel was booked for promoting enmity between different groups on a complaint by Sarv Brahmin Samaj, the outfit that alleged that the chief minister’s father, speaking at an event in Uttar Pradesh, recently urged people to “boycott Brahmins”, evict Brahmins from the country and called them “foreigners”.In a statement after the police filed the First Information Report (FIR) against his father, chief minister Baghel said the reported comments by his father hurt the sentiments of the community.“Every person is equal before my government. Everyone knows about my ideological differences with my father. Our political thoughts and beliefs are different. I honour him as his son but as a CM I cannot forgive him for such statements which disturb public order,” the statement said, adding that legal action in the matter will be ensured.“Nobody is above the law in my government even if he is the chief minister’s 86-year-old father,” the chief minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-cm-s-father-arrested-for-hate-speech-freed-on-bail-after-3-days-101631292480835.html
10-09-2021||India||Delhi HC asks Google, Youtube to delete objectionable photos, videos of a woman||The Delhi high court has directed tech giant Google and its video streaming platform YouTube to take necessary steps to remove the links carrying objectionable photos and videos of a woman from the internet. The same order is also issued for the central government and the Cyber Cell of the Delhi Police Union.The court issued the order while examining a petition of a woman seeking court directions to the respondents to block any nude, sexually explicit or morphed photos of her showing on websites. In her petition, the woman has also asked the court to direct the central government to block websites that have pornographic content but operating under pseudo names.The court has given the parties time till September 16 to act on the order, when the next hearing will take place."It is made clear that this is not an adversarial litigation and it is expected that from respondents Google LLC, YouTube, Union of India and the Cyber Cell of Delhi Police to take necessary steps to remove the sites and links, carrying objectionable photos and videos of the petitioner, from the internet before the next date of hearing, which is September 16, 2021," the bench led by Justice Subramonium Prasad said.Meanwhile, advocate Anurag Ahluwalia, counsel appearing for the Centre assured the Court that the authority concerned will take necessary steps for the removal of the sites and links from the internet carrying objectionable photographs and videos of the petitioner.Earlier, the court held that posting photographs in a pornographic site prima facie amounts to an offence under the IT Act. The Delhi high court had also laid down guidelines to be followed by courts while dealing with cases related to the removal of objectionable content from the internet to ensure access to such offensive material is restricted at the earliest and it is not re-posted anywhere else by others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-asks-google-youtube-to-delete-objectionable-photos-videos-of-a-woman-101631287892444.html
10-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: 32-yr-old woman found unconscious in Mumbai was raped, brutalised and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.32-yr-old woman found unconscious in Mumbai’s Andheri east was raped, brutalised: CopA 45-year-old man has been arrested by the Sakinaka police early on Friday for allegedly assaulting and raping a 32-year-old woman. Read MoreCan medication for other ailments fight Covid? Study shows gout medication canFindings of a recent research by the University of Georgia (UGA) have suggested that probenecid – an FDA-approved medication typically used to treat gout, has broad antiviral components thereby making it a prime candidate to fight SARS-CoV-2 infection – which causes coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Read MoreUyghur militants of ETIM left Afghanistan: Taliban assure ChinaThe militants of the East Turkistan Islamic Movement, fighting for the independence of Xinjiang, have left Afghanistan, the Taliban leadership told Chinese media in a recent interview, indicating that the Taliban have already taken care of the issue that China raised. Read More‘It wasn’t just Covid outbreak': ECB CEO reveals why India vs England 5th Test in Manchester was cancelledEngland and Wales Cricket Board (ECB) CEO Tom Harrison revealed the Covid-19 cases in the Indian camp was not the main reason behind the cancellation of the fifth and final India-England Test match at Old Trafford in Manchester and it was in fact the ‘perception’ among Indian players of what might happen if the Test match went ahead as per schedule. Read MoreDeepika Padukone hesitates before explaining extent of her depression to Amitabh Bachchan on Kaun Banega CrorepatiActor Deepika Padukone spoke about her depression in an appearance on Kaun Banega Crorepati 13, as host Amitabh Bachchan listened. Deepika and Farah Khan will appear as celebrity guests on Friday's episode of KBC. Read MoreKrushna Abhishek prays for truce with Govinda and Sunita Ahuja: 'We love each other despite the internal issues'Krushna Abhishek hopes that the issues between him and Govinda and Sunita Ahuja are resolved soon. The actor-comedian's relationship with his uncle and aunt soured a few years ago. Read MoreWhatsApp launches end-to-end encrypted chat backups on Android, iOSWhatsApp, for long, has been said to be working on a feature that would secure its chat backups on Google Drive and Apple’s iCloud using end-to-end encryption (E2E) technique. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-32-yr-old-woman-found-unconsious-in-mumbai-was-raped-brutalised-and-all-the-latest-news-101631287092939.html
10-09-2021||India||12 held for issuing fake RT-PCR reports for pilgrims to enter Puri’s Jagannath Temple||Nearly five months after a fake RT-PCR negative test report racket rocked the holy town of Haridwar in Uttarakhand during the Kumbh Mela, the police in Puri on Friday arrested a gang of 12 people for allegedly preparing and selling fake RT-PCR negative reports to devotees so that they could get access to the Jagannath Temple.The temple reopened for devotees on August 23 after remaining shut for over four months due to Covid-19. Temple authorities mandated that pilgrims should have either a RT-PCR negative report obtained 96 hours before the temple visit or a double dose vaccination certificate to enter the 12th century shrine.Puri SP Kanwar Vishal Singh said 12 people were arrested in three different cases over their involvement in selling fake RT-PCR reports for anything between ₹500 and ₹700. The SP said two cases were registered at the Singhadwar Police Station and one at the Kumbharpada Police Station over the last 12 days.“Two are devotees from Madhya Pradesh, three are from Chhattisgarh, six are from Puri and one from Angul district. One more accused in the case is absconding,” said the SP without revealing their names. The accused persons have been arrested under Sections 465/471/120(B)(34) of IPC. The police seized the computer used for issuing fake RT-PCR certificates to devotees.Apart from the Jagannath Temple, the Lingaraj Temple, a Shiva Temple in Bhubaneswar, has also similar restrictions for devotees. However, no other major temples in the state have put such restrictions. In April this year, around 1 lakh RT-PCR reports of devotees attending the Kumbh Mela Haridwar was found to be fake after the festival got over. Some of the companies who were hired by the administration to conduct RT-PCR tests had allegedly issued fake negative certificates without conducting any test.After the Jagannath Temple re-opened last month, the temple administration had issued an SOP prohibiting devotees from touching statues or idols inside the premises or take offerings like flowers/ bhoga/ diyas inside the temple. Chewing of Tobacco, Paan and spitting inside the temple premises has been strictly prohibited and a fine of ₹500/- will be levied for each violation.Special relief commissioner of Odisha, Pradip Jena on Friday urged citizens to celebrate the harvesting festival of Nuakhai by abiding with Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. “Odisha is witnessing 600 to 1000 new Covid-19 infections daily and people should not congregate in temples during the festive period. The second wave is not over yet,” said Jena.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/12-held-for-issuing-fake-rt-pcr-reports-for-pilgrims-to-enter-puri-s-jagannath-temple-101631287200057.html
10-09-2021||India||Can medication for other ailments fight Covid? Study shows gout medication can||Findings of a recent research by the University of Georgia (UGA) have suggested that probenecid – an FDA-approved medication typically used to treat gout, has broad antiviral components thereby making it a prime candidate to fight SARS-CoV-2 infection – which causes coronavirus disease (Covid-19).“This antiviral works for all RNA respiratory viruses we tested, including SARS-CoV-2. RSV, coronavirus, and flu all circulate in the same season. The bottom line is you can potentially reduce infection and disease using this one oral drug,” lead author of the study, Ralph Tripp said.According to Mayo Clinic, gout is a common and complex form of arthritis and is known to cause “sudden, severe attacks of pain, swelling, redness and tenderness in one of more joints, most often in the big toe.”Viruses function by co-opting a person’s own cells to replicate and produce more of the virus. Probenecid curtails this duplication process, thus keeping the virus from infecting an individual’s cells.In the clinical development of the study at a pharmaceutical firm called ‘TrippBio’, Tripp revealed that the drug was found that the drug works as a prophylactic before virus exposure and as a post-exposure treatment in animal models against SARS-CoV-2 and flu. Probenecid has also proven effective in combatting the RSV in vitro, and in vivo studies are in progress.Also Read | Study: Antibodies less effective against Delta variant of coronavirus“These treatments have seen some effectiveness against SARS-CoV-2, but they’re very expensive and very hard to come by,” Tripp, who is a GRA eminent scholar of vaccine and therapeutic studies in UGA’s college of veterinary medicine, said.The author was mentioning Remdesivir and monoclonal antibodies – which are presently the standard treatments for seriously ill coronavirus patients. These can only be administered via an IV. “In reality, there are only a handful of options that can actually be used because of the cost, restricted IV usage, and lack of access. That's not very useful to the world,” Tripp pointed out. Also Read | Ivermectin doesn’t cut viral load in Covid-19 patients, AIIMS study showsOn the contrary, Probenecid is widely available and has been in the US market for more than four decades. Moreover, repurposing drugs that are already known to work against one ailment is not a novelty. For instance, remdesivir was originally known to defeat the Ebola virus, but when it showed promise in combatting SARS-CoV-2, it was enlisted in treatment of coronavirus. Researchers of the study said that besides preventing illness before it even kicks in, probenecid may also potentially boost the efficacy of other treatments. Probenecid is already used to augment the potency of some antibiotics, thus it’s possible that the medication could work the same way with other coronavirus-related treatments as well. Tripp cautioned that all the three respiratory conditions – SARS-CoV-2, RSV and flu – have a “huge impact on health systems” across the globe. “Probenecid has a potent antiviral effect against these viruses, and it works safely,” the author added. (With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-medication-for-other-ailments-fight-covid-study-shows-gout-medication-can-101631284448793.html
10-09-2021||India||Indian, Australian defence ministers discuss Afghanistan, Indo-Pacific||The defence ministers of India and Australia on Friday discussed the security situation in Afghanistan, its implications for the region, issues related to the Indo-Pacific where China has scaled up its maritime activities and steps to further bilateral military cooperation across domains, people familiar with the developments said on Friday. Defence minister Rajnath Singh and his Australian counterpart Peter Dutton met on the eve of the first 2+2 dialogue between the two countries. Australian foreign minister Marise Payne and Dutton are in India for the dialogue with their Indian counterparts S Jaishankar and Singh on Saturday. “The defence minister told Dutton that India was monitoring the Afghanistan situation closely. He also said India was concerned about terrorist activity emanating from that country,” said one of the officials cited above. The Indian security establishment is concerned about terrorist activity in Afghanistan spilling over into the country after the Taliban takeover. The situation in Afghanistan is expected to figure in the 2+2 dialogue between the two countries on Saturday, along with other important security issues such as China’s role in the region and the situation in the East and South China Seas, as previously reported by Hindustan Times. Australia is also working with its partners to ensure a “joined up approach in any engagement with the Taliban”, though the current focus is on ensuring that the Taliban permits the safe passage of Australian and other citizens who wish to leave Afghanistan, Australian envoy Barry O’Farrell said on Thursday. He also said Australia was concerned that the new regime created by the Taliban in Afghanistan was not inclusive and had UN-sanctioned members of the Haqqani Network, and any engagement with the group would be based on its actions. Both countries are keen to work jointly to realise the full potential of the India-Australia Comprehensive Strategic Partnership, Singh said after the bilateral meeting with Dutton. “This partnership is based on our shared vision of free, open, inclusive and rule-based Indo-Pacific region. Both Australia and India have tremendous stakes in peace, development and free flow of trade, rules-based order and economic growth in the region,” Singh said. Strengthening defence ties was on the agenda. He said the wide-ranging talks focused on defence cooperation and expanding military engagements across the three services, enhancing defence information sharing, cooperation in emerging defence technologies and mutual logistics support. “Both sides noted with happiness that Australia joined the Malabar Exercise in 2020. In this context, we also expressed satisfaction in the continued participation of Australia in Malabar Exercise this year,” Singh said. India, the US, Japan and Australia --- or the Quad --- conducted complex naval drills off the Pacific Ocean island of Guam last month under the Malabar banner, with the exercise involving destroyers, frigates, corvettes, submarines, helicopters, long-range maritime patrol aircraft and elite special forces elements. The second phase of the Malabar exercise will be held in the Bay of Bengal from October 11-14, said another official. China has been monitoring the activities of the Quad countries. Beijing has been wary of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad that was revived in late 2017 by India, the US, Australia and Japan, and these suspicions have increased since the four countries upgraded the forum to the ministerial level in 2019. Singh apprised Dutton about steps being taken by India to achieve self-reliance in the defence sector and the “growing innovation ecosystem in India.” “We discussed opportunities to work together in defence, science and technology areas. I invited Australian industry to take advantage of India’s liberalised foreign direct investment policies in the defence sector. We both agreed that there are opportunities of bilateral collaboration for co-development and co¬ production (of systems),” Singh said. He added that India was committed to forging a robust partnership with Australia to promote regional security and growth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-australian-defence-ministers-discuss-afghanistan-indopacific-101631284439901.html
10-09-2021||India||'We recognise and appreciate India’s contributions during its chairmanship of BRICS': China||China on Friday said it “recognises and appreciates” India’s contributions during its one-year presidency of the BRICS bloc culminating in its 13th summit presided over by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday.India was this year's chair for the five-member bloc that holds the rotating Presidency. This was the second time Prime Minister Modi chaired the BRICS summit. Earlier, he had chaired the Goa summit in 2016.China will host the 14th BRICS (Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa) summit next year.Asked to comment on BRICS partnership and different agreements reached by the five-member bloc under India’s Presidency, Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian told reporters here: “We recognise and appreciate India’s contributions during its chairmanship in the past year, including its hosting of this summit”.Chinese President Xi Jinping, who took part in the summit via video link on Thursday, said that during its Presidency next year, China looks forward to working with BRICS partners to deepen cooperation in all areas and build a closer and more results-oriented partnership to meet common challenges and create a better future.The summit was also attended by Russian President Vladimir Putin, South African President Cyril Ramaphosa and Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro.The theme of the summit was "Intra-BRICS cooperation for continuity, consolidation and consensus." The summit this year coincided with the 15th anniversary of the BRICS.Elaborating on Xi’s address, Zhao highlighted the five proposals put forward by the Chinese President to advance the high-quality development of BRICS practical cooperation.Xi’s proposals included strengthening public health cooperation in the spirit of solidarity.The Chinese President said that BRICS countries need to support each other's Covid-19 response, pursue practical cooperation on vaccines, including joint research and production and mutual recognition of standards, and facilitate an early launch of the BRICS Vaccine Research and Development Centre in a virtual format.Xi has also proposed to strengthen international cooperation on vaccines in the spirit of equitable access for all and said that China will donate an additional 100 million doses of vaccines to the developing countries within this year.He also suggested strengthening economic cooperation in the spirit of mutual benefit.China proposes to host a BRICS high-level meeting on climate change and a BRICS forum on big data for sustainable development, Xi said.“We welcome the substantive progress made in expanding the membership of the New Development Bank (NDB),” he said.He also proposed to strengthen political and security cooperation in the spirit of fairness and justice.“We need to consolidate the BRICS strategic partnership, support each other on issues concerning our respective core interests, better coordinate our position on major international and regional issues, and send out an even bigger, collective voice of BRICS countries,” the Chinese President said.Xi has proposed to strengthen people-to-people exchanges in the spirit of mutual learning.The BRICS bloc brings together five of the largest developing countries of the world, representing 41 per cent of the global population, 24 per cent of the global GDP and 16 per cent of the global trade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-recognise-and-appreciate-india-s-contributions-during-its-chairmanship-of-brics-china-101631281924172.html
10-09-2021||India||Eye on Tripura polls, Abhishek Banerjee to lead TMC’s first Agartala roadshow||The Trinamool Congress (TMC) on Friday announced that its national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee will lead the party’s first roadshow in Agartala on September 15; months after senior leaders started visiting Tripura and announced that they would oust the Biplab Deb-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in the 2023 assembly polls.The visit by Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew comes at a time when clashes are regularly taking place between workers of the BJP and the Communist Party of India, or CPI(M), who ruled the state from 1978 to 1988 and again from 1993 to 2018. This is Abhishek Banerjee’s third visit to Agartala in two months. He will be accompanied by several members of Parliament and legislators from Bengal. The Tripura assembly has 60 seats of which 43 are now in control of the BJP and its allies. “Abhishek Banerjee will lead the roadshow. The BJP is intentionally attacking CPI(M) workers since last week to divert attention from the rise of the TMC. But the strategy will not work. We are fully sympathetic towards the CPI(M) workers and support their struggle. However, we urge them to vote for us and oust the BJP,” said TMC’s Bengal general secretary Kunal Ghosh. During his last visit, Abhishek Banerjee told local leaders that organizational committees have to be set up right down to the polling booth level by December 31. I-Pac, the company formed by election strategist Prashant Kishor, is collecting data on the ground for the TMC. Sushmita Dev, the former Congress Lok Sabha member from Silchar, Assam, who joined the TMC in August, is regularly touring the state where her father, former Union minister Santosh Mohan Dev, held the Tripura West Lok Sabha seat. Bijan Dhar, former Tripura state secretary of the CPI(M), told HT that by asking Left supporters to vote for the TMC, Bengal’s ruling party is making a mockery of the current situation. “We are not opposed to any party holding rallies in Tripura but TMC leaders should not drag electoral politics into the current situation. They should have sympathy for our workers who are facing attacks every day. This is not the time to talk about elections,” said Dhar. Subrata Chakraborty, spokesperson of the BJP Tripura unit, said the TMC can always hold rallies because democracy prevails in the state. “Abhishek Banerjee is welcome to hold a roadshow because democracy prevails here. TMC leaders are claiming that it is going to be a historic event. We wonder if it will historically mark the end of TMC’s journey in Tripura like the three earlier occasions when it unsuccessfully contested the state polls. We know that TMC and CPI(M) have an understanding but people have faith in the governance and welfare measures of Biplab Dev,” said Chakraborty. In Delhi, CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury held a demonstration at Jantar Mantar on Friday afternoon in protest against the political violence in Tripura.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eye-on-tripura-polls-abhishek-banerjee-to-lead-tmc-s-first-agartala-roadshow-101631282639727.html
10-09-2021||India||West Bengal by-poll: BJP's candidate Priyanka Tibrewal says her fight in Bhabanipur to be against ' 1 particular person'||The electoral fight in the Bhabanipur constituency of West Bengal will be against injustice and to save the people of the state, said Priyanka Tibrewal, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidate for the by-poll seat. Slamming chief minister Mamata Banerjee, Tibrewal also acknowledged that the fight will also be against "one particular person who remained silent during the violence". "My fight is not against any individual but against injustice. This fight is to save the people of West Bengal," news agency ANI quoted the BJP leader as saying.This comes as Banerjee filed her nomination for the September 30 Bhabanipur assembly by-poll. The Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief who is also a resident of Bhabanipur, had won the seat twice in 2011 and 2016 but shifted to Nandigram, where the anti-farmland acquisition movement against the Left Front government had transformed her into a major political force. Though her party secured a landslide win in this year's assembly elections, she lost in Nandigram as her former protege and now BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari secured a win by more than 1,000 votes.Now, a win at Bhabanipur is crucial for Banerjee as the Constitution does not allow a non-member of a state legislature or Parliament to hold a ministerial position without getting elected, beyond six months.She will be contesting against Tibrewal who is a lawyer by profession and is one of the petitioners in the post-poll violence cases against the TMC government in the Calcutta high court. Exuding confidence, Tibrewal earlier said that she is "confident, people of Bhabanipur will vote for her and defeat Banerjee.Tibrewal is currently the state vice president of Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM), the BJP's youth wing. She had joined the party in 2014.Sovandeb Chattopadhyay vacated the seat to facilitate Banerjee’s return to the state assembly following her defeat in Nandigram.Chattopadhyay had won the seat by a margin of more than 28.000 votes.The votes for Bhabnipur will be counted on October 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/west-bengal-by-poll-bjp-s-candidate-priyanka-tibrewal-says-her-fight-in-bhabanipur-to-be-against-one-particular-person-101631276233619.html
10-09-2021||India||PM Modi chairs high-level meeting on Covid, vaccines as festival season begins||With the festival season beginning with muted Ganesh Chaturthi celebration in the country, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday held a high-level meeting to take stock of the present Covid-19 situation and the status of vaccination. Amid the threats and apprehension of a third wave of the pandemic, India has achieved landmark vaccination exceeding 72.37 crore people, as of Friday morning. The Covid situation is also under control with the weekly positivity rate coming to 2.31 per cent.According to health ministry data, more than half of India's adult population has received at least one dose of the vaccine, while 18 per cent have received both doses. Kerala and Maharashtra continue to add the maximum number of daily Covid cases. At least 35 districts in India are still reporting a weekly Covid positivity rate of over 10 per cent and 30 districts are between five to 10 per cent, health ministry data revealed.Punjab to send unvaccinated govt employees on compulsory leave after September 15Mass gathering and travel are to be discouraged as even after vaccination, people are at the risk of contracting the infection since the vaccine is not a preventive vaccine.Ahead of the festive season, the health ministry on Thursday said celebrations have to be low key. "This will give us an opportunity to celebrate festivals in a bigger way next year," Dr Balram Bhargava, director-general of the Indian Council of Medical Research said."These vaccines are disease-modifying and not disease-preventing. So, breakthrough infections will occur even after vaccination. That is why we recommend continued use of masks and following Covid-appropriate behaviour. It is very important to continue using masks even after vaccination," Dr Bhargava said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-chairs-high-level-meeting-on-covid-vaccines-as-festival-season-begins-101631276526409.html
10-09-2021||India||Chhattisgarh govt yet to take action on submissions by Sarkeguda judicial panel||With the judicial commission headed by retired Justice VK Agrawal submitting its report on Wednesday to the government on the Edesmeta encounter, which took place in 2013, it has been found that no action has yet been taken by the state government on a report submitted about 22 months ago on the Sarkeguda encounter.In the Sarkeguda encounter, 17 people were killed in June 2012 after which a judicial commission was formed, which in turn submitted its report in December 2019. The security forces had then claimed that they had an exchange of fire with Maoists during their operation based on inputs about the presence of Maoists in the area. In the Edesmeta encounter, eight tribals including four children were allegedly killed by security forces in May 2013. Officials said that they are still taking legal opinion before initiating any action against security forces for the Sarkeguda encounter case. The Sarkeguda encounter report which was submitted on December 1, 2019 to the Chhattisgarh government stated that security forces had unilaterally fired on villagers and concluded that there was no evidence to suggest that any of the deceased was a Maoist. The report was tabled in the state assembly on December, 3, 2019 by Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel. Baghel then assured that the facts of the report will be taken into consideration and action will be taken against the culprits because the report indicated that innocent tribals were killed in the encounter but no action had been taken till date. “Even the first basic step of filing an FIR has not been done till now. The government is neither concerned about truth nor justice,” said Bela Bhatia, a human rights activist, who raised the issue when the encounter took place in 2012. The Director of General of Police (DGP), Chhattisgarh, DM Awasthi told HT that the Sarkeguda judicial commission report had been sent to the Bastar IG for further action. Bastar police, meanwhile, claimed that they are yet to initiate action because legal opinion about the report is pending. “We have received the recommendations of the Justice Agrawal judicial commission report on Sarkeguda incident through the state government for further necessary action. In June 2012, a FIR was registered in Basaguda Police Station of Bijapur district for the investigation of an encounter in which charge sheet was submitted in the concerned jurisdiction court and the trial was carried out. Based on the recommendations of the judicial commission report, now we are taking legal opinion whether to re-open and investigate the previous case or to re-register a fresh FIR,” said Sunderaj P, inspector general of police, Bastar range. On June 29, 2012 a team of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and Chhattisgarh Police allegedly gunned down 17 people, including seven minors at Sarkeguda village in Bijapur of Bastar region. Justice Agrawal’s report concluded that “the security forces opened fire unilaterally on members (villagers) of the meeting from close quarters, killing and injuring many of them. There was no firing by members of the meeting. This firing probably resulted out of panic of some security personnel when they were confronted with an unexpected group of villagers so late at night. Injuries to six security personnel occurred due to firing by fellow troopers,” the report stated adding that there was no satisfactory evidence that Maoists were present in the area. Slamming the government over the delay on taking action over the judicial commission reports, activists and lawyers claimed that governments never take action against policemen in their atrocities even after clear recommendations of probe committees. “Whether the government is of Congress or BJP, they never act on the recommendations of judicial commissions because they are under pressure from the police force. The governments believe that the cases will discourage the security forces. The whole exercise of forming a commission over atrocities is eyewash. This also hampers the peace-making process in Maoist areas,” said Sudiep Shrivastava, a human rights lawyer based in Chhattisgarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-govt-yet-to-take-action-on-submissions-by-sarkeguda-judicial-panel-101631276819379.html
10-09-2021||India||Digvijaya Singh equates RSS with Taliban, Union minister gives back||Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni slammed Congress leader Digvijaya Singh and said RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat never said that women should only do household chores. "Our government has the highest number of women ministers and we are constantly working for their empowerment. It has always been our priority. We are working on providing them with the best education, healthcare and nutrition," the union minister said. Not only Digvijaya Singh, but the Union minister also put Farooq Abdullah, Mehbooba Mufti in the same bracket and said these politicians are standing with the Taliban."Digvijay Singh, Farooq Abdullah, Mehbooba Mufti are standing with the Taliban. Do they agree with the Taliban's thoughts on women? If no, they should protest against it openly," the Union minister said.What began the present controversy is Digvijaya Singh's comment on Twitter where he shared an old video of Mohan Bhagwat saying that women should restrict themselves to doing household chores, according to the theory of social contract. The video dates back to 2013."Does Taliban and RSS have a similarity of views on working women? Looks like it, unless Mohan Bhagwat Ji and Taliban change their views," Digvijaya Singh tweeted.The former Madhya Pradesh minister also took a jibe at Yogi Adityanath by sharing an old article on Adityanath's view of women that he had shared on his blog. There Yogi Adityanath wrote women require protection and should not be allowed independence. The article on his blog was later deleted but news clippings on the same were doing the rounds in the recent past. Congress leader Shashi Tharoor too shared the same clipping and wrote, " Looks like you don’t need a beard & turban to think like the Taliban! Are female BJP voters in UP truly willing to be represented by this CM?"What did Mehbooba Mufti say?PDP leader Mehbooba Mufti said that if the Taliban want to govern Afghanistan, then they will have to follow the true Sharia law. Her comment was twisted deliberately and was interpreted as support to the Taliban, she said. "Not surprised that my statement on Sharia has been deliberately distorted. Cant point fingers since most countries that claim to uphold Sharia have failed to imbibe its true values. They are only fixated with restricting women through dos & don'ts, dress codes etc." she tweeted later.What did Farooq Abdullah say?National Conference leader Farooq Abdullah hoped that the Taliban deliver good governance and follow Islamic principles in Afghanistan. His party slammed attempts of interpreting this comment as "support" to the Taliban.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/digvijaya-singh-equates-rss-with-taliban-union-minister-gives-back-101631274566715.html
10-09-2021||India||Andhra govt to float portal to sell online movie tickets; producers remain sceptical||The Andhra Pradesh government has passed an order to set up a state-run website for the online sale of cinema tickets in both single and multiplex theatres across the state. The ruling YSR Congress Party’s (YSRCP) decision to enter into the business of movie tickets has come as a surprise for the Telugu film industry.The government order was issued by AP principal secretary (home) Kumar Vishwajit on August 31. It stated that the Andhra government will develop a portal for online booking of cinema tickets on the lines of online railway reservation ticketing system. The upcoming portal will be run by the AP State Film, Television and Theatre Development Corporation and the modalities were being worked out. As of now, tickets in AP are available by private players such as bookmyshow and also offline at ticket counters. However, that is mostly restricted to cities like Vijayawada, Visakhapatnam, and in other major towns. In districts and rural areas tickets are only sold at physical counters before films are screened. An AP government official, who did not want to be quoted, said the GO was passed keeping in mind tax collections or tax revenues to the state government from movie theatres. “The tax collected per year is just a small percentage of the business the Telugu film industry makes. This is an old issue and is being sorted out. For example, if a film maker earns Rs. 100 crore, the tax has to be paid accordingly,” he added. According to the GO, the Andhra government has constituted a committee to create a blueprint for developing the portal for implementing the online ticketing system. The committee comprises principal secretary (home), who is the chairman, and principal secretary (Information technology) as co-chairman.Other members include secretary of the AP Information and Public Relations (I&PR) department and Managing Director of the AP State Film, Television and Theatre Development Corporation, Managing Director of the AP Technological Services, a representative of the Commercial Taxes department’s Commissioner and others.The move has however worried industry players, who are more concerned as to what the government’s intention is. On reaching out for a comment, most did not even want to speak on this matter and said that it is “very sensitive”. One of them said that this issue will be resolved only when a big actor meets AP chief minister Y. S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and sorts it out. However, a well-known movie producer from Andhra, who also requested anonymity, said that the film industry itself had recommended online ticketing to streamline taxation earlier. “But the issue now is that there is no clarity about what the government wants to do. They mentioned that they will create something like a railway ticket portal. But how can money first come to the government and then come to us?” he questioned. The movie producer added that one can’t go to the government for their money, as it will lead to a lot of red tape. “There is no clarity on this. This is not an essential commodity, it is a business,” he remarked. According to estimates, the Telugu movie industry, known as Tollywood, is believed to generate over Rs. 1000 crore every year (pre-Covid-19).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-govt-to-float-portal-to-sell-online-movie-tickets-producers-remain-sceptical-101631274179054.html
10-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: UAE eases travel restrictions for residents from India, 14 other countries and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.UAE lifts travel restrictions for residents from India, 14 other countriesThe United Arab Emirates (UAE) on Friday said that it is lifting restrictions from September 12 on entry for residents who have been fully vaccinated with a shot approved by the World Health Organization (WHO). It said that residents from India can fly into the UAE from September 12. Read more here. HT Editorial: How 2001 shaped 20219/11 was an opportunity to create a global consensus on terror. The world failed. The disgraceful manner in which the US handled its exit from Afghanistan and the return of the Taliban is an outcome of this flawed post-9/11 architecture. Read more here. BCCI releases official statement to clear the air, says will work with ECB towards rescheduling Manchester TestIn wake of the fifth India vs England Test match in Manchester being called off due to Covid-19 scare, it was announced that both BCCI and ECB will be rescheduling the cancelled Test match to a further date. Read more here. Tata Punch micro SUV to get multiple terrain modes, enhanced safety featuresTata Motors has teased several features that will be packed in Punch micro-SUV. The Tata Punch is expected launch later this year and will take on rivals like Maruti Suzuki Ignis. Read more here. KBC 13: Moved Amitabh Bachchan spontaneously decides to donate money to help procure ₹16 cr injection for ailing childKaun Banega Crorepati 13: Amitabh Bachchan spontaneously decided to donate towards procuring the world's most expensive medicine, worth ₹16 crore, for a child suffering from Spinal Muscular Atrophy. Read more here. Taapsee Pannu doesn't miss her workout even during a holiday in Goa | WatchTaapsee Pannu's fitness video from Goa will motivate you to burn that unwanted fat even as you enjoy a long weekend or a holiday because ‘Good holiday begins with a good workout’. Here are some health benefits of exercising on an elliptical trainer. Read more here. Artist creates surreal artworks by merging pics of food items and animalsIf you have been using the Internet for long, then you may be aware that the online world is filled with people showcasing their amazing –and often unusual – creative artworks. Read more here. Owaisi says Barabanki Mosque 'martyred', takes jibe at PM Modi. Cops file FIR||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-uae-eases-travel-restrictions-for-residents-from-india-14-other-countries-and-all-the-latest-news-101631270719744.html
10-09-2021||India||Govt resolved to ensure everyone feels they have a share in nation’s development||Union minister for minority affairs Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi on Friday said that the government is resolved to ensure that everyone in society feels safe, secure and has a share in the development of the nation. Naqvi’s comments came at an event where former IPS officer Iqbal Singh Lalpura took charge as the chairperson of the National Commission for Minorities.Naqvi said the government is working in a resolute manner to achieve development with dignity and empowerment without appeasement.“It is our resolve that everyone feels safe, secure and has a share in the development of the country and I am confident Iqbal Singh will play an important role in strengthening that resolve,” Naqvi was quoted as saying by news agency PTI. “Sardar Iqbal Singh Lalpura Ji’s vast experience in administration, social and literary fields will be helpful in strengthening PM Modi Ji’s commitment to 'Sabka Sath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas, Sabka Prayas,” he further added.Naqvi said PM Modi took tough decisions to ensure that all sections of the society develop. He said the results are out there for everyone to see. He also highlighted that the Centre took steps to provide compensation to the families of 1984 riot victims, the operationalisation of Kartarpur corridor and the soon-to-be-launched ‘Gurudwara Circuit’ that will take passengers on a train journey for pilgrimage across the country for the Sikh community.Lalpura after taking the role said that he was given an opportunity to serve the people and will work to put an end to false narratives and fear which is being spread in the society. Lalpura is the second Sikh to head the statutory commission after S Tarlochan Singh, who headed the commission between 2003 and 2006. The post was earlier held by Syed Ghayorul Hasan Rizvi. Lalpura has received the President's police medal, police medal for meritorious services, Shiromani Sikh Sahitkar Award and Sikh scholar award.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-resolved-to-ensure-everyone-feels-they-have-a-share-in-nation-s-development-101631270253241.html
10-09-2021||India||Want to know your clients' Covid vaccination status? CoWIN gives an option||CoWIN has launched a new application programme interface (API) called 'Know Your Customer's/Client's Vaccination Status', or KYC-VS, the Union health ministry said on Friday. This will enable entities to verify the vaccination status of individuals. This new feature is consent-based and privacy-preserving, the ministry added.To avail this new feature, an individual will have to enter their mobile number and name after which they will have to input the one-time password (OTP) after they receive it. CoWIN will send a response to the verifying entity on the individual's status of vaccination, which will be as follows - 0 - Person is not vaccinated, 1 - Person is partially vaccinated, or 2 - Person is fully vaccinated.CoWIN issues digital vaccination proofs for individuals, which can be saved on a digital device or stored in Digi Locker from where it can be digitally accessed and shared as and when required. With socio-economic activities resuming gradually all over the country there’s a need to convey the vaccination status of individuals seamlessly and digitally for the smooth operation of services, the ministry said in a press release.Also Read: Mumbai becomes first district to administer 1 crore Covid vaccine dosesThis KYC-VS feature can be used for booking train tickets, where the concerned entity booking the tickets can get access to the vaccination status of the individual with their consent, the ministry said. "Besides the use cases pointed out, this service may be utilized by any service provider, private or public, for whom verifying an individual's vaccination status is critical for facilitating a service requested," it said.To facilitate seamless integration with any system in no time the CoWIN team has prepared a webpage with the API, which may be embedded in any system. This, they say, will facilitate quick integration and faster adoption.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/want-to-know-your-clients-covid-vaccination-status-co-win-gives-an-option-101631268573364.html
10-09-2021||India||ECI seeks power to delist inactive political parties||The Election Commission of India (ECI) met law minister Kiren Rijiju last week, as the process to introduce a host of electoral reforms, including the power to delist inactive political parties and linking Aadhaar to voter ID cards, gathers pace, people familiar with the matter said. “The law minister was briefed on several reforms that are pending with the ministry,” one such person said on the condition of anonymity. “Once the amendments are drafted, they will hopefully be introduced in the winter session of Parliament. The power to take action against political parties that have not contested elections for decades but are still enjoying tax exemptions on donations was discussed as well. HT sent the law ministry a detailed questionnaire but did not receive a response.An ECI official familiar with the matter said that the voluntary linking of Aadhaar data was agreed upon with the government, while the power to delist specific political parties remains a point to be discussed. In 1999, the Commission sent 200 parties notices as they had not contested any polls. At present, India has over 2,700 political parties, but only seven are recognised at the national level and 50 at the state-level. A recognised party has to poll 6% of valid votes in four or more states and win at least four Lok Sabha seats.According to the Association of Democratic Reforms , an NGO working for political and electoral reforms, the number of registered unrecognised parties has doubled in the last decade. The number rose from 1,112 in 2010to 2,301 in 2019. The Commission, composed of chief election Commissioner Sushil Chandra and election Commissioners Rajiv Kumar and Anup Chandra Pandey, has been pushing for the reforms with the CEC writing to the ministry in May to “expedite them”. ECI is pushing for at least five key electoral reforms, including making paid news an electoral offence, linking Aadhaar numbers to the electoral roll , and increasing the punishment for filing a false affidavit (to two years of imprisonment), and has written to the government in this regard, HT reported on June 8.There are nearly 40 proposals pending with the ministry. Elections in the states of Goa, Manipur, Uttarakhand, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh are due next year. ECI has been considering a wide range of electoral reforms to usher in digitisation, remove duplication of voters and enable remote voting for non-resident Indians (NRIs), even migrant workers, within the country. The Commission, on May 17, sent a reminder to then law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad to revisit at least the five key reforms.ECI has proposed that the voters who turn 18 should be able to register more than just once a year. At present, only those who are 18 as of January 1 in a particular year are eligible to register as voters that year. ECI also wants to toughen its stand on false affidavits. At present, candidates who furnish false information can be punished with up to six months of imprisonment. The Commission has suggested increasing the sentence to two years.Documents reviewed exclusively by HT show that the Commission has also pitched the linking of Aadhaar data to the electoral roll, part of its plan to eliminate duplication of voter ID cards. This reform has been contestedby Opposition parties and activists. According to the person mentioned above, the Commission wrote to the law ministry last month to approve the voluntary linking of Aadhaar data to voter ID cards by means of a gazette notification. “The Election Commission proposes verification of elector using Aadhaar authentication and voluntary seeding of Aadhaar for providing speedy services to voters like registration of new voters, change of address, downloading voter slips etc,” the Commission said in a letter to the ministry. “The proposed Aadhaar authentication/seeding will be optional for those electors who want to use Aadhaar for faster delivery of services.”It adds the ministry of electronics and information technology, in a gazette notification published on August 5, 2020, allows for the use of Aadhaar by the Central government in the interest of good governance. “It is therefore requested that the proposal for voluntary authentication/seeding of Aadhaar from UIDAI, for providing faster electoral service, may be agreed to,” the letter states. A second person familiar with the matter said that the proposal is with the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) and could be implemented within three months once approval is given. “The main consideration will be to create a data vault to protect the information,” the person said on the condition of anonymity. “The process normally takes within three to six months to be completed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eci-seeks-power-to-delist-inactive-political-parties-101631268838718.html
10-09-2021||India||'Fragile', 'Concerning for us': What India said at UN on Afghanistan situation||India considers the present situation of Afghanistan as very fragile, India's Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador TS Tirumurti said at the UN Security Council debate of Afghanistan on Thursday. As Afghanistan's neighbour, India was privileged to preside the session last month, Tirumurti said. It is important that the Taliban adhere to its commitment to not allow the use of the Afghan coil for terrorism, including from terror groups designated under Security Council resolution 1267 that lists Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed."The situation in Afghanistan continues to be very fragile. As its immediate neighbour and a friend to its people, the current situation is of direct concern to us," Tirumurti said."In this context, we reiterate the need for the voices of Afghan women to be heard, aspirations of Afghan children to be realised and the rights of minorities to be protected. We call on humanitarian assistance to be provided urgently and underline the need to provide unhindered access to the UN and other agencies in this regard," he said.Analysis | India’s new approach: Afghans firstOn the issue of the interim Cabinet that the Taliban have announced that includes several sanctioned names, Tirumurti stressed India’s call for an inclusive dispensation in Afghanistan which represents all sections of Afghan society. “A broad-based, inclusive and representative formation attained through an inclusive negotiated political settlement would gain greater international acceptability and legitimacy,” he said.A day after Afghanistan fell to the Taliban, the United National Security Council issued a press statement saying that the territory of Afghanistan should not be used to threaten or attack any country. After the blast in Kabul on August 26, the security council issued another statement in which it reiterated its stand and did not mention the name of the Taliban.With the world taking a wait-and-watch stance, the Taliban have announced their interim cabinet. The ministers may take oath on September 11, on the 20th anniversary of 9/11 attack. Reports said several countries including China, Pakistan, Russia, the United States, India, have been invited to take part in the ceremony.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fragile-concerning-for-us-what-india-said-at-un-on-afghanistan-situation-101631266428265.html
10-09-2021||India||Woman, CRPF man injured in grenade attack in Kashmir||A member of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and a woman were injured when militants hurled a grenade at a CRPF patrol at Chanpora.Soon after the grenade attack, police and CRPF launched a cordon and search operation in the area.A CRPF spokesman said that unknown militants lobbed a grenade, targeting the troops of 29 Battalion deployed for road opening party at Chanpora. “In this incident, constable Jitendar Kumar Yadav sustained minor splinter injuries in his thigh and left hand and was evacuated to the unit for first aid. The condition of constable is stable,” he said.A woman also sustained minor injuries in the grenade attack.This is a developing story. It will be updated when more details are available||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-crpf-man-injured-in-grenade-attack-in-kashmir-101631264398603.html
10-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: India celebrates Ganesh Chaturthi under Covid shadow and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.In pictures: Ganesh Chaturthi celebrated under Covid shadow for the second timeDevotees across the country on Friday worshipped Lord Ganesha for the 10-day Ganesh Chaturthi festivities amid the Covid-19 pandemic for the second year in a row. Read more here. Jal Jeevan Mission to link tap water connection to AadhaarJJM has leveraged technology in other ways too. Sensor-based IoT devices have been installed for automatic data capture to measure and monitor the water supply. The online JJM Dashboard provides state/ union territory/ district and village-wise progress. Read more here. 'He can lap you, late cut you; he's got all the shots': Gambhir identifies 'versatile' batsman from India's T20 WC squadFormer India batsman Gautam Gambhir feels Suryakumar Yadav will prove to be an excellent option for India batting at no. 4 in the upcoming T20 World Cup. Read more here. Soha Ali Khan, Inaaya Naumi Kemmu doll up for Ganesh Chaturthi in ethnic wearThe Pataudi princesses are all dolled up for Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations beginning from today and while Kunal Kemmu is away for shooting a new film, Soha Ali Khan gives a glimpse of the festive celebrations back home with daughter Inaaya Naumi Kemmu in ravishing ethnic wear. Read more here. Bhoot Police movie review: Miscast Saif Ali Khan and Arjun Kapoor fail to elevate Scooby Doo-level scriptBhoot Police movie review: Despite enthusiastic performances by Saif Ali Khan and (surprisingly) Jacqueline Fernandez, the new horror-comedy relies too heavily on cliches to be more than mildly amusing. Read more here. Woman shares sweet tale about being adopted. Watch“Families don’t have to match. You don’t have to look like someone else to love them,” these words by American businesswoman Leigh Anne Tuohy are perfectly showcased in this video shared on Instagram. Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-india-celebrates-ganesh-chaturthi-under-covid-shadow-101631258239440.html
10-09-2021||India||Kapil Sibal thinks BJP will use Taliban row to its ‘advantage’ in UP polls||Congress leader Kapil Sibal on Friday alleged that the Centre will try to use the Afghanistan conflict, centering on the new Taliban regime, to the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) ‘advantage’ in the upcoming assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh. Insisting that India has hardly any role to play in an “inclusive intra-Afghan dialogue”, Sibal alleged that the entire central government's policy towards the Taliban regime will be guided by how it can use the conflict to its own advantage in the UP assembly polls.“We are hardly a player in an ‘inclusive intra-Afghan dialogue.’ Our policy towards the Taliban regime will be guided by how this regime can use it to its advantage in the UP assembly election. That is the bitter truth! The media is already playing its part!” Sibal tweeted. Afghanistan We are hardly a player in an “ inclusive intra-Afghan dialogue ”.Our policy towards the Taliban regime will be guided by how this regime can use it to it’s advantage in the UP Assembly election.That is the bitter truth !The media is already playing its part !The BJP is yet to make any official response to Kapil Sibal's remarks.The Congress leader's comments come a day after India's permanent representative to the United Nations, TS Tirumurti, reiterated India’s stance that Afghan territory should not be used to threaten or attack any country, nor should the Taliban use it to shelter and train terrorists or plan and finance terrorist acts.The Congress party has been directing its attacks at the central government regarding its policy on the Afghanistan situation, saying that the BJP-led government has time to hold talks with the Taliban in Doha, but is unable to come to a consensus with protesting farmers, who have been demonstrating against three contentious agricultural laws for months.The government, for its part, has been emphasising the welfare of Afghan people in its approach. According to Tirumurti, India has undertaken more than 500 development projects in each of the 34 provinces of Afghanistan. Though shut out by the Pakistan-backed Taliban, India has a very strong ally in Afghanistan — the Afghan people. And New Delhi is looking to find a way to build on that equity that few other neighbours of Afghanistan, least of all Pakistan, can claim credibly.Only a few days after the Taliban named an acting cabinet, the group is already facing cascading challenges from neighbouring Pakistan, as the humanitarian crisis continues to deepen in the war-torn land.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kapil-sibal-thinks-bjp-will-use-taliban-row-to-its-advantage-in-up-polls-101631251787982.html
10-09-2021||India||Nagaland Guv shifted to Tamil Nadu, replaces Purohit who takes the post in Punjab||RN Ravi, Governor of Nagaland has been appointed the Governor of Tamil Nadu. Ravi replaces Banwarilal Purohit who held additional charge as the Governor of Punjab and is now appointed regular Governor of Punjab.According to a Rashtrapati Bhavan communique released by President Ram Nath Kovind late on Thursday night, the new appointments will take effect when they take charge of their respective offices.In October 2017, Purohit was appointed the 14th Governor of Tamil Nadu when the state was reeling under a political crisis following J Jayalalithaa’s death in office as chief minister in December 2016. He has been embroiled in several controversies during his stint. He also leaves the state office having avoided taking a decision on the clemency plea of one of the convicts serving a sentence for former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi’s assassination, and handing the decision over to the President of India stating that he was the right person to rule on this.Incoming Governor Ravi was born in Bihar and joined the Indian Police Service in 1976. He was allotted the Kerala Cadre. He has also held positions in the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Intelligence Bureau (IB). He was appointed the Centre’s Interlocutor for the Naga peace talks in August 2014 and Nagaland Governor in 2019.Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin, former chief minister Edappadi Palanwami expressed gratitude towards Purohit and welcomed the state’s new Governor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagaland-guv-shifted-to-tamil-nadu-replaces-purohit-who-takes-the-post-in-punjab-101631257201949.html
10-09-2021||India||36th Rafale to have all India specific enhancements, arrives Jan 2022||France will deliver three Rafale fighters per month for the next three months with the last of the 36 contracted omni-role fighters carrying all 13 India specific enhancements to be delivered in January 2022. While 26 4.5 generation Rafale fighters are already operational from Ambala in the western sector and Hashimara in the eastern sector, three more Dassault manufactured fighters will be landing at Jamnagar base with the help of close ally UAE mid-air refueller on October 13. Three more are expected to be delivered in November and another three joining the Indian Air Force (IAF) in December.However, it is the 36th Rafale fighter that will be equipped with all India specific enhancements to make the platform more lethal. Already India specific enhancements have been included in Hammer air to ground, SCALP land attack and Meteor air to air missiles used by Rafale with more range, more height and more accuracy. It is only after the 36th fighter has landed after testing all India specific enhancements with some technologies having Israeli origins that the previous 35 fighters will be fitted with all the enhancements.While the India specific enhancements remain classified, they are understood to be pertaining to more powerful radio altimeter, radar warning receiver, low band jammer, flight data recorder, high-altitude engine start-up, synthetic aperture radar, ground moving target indicator and tracking, infra-red search and track, helmet-mounted display, missile approach warning systems and very high-frequency range decoys.France, one of India’s closest strategic allies, has already sent the enhanced missiles and ammunition for Rafale to IAF. While the Meteor missile is best in its category in the Indian subcontinent, the Hammer and SCALP have pinpointed accuracy with last-minute target adjustment capability and radar avoidance. These weapon systems have multiple guidance facilities so that the enemy has no chance of jamming the missile either in the air to air or land-attack mode and can be used in stand-off mode for land targets over 70 kilometres away.While the Indian Navy is also examining the option of Rafale-Maritime fighter for its indigenous aircraft carrier INS Vikrant, to be launched next August, the IAF has been asked to rationalize its fighter squadron strength due to the enhanced capability of Rafale. It is understood that one squadron of Rafale is equivalent to 2.5 squadrons of Russian Su-30 MKI in terms of turnaround and maintenance. The IAF’s capability will further be multiplied with the addition of the S-400 air defence system to the Indian fighting capability.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/36th-rafale-to-have-all-india-specific-enhancements-arrives-jan-2022-101631254286620.html
10-09-2021||India||Jal Jeevan Mission to link tap water connection to Aadhaar||Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM), the government’s flagship scheme to make piped water available to all, will be linking every tap water connection to the Aadhaar number of the head of the household.“By leveraging the use of technology, JJM is promoting transparency, accountability, effective fund utilisation, etc. for assured service delivery. Every tap water connection provided is being linked with the Aadhaar number of the head of the household and the water supply infrastructure created is being geo-tagged,” said Bharat Lal Additional Secretary & Mission Director at National Jal Jeevan Mission in Jal Jeevan Samwad, a monthly newsletter of the Mission.Lal said that JJM has leveraged technology in other ways too. Sensor-based IoT devices have been installed for automatic data capture to measure and monitor the water supply. The online JJM Dashboard, which is in the public domain, provides state/ union territory/ district and village-wise progress of provision of tap water supply in rural areas, viz. households as well as public institutions.According to JJM data, the coverage of tap water connection in 117 aspirational districts has increased from 3.13 million (9%) to 11.654 million (34%) households in 24 months. Similarly, in 61 districts affected with Japanese Encephalitis / Acute Encephalitis Syndrome (JE/ AES) across five states, tap water connections increased from 800,000 (2.5%) to 11.1 million (36%) households in 24 months, resulting in improvement in the quality of life of people, especially women and children.In his note in the monthly newsletter, Lal said that in every village, five persons, especially women, are being trained on the use of Field Test Kits (FTKs) to test the quality of water supplied, conduct sanitary surveys, and upload the data on JJM portal.The mission director also said that JJM has roped in 185 organisations, including United Nations agencies like UNICEF, UNOPS, for sector partnership. “They are dovetailing their resources and efforts with JJM to help in achieving the ‘Har Ghar Jal’ goal,” he added.In July 2019, the union government had formed a new ministry, Jal Shakti, to address all water issues in the country. The ministry was formed by integrating existing ministries, such as water resources and the ministry of drinking water and sanitation.Last month, the government had made the department of drinking water and sanitation (DDWS) the nodal department for determining the eligibility of the rural local bodies for the 15th finance commission-tied grant. Lal said that a manual for the utilisation of the 15th finance commission grants to rural local bodies for water and sanitisation has been prepared and made available to the states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jal-jeevan-mission-to-link-tap-water-connection-to-aadhaar-101631251678094.html
10-09-2021||India||India records fall in daily Covid-19 cases with 34,973 infections||India on Friday recorded a decrease in fresh cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) with 34,973 infections in the last 24 hours, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare. This marks a fall of 19 per cent from the 43,263 cases reported on Thursday. There were 37,875 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday. Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said on Thursday that Kerala attributed 68.59 per cent of the Covid-19 cases last week. “Of the 43,263 cases reported in the past 24 hours, over 32,000 were from Kerala. Almost 68% of the total cases in last week were from Kerala. We're still witnessing the second surge, it's not over,” Bhushan said at a media briefing.With the 34,973 fresh Covid-19 cases, the nationwide tally now stands at 33,174,954, while the death toll climbed to 442,009 with 260 daily fatalities, according to the Union health ministry. Active cases of Covid-19 rose by 2,968 to stand at 390,646 in the same period, according to data released by the health ministry at 8am. Active cases constitute 1.19 per cent of total cases and the national Covid-19 recovery rate stands 97.6 per cent, the ministry said. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 32,342,299, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.33 per cent, the health ministry said.As many as 17,87,611 Covid-19 tests were conducted on Thursday, taking the total number of tests conducted so far to 53,86,04,854. More than 706.3 million Covid-19 vaccine doses have been provided to states and Union territories so far, the Union health ministry said on Thursday. The ministry said more than 55.8 million balance and unutilised Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with the states and UTs to be administered.In the ongoing nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive, 71,65,97,428 vaccine doses have been administered to eligible beneficiaries, out of which 86,51,701 doses were administered in the last 24 hours. This includes beneficiaries who, since the commencement of the nationwide drive, have received both doses, and the corresponding number of those who have been vaccinated with their first dose. “It is natural that cases will go up once tests are increased. The state should have increased tests a couple of months back,” public health expert Dr SS Lal told Hindustan Times.The Covid-19 vaccination drive has been ramped up through the availability of more vaccines, advanced visibility of vaccine availability to states and Union territories for enabling better planning by them and streamlining the vaccine supply chain. The new phase of universalisation of vaccination commenced on June 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-fall-in-daily-covid-19-cases-with-34-973-infections-101631247608643.html
10-09-2021||India||More than 100 dogs ‘slaughtered’ in Karnataka village. Were they poisoned?||Days after multiple dog carcasses were found buried near a forest at the Rangapura village in Karnataka's Shivamogga district, a preliminary police investigation suggested that the dogs were poisoned. Although the police have not provided an exact number yet, the probe indicated there could be more than 100 carcasses. Since there is little clarity on the exact cause of death, the police said that the possibility of the dogs having been poisoned has not been dismissed yet. By the time the corpses were discovered, they had decayed to the extent that ascertaining the exact nature of the death proved to be difficult. Even a veterinary forensic expert called in by the police was unable to ascertain the cause of their death because of the “decomposed nature of their bodies,” according to officials.The police suspect that local gram panchayat officials were involved in planning the heinous act. Officials of Bhadravati Rural police station, where a complaint has been registered under the Prevention of Animal Cruelties Act, 1960, said that local residents who observed some suspicious activity in the area informed a group involved in animal rescue who found the carcasses of dogs. The activists alleged that the gram panchayat officials contracted a private firm to kill dogs and that some dogs were buried alive as well.Shivamogga animal rescue club member, GS Basava Prasad, told news agencies that they received a call three days ago from the villagers, who reported that 150 to 200 dogs had been buried alive in the forest area. “On receiving the information our team visited the place,” he said. “We got to know that village gram panchayat member president, panchayat development officer (PDO) all are involved in this case. Later, we came to know that the actual number of dogs buried alive was more than 300.”According to the animal rescuers, the prescribed procedure, in this case, states that the villagers should actually have applied for an animal birth control tender. This includes operations wherein medical facilities are also provided for the animals. “But these people do not know anything about animal birth control,” Prasad said. “What they did was they caught all the dogs and dumped them alive in a small pond and closed it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-than-100-dogs-slaughtered-in-karnataka-village-were-they-poisoned-101631247147383.html
10-09-2021||India||PM Modi, vice president Naidu greet people on Ganesh Chaturthi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and several other leaders on Friday extended their greetings to people on Ganesh Chaturthi, wishing them peace and prosperity on the festival, which is being celebrated across the country amid the coronavirus pandemic. PM Modi said that he hopes the festival will bring good luck and prosperity to the lives of people. “Wishing you all a very Happy Ganesh Chaturthi. May this auspicious occasion bring happiness, peace, good fortune and health to everyone's life. Ganpati Bappa Morya!” PM Modi’s tweet loosely translated from Hindi read.President Ram Nath Kovind also extended his greeting on Ganesh Chaturthi. “Warm wishes to all citizens on the auspicious occasion of Ganesh Chaturthi. I wish that Lord Ganesha helps us in being successful in the fight against Covid-19 and blesses everyone with happiness and peace. Let us all follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour ‍while celebrating the festival,” the President's tweet loosely translated from Hindi read.In pictures: Ganesh Chaturthi celebrated under Covid shadow for the second timeVice president M Venkaiah Naidu also extended his greetings on Ganesh Chaturthi and said that Lord Ganesha is seen as an ‘embodiment of wisdom’ in the country. “Shri Ganesh ji is revered as an embodiment of wisdom, prosperity and good fortune in our country. May the Lord Vinayaka remove all obstacles in our endeavours,” vice president Naidu said in his tweet.As Ganesh Chaturthi begins, Maharashtra monitors Covid situation closelyUnion home minister Amit Shah earlier shared a picture of Lord Ganesha and wished people as the 10-day festival began. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi also wished people on Ganesh Chaturthi on Twitter.This is the second year in a row that the Ganesh Chaturthi festival is being celebrated under the shadow of the coronavirus pandemic. Karnataka and Maharashtra, where the festival is celebrated with fervour, have announced a slew of restrictions in a bid to curb the spread of the disease. In Mumbai, police have banned processions and disallowed devotees from visiting Ganesh pandals. Orders under section 144 of the CrPC were imposed on Thursday evening in Mumbai prohibiting assembly of five or more people during the festivities from September 10 to September 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-vice-president-naidu-greet-people-on-ganesh-chaturthi-101631249762097.html
10-09-2021||India||Another wet spell likely over west coast, parts of north India in 3-4 days||A low pressure area, likely to form over north and central Bay of Bengal on Saturday, could bring widespread rain to the west coast and parts of north India, especially Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD).There is a cyclonic circulation is over central parts of west Madhya Pradesh and adjoining east Rajasthan. It is very likely to persist over the same region during the next two days. The monsoon trough is lying south of its normal position. It is very likely to be south of its normal position during the next three days. A trough is running from northeast Arabian Sea to north Odisha across south Gujarat, south Madhya Pradesh and north Chhattisgarh. Also Read | Delhi weather: Cloudy skies, moderate rain likely today, says IMDA low pressure area is likely to form over north and adjoining Central Bay of Bengal around September 11. It is very likely to concentrate into a depression over northwest and adjoining westcentral Bay of Bengal during subsequent 48 hours. Under the influence of likely formation of a low pressure area and its west-northwestward movement; consequent strengthening of lower level westerlies along the west coast; widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy rain is likely over north Konkan, south Gujarat region, Odisha, Chhattisgarh during September 12 and 13. Under the influence of cyclonic circulation over West Madhya Pradesh; widespread and very heavy rain is likely over Gujarat, southeast Rajasthan and West Madhya Pradesh till Sunday. Rainfall activity is likely to increase with isolated heavy rain over south Haryana, southwest Uttar Pradesh. Isolated heavy to very heavy rain is also likely over Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh during the next two days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-wet-spell-likely-over-west-coast-parts-of-north-india-in-3-4-days-101631246337899.html
10-09-2021||India||How will the Taliban takeover impact militancy in Kashmir? Here's what analysts say||On August 31, hours after the last of the US troops left Afghanistan, al-Qaeda hailed the Taliban for its victory in Kabul. In a statement, the militant group called for the “liberation” of Kashmir, Somalia, Yemen, and other “Islamic lands.”The statement sent ripples through New Delhi. According to official figures, Kashmir is seeing a surge in foreign militants. There are now between 40 and 50 foreign militants, and 11 local militants active in north Kashmir bordering Pakistan, a report by The Hindu stated. This would be the first time in a decade that there are more foreign militants than local ones in the region.Also Read | A bruised Kashmir and a divided India are strategic risksFearing a new wave of violence, analysts are watching the new geopolitical developments closely to determine how they would impact militancy in the region.“The Taliban takeover will not only impact Kashmir but the whole of South Asia will also be affected,” Shesh Paul Vaid, the former director-general of Jammu and Kashmir Police, told DW.“The Taliban takeover will have a psychological impact on all terrorist groups operating all across the world, including in the Kashmir Valley. There is no denying of the fact that their morale has been boosted,” he said.‘Kashmiri situation has a momentum of its own’Vaid argued that organisations like Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) have helped the Taliban in taking control of Afghanistan. But he said it remains to be seen whether the Taliban will help them in return.“The first thing the Taliban did after taking over was that they released all terrorists from prisons including those from the ‘Islamic State’ (IS), LeT and Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) … Pakistan's ISI could use its influence on the Taliban and shift its training camps in Pakistan-administered Kashmir to areas in Afghanistan,” he said, referring to Pakistan's intelligence service.Victoria Schofield, an author and historian, has assessed the situation differently. She called the Taliban's takeover of Afghanistan a “national movement.”“It's essentially an Afghan movement and the Kashmiri situation has a momentum of its own which is different,” Schofield, who has researched the Kashmir conflict over the last 35 years, told DW.“In the old days, you heard about Afghans going to fight and help their Muslim brothers in Kashmir but I don't see that happening now… it's not part of the Kashmiri psyche to get muddled up in the universal jihad,” she added.How has Kashmir militancy changed over the years?The insurgency in Kashmir, which began in 1989, has undergone several changes in the last three decades.Most recently, the Indian government scrapped Jammu and Kashmir's special constitutional status and divided the region into two federally administered territories.“With these moves came a systematic change in the composition of terrorist organisations,” Vaid said.Also Read | Days after bilateral issue comment, Taliban's new remarks about KashmirIn the early 1990s, the Jammu and Kashmir Liberation Front called for the independence of Kashmir. In the mid-90s, more radicalized groups like the Hizbul Mujahideen (HM) became prominent, he said.From 1999 onward, the “infiltration of foreign terrorists started” and “pan-Islamic terrorist organisations LeT and JeM — that were mainly composed of foreign terrorists — took the center stage and started this phenomenon of fidayeen [suicide] attacks,” Vaid told DW.Another change in militancy, he added, came about in 2014 when the LeT and JeM started recruiting local Kashmiri boys in their ranks.What are the factors fueling militancy?The killing of Hizbul commander Burhan Wani in 2016 is seen as a watershed moment in the conflict's history. Wani was the face of “new militancy,” which went from being covert in the 1990s to becoming more open, Vaid said.According to Schofield, Wani and the group of new militants would not have been able to develop the cult following around them if it were not for the power of social media.“He had been able to achieve this through the use of social media, which had not been possible two decades previously when the insurgency took off,” she said.“The death of Burhan Wani reactivated the movement because he had become a hero for the youth,” Schofield added.In addition to the rise of social media, Vaid said a range of other factors — such as unemployment — have pushed young Kashmiris into joining militant organisations.“A lot of boys are getting radicalised due to the jihadist ideology,” Vaid said. “There is also the sheer thrill of holding a weapon. It gives a sense of power to unemployed youth. He feels important in society.”Schofield said “disaffection” among youth who have grown up in the restive region could also play a role.“The older generation of militants is dying out and you have this young group who haven't experienced the militancy of the early years of insurgency, but who have now taken up the cause,” she said.What was the impact of special status abrogation on militancy?Following the abrogation of Jammu and Kashmir's special status in 2019, a strict security lockdown was imposed in Jammu & Kashmir. Additional troops were deployed across the region, which was already heavily militarised.“Abrogation of Article 370 has had a tremendous impact. So far in the last two years, the level of violence has gone down and fewer boys are joining terror organisations,” Vaid said.Schofield said the impact of the abrogation was “very dramatic” because it brought in “more rigorous control by the Indian government.” She said the move made militancy “much more difficult,” but warned that disaffection increased.In the aftermath of the events of 2019, new militant organisations such as the Resistance Front (TRF) have sprung up. But Schofield said they, too, could end up like their predecessors.“They are going to be stepping in the footsteps of their forebears. But ultimately they are undoubtedly going to be crushed in the same way as their forebears were because you cannot take on the Indian army,” she said. “It's a tragedy that so many young people have lost their lives because of this unresolved political issue.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-will-the-taliban-takeover-impact-militancy-in-kashmir-here-s-what-analysts-say-101631244581049.html
10-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: On Ganesh Chaturthi, President Kovind urges people to follow Covid rules and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9AM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.On Ganesh Chaturthi, President Kovind urges people to follow Covid-19 rulesAs the festivities for Ganesh Chaturthi began from Friday, President Ram Nath Kovind wished people on the occasion and urged everyone to follow Covid-19 protocols, which have been put in place across the country. Read moreSaudi Arabia bats for Taliban regime in Afghanistan, says no to ‘external interference’In what comes as one of its first reactions to the new Taliban regime in Afghanistan, Saudi Arabia has said that it hopes the advent of a caretaker government will help the war-torn nation achieve ‘stability’ and overcome violence and extremism. Read moreKareena Kapoor says ‘it’s unfathomable’ that people can troll her kids Taimur, JehangirKareena Kapoor has condemned the criticism she and her husband, actor Saif Ali Khan, received for naming their sons Taimur and Jehangir. Read more'I'm praying there's no clash between Dhoni and Shastri': Gavaskar on BCCI' decision to appoint MSD as mentor for T20 WCLegendary India cricketer Sunil Gavaskar 'prays' there is no clash or disagreements between current India head coach Ravi Shastri and former India captain MS Dhoni, who has been appointed as the mentor of the side for the T20 World Cup. Read moreYami Gautam's handwoven deep pink zari silk sari is perfect for Ganesh ChaturthiThe 10-day festival of Ganesh Chaturthi starts from today and if you are looking to slay in an ethnic look with a touch of contemporary, take fashion cues from Bhoot Police actor Yami Gautam, whose latest pictures in a handwoven deep pink zari silk sari have set the Internet on fire. Read moreWomen's Reservation Bill: 25 years later | On The RecordOn September 12, 2020, it will be 25 years since the first time the Women's Reservation Bill was introduced in Parliament. Years have passed, however, the Bill continues to languish and is yet to become a reality. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9am-on-ganesh-chaturthi-president-kovind-urges-people-to-follow-covid-19-rules-and-all-the-latest-news-101631240625956.html
10-09-2021||India||On Ganesh Chaturthi, President Kovind urges people to follow Covid-19 rules||As the festivities for Ganesh Chaturthi began from Friday, President Ram Nath Kovind wished people on the occasion and urged everyone to follow Covid-19 protocols, which have been put in place across the country. “Ganpati Bappa Morya! Warm wishes to all the countrymen on the auspicious occasion of Ganesh Chaturthi. I wish that Vighnaharta Ganesha makes our efforts against Covid-19 successful and blesses everyone with happiness and peace,” President Kovind said in a tweet in Hindi. “Come, let us all follow Covid rules while celebrating the festival,” the President also said.गणपति बाप्पा मोरया!गणेश चतुर्थी के शुभ अवसर पर सभी देशवासियों को हार्दिक शुभकामनाएं।मेरी कामना है कि कोविड-19 के विरुद्ध किए जा रहे हमारे प्रयासों को विघ्नहर्ता गणेश सफल बनाएं और सभी को सुख एवं शांति प्रदान करें।आइए, हम सब कोविड-अनुकूल व्‍यवहार करते हुए यह त्‍योहार मनाएं।The 10-day Ganesh Chaturthi festival will be observed with less pomp amid Covid-19 restrictions and protocols, especially in Maharashtra, with experts urging caution against public celebrations. Last year too the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic put a halt to large-scale celebrations in many parts of the country.In Mumbai, where Ganesh Chaturthi is one of the biggest celebrations of the year, the police on Thursday imposed prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the  Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) in the city from September 10 to 19 to curb the public celebrations in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The Mumbai Police have said that more than five people can't gather at a place and no processions of Ganpati will be allowed. Devotees in Mumbai will have to take the darshan of Lord Ganesha online and they cannot visit pandals across the city.Also read | Ganesh festival begins in Maharashtra, state watching Covid situation"It's an important festival for us. We were not able to celebrate last year, so this time we're very excited. We are taking all precautions," a Mumbai resident told news agency ANI.Ravindra Shisve, the joint commissioner of the Pune City Police, said on Thursday that all Ganesh mandals will immerse the idols at their pandals and people can use 'mobile visarjan' vans. In Andhra Pradesh, the state government has decided not to allow Ganesh pandals and immersion processions this year due to Covid-19.Also read | CM Kejriwal to join Ganesh aarti at North Delhi templeThe Telangana High Court directed the state government not to allow idols of Lord Ganesh, made from plaster of Paris, to be immersed in the Hussainsagar lake in Hyderabad. The court has also asked the state government to construct special rubber dams for the immersion of eco-friendly idols.The Karnataka government has also released the guidelines for Ganesh Chaturthi allowing celebrations only in districts where the Covid-19 positivity rate is less than 2 per cent. "Only eco-friendly Ganapati idols are allowed. Not more than 4 feet tall Ganesha idol should be installed anywhere in the state. Not more than 2 feet tall Ganesha idol allowed to be installed inside homes. No processions are allowed. Immersion is only allowed in mobile immersion tanks, tubs,” it said.The Uttar Pradesh government also advised people to celebrate Ganesh Chaturthi at home and not install idols in public places. "All Covid-19 protocols should be followed during the celebrations," the government said.Ganesh Chaturthi is a 10-day festival marking the birth of Ganesh, the god of prosperity and wisdom. It begins on the fourth day of the chaturthi of the month of Bhadra, the sixth month of the Hindu calendar.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-ganesh-chaturthi-president-kovind-urges-people-to-follow-covid-19-rules-101631240545407.html
10-09-2021||India||INS Dhruv: India gets its first nuclear missile tracking ship today. Details here||In what comes as a significant boost to the country's naval power, India is all set to launch its first satellite and ballistic missile tracking ship Dhruv on Friday. The 10,000-tonne vessel will be commissioned from Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh in the presence of senior officials from the Indian Navy, the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), and the National Technical Research Organisation (NTRO), among others. INS Dhruv lies at the heart of India's future anti-ballistic capabilities and the ship will play a key role in advancing the country's presence in the Indo-Pacific region.Also Read | Sea trials for floating missile test range INS Anvesh begin this monthINS Dhruv, the latest addition to the Indian Navy's arsenal, was built by the Hindustan Shipyard in collaboration with the DRDO and NTRO. The ship is equipped with multiple features that make it a state-of-the-art instrument in modern naval warfare.Here's a look at some of the features of INS Dhruv.The Indian Navy is expected to be able to increase its presence in the Indo-Pacific region and beyond with the likes of INS Dhruv in its arsenal, considering largely persisting threats from its neighbours China and Pakistan. Here's a look at how the country is likely to benefit from the addition of INS Dhruv to its arsenal of naval warfare instruments:Also Read | Theatre commands to be functional in 2 to 3 years for optimal use of military’s resourcesIndia's nuclear missile tracking ship will be manned by Indian Navy personnel with the Strategic Forces Command (SFC). With the addition of INS Dhruv, India will join an elite list of countries that presently consists of only France, the US, the UK, Russia, and China, who possess and operate such vessels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ins-dhruv-india-gets-its-first-nuclear-missile-tracking-ship-today-details-here-101631233967587.html
10-09-2021||India||Bypolls for 7 Rajya Sabha seats to be held on Oct 4: EC||The Election Commission of India (ECI) on Thursday announced that by-elections for seven vacant Rajya Sabha seats will be held on October 4.According to the notification issued by the poll panel, there are two seats vacant in Tamil Nadu and one each in West Bengal, Assam, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Puducherry.In Tamil Nadu, the two seats fell vacant after the resignations of All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam’s (AIADMK) KP Munusamy and R Vaithilingam, who were elected to the legislative assembly earlier this year.In Madhya Pradesh, bypoll will be held to fill the seat vacated by Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Thawarchand Gehlot, who was elevated as the governor of Karnataka in July. Gehlot was the Union minister for social justice and empowerment before taking over the gubernatorial role.In West Bengal, one seat fell vacant after the resignation of Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Manas Ranjan Bhunia, who is now a minister in the Mamata Banerjee-led cabinet.In Assam, by-election will be held to fill the vacancy after BJP member Biswajit Daimary resigned from the Upper House. Daimary is now the Speaker of the Assam legislative assembly.Bypoll to fill one seat in Maharashtra was necessitated after the death of Congress member Rajiv Satav in May this year due to Covid-19.In Puducherry, the Rajya Sabha seat will fall vacant as the term of incumbent member N Gokulakrishnan of the AIADMK ends on October 6.The EC in its order said that all “broad guidelines of Covid-19” have to be followed during the election process. “The chief secretaries of states concerned are being directed to depute a senior officer to ensure that the extant instructions regarding Covid-19 containment measures are complied with while making arrangements for conducting the election,” the poll panel said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bypolls-for-7-rajya-sabha-seats-to-be-held-on-oct-4-ec-101631232290420.html
10-09-2021||India||Karnataka to celebrate Ganesh Chaturthi for only 3 days from today||Karnataka will celebrate a curtailed Ganesh Chaturthi festival from Friday onwards in districts where the test positivity rate (TPR) is less than two per cent in order to keep Covid-19 infections in check. "Ganesha festival will not be allowed for more than three days in Bengaluru city. There should not be any procession while bringing the idol or during immersion," Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) chief commissioner Gaurav Gupta said in a circular, according to news agency PTI.“Only eco-friendly Ganesha idols will be allowed. Distribution of food and prasad will not be allowed during Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations. No function to take place in districts with more than two per cent positivity rate in view of the pandemic,” Gupta added.The Karnataka government on Wednesday banned animal slaughter and sale of meat in view of Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations. "BBMP bans slaughter of animal and meat sale on September 10, 2021, on Ganesha Chaturthi,” according to an official order.Karnataka on Thursday reported four fatalities—the lowest number of deaths due to Covid-19, since the beginning of the second wave. The new fatalities have taken the state’s Covid-19 death toll so far to 37,462, the health department said.Lord Ganesh's birth is celebrated annually on Ganesh Chaturthi that falls in the month of Bhadra, according to the Hindu calendar, and in August or September according to the Gregorian calendar. Devotees across the nation have geared up to celebrate the 10-day Ganesh Chaturthi festival with less pomp and vigour amid Covid-19 restrictions and protocols. Like last year, the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic has again put a halt to large-scale celebrations in many parts of the nation this year too.Here's the full list of guidelines:1. As per the fresh order, Gupta said that Ganesha idols made of plaster of Paris have been banned in Bengaluru.2. The BBMP asked people to immerse the traditional Ganesha idol, made up of biodegradable material, in their homes in buckets or mobile tankers of the civic agency.3. Ganeshas installed at public places should be of a maximum of four feet height.4. The immersion of idols in lakes has been banned.5. One Ganesha idol at a public place in each ward is permitted for which the organisers will have to get the nod from the BBMP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-to-celebrate-3-day-ganesh-chaturthi-from-today-101631230688035.html
10-09-2021||India||Covid-19: Vaccine inequality across districts is high, but it is decreasing||Is there vaccine inequality across districts? This analysis has been constrained by the non-availability of population data by districts. Such numbers are only available in census figures, which are now ten years old.The first part of this two-part data journalism series built alternative estimates of India’s adult population across districts by using the 2019 electoral roll. The second and concluding part will track vaccine inequality as a dynamic variable across districts and try and understand how it has evolved over the course of India’s Covid-19 vaccination programme. It will also try and chart out the possible trajectory going forward.Inequality was increasing across districts until June, but it is coming down nowThe best way to measure inter-district vaccine inequality is by looking at the gap between districts which have performed well and those which have not. Individual comparisons, such as the gap between best and worst districts, can be misleading here. This is because such districts can be outliers. HT has looked the share of vaccinated population by classifying all districts into quartiles (from bottom 25% to top 25%) for each day of vaccination.The comparison shows that inter-district vaccine inequality in terms of share of vaccinated population with at least one dose has almost continuously decreased. This comparison starts from April 1, which is when India opened vaccination for everyone over the age of 45. First dose coverage in the bottom three quartiles has almost consistently caught up with the coverage in the top 25% districts. The coverage in bottom 25% districts was 26% of the coverage in top 25% districts on April 1 and is now 43% of the coverage in the top 25% districts.The inequality in second doses has decreased less consistently than for first doses. On April 1, coverage in the bottom three quartiles was at 25.76%, 40.53%, and 59.82% of the coverage in the top quartile. This gap increased for the bottom three quartiles at different rates initially. From July 2, inter-district vaccine inequality started coming down for all three bottom quartiles for the population which has received both doses as well.Weight for laggard districts in overall population is higherWhile declining inequality is a welcome development, it is still quite high. What makes the challenge even more important is the fact that laggard districts have a bigger share of population than their top-performing counterparts. For example, the bottom 25% of districts (in terms of first dose coverage as on September 5) had a share of 32.5% of the total adult population. This number was just 17.3% in the top 25% of districts. The same trend holds as far as median vaccination coverage is concerned. Districts below the median mark have 59% of the country’s adult population.Have districts pulled up or slipped down drastically?Have districts performing badly in the initial phase of vaccination shown a drastic improvement and vice versa? This is a possibility, theoretically speaking. Our analysis shows that this not very likely. Of the 157 districts which have been in the bottom quartile (by share of population which has received at least one dose), only two (Morigaon and Lakhimpur in Assam) have managed to make it to the top quartile so far. The reverse also holds true. Only two districts (Janjgir Champa and Koriya in Chhattisgarh) among the 157 districts which have been in the top quartile have fallen to the bottom quartile.In coverage of first doses, 336 of 628 districts were in the same quartile on September 5 as they were on April 30 (a month after vaccination was opened up for all adults). Among the rest of the districts, 232 have jumped only one quartile (112 going up; and 120 going down). Only 56 districts have jumped two quartiles (30 up, 26 down).Projecting inter-district inequality in vaccinations, going forwardHow will vaccine inequality look like if the current pace of vaccination in districts holds? Exact projections for the first two charts shown above would have been possible if the breakup of first doses by manufacturer was available. This is because the two major vaccines, Covidshield and Covaxin, have different waiting periods between the first and second dose.However, the number of total doses administered per 100 adults can tell us about the pace of vaccine administration in different districts. Here too the gap is decreasing currently. The bottom quartile has (adjusted for population) administered doses amounting to 40.3% of top quartile. If the pace in all districts remains the same as the pace in past 15 days, this will increase to 42.3% in the next 15 days and to 43.1% in the next 30 days.This is the concluding part of a two-part data journalism series on district-wise vaccination coverage in India. The first part built district-wise adult population estimates and used them to look at district-wise and rural-urban inequality in vaccinations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccine-inequality-across-districts-is-high-but-it-is-decreasing-101631227689668.html
10-09-2021||India||TN extends ban on festivals till Oct 31, says events could be Covid ‘super spreaders’||ChennaiThe Tamil Nadu government on Thursday extended its ban on religious gatherings in the state until October 31, as part of its efforts to prevent a third wave of Covid-19 infections in the state. Chief minister MK Stalin announced the extension of the ban, which has been imposed on top of the existing Covid-19 restrictions in the state until September 15.In its order, the TN government expressed concerns that such events (festivals, political, social and cultural gatherings) could become potential super spreaders of Covid-19. The high caseload in neighbouring Kerala and the advent of Nipah virus have also been factored in making the decision, the order showed. The state referred to a report by the Union ministry of home affairs which had warned that a third wave is highly possible during the months of September and October.The order assumes significance as the Ganesh Chaturthi festival is set to be celebrated on September 10. While the DMK government has banned public installation of idols and celebrations across the state, K Annamalai, leader of the state’s BJP unit, has said that the party would celebrate the festival by placing deities outside the gates of 100,000 homes. He also called upon the people to do the same.However, for celebrating the birthdays and the death anniversaries of national/state leaders, district heads have been allowed to garland their icons and a maximum of five people from the families of such leaders and five more from the political fraternity have been allowed, conditional to a pre-approved permission by the district administration. No let up would be allowed in following Covid appropriate behaviours such as using masks and maintaining social distance.Previously on August 30, the state government had directed the public to celebrate the festival in their homes. It said that processions and public installation of the deities would not be allowed. The festival is usually the occasion for a long procession of many Ganesh-idols that would be taken to be dissolved in water bodies such as ponds and beaches. However, in view of the pandemic, the government had denied permission for any processions and allowed individuals to take the deities from their homes and dissolve them in nearby water bodies. The people were also advised to place them in nearby temples, after which the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HRCE) department in the state would arrange for dissolving them methodically.In the state capital Chennai, the shore has been completely locked down for immersing the idols, especially in the stretch between Santhome and Napier Bridge.With reference to the spread of Covid-19 and the recent Nipah virus outbreak in Kerala, the TN government said that surveillance has been bolstered in bordering districts and buses to Kerala have also been suspended.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-extends-ban-on-festivals-till-oct-31-says-events-could-be-covid-super-spreaders-101631219335880.html
10-09-2021||India||Kerala HC reserves order on anticipatory bail plea of woman who pretended to be lawyer||KochiThe Kerala high court on Thursday reserved its decision on the anticipatory bail plea moved by a woman accused of misrepresenting herself as a qualified lawyer and practising in a district court here without a licence for nearly two years.Justice Shircy V heard arguments on behalf of the woman and the state, which has opposed grant of any relief to her, before reserving her verdict.Advocate Roy Chacko, appearing for the petitioner, contended that her custodial interrogation was no longer required as all the documents and records related to her alleged misrepresentation were available with the bar association concerned.A member of the Alappuzha Bar Association, where the woman was a member and was also elected as its librarian, was recently allowed by the court to intervene in the matter.The intervener, during the hearing, contended that the woman’s custodial interrogation was necessary to find out who provided her with the forged documents and certificates which enabled her to misrepresent herself as a qualified lawyer.The intervener said that this aspect requires investigation for which the petitioner’s arrest and interrogation was necessary.The state also opposed the anticipatory bail plea on the ground that the woman appeared as a lawyer in various criminal cases, contested in bar elections and was elected as the association’s librarian and also accepted a few briefs of the state government, all on the basis of her fake and forged documents which portrayed her as a qualified lawyer.The state also told the court that the woman has been booked for offences which are non-bailable and therefore, no interim protection from arrest be granted to her.Chacko, during his arguments, urged the court to take a sympathetic view in the case on the ground that the accused woman and her family have already suffered immense humiliation and if she is arrested or subjected to custodial interrogation, her life would be spoiled.The accused woman had earlier attempted to surrender before a magisterial court in Alappuzha under the belief that she would be released on bail, but when the likelihood of getting any relief appeared bleak, she fled from the courtroom.According to the Alappuzha Bar Association, which revoked her membership and also passed a resolution that none of their members would represent her, she had not even completed her Bachelor of Law course and was impersonating as a lawyer for around two years.The association also lodged a complaint with the police which registered a case of cheating against her.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-hc-reserves-order-on-anticipatory-bail-plea-of-woman-who-pretended-to-be-lawyer-101631219095895.html
10-09-2021||India||Don’t allow immersion of Ganesh idols made of plaster of paris in lakes: HC to T’gana govt||HyderabadThe Telangana high court directed the state government on Thursday not to allow immersion of Ganesha idols made of plaster of Paris (PoP) in Hussain Sagar Lake and other lakes here.A bench of Acting Chief Justice M S Ramachandra Rao and Justice T Vinod Kumar, after hearing a contempt petition, directed the government to permit immersion of PoP Ganesh idols in baby ponds already built by the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) or in separate ponds, which does not result in water pollution in the main water body.The government can explore the use of inflatable rubber dam wall used while carrying out dredging operations in the Hussain Sagar lake earlier by encircling the area for immersion of idols as an alternative, the high court said while issuing a slew of directions and closed the contempt case. “Immersion can be permitted of non-PoP idols which do not have synthetic paint only through the other side of the Hussain Sagar lake for example, PV Ghat, Secretariat road, Sanjeevaiah Park road etc,” the bench said. The court further said use of small and eco-friendly idols should be encouraged to avoid impact on the environment and also to carry out rituals in simple and easy manner without gathering of large crowds.It said licence/permits may be limited to fixed number of pandals in their respective areas by the local/urban bodies.”Simple and quiet celebrations should be encouraged instead of cultural or entertainment programmes with large congregations during festival period,” it said.The Hyderabad civic body shall make available masks free of cost in adequate number on the last day of immersion of Ganesh idols in the Hussain Sagar lake, the court said.The commissioner of police, Hyderabad shall also instruct all station house officers and divisional police officers to ensure large congregations do not take place at places where festivities are being celebrated and should fix the maximum number of people who can congregate at a particular time within a pandal.Use of loudspeakers should not be permitted after 10 pm at the Ganesh pandals, the court said, adding the pandals should not be set up on the roads obstructing smooth flow of traffic. The contempt petition had alleged that earlier directions were violated and officials of the state government, who have a statutory duty to maintain the standard and purity of the Hussain Sagar lake, had failed or neglected to perform their duty, and that the bund of the lake is weakening on account of the immersion of idols and other materials such as PoP and sought protection of the lake from water pollution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-allow-immersion-of-ganesh-idols-made-of-plaster-of-paris-in-lakes-hc-to-t-gana-govt-101631218855845.html
10-09-2021||India||Actor Ravi Teja appears before ED in drugs case||HyderabadTelugu actor Ravi Teja on Thursday appeared before the Enforcement Directorate (ED) here as part of the ongoing money laundering probe in connection with a high-end drugs racket busted in the city in 2017.Ravi Teja is among the over 10 Tollywood (Telugu film industry) personalities, including actors and directors, to be summoned by the ED.So far noted filmmaker Puri Jagannadh, actresses Charmee Kaur and Rakul Preet Singh, and actors Nandu and Rana Daggubatihave appeared before the central agency.Calvin Mascrenhas, a musician, who was among the three-member gang arrested by Telangana’s prohibition and excise department on July 2, 2017 for allegedly peddling narcotic as part of the racket, was also questioned by the ED.The racket involved supplying high-end drugs such as lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD) and methylenedioxy- methamphetamine (MDMA).Several cases related to the drug trafficking were registered and over 20 people were arrested including a US citizen, who was a former aerospace engineer and had worked with the NASA, a Dutch national, a South African national besides seven B.Tech degree holders employed with multi-national companies here.The names of some Tollywood personalities came out during the interrogation of persons arrested in connection with the racket.A Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the prohibition and excise department, as part of its investigation, had also probed the alleged drug-links with Tollywood, and had then questioned 11 people connected to the Telugu film industry including actors and directors besides the driver of one of the actors.The investigators suspected that film personalities, employees of MNCs, school and college students were among the gang’s clients.The racketeers placed orders through ‘Darknet’ (a restricted online network frequently used in illegal activities) and the drugs were delivered by couriers, including from overseas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/actor-ravi-teja-appears-before-ed-in-drugs-case-101631218497039.html
10-09-2021||India||CBI summons Bengal industry minister for questioning in I-Core ponzi scam||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has summoned West Bengal industry minister Partha Chatterjee on September 13 for questioning in the I-Core ponzi scam the agency is probing since 2014. The senior Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader is the party’s observer for the September 30 by-election in Kolkata’s Bhawanipore assembly constituency where Mamata Banerjee is contesting to continue as chief minister since she took oath after the losing from Nandigram in East Midnapore district. The summons were sent on Wednesday, 48 hours after TMC national general secretary and chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee was questioned for almost nine hours by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in Delhi in connection with the coal smuggling case that the CBI is also probing. The CBI and ED had summoned Chatterjee in March and April respectively but he did not appear before the agencies saying he was campaigning for the polls. He won the Behala West assembly seat in south-west Kolkata for the fifth time. The agencies have in their custody some video clips showing Chatterjee at a public event with Anukul Maity, the managing director of I-Core, said a CBI officer who did not want to be named. The I-Core sponsored event was held in 2011, the year TMC came to power. Maity died in judicial custody in November last year. His company allegedly raised around ₹7000 crore from the market by promising high returns. In 2014, the Supreme Court asked the CBI to investigate all the Ponzi operations in Bengal, including Saradha, Rose Valley and I-Core, and the role of influential people in money laundering. The ED is running a parallel probe. Chatterjee was not available for comments but the chief minister targeted the Centre and accused it of activating the probe agencies before the Bhawanipore by-poll and polls in two seats to be held in Murshidabad district where two candidates died of Covid-19 before the March-April contest. “They summoned Abhishek and Partha. Why? The agencies have become proactive because of the elections. They are summoning those who did nothing and not touching the one who took money,” the chief minister said at a TMC workers’ meeting in Bhawanipore on Wednesday evening, indirectly referring to her protégé-turned-adversary Suvendu Adhikari who was purportedly seen in the Narada sting videos and is also an accused in the Saradha case. He defeated Banerjee in Nandigram. On September 1, a special CBI court in Kolkata permitted the ED to send summons to ministers Firhad Hakim and Subrata Mukherjee, TMC legislator Madan Mitra, former Kolkata mayor Sovan Chatterjee and suspended Indian Police Service (IPS) officer S M H Meerza in the Narada case. The ED charged all five were under Sections 44 and 45 of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. Hakim, Mukherjee, Mitra and Chatterjee were arrested by the CBI on May 17 in the Narada case and released on bail after days of judicial custody during which they were hospitalised. Sovan Chatterjee joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in 2019 but left after the assembly polls. Meerza was arrested by the CBI in September 2019 and released on bail. The ED is conducting a parallel investigation in the case which pertains to a controversy that erupted ahead of the 2016 assembly elections after Narada News portal uploaded a series of videos purportedly showing several high-profile TMC leaders receiving money in exchange for favours to a fictitious company. Since the ED has also filed charges against TMC state general secretary Kunal Ghosh in the Saradha case he appeared before a special CBI court in Kolkata on Thursday and was granted bail. Ghosh, a former Rajya Sabha member, did not contest the recent polls. “The chief minister’s allegations are baseless. The probe agencies work independently. BJP has nothing to do with them,” said Bengal BJP’s chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-summons-bengal-industry-minister-for-questioning-in-i-core-ponzi-scam-101631218435759.html
10-09-2021||India||Police need to respond fast to prevent attacks on doctors: Kerala High Court||KochiA quick response from the police is necessary to ensure safety of health professionals from assaults and prevent people from taking law into their hands, the Kerala high court said on Thursday while directing the state police to “react swiftly” whenever it receives complaints from hospitals regarding attacks on its doctors or staff.The direction was issued by a bench of Justices Devan Ramachandran and Kauser Edappagath during hearing of a review petition filed by the Kerala Private Hospitals Association in relation to the Covid treatment charges fixed by the state in private hospitals.On the last date of hearing, the private hospitals’ association and the Indian Medical Association had raised the issue of attack on doctors, nurses and other staff by patients or bystanders and the court, while strongly disapproving of such incidents, had directed the state to ensure protection of the healthcare workers, including doctors.On Thursday, the bench impleaded the state police chief in the matter, saying his assistance would also be required to address the issue.The bench said that it was unfortunate that people show up to hospitals in inebriated states seeking medical aid and then assault the doctors who are treating them.The court directed the Kerala DGP to instruct all district police chiefs, who in turn have to instruct the respective SHOs, to “react swiftly and quickly” to complaints by hospitals of assaults on or altercations with their doctors and nurses by patients, their helpers or bystanders.The court said speedy investigation should be ensured in such matters and “stringent action” should be taken against the culprits.“There is a necessity to react quickly to such complaints,” the bench said.On the last date of hearing, the court had remarked that such incidents of assaults undermine the morale and courage of the healthcare workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-need-to-respond-fast-to-prevent-attacks-on-doctors-kerala-high-court-101631218315744.html
10-09-2021||India||Kerala logs 26,200 fresh Covid cases, 125 deaths||ThiruvananthapuramKerala on Thursday reported 26,200 fresh Covid-19 cases and 125 deaths which pushed the total infections in the state to 4,309,694 and the fatalities till now to 22,126, the state government said.The test positivity rate (TPR) was recorded at 16.69% after testing 156,957 samples in the last 24 hours and with this, 30.29 million samples have been tested till now, a health department bulletin said.Since Wednesday, 29,209 people recovered from the infection taking the total number to 4,050,665 and the number of active cases to 236,345, the bulletin said.Among the 14 districts, Thrissur recorded the highest number of cases with 3,279 followed by Ernakulam 3,175, Thiruvananthapuram 2,598, Malappuram 2,452, Kozhikode 2,332, Kollam 2,124, Palakkad 1,996, Alappuzha 1,604, Kottayam 1,580, Kannur 1,532, Pathanamthitta 1,244 and Wayanad 981, the bulletin said.Of the new cases, 114 were health workers, 81 from outside the state and 24,999 infected through contact, with the source of the contact not being clear in 1,006 cases.Currently 608,450 people are under surveillance in various districts, of whom 575,731 are in home quarantine and 32,719 in hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-logs-26-200-fresh-covid-cases-125-deaths-101631218075683.html
10-09-2021||India||Will act after getting report on Nipah impact in Karnataka: Bommai||Bengaluru Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Thursday said he will be getting a report on the possible impact of Nipah virus infections in the state, and necessary action will be taken to control it.“Regarding Nipah virus, I have given directions to the Health Secretary and experts. I will get a report on its behaviour in Kerala and its impact on us by this evening, following which necessary action will be taken,” Bommai said.With confirmed cases of the Nipah virus (NiV) infection reported recently in neighboring Kerala, the Karnataka government on Tuesday had directed district administrations, especially those bordering that state, to strengthen surveillance and preparedness.It said that all those coming from Kerala should be monitored for symptoms like fever, altered mental status, severe weakness, headache, respiratory distress, cough, vomiting, muscle pain, convulsion and diarrhea.In response to a question, Bommai said during his recent visit to Delhi, he discussed with BJP national president J P Nadda on organising the party to win the upcoming elections (for zilla and taluk panchayats, local bodies) and there was no discussion regarding cabinet expansion this time.He termed his Delhi tour on September 7 and 8, during which he held meetings with several Union Ministers on issues concerning the state, as “successful”.On his meetings with Union Ministers, the Chief Minister said the Satellite Town Ring Road (STRR) project from Dabaspet to Mysuru Road that was pending for over two years has now has been cleared and the work will start in four to five months. The Centre has also agreed for extending the Vijayapura-Sankeshwar highway and DPR will be prepared soon, and four national highways will be developed under the Bharatmala project.On his meeting with the Minister of State in the Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology(MeitY), Rajeev Chandrasekhar, Bommai said “we discussed a special programme for rural connectivity, to develop a hardware park between Bengaluru and Kolar, and to set up a skill university.” Pointing out that Union Minister of Housing and Urban Affairs Hardeep Singh Puri has released ₹400 crore under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana – Urban, the CM said ₹1,500 crore has still to be released. Discussions have been held with the Railway Minister regarding suburban railway and development of Byappanahalli station, besides works on some major railway lines in the state, he further said, adding that during his meeting with Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman he sought extending the GST compensation period to states beyond||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-act-after-getting-report-on-nipah-impact-in-karnataka-bommai-101631218017008.html
10-09-2021||India||Karnataka reports its lowest number of Covid deaths in second wave||Bengaluru Karnataka on Thursday reported the lowest number of deaths due to COVID-19, since the beginning of the second wave, with 4 fatalities, taking the toll so far due to the pandemic to 37,462, the health department said.The state logged 1,074 new cases of corona infections taking the total number of cases so far to 29,59,164.The day also saw 1,136 discharges, taking the total recoveries in the state to 29,04,683.“Karnataka records the lowest death tally in the 2nd wave today,” Karnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar said in a tweet sharing the details of today’s COVID bulletin.COVID second wave had begun in Karnataka, during the mid of March.Out of 4 deaths reported on Thursday, 3 are from Bengaluru Urban, and one in Hassan.Out of 1,074 new cases reported on Thursday, 343 were from Bengaluru Urban, and the city saw 251 discharges.Total number of active cases in the state is at 16,992.While the positivity rate for the day stood at 0.63 per cent, case fatality rate (CFR) was at 0.37 per cent.Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 343, Dakshina Kannada 176, Udupi 126, Hassan 81, Chikkamagaluru 68, followed by others.Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 12,40,653, followed by Mysuru 1,76,735 and Tumakuru 1,19,567.Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban tops the list with 12,17,401, followed by Mysuru 1,73,542 and Tumakuru 1,17,813.Cumulatively a total of 4,49,07,570 samples have been tested in the state so far, out of which 1,69,448 were tested on Thursday alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-reports-its-lowest-number-of-covid-deaths-in-second-wave-101631217957225.html
10-09-2021||India||Clear arrears of 94-year-old freedom fighter, HC tells Karnataka govt||Bengaluru Granting relief to a 94-year-old freedom fighter, who was denied Freedom Fighters Pension by the state government, the Karnataka high court directed that all arrears of the nonagenarian be cleared and settled within six weeks.Justice Krishna S Dixit who delivered the verdict, in the order, stated that all arrears of the nonagenarian be cleared and settled within six weeks or those responsible for the delay shall “personally & collectively” pay him ₹1,000 for the delay each day and that this amount be recovered from erring officials.Gundurao Desai from Kamalapura in Ballari district, about 320 kms from Bengaluru, is the petitioner in the case and the respondents included the department of home, deputy commissioner, assistant commissioner of Ballari district and the Tahsildar of Hosapete taluk.The petitioner’s claim for Freedom Fighters Pension was rejected on the grounds that he had not produced the affidavit of two persons who were detained with him because of their participation in the struggle for Independence of the country, the court said in its order on September 7.The HC stated that the petitioner made the claim for pension in March 1998 “except that the file moved from this office table to that” and nothing had happened for more than two decades. The court reprimanded the state government for not at least giving some concession to the “shortness of human life” and that the process moved at “snail speed”.The HC added that the state government has to be gentle and humane when considering the claims of such persons and their just claims cannot be rejected on “flimsy grounds”.The court also stated that the petitioner had specifically stated in January 2021 that only one of the two co-detenues is alive and others are dead and the insistence of asking Rao to produce the affidavits of two co-detenues “virtually amounts to compelling him to retrieve the dead from their grave, infuse soul into their body and ask them to swear to the affidavit” which was an impossibility with all the progress medical science has till now achieved.“The approach of the statutory authorities to the compassionate policies of the State such as Freedom Fighters Pension Schemes should not hijack justice in the ritualistic adherence to the black letter of law and in a gross disregard to its spirit,” the HC said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/clear-arrears-of-94-year-old-freedom-fighter-hc-tells-karnataka-govt-101631217595630.html
10-09-2021||India||Karnataka: Case against district officials after 100 dog carcasses found||Bengaluru:A day after Shivamogga district police filed a case against officials of a gram panchayat in the district after several street dogs were found buried in a village, the police on Thursday said that the cause of the death could be identified only after the experts’ report, however, preliminary police investigation suggests that the dogs were poisoned. The carcasses were found on Tuesday by people involved in animal rescue in Hunasekatte village in Bhadravati taluk in Shivamogga located around 300km from Bengaluru. Though the police didn’t provide an exact number; but said a preliminary inspection suggested there could be over 100 carcasses. Superintendent of police Shivamogga Laxmi Prasad said that a case has been registered against Kambadal Hosur gram panchayat officials based on a complaint by local animal rights activists on Tuesday. “The complaint says that the killing of the dogs was ordered by the gram panchayat. We have sought a report on the matter from a team of veterinarians on the cause of the deaths and other details. Further action will be taken based on the report,” said Prasad. Officials of Bhadravati Rural police station, where the complaint has been registered, said that local residents who observed some suspicious activity in the area informed a group involved in animal rescue who found the carcasses of dogs. The activists alleged that the gram panchayat officials contracted a private firm to kill dogs and that some dogs were buried alive as well. Police said the allegations are being investigated. The case has been registered under Section 428 of the Indian Penal Code (killing, poisoning, maiming or rendering useless any animal). Police on Thursday morning said that the cause of the death could be identified only after the experts’ report, however, preliminary police investigation suggests that the dogs were poisoned. The SP added that the expert team has been able to recover around 15 carcasses so far. “They haven’t been able to identify the cause of the death because there the carcasses are more than 5 days old. We hope they will be able to give a report soon,” he said. The officer added that police are probing the allegation that the killing was ordered by the gram panchayat and are yet to make any breakthrough. “We have found a vehicle number, which was used for allegedly burying the dogs. We have traced the number to Mysuru and our teams are tracking the lead,” he added. The gram panchayat officials, however maintained that they had not ordered the killing of dogs. Talking to the media, the secretary of Kambadal Hosur gram panchayat B Manjunath said that panchayat had not ordered the capture or culling of dogs and claimed the panchayat would support the police in its investigation. The incident comes just a month after police in Hassan district arrested seven people, including a woman, for killing 38 macaque monkeys in Chowdenahalli on July 29. 38 bonnet macaques monkeys were poisoned to death and found stuffed in a gunny bag at a road junction at Belur taluk in Hassan district. One monkey managed to escape and was spotted sitting near the gunny bag. The Karnataka high court on July 30 initiated Public Interest Litigation (PIL) proceedings, after taking suo moto cognizance of media reports on the deaths. Describing the incident as ‘disturbing’ the Bench of Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka, and Justice NS Sanjay Gowda gave orders for the Registrar General to register a suo motu PIL in the matter. The investigation also found that the accused had not planned to kill the monkeys but had hired a couple, known to be experts in monkey-catching, after causing damage to areca nut and coffee plantations in Ugane village in Sakaleshpur taluk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-case-against-district-officials-after-100-dog-carcasses-found-101631216695543.html
10-09-2021||India||Karnal incident probe to also look into farmers’ role, says Anil Vij||Haryana home minister Anil Vij on Thursday said the state government is ready to inquire the entire August 28 Karnal episode when farmers staged a protest against a BJP meeting that led to police lathi-charge and injuries to many.“The inquiry will not only be limited to the actions of sub-divisional magistrate Ayush Sinha but the entire sequence of events will be looked into. Whoever is found guilty, be it the farmers or their leaders, action will be taken accordingly,” Vij said.The minister said the farmers have the right to protest. “However, only legitimate demands can be accepted. We cannot hang anyone just because someone else is demanding that. There cannot be a different set of Indian Penal Code (IPC) for farmers,” Vij said.He said punishment can only be handed out according to the guilt and for that, an inquiry is essential.Farmers firm on their demandsThe Karnal administration did not have any discussion with the Samyukt Kisan Morcha leaders on Thursday as their indefinite protest outside the mini-secretariat entered Day 3.Some senior leaders of the SKM, including Rakesh Tikait, Yogendra Yadav and Balbir Singh Rajewal, have left but scores of farmers continue to stay firm on their stand until the demands are met.Farm leaders from Haryana and Punjab including Gurnam Singh Charuni, Joginder Singh Ugrahan, Ratan Mann, Suresh Kauth, Rampal Chahal and many others will jointly lead the protest for the next two days and the SKM leaders have called a meeting on September 11 to decide future course of action.“This is just the beginning of the Morcha at Karnal. This huge gathering of farmers in Karnal is enough to answer the CM, who said that farmers of Haryana are not protesting at Delhi borders,” said Ugrahan, adding that now farmers of Haryana and Punjab are standing with each other in this fight.In a statement, Karnal DC Nishant Kumar Yadav said the administration is ready for talks but the intentions of farm leaders are not clear.On farmers demanding suspension of SDM Sinha, the DC said an inquiry on directions of the chief secretary is already on and an officer cannot be suspended until the inquiry is completed.He said farmers can also join the investigation and the administration is also ready for any inquiry in the allegations related to the SDM, who was caught on video directing cops to crack heads of farmers.He said people have to come to the mini-secretariat for their work and the protest is causing inconvenience to them.Sweets, pakoras to boost farmers’ moraleWith farmers having made all basic arrangements for a long haul, now the locals are serving jalebis, laddoos, kheer and dry fruits to boost the morale of the protesters.Local gurdwaras have made arrangements for farmers and erected stalls of different sweets for farmers. “Yesterday, we served bread pakoras and today we are serving hot jalebis to the farmers. Tomorrow, we will come with another item,” said a sewadar associated with Baba Jagtar Singh Karsewa, Tarn Taran.Farmers have already pitched tents and made arrangements of mattresses and fans.Farmers and social activist farmers are also getting support from Nirmal Kutia Gurdwara, Jat Dharamshala, SGPC Amritsar and local NGOs.Smart city without internetMobile internet and SMS services remained suspended in Karnal for the third consecutive day on Thursday, causing inconvenience to residents of Karnal.“Karnal is among two smart cities in state but we are not getting internet facility due to the agitation. It is like the government punishing all residents for the protest,” said Akshay Kumar, a city-based travel agent.Services of online outlets are affected badly and employees of online food ordering and delivery platforms are requesting government for restoration of internet services without further delay.Security personnel deployment continuesWhile paramilitary forces and police personnel continue to be deployed around the mini-secretariat, farm leaders have appealed to the farmers of Haryana, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh reach Karnal in good numbers to ensure huge gatherings over the next two days.“There is need to increase strength at the protest site for the next two days until the next decision is taken on September 11 meeting of leaders of Haryana farm unions and SKM,” says Suresh Kauth, a farm leader from Hisar.Farmers have also opened one side of the road leading to the mini-secretariat and vacated the parking area of private business establishments located opposite the mini-secretariat.“We do not want to cause inconvenience to anybody. Our protest is for justice to victims of lathi-charge,” said Yogendra Yadav.In the evening, the Karnal administration has urged farmers to end their protest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/karnal-incident-probe-to-also-look-into-farmers-role-says-vij-101631215256699.html
10-09-2021||India||Kerala Bishop’s comments on ‘narcotics jihad’ fan controversy||A Catholic bishop in Kerala on Thursday stoked controversy with his remarks that after “love jihad”, Catholic girls and youth were reportedly becoming victims of a “well-orchestrated narcotic jihad”. “Love jihad” is a term often used by right-wing groups to describe unions between Muslim men and women belonging to other religion.Muslim outfits protested the priest’s statement, alleging that it was meant to create a communal divide in the state.Addressing a church ceremony in Kuravilangad (Kottayam), Mar Joseph Kallaranghatt, Bishop of Pala Diocese of the Syro-Malabar church, said wherever arms cannot be used, drugs were being used to lure women belonging to the community for extremist activities. “Wherever arms are not used, narcotic drugs are being used and Catholic girls turn victims. Some groups are functioning in the state to help them. To understand this, one needs to analyse how women from other religions landed in the Islamic State camps,” he said. The Bishop was referring to the visit of 21 people, including five converts to Islam, from north Kerala to Afghanistan in 2016 to reportedly join the Islamic State. Of the 21, six are believed to have been killed in Afghanistan. “There is an increased use of drugs among the youth. People from other religions are being targeted deliberately by a particular group. There are people who are helping them also. Parents and others should be careful about this,” he said, decrying authorities for ignoring such activities. The Catholic priest even said that those who try to establish that ‘love and narcotic jihad’ does not exist in the state, were just shutting their eyes to reality.“Senior police officers and others admit ‘love Jihad” does exist. But political leadership and authorities are in hurry to dismiss them,” he said, exhorting believers to keep a strict vigil. Cautioning Catholics against the presence of “jihadi elements”, who try to cultivate communalism, religious disharmony, intolerance and contempt across the world, the Bishop said they were using different means to destroy other religions.Muslim organisations such as the Samasta Kerala Sunni Students Federation (SKSSF) and Kerala Naduvathul Mujahideen demanded the Bishop present evidence to substantiate his claims.“He has to produce evidence to prove such serious allegations. This is a move intended to isolate Muslims and create a phobia against them. We hope he will withdraw his comment,” SKSSF secretary P Sathar said in a statement. Sathar said they will ask the government to book the Bishop for creating a rift between different communities if the latter did not withdraw his remarks. The CPI(M) is yet to react to the priest’s remarks. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), however, claimed the Left Democratic Front was turning a blind eye to such incidents (of “love jihad”) to indulge in vote bank politics. “It (the government) is always in denial mode. When outgoing police chief Loknath Behra had said a few months back that some sleeper cells of the Islamic State were active in the state, the chief minister immediately denied it. It is part of appeasement politics,” BJP leader S Suresh said. Several church outfits have in the past agreed to claims by right-wing groups that “love jihad” was prevalent in the state and that girls from the Christian community were being targeted. The issue got fillip after the Hadiya case surfaced in 2017, wherein a Hindu dentist named Akhila Ashokan converted and married a Muslim man. She subsequently changed her name to Hadiya. While the Kerala high court annulled the union in the same year, the Supreme Court turned down the order in 2018 and allowed the couple to live together.The incident had triggered a political and legal storm. Church bodies have also written to Union home minister Amit Shah in the past, seeking an inquiry into “planned and well-executed conversion activities after trapping girls from other communities”. Last year, pastoral letters on the alleged prevalence of “love jihad” in the state were read in several shrines of the Syro-Malabar church, prompting the National Minorities Commission to seek a report from then Kerala director general of police Loknath Behra into the matter. The Left Front government, however, denied the charges, saying “sangh parivar outfits were behind this propaganda”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-bishop-s-comments-on-narcotics-jihad-fan-controversy-101631215014927.html
10-09-2021||India||50 new routes, 5 new airports in Scindia’s 100-day plan for reforms in aviation sector||New Delhi: Union civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia unveiled on Thursday a 100-day ambitious plan to bring major reforms in the aviation sector, including operationalising five airports, six heliports and 50 new routes under the regional connectivity UDAN scheme. Out of the 50 new routes, at least 30 will be operationalised by October 2021, he added.“We have a 100-day plan for the ministry on the basis of which we’ll be answerable to the stakeholders transparently. Under this 100-day target, we have three main foundations: infrastructure, policy targets and reforms initiative,” Scindia said at a press conference, adding that the scheme will continue till November 30.Under the 100-day scheme, the airports are set to come up in Keshod (Gujarat), Deogarh (Jharkhand), Gondia(Maharashtra), Sindhudurg(Maharashtra), and Kushinagar(Uttar Pradesh), while heliports will be made operational in Sanjoli(Shimla), Sase (Manali), Mandi, Baddi (Himachal Pradesh), Haldwani, Almora (Uttarakhand), he added.A grievance portal, AirSewa 3.0, will also be set up as part of the plan. Scindia said airlines will now be responsible for ensuring that passengers get refunds within the promised timeframe, even if tickets are bought through travel agents or online portals.At least four new airports will also be made operational over the next 100 days, he said. This includes the foundation stone laying of the Jewar Airport at Greater Noida; the inauguration of the ₹255-crore Kushinagar Airport, work will also begin on building another terminal building at Dehradun at a cost of ₹325 crore and work will also start on a new terminal building at Agartala Airport at a cost ₹490 crore.The ministry also unveiled a new policy for Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul (MRO) activities. “There’s a complete ecosystem in civil aviation sector - with airlines, airport operators, we have MROs where maintenance, repair & overall is done, there are flying-training orgs, cargo sector, ground handling sector, aircraft manufacturing sector,” he said.According to the proposed policy, upon the expiry of the existing contracts, the land which was given to these MROS shall be allotted, based on a bidding process. “The existing MRO would be eligible to participate in the bid. The existing MRO I would have the right of first refusal if his bid is within 15% of the bid given by the highest bidder, and he agrees to match the rates quoted by the highest bidder. Also the existing MRO shall settle all disputes and clear all the outstanding dues,” the policy stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/50-new-routes-5-new-airports-in-scindia-s-100-day-plan-for-reforms-in-aviation-sector-101631214596156.html
10-09-2021||India||Rework the pension for five women officers: SC to Navy||New Delhi: The Supreme Court on Thursday directed the Indian Navy to rework the pension benefits of five women short service commission officers (WSSCO) and waive interest on gratuity refund, while reminding that these women officers had served the country for a substantial period of their life.The five officers were among the first inductee batches of WSSCO in the Navy and had missed out on grant of permanent commission as they had been released prior to September 26, 2008. The date formed the cutoff date followed by the Supreme Court in its March 17, 2020 judgment by which those WSSCO in Navy who continued beyond this date became eligible for grant of permanent commission while the five officers, the present petitioners, were entitled to only pension benefits and a one-time compensation of ₹25 lakh and not reinstatement.The women officers, represented by advocates Haripriya Padmanabhan and Pooja Dhar, informed the court that the pension pay order issued to them by the Navy was calculated against 14 years of service when the judgment had clearly held them to be deemed to have fulfilled the minimum qualifying pensionable service of 20 years. Further, the counsels pointed out that the Navy demanded a refund of the terminal gratuity payable to WSSCO along with interest, which doubled the liability.In the case of one of the petitioners, it was shown that the gratuity to be refunded was over ₹6.84 lakh that jumped to over ₹13.95 lakh with interest, thus putting a huge burden on these officers. The petition said, “Calculating pension on the basis of 14 years’ service reduces the quantum of pension the applicants are entitled to and runs contrary to the directions of this Court…demand for return of gratuity with interest is completely unjustified and untenable.”Senior advocate R Balasubramanian, appearing for the Navy, said the rules prescribed by the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) were followed. With regard to payment of one-time compensation of ₹25 lakh, he said the same was paid to the five officers in December 2020.The bench of Justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, Vikram Nath and Hima Kohli appreciated the Navy for redressing the grievance of the petitioners to some measure but found that the officers were entitled to pension against 20 years’ service and even arrears of pension. “We need to clarify that the pension payment be reworked on the basis that the officers were deemed to have completed 20 years minimum qualifying service for pension. The pension payment be calculated on basis of last drawn salary had they continued till 20 years in service,” the bench said.On the aspect of refund, the bench asked Balasubramanian, “Why are you seeking refund of gratuity with interest? After all, they are women officers who have served the country.” The bench further said, “Having regard to the facts and circumstances of this case, we direct that no interest shall be payable by officers on component liable to be refunded from the excess terminal gratuity.”Further, the bench held that the officers will be entitled to arrears of pension from the date they completed minimum pensionable service and notional increments for the period between the date of release and the date of completion of 20 years of service.Although terminal gratuity was refunded, the Navy offered death-cum-retirement gratuity (DCRG) to the five officers as payable to permanent commission officers. This was calculated at the rate of one-fourth of each month’s emoluments for each six months of completed service. The court directed that this benefit should also be worked against the total period of 20 years’ service.The petitioners also urged the court to consider them for commutation of pension which is a basic benefit given to all employees entitled to pension. However, this was denied in their case. As a rule, the Navy informed the court that commutation of pension has to be sought within a month of release from service. Balasubramanian told the court that any concession for these five officers will open a floodgate.The Navy told the bench that medical documents for availing commutation of pension submitted by the five officers were pending with the authorities. Exercising its extraordinary powers under Article 142, the bench said, “Under Article 142, we direct that the case of the five officers be favourably considered for commutation of pension.” The court clarified that this order was passed in the specific facts of the five officers in question.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/remove-the-pension-for-five-women-officers-sc-to-navy-101631214236736.html
10-09-2021||India||Weak La Nina to disrupt weather pattern again||A weak La Nina is likely to emerge between September and November for the second consecutive year, and exacerbate drought in some parts of the world, and heavy rainfall and flooding in others, the World Meteorological Organisation said on Thursday.Despite the cooling influence of La Nina, temperature over land particularly the northern hemisphere except India is likely to be above average during the next three months, WMO added. South Peninsular India is likely to record below normal temperatures while northwest and central India are likely to record normal temperatures according to WMO’s projections.La Niña refers to the large-scale cooling of the ocean surface temperatures in the central and eastern equatorial Pacific Ocean, coupled with changes in the tropical atmospheric circulation, namely winds, pressure and rainfall. It usually has the opposite impacts on weather and climate as El Niño, which is the warm phase of the so-called El Niño Southern Oscillation (ENSO).ENSO has a major influence on weather and climate patterns such as heavy rains, floods and drought. In India for example, El Nino is associated with drought or weak monsoon while La Nina is associated with strong monsoon and above average rains and colder winters. There is a 60% chance of ENSO-neutral and 40% chance for La Niña conditions in September-November, and equal chances of ENSO-neutral and La-Nina re-emergence in October-December and November-January, according to WMO. The El Niño/La Niña outlook of WMO projects an ENSO-neutral condition again in 2022.There is a slightly increased probability of above-normal rainfall over India, Australia, eastern and southeast Asia, according to WMO. There is also high probability of above-normal rain over extreme northern parts of Asia, South America, equatorial parts of the Indonesian Archipelago into the Southwest Pacific and up to an area northeast of New Zealand, WMO said in its statement on Thursday.There is likely to be above normal rainfall activity at over 110% of the so-called long period average or LPA in September, and while this will reduce the current monsoon rain deficiency of 7% over the country, overall monsoon rain (June 1 to September 30) will still be in the “lower end of normal category,” the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said in its monsoon monthly forecast earlier this month. There is currently a 7% deficiency in rainfall with 10% deficiency over central India; 14% deficiency over northwest India; 10% deficiency over east and northeast India and 13% excess over south peninsula. “All naturally occurring climate events now take place in the context of human-induced climate change, which is increasing global temperatures, exacerbating extreme weather and impacting seasonal rainfall patterns,” WMO said adding that above average temperatures over land areas are expected to be strongest in the northern hemisphere, except for the Indian subcontinent. Normal temperatures are likely over northwest and central India while slightly below normal temperatures are expected over the south peninsula compared to 1993 to 2009 baseline period.Temperatures are expected to be most above average over the central eastern part of North America, the far northern part of Asia and the Arctic as well as over central and eastern parts of Africa and southern South America.“Human induced climate change amplifies the impacts of naturally occurring events like La Niña and is increasingly influencing our weather patterns, in particular through more intense heat and drought – and the associated risk of wildfires – as well as record-breaking deluges of rainfall and flooding. We have seen this with devastating and tragic effect in the past few months in nearly all regions of the world. Climate change is increasing the severity and frequency of disasters,” said WMO Secretary-General Petteri Taalas.“During La Nina years, cold mid-latitude westerlies enter inland. But that is more likely in winter. During the September to November period below normal or normal temperatures are likely because of clouding associated with rainfall. There is global consensus that weak La Nina conditions are likely to remerge in the next couple of months. We have also forecast that above-normal rains are likely in September,” said DS Pai, head of climate and research services at IMD Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/weak-la-nina-to-disrupt-weather-pattern-again-101631214056654.html
10-09-2021||India||Don’t use derogatory words against public: HC pulls up Kerala Police||Thiruvananthapuram: The Kerala high court on Thursday took strong exception to derogatory words like “eda” and “edi”, often used by police to address the public and said that it is “contrary to the constitutional morality and conscience of our country”.A resident of Thrissur Anil J S, who filed a plea in this regard, said that during a routine traffic check to enforce Covid protocol, a sub-inspector of police verbally abused his daughter calling her “edi.” He said the behaviour of the police officer was uncivilised and improper. Justice Devan Ramachandran agreed to the contention of the petitioner and said the law-enforcement agencies can’t use such terms and directed police to file a report explaining steps taken in this regard in two weeks. The court said use of disrespectful words like “Eda”, “Edi” and “Nee” to address citizens is impermissible. “It is now imperative for this court to declare that such use by any member of the force is contrary to the constitutional morality and conscience of our country and is against the ethos of the democratic system,” stated the HC order by Justice Ramachandran. The court said when a similar petition came up before the court in November 2018 the then police chief issued a detailed order to all police stations to respect public and avoid such terms but still derogatory terms are in force. The court reminded the senior officers to enforce this to avert frequent complaints and said such cases will invite contempt provisions in the future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-use-derogatory-words-against-public-hc-pulls-up-kerala-police-101631213395740.html
10-09-2021||India||Air force inducts 70km range surface-to-air missile system||The Indian Air Force on Thursday inducted a medium range surface-to-air-missile (MRSAM) system capable of knocking out aerial threats such as enemy fighter jets, missiles, helicopters and unmanned aerial vehicles at a range of 70 km. Defence minister Rajnath Singh described the capability as a “game changer” in air defence.India and Israel have jointly developed MRSAM or the Barak 8 air defence system that includes advanced radar, command and control systems, and mobile launchers. The missile is powered by a locally-developed rocket motor and control system for high manoeuvrability in the terminal phase.“With the handing over of the MRSAM system to IAF, we have taken a giant leap towards achieving ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ (self-reliant India). The MRSAM will prove to be a game changer in air defence,” Singh said at the induction ceremony in Jaisalmer.The system has been developed jointly by the Israel Aerospace Industries and the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO). Other firms involved in the project include Israeli firm Rafael, Bharat Electronics Limited, Bharat Dynamics Limited and Larsen & Toubro.DRDO chief G Satheesh Reddy handed over the first firing unit of the system to IAF chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria in Singh’s presence.“The system is capable of hitting multiple targets simultaneously up to a range of 70 km, even in bad weather. Its success in a string of stringent tests is a proof of its reliability,” the defence minister said.A naval version of MRSAM is already deployed on a few Indian warships to boost their anti-air warfare capabilities. The army too has placed orders for the MRSAM but it has not yet inducted the system. India and Israel have inked separate deals worth around $3 billion over the last four years for advanced surface-to-air missile systems for the three services.“The MRSAM system was long awaited. Its induction now will boost the IAF’s air defence capability significantly. The impending arrival of the S-400 missile defence systems from Russia will make those capabilities even more formidable,” said Air Vice Marshal Manmohan Bahadur (retd), former additional director general, Centre for Air Power Studies.India is set to soon begin induction of the S-400 Triumf air defence missile systems ordered from Russia in October 2018. New Delhi has placed orders for five such missile systems capable of destroying a variety of aerial threats, including enemy fighter jets and missiles, at a range of 400 km, and expects the first deliveries by the year-end.Singh said MRSAM was one of the best missile systems available globally and the project highlighted the close partnership between Indian and Israel in the defence sector. The minister said the MRSAM project strengthened the defence industrial bases of both India and Israel, and was “a win-win situation” for both countries. It has also led to the creation of new test facilities and other infrastructure in the country, he said.Israel has been among India’s top three arms suppliers during the last five years, according to a report published by the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (Sipri) in March 2021. India’s top three arms suppliers during 2016-20 were Russia (accounting for 49% of India’s imports), France (18%) and Israel (13%).Singh said geo-political changes impacted trade, economy, power politics and the security scenario. “In such a situation, strengthening our security and self-reliance has become a necessity, not an achievement.”The minister said the global scenario was transforming very fast. “Equations between countries are also changing rapidly according to their interests. Whether it is the South China Sea, Indian Ocean Region, Indo-Pacific or Central Asia, uncertainty can be seen everywhere,” Singh said.The MRSAM induction ceremony took place after Singh and minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari jointly inaugurated an emergency landing facility for the IAF on the Satta-Gandhav stretch of NH-925A near Barmer. The two ministers also witnessed aircraft operations on the new landing facility, which supports landing of all aircraft in the air force’s fighter and transport fleets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-force-inducts-70km-range-surface-to-air-missile-system-101631213276388.html
10-09-2021||India||DRDO to develop early warning jets for IAF under ₹11k cr plan||The Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) on Wednesday cleared a Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) proposal to develop new airborne early warning and control (AEW&C) aircraft for the Indian Air Force (IAF) using Airbus jets bought from Air India, people familiar with the developments said on Thursday.The project is estimated to be worth around ₹11,000 crore, said one of the officials cited above. It was cleared by the top security panel at its meeting on Wednesday along with the much-delayed purchase of 56 C-295 medium transport aircraft to replace the IAF’s ageing fleet of Avro-748 planes. The C-295 project is estimated to be worth ₹22,000 crore.IAF inducted its first indigenously developed AEW&C system, mounted on a Brazilian Embraer-145 jet, in February 2017, beefing up its capability to detect enemy aircraft and missiles. The Netra AEW&C system was developed by DRDO and has a range of around 200 km.The new AEW&C system cleared by the cabinet committee on Wednesday, most likely to be mounted on the Airbus A321 aircraft, is expected to be more advanced than the Netra system, the official said.Currently, two Netra systems are in service.IAF also operates three Israeli Phalcon airborne warning and control system (AWACS) mounted on Russian IL-76 heavy-lift planes. The system has a range of 400 km. Experts have said IAF needs more such systems to cover the eastern and western sectors during offensive operations.The approval for the new AEW&C jets comes at a time when the government has sharpened its focus on promoting self-reliance in the defence manufacturing sector and positioning itself as an exporter of military hardware.Airbus Defence and Space and Tata Advanced Systems Limited (TASL) will jointly execute the C-295 project to equip the air force with the new transport aircraft under the Make-in-India initiative in the aerospace sector. Airbus will supply the first 16 aircraft in flyaway condition while the remaining 40 will be assembled in India by TASL.In the last one year, the government has imposed a ban on the import of 209 defence items that will be implemented progressively from 2021 to 2025. AEW&C systems are covered under that ban.From raising foreign direct investment (FDI) in defence manufacturing to creating a separate budget to buy locally-made military hardware, the government has taken a raft of measures to boost self-reliance in the defence sector over the last two years.It has also notified two lists of weapons and equipment that cannot be imported. Other than AEW&C systems, the 209 weapons and systems that cannot be imported include artillery guns, missile destroyers, ship-borne cruise missiles, light combat aircraft, long-range land attack cruise missiles, basic trainer aircraft, specified types of helicopters and next-generation corvettes.India has set aside ₹70,221 crore this year for domestic defence procurement, accounting for 63% of the military’s capital budget. Last year, the ministry spent over ₹51,000 crore, or 58% of the capital budget, on domestic purchases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drdo-to-develop-early-warning-jets-for-iaf-under-11k-cr-plan-101631213217803.html
10-09-2021||India||Proof of civilisation 3,200 years ago in Tamil Nadu: Stalin||There’s conclusive proof of a civilisation existing in Tamil Nadu around 3,200 years ago, state chief minister MK Stalin said on Thursday, citing scientific evidence for the same -- a finding that means a thriving city-based river valley civilisation existed in the state, coinciding with the latter half of the Indus Valley civilisation. Stalin said that a Tamil civilisation existed 3,200 years ago along the Tamiraparani river in present-day Thoothukudi and Tirunelveli districts -- a finding proved by carbon dating rice found in a burial urn in a US lab. He added that the state archaeological department would undertake excavations in neighbouring states and other countries, after taking due permission.The civilisation linkExperts said the finding revealed the relationship between Tamil and Indus Valley civilisations. It is also certain to foster more debate on a controversial issue -- the origins of the Indus Valley civilisation, especially in the context of new research released last month that claimed Dravidian languages were spoken by some in the Indus Valley. Speaking in the state assembly, Stalin said, “Recently, we have got the test results. I am extremely happy to announce that the rice samples have yielded the date of 1,155 BCE and hence, the Tamiraparani River Civilisation (Tirunelveli region in southern TN) is 3,200 years old and this is scientifically validated.”He added that his government’s mission was to prove scientifically that the Indian sub-continent’s history should be written starting from the Tamil landscape.Stalin revealed that recent results from carbon samples from excavations in Sivakalai (in adjacent districts of present day Thoothukudi and Tirunelveli) sent for AMS Carbon Dating Test to the Beta Analytical Laboratory in Miami, Florida, found that rice and husk discovered in an offering urn yielded the date of 1155 BCE. HT has seen a copy of the analysis that shows that the material -- rice with soil -- was submitted on August 18 this year and the report was released on August 27. For a comparative understanding, Indus civilisation, which is the earliest known in the Indian subcontinent, lasted from 3300 BCE to 1300 BCE.“It’s quite a revelation to the archaeological community,” Stalin said.Previously, excavations from the Adhichanallur site in the same district showed results of 9th century BCE and Korkai being 8th century BCE. “With the current findings one can come to the conclusion that a mature civilisation existed along the river Porunai (Tamiraparani is the modern name). Adhichanallur and Sivakalai as habitations and Korkai being the port,” Stalin said. He also announced that a museum, for which ₹15-crore has been earmarked, will come up in Tirunelveli district to house the antiquities and cultural history.Pivot to Tamil historyThe CM said the state archaeology department is re-establishing the cultural history of Tamil Nadu through scientific studies and added that to establish Tamil roots, they would undertake excavations in historically important sites in neighbouring states, in sites such as Pattanam in Kerala, Vengi in Andhra Pradesh, Thalaikkadu in Karnataka and Palur in Odissa.They will also look at sites in South-east Asia, in countries such as Malaysia, Thailand, and Vietnam, to which Chola King Rajendra had voyaged and where he had established beachheads, heading a kingdom that was India’s first maritime power. To establish Tamil trade relationships, excavations will also be undertaken in Quseir al-Qadim and Pernica Anekke in Egypt, part of the Roman Empire and in Khor Rori in Oman. Tamil Brahmi Potsherds were found in Egypt and Oman. “Efforts will be made to undertake exploration in these areas with the assistance of local archaeological institutions,” Stalin said. It is believed that ancient Tamils were a seafaring race and that, as long as 2,500 years ago, were trading with Egypt, countries in the Arabian Peninsula, Thailand, Malaysia and Sri Lanka, he noted.Other initiatives Currently, in Tamil Nadu, excavations are ongoing in Keeladi, Adhichanallur, Sivakalai, Korkai, Kodumanal, Mayiladumparai and Gangaikonda Cholapuram.The latest findings are significant because they push back the date of early Tamil civilisation by around 800 years. “This is the earliest date we have found in Tamil Nadu after excavating more than 125 sites and it shows for the first time that Tamil people had a relationship with the Indus Valley Civilisation,” said S Rajavelu, archaeologist and adjunct faculty, Alagappa University.“There are so many similarities between the two, like using bricks for constructions and not stones which came much later. This discovery has narrowed the chronology gap between Indus Valley Civilisation and Tamil history, which according to scholars only dated between 300 BC and 300 AD. Now we know it went back even more and is at least 3000 years old,” the archaeologist said. Stalin also said that a punch-marked silver coin recently found at Keeladi with the symbols of Sun, Moon, Taurine and few geometrical designs is believed to date back to before the 4th century BCE. “With government support more excavations are in plans which will help us trace south Indian history which is often forgotten in Indian history writings,” said Rajavelu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/proof-of-civilisation-3-200-years-ago-in-tamil-nadu-stalin-101631213154795.html
10-09-2021||India||Ready for Karnal probe but farmers may face action too, says Anil Vij||Amid continued calls for action against those who ordered the August 28 lathi charge in Karnal, Haryana’s home minister Anil Vij said on Thursday that the state was ready to investigate “the entire episode”, but added that farm leaders, too, could face action if they’re found to be at fault during the inquiry.On August 28, around 10 protesters were hurt in clashes with police in Karnal as farmers tried to march towards the venue of a BJP meeting, in which the chief minister and other senior state leaders were present, as part of their ongoing protest demanding repeal of three farm laws. Farm leaders have said that a protester died during the clashes, an allegation rejected by the administration. The farmers have also demanded a case of murder against SDM Ayush Sinha, who was caught on tape allegedly telling policemen to “break heads” if protesters crossed the line during the August 28 rally. Sinha has since been transferred and posted as additional secretary of Citizen Resources Information Department (CRID), as per government order. Talking to reporters on Thursday, the minister made it clear that “nobody can be hanged without a probe just because someone demands it”.“The inquiry will not only be limited to the actions of sub-divisional magistrate (Ayush Sinha). The entire sequence of events will be looked into. Whoever is found guilty, be it the farmers or their leaders, action will be taken accordingly,” he said.However, he added, “Only genuine demands (of farmers protesting in Karnal) can be accepted.” “We cannot hang anyone because someone says so. Is the country’s IPC (Indian Penal Code) different and the farmers’ IPC different? It cannot be like this and punishment is always given as per the offence committed. To find out the offence, a probe has to be conducted,” said Vij referring to their demand of suspending the IAS officer. About the farmers protesting in Karnal, Vij said everyone has the right to hold a protest in a peaceful manner.  Vij’s comments come amid a growing stand-off between the state and farmers protesting last month’s lathi charge. On Wednesday, protesting farmers said they might have to keep a permanent protest site in Karnal as talks with the state remained inconclusive for a second consecutive day.Tens of thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and other north Indian states at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur outside Delhi for the past nine months. The protesters are pressing for the repeal of three controversial central laws on agriculture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ready-for-karnal-probe-but-farmers-may-face-action-too-says-anil-vij-101631213096114.html
10-09-2021||India||Tamil Nadu, Uttarakhand among 4 states to get governors||President Ram Nath Kovind on Thursday transferred the governors of Tamil Nadu and Nagaland and appointed one for Uttarakhand, according to a notification issued by his office. Accepting the resignation of Baby Rani Maurya, the President appointed Lt. Gen. Gurmit Singh, who retired as the deputy chief of Army, as governor of Uttarakhand. “The President of India has accepted the resignation of Smt. Baby Rani Maurya as Governor of Uttarakhand. Lt. Gen. Gurmit Singh, PVSM, UYSM, AVSM, VSM (Retd.) is appointed as Governor of Uttarakhand,” a notification from the Rashtrapati Bhavan said. Maurya resigned from her post on Wednesday, citing personal reasons. She put in her papers two years before completing her term, fuelling speculations that she may take the political plunge in Uttar Pradesh where the assembly elections are slated to be held next year. A highly-decorated officer, Lt Gen Singh superannuated from the Army in February 2016 after nearly four decades of service, during which he held prestigious appointments of deputy chief of Army Staff, adjutant general and corps commander of strategic XV Corps that overlooks the Line of Control in Kashmir.He was also handling China operational and military strategic issues as additional director general of Military Operations.The notification also said that Tamil Nadu governor Banwarilal Purohit, who was earlier holding the additional charge of Punjab, will now take over the role permanently.“Shri Banwarilal Purohit, Governor of Tamil Nadu holding additional charge of the Governor of Punjab is appointed as regular Governor of Punjab,” the President’s order said. In return, the Centre’s interlocutor in the Naga Peace talks and retired IPS officer R N Ravi, who was overseeing affairs in Nagaland, was transferred to take charge of Tamil Nadu. Ravi has often crossed paths with the Isak-Muivah faction of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland or the NSCN (I-M) for almost two years. Several intellectuals, activists and participants had expressed dismay over the derailment of the peace process due to the trust deficit between Ravi and the insurgent group NSCN (I-M).Assam governor Jagdish Mukhi was assigned the additional responsibility of Nagaland “until regular arrangements are made”, the notification read. “The above appointments will take effect from the dates they assume charge of their respective offices,” it added. (WITH PTI INPUTS)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-uttarakhand-among-4-states-to-get-governors-101631213035323.html
10-09-2021||India||Congress refuses to join probe into Rajya Sabha ruckus||The Congress Party wrote to Rajya Sabha chairperson M Venkaiah Naidu on Thursday, saying it won't nominate a representative to a proposed inquiry committee being set up to investigate ruckus that rocked the Upper House in the final hours of the monsoon session on August 11.In a letter to Naidu, Congress MP and Rajya Sabha leader of Opposition, Mallikarjun Kharge, said the investigation committee seemed like a “design to intimidate MPs into silence”.“It will not only suppress the voices of the people’s representatives but deliberately brush aside all those that are uncomfortable to the government,” Kharge wrote in the letter, a copy of which is with HT.“I am, therefore, unequivocally against constituting the enquiry committee and the question of a party proposing the name of a member from a party for nomination to this committee does not arise,” the letter added.On August 11, in the dying hours of the disruption-hit monsoon session, some opposition MPs clashed with the marshals when the general insurance amendment bill was cleared amid furious protests.At least two marshals submitted a written account of their injuries to the chairperson. Two women MPs of the Congress, Phulo Devi and Chayya Varma, alleged they were manhandled that broke out on the floor of the House.An internal Rajya Sabha secretariat report later said opposition MPs tore papers, obstructed ministers from taking their seats, choked and suffocated one marshal, dragged and pushed another, took videos and even climbed on a LED TV stand.The Opposition denied these charges and blamed the government for the unruly scenes in the House. They said outsiders were brought into the House who used force and physically manhandled members.Naidu later proposed a committee to examine the complaints and the ruckus that took place and said he was “deeply pained” by the incident.The government blamed the Opposition for disrupting Parliament, deviating from Parliamentary procedure and damaging house property despite the assurance that discussion on issues raised by the Opposition will be taken up.But in his letter on Thursday, Kharge underlined that the government not only brushed aside the opposition parties’ demand for discussion, but also rushed through crucial bills and policies, which could potentially have a grave and adverse effects on India.He pointed out that his party gave multiple notices under the rules of procedure, hoping to have constructive deliberations on the state of India’s economy, farmers protest, inflation, rise in prices of petrol and diesel and other essential commodities, unemployment, border tensions with China, the Pegasus snooping row and the Rafale defence deal, among a host of national issues.He also alleged that the government did not heed the Opposition’s demands to send crucial bills for further scrutiny to select committees.“It (government) also bypassed standing committees, and refused to have any meaningful discussion on bills, policies and issues. Additionally, senior ministers were largely absent from Parliament while opposition MPs were suspended. In doing so, the government undermined the sovereignty of Parliament,” the letter says.At least two MPs from Communist Party of India and the Trinamool Congress said they had not been asked to send representatives to the proposed committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-refuses-to-join-probe-into-rajya-sabha-ruckus-101631212976155.html
10-09-2021||India||Allahabad HC stays ASI survey of UP’s Gyanvapi mosque||The Allahabad high court on Thursday stayed proceedings in the Kashi Vishwanath Mandir-Gyanvapi Masjid case in a Varanasi court, effectively suspending a controversial archaeological survey of the premises to determine whether a Hindu temple was partially razed to build the 17th-century mosque. The court also granted three weeks’ time to the Union and state governments to file their replies on the issue. The mosque abuts the famous Kashi Vishwanath temple and has been embroiled in a decades-old legal dispute. Justice Prakash Padia passed the order in two separate petitions filed by the Uttar Pradesh Sunni Central Waqf Board and the Varanasi Anjuman Intezamia Masjid Committee, which runs the Gyanvapi mosque, challenging the Varanasi court’s April 8 order asking the Archaeological Survey of India to conduct a physical survey of the premises.The two petitions said the suit in front of the Varanasi court was not maintainable because the high court had reserved its judgment on a petition regarding the suit on March 15, 2021. The high court agreed with them. “In the opinion of the court, the court below should wait for the verdict in the petitions pending before this court and not to proceed further in the matter till the time a judgment is delivered. The judicial courtesy and decorum warranted such discipline, which was expected from the court below but for the unfathomable reasons, neither of the courses were taken,” said justice Padia. “It is to be regretted that the court below departed from this traditional way in the present case and chose to examine the question himself. I have said so with the fond hope that judicial enthusiasm should not obliterate the profound responsibility that is expected from the court below,” he added. The religious dispute – similar to the one in Ayodhya – is decades old and first reached the courts in 1991, when local Hindu priests sought permission to worship in the mosque area. The hearing was later suspended by the Allahabad high court.But the case gained steam in December 2019 when Vijay Shankar Rastogi filed an application in the civil court as the next friend of the presiding deity of the temple, Swayambhu Jyotirling Bhagwan Vishweshwar. Rastogi demanded that the mosque area be surveyed to prove that the Muslims had occupied parts of the temple complex and built a mosque there. In law, a next friend is a representative of someone incapable of maintaining a suit directly.On April 8, Varanasi civil judge (senior division) Ashutosh Tiwari ordered an archaeological survey of the Gyanvapi complex, saying the exercise was required to decide on pleas that allege the mosque was built by Mughal emperor Aurangzeb after partially demolishing a Hindu shrine. The civil court ordered the constitution of a five-member committee, comprising two Hindu and two Muslim members and an archaeological expert, to oversee the “comprehensive physical survey”. The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) will conduct the exercise at its expense without any media briefings, the judge ordered.The order was almost immediately challenged. The petitioners contended that the suit in the Varanasi court was not maintainable under Section 4 of the Places of Worship (Special Provisions) Act, 1991, which froze lawsuits to reclaim any place of worship after India was declared independent, except Ayodhya. In March, the Supreme Court indicated it may review the 1991 law. Senior advocate SFA Naqvi, representing the petitioner, argued that when the high court had already reserved its judgment in a petition on the issue of maintainability of the aforesaid suit, the lower court should not have passed any order in the suit till the issue of maintainability of the case was decided by the high court.Advocate Ajay Kumar Singh, representing the Hindu parties, argued that there was no interim order of this court and only the judgment was reserved on March 15. Thus, there was no occasion for the lower court to defer the hearing in the matter.But the high court disagreed with this argument. “The court below has full knowledge to the fact that the judgment has already been reserved on 15.03.2021. In this view of the matter, the court below should not have proceeded and decided the application filed by the plaintiffs in the original suit for survey by Archaeological Survey of India,” the judge said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-stays-asi-survey-of-up-s-gyanvapi-mosque-101631212917683.html
10-09-2021||India||Nations approach India over clean energy projects||Ahead of the 26th conference of parties (COP 26) on climate crisis in Glasgow in November, several countries have approached India to partner on clean energy projects and to commit to net zero emissions by 2050.On Thursday, Denmark energy minister Dan Jorgensen and German Parliamentary state secretaries Maria Flachsbarth and Norbert Barthle met environment minister Bhupender Yadav over enhancing India’s nationally determined contribution (NDC) under the Paris Agreement and on futuristic technology to help mitigate climate crisis.NDCs are pledges by countries on what action they will take to mitigate greenhouse gas emissions under the Paris Agreement of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC).Besides Yadav, Jorgensen, who is on a five-day visit to India with a business delegation, also held meetings with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s principal secretary PK Mishra and power minister RK Singh during the day. One of the main areas of partnership for Jorgensen is setting up an offshore clean and wind energy hub in Tamil Nadu of about 1 GW. The Denmark minister also discussed the possibility of India enhancing its NDC ahead of COP 26.India has three quantifiable nationally determined contributions (NDCs), which include lowering the emissions intensity of its GDP by 33-35% compared to 2005 levels by 2030; increase total cumulative electricity generation from fossil free energy sources to 40% by 2030; create additional carbon sink of 2.5 to 3 billion tons through additional forest and tree cover.“All eyes are on India. If India really wants to consolidate its role in climate change mitigation, it will enhance its NDC. India is already in a good place with its expansion in renewable energy. It has sought more financing from the developed world which I support. We need strong NDCs from big emitters to keep the 1.5 degree target alive. The IPCC has already made it clear that all countries will need to transition to net zero at some point,” Jorgensen said after his meeting with Yadav. Denmark has an intermediate target of reducing emissions by 70% compared to 1990 by 2030. “It is a huge challenge in a developed economy like Denmark. It means we need to change the whole structure of our entire society and fully decarbonise our energy sector. We need energy efficiency and make energy renewable in which we have frontiers. In 1990, Denmark had developed the first offshore wind farm in the world. We saw prospects in it,” he said. After the meeting, Yadav tweeted that he had an engaging and fruitful discussion with his Danish counterpart. “I thanked him for the efforts of the Kingdom of Denmark in the renewable energy sector, especially for the cooperation in setting up the Offshore Clean and Wind Energy Hub in Tamil Nadu,” he wrote on the micro-blogging site.On Wednesday, the first high-level policy dialogue between India and Japan was virtually held between Yadav and his Japanese counterpart, Koizumi Shinjiro, which focused again on COP 26, marine litter and air pollution among other areas of concern. This was followed by a meeting with H.E. Sultan Al Jaber, UAE’s climate envoy and minister of industry and advanced technology, on issues pertaining to NDCs. The UAE has sought India’s support for the former’s initiative on Agriculture Innovation Mission for Climate (AIM-C) along with the US and the UK, which is expected to be launched at the Glasgow event.US special envoy on climate crisis John Kerry is also expected to visit India on September 13 with a focus on India’s NDC and the India-US Climate and Clean Energy Agenda 2030 Partnership.“Most of the meetings are on futuristic technology like green hydrogen. They are not specifically to push India to attain net zero. Of course there have been discussions on NDCs but more importantly, on clean energy partnerships which can actually help solve this crisis. They see India in a leadership role as far as technology and energy is concerned,” a senior environment ministry official said, preferring anonymity.“When the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) report was released on August 9, India welcomed it and said that achieving net zero alone is not enough as it is the cumulative emissions up to net zero that determines the temperature that is reached. The IPCC report amply brought out this point and vindicated India’s position that historical cumulative emissions are the source of the climate crisis that the world faces today,” said ,official spokesperson, Gaurav Khare on diplomatic pressure by visiting delegations on committing to a net zero target. The 1.5 degree Celsius global warming threshold is likely to be breached in the next 10 to 20 years, by 2040, in all emission scenarios, including the one where carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions decline rapidly to net zero around 2050, the latest IPCC report said.Last month, COP 26 president Alok Sharma had met several Indian officials, including Yadav. Ahead of his visit to Delhi on August 16, Sharma told HT: “We want every country to set out plans to reach net zero by the middle of the century.” Sharma also met Union power minister RK Singh to discuss collaborations of UK with India on renewable energy and green hydrogen.“In the context of India, it is worth pointing out that the country is already on track to overachieve its current NDC. So, what I’ve requested is that the government considers whether as part of any revised NDC, that overachievement is taken into account as well as a really ambitious plan for pushing forward on all of this,” Sharma had said.Earlier this month, UK chancellor Rishi Sunak and finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced a $1.2 billion package of public and private investment in green projects and renewable energy, and the joint launch of the Climate Finance Leadership Initiative (CFLI) India to mobilise private capital to support India’s target of 450GW renewable energy by 2030.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nations-approach-india-over-clean-energy-projects-101631212916390.html
10-09-2021||India||Afghanistan crisis to top India, Australia 2+2 meet agenda||Australia is concerned that the new regime created by the Taliban in Afghanistan is not inclusive and has UN-sanctioned members of the Haqqani Network, and any engagement with the group will be based on its actions, Australian envoy Barry O’Farrell said on Thursday. The situation in Afghanistan is expected to figure in the first 2+2 dialogue between the defence and foreign ministers of India and Australia on Saturday, along with other important security issues such as China’s role in the region and the situation in the East and South China Seas. O’Farrell declined to go into the specifics of the agenda for the 2+2 dialogue but said Australia is looking to the meeting to help deepen the relationship between two “dependable and trusted partners” that are already working closely on strategic issues both bilaterally and in forums such as the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad. Australia, he said, is also working with its partners to ensure a “joined up approach in any engagement with the Taliban”, though the current focus is on ensuring that the Taliban permits the safe passage of Australian and other citizens who wish to leave Afghanistan. Referring to the formation of a 33-member interim setup by the Taliban on Tuesday, O’Farrell said: “The Australian government is deeply disappointed by the lack of inclusion in the government’s make-up, particularly the fact that there are no women, no representatives of the [Shia] Hazara community or other ethnic groups, no members of the previous government and two members of the Haqqani [Network], which is a listed terrorist organisation.” “The Australian government will engage and focus on advancing Australia’s interests and we will judge the Taliban. We are focused on ensuring that the Taliban ensures safe passage to those people who want to leave, ceases violence, pursues an inclusive government, prevents violent extremism within Afghanistan, prevents terrorism directed outwards from Afghanistan and upholds human rights, particularly for women and girls,” he said. “We will judge the government of Afghanistan by its actions and this will shape any engagement with the Taliban,” he added. Australia is also concerned about people stranded in Afghanistan following the takeover by the Taliban on August 15. Evacuation flights from Kabul stopped following the withdrawal of all US and foreign troops on August 30 and citizens from several countries, including India, are currently stranded in Afghanistan. O’Farrell said Australia has made an initial offer of 3,000 humanitarian visas and is working with the UN commissioner for refugees on such issues. Australia has also evacuated 3,600 people from Afghanistan, though permanent residents, Australian citizens and others with connections to Australia are “keen to leave”, he said. “We have joined with other nations in calling on the Taliban to uphold its undertakings that international citizens and visa holders will be allowed to depart in a safe and orderly manner,” he said. Australian foreign minister Marise Payne and defence minister Peter Dutton are visiting India during September 10-12 for the 2+2 dialogue with their Indian counterparts S Jaishankar and Rajnath Singh. ​The 2+2 dialogue is the outcome of a decision made at the India-Australia leaders’ virtual summit in June 2020 to elevate bilateral relations to a comprehensive strategic partnership. The external affairs ministry said the agenda for the dialogue will cover bilateral, regional and global issues of mutual interest. The Australian ministers will arrive in India after holding a similar dialogue with Indonesia, and they will also travel to South Korea and the US for 2+2 discussions. Australia’s foreign ministry said the “substantive and significant foreign and defence trip strongly reinforces Australia’s active engagement in our region”. “During our meetings and engagements across the four countries, we will discuss our continuing partnerships to overcome the pandemic, including through the equitable, safe and effective distribution of Covid-19 vaccines, and our shared path to global economic recovery,” Payne said. “These inaugural 2+2 discussions are a cornerstone of the Australia-India comprehensive strategic partnership, which is founded on a shared commitment to a secure, stable and prosperous Indo-Pacific region,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afghanistan-crisis-to-top-india-australia-2-2-meet-agenda-101631212617489.html
10-09-2021||India||Delayed probe report on Kozhikode air crash to be made public soon: Scindia||The final probe report on the Air India Express Kozhikode air crash that took place on August 7, 2020 that has been delayed for over eight months will be made public in a “few days”, Union civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia said on Thursday.Hindustan Times on January 21 had reported that the final probe report on the Air India Express crash at Kerala’s Kozhikode airport due for submission in January 2021 would be delayed by two months. A civil aviation ministry order, reviewed by HT, had granted a two-month extension to the Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB), the regulatory body in charge of the investigation, to submit the report. Following an extension till March the final probe report is yet to be drafted and released.“The report has been submitted to the Ministry. We will release it in the next couple of days into public domain,” Jyotiraditya Scindia said in response to a question during a press conference on Thursday.In its January order granting an extension the aviation ministry had said there was a delay due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “There is a delay being experienced in the Test Reports of components, and an extension of two months has been granted for submission of the draft final report of Investigation into VT-AXH Accident,” the January order said.“It is an onerous task and a very big responsibility as it is seen by 194 countries,” AAIB DG Aurobindo Handa said.The Air India Express Boeing-737 plane repatriating Indians stranded in Dubai due to the pandemic overshot the runway in heavy rain, skidded off the table-top runway and broke into two parts after crashing nose-first into the ground. The flight was carrying 190 passengers and crew. It was the deadliest commercial aviation disaster in the country in 10 years and claimed 20 lives. Another Air India Express flight from Dubai overshot Mangalore’s table-top runway in 2010. It slid down a hill and left 158 people dead.The AAIB in August last year appointed a team of five investigators to lead the probe and submit a report within five months.AAIB director-general Aurobindo Handa appointed Captain SS Chahar, a former Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA)-designated examiner for pilots of B737NG aircraft, as the investigator-in-charge tasked with completing its inquiry and submitting the report.He is assisted by Operations Expert Ved Prakash, Senior Aircraft Maintenance Engineer-B737 Mukul Bhardwaj, Group Captain YS Dahiya, Aviation Medicine Expert, and Jasbir Singh Larhga, Deputy Director AAIB.The bureau’s role is to conduct an independent aircraft accident investigation, obtain a preliminary report to assist in setting up a committee of inquiry in accordance with International Civil Aviation Organisation rules.DGCA, the aviation regulator, a day after the crash, had announced that the flight data recorder and cockpit voice recorder were recovered from the crash site. They can help in determining the cause of the crash. The cockpit voice recorder keeps a recording of all the conversations taking place in a plane’s cockpit. The flight data recorder logs data such as airspeed, altitude, and fuel flow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delayed-probe-report-on-kozhikode-air-crash-to-be-made-public-soon-scindia-101631212435805.html
10-09-2021||India||‘Treat public with respect’: Kerala high court draws a redline for police||Thiruvananthapuram: The Kerala high court on Wednesday took strong exception to police using words such as “eda” and “edi” (disparaging masculine and femnine terms for ‘you’ in Malyalam) to address the public, underscoring that these words were relics of the colonial past and should be avoided at any cost.A Thrissur resident Anil J S approached the high court, complaining that a sub-inspector of police verbally abused his daughter calling her “edi” during a routine traffic check to enforce Covid-19 protocol. He said the behaviour of the police officer was uncivilized and improper. The court agreed, asserting that law enforcement agencies can’t use such terms and directed police to file a report explaining steps taken in this regard in two weeks. The court said use of disrespectful words such as “Eda”, “Edi” and “Nee” to address citizens was impermissible.“It is now imperative for this court to declare that such use by any member of the force is contrary to the constitutional morality and conscience of our country and is against the ethos of the democratic system,” said the high court order by justice Devan Ramachandran. The order was released on Thursday. The court said when a similar petition came up before the court in November 2018, the then police chief issued a detailed order to all police stations to respect public and avoid such terms but the derogatory terms were in use. The court reminded senior police officers to enforce this to avert frequent complaints and said such cases will invite contempt provisions in future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/treat-public-with-respect-kerala-high-court-draws-a-redline-for-police-101631212375378.html
10-09-2021||India||Amit Shah holds high-level meet on J&K security||Union home minister Amit Shah on Thursday held a high-level meeting with national security adviser Ajit Doval, Jammu & Kashmir lieutenant governor (LG) Manoj Sinha, Indian Army chief General MM Naravane, senior officials, and chiefs of top intelligence and security agencies to discuss the security situation in the region. People familiar with the development said that issues pertaining to anti-India terror groups operating from the Pakistani soil shifting their bases to Afghanistan, and a renewed push by outfits such as Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) to infiltrate highly trained foreign fighters into the Valley were discussed during the meeting, which went on for more than two hours. With Taliban at the helm in Afghanistan now, there are apprehensions among India’s policymakers that Pakistan’s close allies in the Taliban will help terror groups to regain ground support in Kashmir. There are already intelligence reports that there is increased infiltration activity from across the border, a person aware of the matter said. Shah discussed the steps being taken to ensure that infiltration doesn’t take place in the Valley and young people are not radicalised. Sirajuddin Haqqani, the new acting interior minister of Afghanistan, is the head of the terror group Haqqani Network, which was responsible for attacks on Indian assets, including the Indian embassy in Kabul, in the past. The Haqqani Network has close association with Pakistani spy agency, ISI and Indian security officials believe that the terror groups operating from Pakistani soil may shift to Afghanistan for further recruitment and training, to keep Pakistan’s name out of Financial Action Task Force (FATF) radar. Taliban spokesperson Suhail Shaheen said last week: “As Muslims, we also have a right to raise our voice for Muslims in Kashmir, India or any other country.” Apart from Doval, Sinha and Naravane, Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla, director of the Intelligence Bureau Arvinda Kumar, Research and Analysis Wing (R&AW) chief Samant Goel, Border Security Force chief Pankaj Singh and Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) chief Kuldiep Singh attended the meeting. People cited above said on condition of anonymity that the appointment of Masarat Alam, currently lodged in Tihar jail, as the new Hurriyat chief after the death of Syed Ali Shah Geelani last week, was also discussed during the meeting. The security agencies fear that though the activities of local terror groups have declined since 2019, there will be some regrouping on the ground with Alam at the helm, though he is behind bars, said one of the officials. The authorities have been told to step up vigilance in the Valley in light of the development.A second officer cited above said that Shah, Doval and Sinha also discussed how violence and disruption was averted after Geelani’s funeral last week by quashing claims that his family was restrained by security forces, and by his last rites being conducted after the family backed out. “Overall political and security implications in the Kashmir valley following the death of hardline Hurriyat Conference chairman Syed Ali Shah Geelani were discussed on Thursday,” said a second official. Geelani’s family members alleged that police “snatched” his body, forcibly buried it, and thrashed them.Shah also reviewed various development initiatives being implemented in Jammu & Kashmir, including the ₹80,000 crore package announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2015. The home minister has said in the past that all-round development and welfare of the people of the Jammu & Kashmir are a top priority of the Modi government.On August 5, 2019, the central government effectively reorganised the state after effectively nullifying Articles 370 and 35(A) that gave the erstwhile state its special status and the mandate to define its domicile rules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-holds-high-level-meet-on-j-k-security-101631211955923.html
10-09-2021||India||One Covid vaccine jab 96.6% effective in averting deaths, two 97.5%: Centre||One vaccine dose alone is 96.6% effective in preventing Covid-19 deaths in India, and two doses are 97.5% effective, the Union health ministry said on Thursday after analysing data between April and August.The officials, addressing the routine briefing on Covid-19, also said that a new vaccine tracker will be launched with details of vaccinations and the number of fatalities among vaccinated people after breakthrough infections. “It is an ambitious intervention aimed to monitor breakthrough infections and deaths, and is going to be online very soon on health ministry’s website for people to see,” said Rajesh Bhushan, Union secretary for health and family welfare.The data will be collected from the government’s all major Covid-19 vaccine resources.“We have tried to develop India Covid-19 vaccine tracker that has data synergies between CoWIN, Covid-19 India Portal, and Covid-19 testing portal of the ministry of health and family welfare, and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The data has been collected on the basis of ICMR identification number and mobile numbers of beneficiaries,” said Balram Bhargava, director general, ICMR.The official then went on to give out data gleaned till now. “Vaccine effectiveness in preventing death after first dose is 96.6%; and after two doses is 97.5%. This vaccine protective effect against death is there in all age group; whether it be in ages above 60, above 45 to 59 or 18 to 44 years. The effect has been demonstrated in all age groups when we have combined the three data bases,” he said. Bhushan also said that the key message that came from the vaccine tracker was that breakthrough infections after the first or both the doses do not result in mortality, and result in extremely low, almost insignificant percentage of hospitalisation.“That is the message that comes out from the vaccine tracker; the granular details we will keep on sharing with you as we keep on developing the tracker, ” he said. “It is clear from the data before us that when you give two Covid-19 vaccine doses, it provides near total protection from severe disease and death. We have shown you similar data earlier to emphasise the point that it is crucial to take both the doses. While it is important to get fully vaccinated against Covid-19, the data also shows that even the first dose provides significant protection against both, severe disease and death; as high as 90% and above,” said VK Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog.“This helps in reiterating the fact that among all our tools to fight against Covid-19, vaccine is the most important tool that will act in controlling the pandemic in the long run. Going forward, this will change the scenario very dramatically,” he added.On whether vaccine should be taken by those who already suffered from the viral disease, Bhargava said they should take the shot.“There are clear instructions in this regard that all those who got diagnosed with Covid-19 should take the vaccine three months after getting the infection. There is another point to note that we have already established through published studies that infection plus first dose is equivalent to taking two vaccine doses. However, we still say that the course should be completed According to the government data, 58% of the population above 18 years has already received the first vaccine dose, and 18% received the second dose, as part of government of India’s Covid immunisation drive that started in January 16, this year.The centre has placed a fresh purchase order with the Serum Institute of India (SII) for 660 million Covishield doses to be supplied by December, according to people familiar with the development. As on Thursday, 720 million cumulative vaccine doses have been administered across the country. The government is still deliberating over expanding vaccine coverage in children.“Whether to start vaccinating children or not; or which ones to prioritise for vaccination, it is an evolving scientific and public health discourse. We are working actively in the direction of scientific validation of our vaccines for potential use in children,” said Paul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-covid-vaccine-jab-96-6-effective-in-averting-deaths-two-97-5-centre-101631211897726.html
10-09-2021||India||Can’t order use of red ant chutney as Covid cure...take jab: Supreme Court||A red ant chutney (sauce) that once made it to British celebrity chef Gordon Ramsay’s menu, drew the attention of the Supreme Court on Thursday as it heard a petition seeking that the delicacy be mandated as a remedy for Covid-19. “How can we ask the entire country to use a chutney as cure for Covid-19?” the bench, headed by Justice Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud asked the lawyer, appearing for Odisha-based engineer and researcher Nayadhar Padhial who had petitioned the court. “If you want to use it, use it. Nobody is stopping you but we, as a constitutional court, cannot ask people to start eating red ant chutney for treatment of Covid-19,” the bench, which also included justices Vikram Nath and Hima Kohli, added.There is no scientific evidence that red ant chutney can protect people against Covid-19. On his part, advocate Anirudh Sanganeria pointed out that the efficacy of the red ant chutney for boosting the immune system of a body has been established through it use for several centuries, besides being corroborated through articles in peer-reviewed journals. Sanganeria argued that ministry of AYUSH and CSIR refused to entertain his client’s request without referring the matter to a body of experts that could examine the claims through scientific methods. But the top court remained unimpressed, as it remarked that many people use various traditional methods of curing several diseases but that these do not translate into an order of a constitutional court. “We cannot pass such directions. Your representations were also considered by the ministry of AYUSH and CSIR before they rejected it,” said the bench. In the end, Justice Chandrachud asked the lawyer to advise his client to get vaccinated as soon as possible and not rely only on the chutney. “Ask your client to get vaccinated,” said the judge. Sanganeria responded: “Yes my lords. He has already got the double dose of vaccine. He is also planning to get a booster shot.” Tribal belts in several states, including Odisha and Chhattisgarh, consume red ant chutney or use it in a soup to cure flu, coughs, common cold, breathing difficulties, fatigue and other diseases. The chutney is primarily a mixture of red ants and green chilies. Ramsay, who was travelling across India for a documentary on Indian food in 2010, stumbled upon the red ant chutney during his visit to Chhatisgarh. In 2018, he included this chutney in his documentary on international food. Padhial, who is a resident of Baripada, said he belongs to a tribal community, Bathudi which has been using the red ant chutney effectively to boost the immune system. According to Padhial, the chutney contains formic acid, protein, calcium, Vitamin B12, Zinc and iron that boost the immune system. He initially approached the Odisha high court last year for examining the chutney’s efficacy as a remedy against Covid-19. In December 2020, the high court asked the directors general of Ayush ministry and Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) to rule on Padhial’s representations within three months. Both the bodies rejected the representations, compelling Padhial to go back to the high court again in April this year. However, this time over, the high court also refused to entertain the plea and Padhial approached the Supreme Court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cant-order-use-of-red-ant-chutney-as-covid-cure-take-jab-sc-101631211181223.html
10-09-2021||India||Congress refuses to join Rajya Sabha inquiry committee||The Congress Party has written to Rajya Sabha chairperson M Venkaiah Naidu turning down the request for nominating a representative of the party to a proposed inquiry committee being set up to investigate into the ruckus that took place in the House during the monsoon session on August 11. The party has said it feels that the investigation committee seems like a “design to intimidate MPs into silence”. A committee was proposed to investigate into the disruption that took place in the Upper House on August 11, when some opposition MPs got into a scuffle with the marshals. At least two marshals submitted a written account of their injuries to the chairperson. Two women MPs of the Congress Phulo Devi and Chayya Varma had also alleged being manhandled in the ruckus that broke out on the floor of the House. While Naidu had proposed a committee to examine the complaints and the ruckus that took place, Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha and Congress MP Mallikarjun Kharge in his letter to him has declined to be part of the investigation. In his letter, which HT has seen, Kharge said the proposed inquiry committee will, “…Not only suppress the voices of the people’s representatives but deliberately brush aside all those that are uncomfortable to the government.” The letter goes on to say, “I am, therefore, unequivocally against constituting the enquiry committee and the question of a party proposing the name of a member from a party for nomination to this committee does not arise.” The government for its part blamed the opposition for disrupting Parliament, deviating from Parliamentary procedure and damaging house property despite the assurance that discussion on issues raised by the opposition will be taken up. Kharge, has however underlined that the government not only brushed aside the opposition parties’ demand for discussion, but also rushed through crucial bills and policies, which could potentially have a grave and adverse effect on India. The leader of the opposition pointed out that his party gave multiple notices under the rules of procedure, hoping to have constructive deliberations on the state of India’s economy, farmers protest, inflation, rise in prices of petrol and diesel and other essential commodities, unemployment, China’s violation of India’s territorial integrity, the Pegasus and Rafael scandals among a host of other national issues. He also alleged that the government did not heed the opposition’s demands to send crucial bills for further scrutiny to select committees. “It (government) also bypassed standing committees, and refused to have any meaningful discussion on bills, policies and issues. Additionally, senior ministers were largely absent from Parliament while opposition MPs were suspended. In doing so, the government undermined the sovereignty of Parliament,” the letter says. At least two MPs from CPI and TMC said they have not been asked to send representatives to the proposed committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-declines-joining-rajya-sabha-inquiry-committee-101631206855570.html
10-09-2021||India||MHA asks Bengal govt to give security to 61 BJP leaders, TMC slams order||The Centre has directed the West Bengal government to accord security cover to 61 Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders, including actor Mithun Chakraborty and Lok Sabha MP Arjun Singh, at whose residence three crude bombs were hurled early on Wednesday. In a communication to the state chief secretary and director general of police (DGP) on August 31, the ministry of home affairs (MHA) said it decided to provide police protection to the 61 leaders after examining their security arrangement and holding consultations with central agencies.Besides Chakraborty and Singh, the BJP leaders for whom the MHA has sought state police cover include party state vice-president Mafuja Khatun, Bishnapur MP Saumitra Khan, former Indian Police Service officer Bharti Ghosh, Purulia MP Jyortirmay Mahto, actor-turned-politician Joy Mukherjee, party president of South 24 Parganas district Abhijit Das, former cricketer-turned-politician Ashok Dinda, and party leaders Shankudeb Panda and Lokenath Chatterjee. “It is impossible for any political leader or activist other than that of TMC to work in Bengal right now because they are attacked in front of the police and that’s why all these leaders need protection,” state BJP spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said. Responding to the developments, TMC Rajya Sabha member Sukhendu Sekhar Roy said that by sending the letter, the Union government had transgressed into the powers of the state. “Law and order is a state subject. The MHA cannot issue such directions. The state police decide who should be provided protection after evaluating the threat perception. It is not the state’s responsibility to provide security to these people just because they belong to the ruling party at the Centre. If anybody needs protection he or she will have to appeal to the state. The government will take action after evaluating the threat perception,” he said. Of the 61 leaders, several of them were already granted personal security by personnel belonging to the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) and Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) in the wake of post-poll violence in most parts of the state after the Trinamool Congress recorded a sweeping victory in the assembly elections this year. The MHA communication, however, carried no mention of withdrawing the existing security cover provided to the leaders by central forces. According to officials familiar with VIP security protocols, the state police can provide additional cover, along with CISF and CRPF, to the leaders till there is more clarity on the MHA communication. Bengal additional DGP, law and order, Jawed Shamim refused to comment on the matter. After the election results were announced on May 2, widespread violence was reported across Bengal with the BJP accusing the ruling party of targeting its leaders and cadres. The BJP claimed that 14 of its party workers were killed by TMC workers while hundreds were forced to flee as their workplaces were set ablaze and family members attacked. The BJP had won only 77 seats in the 294-seat assembly as chief minister Mamata Banerjee returned to power with a landslide victory. Following an assessment of threat to BJP’s elected representatives, the MHA had accorded personal security to all 77 MLAs. BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari, who defeated chief minister Mamata Banerjee from Nandigram seat, was accorded the second highest ‘Z’ category security cover from the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF).Under the Z category, a VIP is usually provided with 35 to 40 commandos on rotational basis depending on the threat perception.At least 61 legislators were given X category cover of CISF from May 10 in view of the violence. Under the X category cover, three to five armed commandos are deployed to protect each MLA during travel in the state. Others are already enjoying the central security cover under the Y category, which comprises 10-12 men. All allegations of post-poll violence are now being probed by the Central Bureau of Investigation and a Special Investigation Team on the directions of Calcutta high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-asks-bengal-govt-to-provide-security-to-61-bjp-leaders-101631178706071.html
10-09-2021||NA||Breaking| Taliban acted ‘businesslike and professional’ in new evacuation: US||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:Two deaths, 29 fresh cases in Punjab, infection toll reaches 16,451Two more people died from coronavirus in Punjab on Thursday as 29 fresh cases pushed the state’s infection count to 6,00,940, according to a medical bulletin of the state health department. Till now, the infection has claimed 16,451 lives in the state. Read moreTaliban acted ‘businesslike and professional’ in new evacuation: US#BREAKING Taliban acted "businesslike and professional" in new evacuation, White House says pic.twitter.com/40ygG1IhjuAs the first civilian evacuation flight from Afghanistan's capital Kabul since US pullout landed in Doha on Thursday, the White House said that the Taliban acted "businesslike and professional" in new evacuation.  Read moreTamil Nadu governor moved to PunjabTamil Nadu governor Banwarilal Purohit shifted to Punjab, replaced by Nagaland guv RN Ravi, according to a release by President's office. Nagaland Governor RN Ravi sent to Tamil Nadu.First civilian evacuation flight from Kabul since US pullout lands in DohaFirst civilian evacuation flight from Kabul since US pullout lands in Doha, reports news agency AFP.Water bodies including lakes in Delhi to be revived: Min Satyendra JainDelhi Water Minister Satyendar Jain says water bodies, including lakes, in city will be revived through sustainable methods and transformed into tourist spots. People throng markets ahead of Ganesh Chathurthi in DelhiAhead of Ganesh Chaturthi tomorrow, people throng markets of the national capital to buy Ganesh idols. "We will celebrate Ganesh Chaturthi at our home. I am very excited about it. I have been celebrating it for 7 years," says a local.Delhi reports 36 new cases; positivity rate at 0.05%Delhi reports 36 new cases, 35 recoveries and zero deaths in the last 24 hours; active cases 415. Test positivity rate 0.05%Tamil Nadu extends ban on festivals, political gatheringsChief Minister of Tamil Nadu has extended the existing ban on festivals, political, community and religious gatherings till October 31 to intensify corona prevention activitiesIndia’s Covid-19 vaccination coverage crosses 72 crore markIndia’s Covid-19 vaccination coverage has crossed the 72 crore mark today. More than 59 lakh doses have been administered till 7 pm today, says government.China to provide 100 million more Covid vaccines to developing nations: President XiChina will donate 100 million more doses of Covid-19 vaccines to developing countries by the end of 2021, President Xi Jinping said on Thursday.UK logs 38,013 fresh cases of Covid-19The UK reports 38,013 new coronavirus cases and a further 167 deaths in the latest 24-hour period.No talks on the third day. Farmers firm on their demandsThe Karnal district administration did not have any discussion with the Samyukt Kisan Morcha leaders on Thursday as their indefinite protest outside Karnal’s mini-secretariat entered the third day.First civilian evacuation flight since US troop withdrawal takes off from KabulFirst civilian evacuation flight since US troop withdrawal takes off from Kabul, reports news agency AFP. CBDT extends due date for filing of IT Returns for AY 2021-22 till Dec 31CBDT extends the due date for filing of Income Tax Returns for the assessment year 2021-22 till 31st December.Chinese President address BRICS summitSince the start of this year, our 5 countries have maintained the momentum of BRICS cooperation and secured new progress in many areas. As long as we pool our minds and efforts, we can make smooth, solid progress in BRICS cooperation, come what may, says Chinese President Xi JinpingPM Modi chairs 13th BRICS Summit, says need to ensure grouping remains productive in next 15 yearsDespite the Covid situation this year, over 150 BRICS meetings and events were organised. Of these, over 20 were ministerial-level. We tried to expand BRICS agenda. BRICS achieved many firsts this yr...Our Water Resources Ministers will meet in BRICS format for the first time in Nov: PM ModiPhase 1 trial results are promisinig: Govt on Bharat Biotech's nasal Covid vaccinePhase 2, phase 3 trials in continuation... We should wait for the results. Phase 1 trial results have been promising and since it's a nasal vaccine, it will prevent virus entry, rest can be said once we have results: Dr VK Paul, NITI Aayog on Bharat Biotech's nasal Covid vaccineVaccinating children is not a condition for reopening schools: CentreVaccinating children is not a condition for reopening schools. This criterion is not acceptable anywhere in the world, no scientific body, epidemiological evidence suggests it as a condition...However, vaccination of staff is desirable; Dr VK Paul, Member-Health, Niti AayogIndia still witnessing second wave of coronavirus infection, it's not over yet: GovtIndia reported 43,263 reported the last 24 hours, over 32,000 from Kerala. Almost 68% of total cases in last week from Kerala. Overall declining trend is a little less than 50% which was there in 1st wave. We're are still witnessing 2nd surge, it's not over, says Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan in a presser.Top film financier Yusuf Lakdawala, who was lodged in Arthur Road Jail, diesBuilder & film financier Yusuf Lakdawala, who was lodged in Arthur Road Jail after being arrested by ED in a land grabbing case, dies. His body has been brought to JJ Hospital. An ADR (Accidental Death Report) has been registered. Cause of the death is yet to be ascertainedBJP cancels primary membership of Manish Nayak who is co-accused in Bhopal gang-rape caseBJP cancels the primary membership of its Dindori office in-charge Manish Nayak who is a co-accused in the gangrape of a minor girl in Bhopal. So far, the police have arrested 3 people for allegedly raping a minor at a hotel room in Bhopal.Nitin Gadkari's promise to IAF chief: Airstrip in 15 days instead of 1.5 yearsUnion minister of road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari said on Thursday his department had achieved a couple of feats in recent times, besides building an airstrip for the Indian Air Force (IAF) in 15 days. Read MoreAssam boat tragedy: CM announces ban on private ferries“From today, plying of private ferries will be stopped as they don't have marine engine. If owners wish to convert single-engine to marine engine, Govt will provide grant of ₹10 lakhs with 75% subsidy,” announces Assam CM Himanta Biswa Sarma day after boat accident in Brahmaputra river in Jorhat.CPI(M) protests in Agartala over alleged vandalism of party offices by BJP workers#WATCH | CPI (M) workers carry out demonstrations in Agartala, Tripura alleging vandalism at party offices by BJP. "Over 50 offices have been ransacked, demolished...This protest is against BJP for carrying out barbaric attacks at our offices, yesterday," a protester says pic.twitter.com/TvO0XY8RMtCPI (M) workers carry out demonstrations in Agartala, Tripura, alleging vandalism at party offices by workers of the ruling BJP.Miranda House tops annual Education Ministry rankingsEducation ministry announces NIRF rankings; Miranda House and LSR, both in Delhi, rated 1 and 2 respectively while Chennai's Loyola is third.PM Modi meets India's Paralympics contingentPrime Minister Narendra Modi met the Indian contingent who participated in the 2020 Tokyo Paralympics(Picture courtesy: Prime Minister's Office) pic.twitter.com/t2RhrSg0JcPrime Minister Narendra Modi meets Indian contingent which participated at Paralympics in Tokyo.Maharashtra hits record1.5 mn vaccinations in single-dayMore than 1.5 million Covid-19 vaccine doses were administered in Maharashtra yesterday, a new record of vaccination in a single day in the state: Dr Pradeep Vyas, additional chief secretary (health).35 evacuees from Afghanistan discharged from ITBP camp after quarantineA group of 35 evacuees from Afghanistan leave ITBP's Chhawla camp in Delhi after completing 14-day quarantine period. They recahed here on August 26 after arriving from Afghanistan.Bombay HC dismisses Kangana Ranaut's pleaBombay high court quashes Kangana Ranaut's plea seeking quashing of criminal defamation case filed by Javed Akhtar.Australia's defence and foreign ministers to arrive for 2+2 dialogueAustralian defence minister Peter Dutton and foreign minister Marise Payne to arrive in India tomorrow for the 2+2 ministerial dialogue.Taliban to let 200 Americans, other civilians to leave AfghanistanTaliban to let 200 Americans, other civilians to leave Afghanistan, reports Reuters citing US officials.MoS (external affairs) Lekhi meets UNGA president-electMet President elect of the 76th UNGA @abdulla_shahid. We discussed his vision and #PresidencyOfHope for the session including COVID-19 vaccines, gender, youth, human rights and environment. pic.twitter.com/AbmJTZwZm6MoS (external affairs) Meenakshi Lehi meets president-elect of 76th UNGA, Abdulla Shahid in New York. “We discussed his vision and Presidency Of Hope for the session including Covid-19 vaccines, gender, youth, human rights and environment,” tweets Lekhi.India logs 43,263 Covid-19 cases and 338 deathsIndia's daily Covid-19 cases rise to 43,263 while fresh fatalities drop to 338. Total cases reach 33,139,981 including 32,304,618 recoveries, 441,749 deaths and 393,614 active cases.536,817,243 samples tested till now for Covid-19: ICMRCOVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes @PIB_India @mygovindia @COVIDNewsByMIB #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/K8u8bqxxWi536,817,243 samples tested for Covid-19 up to 8 September 2021. 1,817,639 samples tested on 8 September 2021: Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).Farmers sit-in outside Karnal mini-secretariat continuesHaryana: Farmers continue their demonstration outside mini secretariat in Karnal, demanding action against the officials who ordered lathi-charge against protesters in the district last monthState Govt has suspended mobile internet and SMS services in the district today pic.twitter.com/ufftkQswkbFarmers continue their sit-in agitation outside mini-secretariat in Haryana's Karnal.Ban on internet and SMS services extended in KarnalIn view of farmers' agitation in Karnal, Haryana Govt suspends mobile internet & SMS services in the district "to stop the spread of misinformation"; the order to remain in effect till 11:59 pm today pic.twitter.com/EtN0IfZjQdHaryana govt extends ban on internet and SMS services in Karnal in view of the ongoing farmers' sit-in at the mini-secretariat.Assam boat tragedy: Rescue ops continueAssam: Rescue operation continues in Brahmaputra river in Jorhat where two boats collided & one of them capsized yesterday"70 passengers were on the boat that capsized. A woman has died. The operation continued throughout the night. It is still underway," an NDRF official says pic.twitter.com/cTF9YIwx4KRescue operations continue in Assam's Jorhat, where two boats collided in the Brahmaputra, resulting in capsizing of one of the boats.Fire at Covid-19 hospital in North Macedonia kills 1010 people lost their lives due to a fire which broke out at a hospital treating Covid-19 patients in Tetovo in North Macedonia.Covid-19: Japan to extend state of emergency till September 30Japan is likely to extend state of emergency in 19 areas, including Tokyo and Osaka, till September 30, from the current expiration deadline of September 12.‘US not in rush to recognise Taliban govt’: White HouseThe White House has said that the United States is in “no rush” to recognise the new interim Taliban government in Afghanistan. “This is a caretaker cabinet that includes four former imprisoned Taliban fighters,” White House press secretary Jen Psaki told reporters at her daily news conference on Wednesday (local time).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-september-09-2021-101631144146962.html
