11-09-2021||India||Govt slashes edible-oil duties again as prices soar||NEW DELHI The Union government on Saturday slashed duties on edible oils to a decade’s low to ease prices at home, which have spiralled on the back of high global rates. The country meets two-thirds of its domestic demand for vegetable oils through imports. The government has “further reduced the standard rate of duty on crude palm oil, crude soyabean oil and crude sunflower oil by up to 2.5%”, a statement said. The standard rate of duty on refined oils of palm, soyabean and sunflower stands had been cut by 32.5% in a series of moves to make vegetable oils cheaper. In June, the government had cut duties on palm oil by 5% and lifted restrictions in the import of refined palm oil, as food inflation worries mounted. Edible oil prices have risen by up to 60%, according to data from the consumer affairs ministry from a year ago. Average costs of a litre of mustard oil rose to ₹170 in August compared to ₹120 a year ago. “It may be noted that the international prices and thereby domestic prices of edible oils have been ruling high during 2021-22 which is a cause of serious concern from inflation as well as consumer’s point of view,” a government statement said. According to an August report of the Food and Agricultural Organisation, global prices have rallied sharply in recent months due to bad crop in key producing nations and higher demand as economies reopened from Covid shutdowns. Higher food inflation not only impacts poorer households more, which tend to spend a larger share of their monthly budgets on food, compared to the well-off, but they also throw the Reserve Bank’s inflation targets off gear. Palm is one of the most widely consumed oils, which is found in everything from bread to ice-creams. Cutting import duties can lower prices instantly. Edible oil is India’s third most high-value import, after crude oil and gold. India typically imports from producers such as Malaysia, Indonesia Brazil, Argentina and Russia. Throughout June, the government was evaluating the price trends before taking a “decision” on cutting import duties, an official with knowledge of the matter said. The first cuts in tariffs came in June itself as global commodity outlook showed the high prices were likely to hold, the official said. “Prices are likely to slide only when summer harvests kick in by December. The duty cuts should bring down prices without much lag unless there is hoarding,” said Abhishek Agrawal, an analyst with Comtrade, a private commodity brokerage firm, adding retail prices should come down by at least ₹5. Currently, India’s levies on edible oil imports range between 32.5% (for palm oil, the cheapest edible oil) and 35% for soyabean oil. The country produces about 11 million tonnes of edible oil but consumption hovers around 24 million tonnes. According to official data, the share of rural and urban consumption in total is 3.8% and 2.7%. Much of the demand comes from commercial users, such as biscuit and snack makers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-slashes-edible-oil-duties-again-as-prices-soar-101631384589865.html
11-09-2021||India||Verdict given by Allahabad HC disqualifying then PM Indira Gandhi was judgment of great courage: CJI||The 1975 verdict of Justice Jagmohanlal Sinha of the Allahabad High Court disqualifying then prime minister Indira Gandhi on charges of electoral malpractices was a judgment of "great courage" that "shook" the nation, leading to imposition of Emergency, CJI N V Ramana said on Saturday.The Chief Justice of India (CJI), who along with President Ram Nath Kovind, took part in programmes, including the foundation stone-laying ceremony of the Uttar Pradesh National Law University here and a new building complex of the Allahabad High Court, recalled the rich traditions and contributions of one of the oldest high courts in the country."In 1975, it was Justice Jagmohanlal Sinha from the Allahabad High Court who passed the judgment that shook the nation, when he disqualified Smt. Indira Gandhi. It was a judgment of great courage, which could be said to have directly resulted in the declaration of Emergency. The consequences of which I do not want to elaborate now,” Justice Ramana said.The CJI said that the Allahabad High Court has a history of more than 150 years and its Bar and Bench have produced some of the greatest legal luminaries in the country.The June 12, 1975, verdict delivered by Justice Jagmohanlal Sinha of the Allahabad High Court had convicted the then prime minister of electoral malpractices and debarred her from holding any elected post under the Representative of Peoples Act.The verdict is widely believed to have led to imposition of Emergency on June 25, 1975.Indira Gandhi had won the 1971 Lok Sabha election from the Rae Bareli seat in Uttar Pradesh by defeating her opponent Raj Narain.The defeated leader had challenged her election alleging electoral malpractices saying that Gandhi's election agent Yashpal Kapoor was a government servant and that she used government officials for personal election related work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/verdict-disqualifying-then-pm-indira-gandhi-was-judgment-of-great-courage-cji-101631381308940.html
11-09-2021||India||CR Paatil says he is not in the race for Gujarat's CM post||Gujarat Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief CR Paatil said that he is not in the race to become the next chief minister of the state. Paatil said that there are speculations regarding who might become the next chief minister and his name also is making the rounds but he said he is not a contender.“Vijay Rupani has resigned from his post today. Naturally, there are a lot of names in the media for the new Chief Minister, including mine. I want to make it clear through this video that I am not in any such race,” the Lok Sabha MP from Navsari said.“Together with Vijay Rupani and the new Chief Minister appointed by the party, we will achieve our target of winning 182 out of 182 seats in the next assembly elections and work to strengthen the party,” Paatil added.The names of deputy chief minister Nitin Patel, state agriculture minister R C Faldu and Union ministers Purshottam Rupala and Mansukh Mandaviya along with Navsari MP CR Paatil are doing rounds as probable candidates for the chief minister of PM Modi’s home state.BJP leaders in the state said that a decision regarding the next chief minister will be taken by Prime Minister Narendra Modi after consultation with the BJP top brass.Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani on Saturday resigned from the post of chief minister and said that he will take on any new role assigned to him by the party. “I have resigned as chief minister of Gujarat. I was allowed to serve the state for five years. I have contributed to the development of the state. I will further do whatever is asked by my party,” the former chief minister said.The announcement came as a surprise to many as Rupani attended two virtual events with PM Modi but later in the afternoon visited Gujarat governor Acharya Devvrat and submitted his resignation letter in the company of BJP’s general secretary (organisation) B L Santosh and Gujarat state unit in-charge Bhupender Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cr-paatil-says-he-is-not-in-the-race-for-gujarat-s-cm-post-101631380206265.html
11-09-2021||India||IMD predicts heavy rainfall in several states for next 3-4 days. Check details||After the Delhi-NCR region witnessed heavy rainfall on Saturday, the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted that the rainfall in the national capital will continue till Sunday morning. RK Jenamani, a senior scientist at the IMD, said that Delhi will again receive a fresh bout of rain from September 17."Heavy rainfall in Delhi will continue till tomorrow morning. It will cover Delhi-NCR, Punjab and Rajasthan. Systems over east Rajasthan and another forming over the Bay of Bengal are likely to intensify further. Delhi will receive a fresh spell of rain from September 17-18," news agency PTI quoted Jenamani as saying.The weather forecasting agency has also predicted “heavy to very heavy” rainfall for Mumbai, the rest of Konkan, and Western Maharashtra for the next three to four days. An orange alert has been issued for Raigad, Pune, Ratnagiri, Satara and Kolhapur, which means local officials should remain prepared if rainfall intensifies. On the other hand, a yellow alert for Mumbai, Thane, Wardha, Palghar and Sindhudurg districts. The residents of the rest of Maharashtra should expect ‘light to moderate’ rain in the next three to four days.“The low-pressure area developed in the Bay of Bengal is expected to get converted into depression and move north-north-west in next couple of days. It is expected to bring more intense showers over Western Maharashtra, Konkan including Mumbai region starting from Sunday,” an IMD official said.Odisha is also expected to receive heavy to very heavy rain in the next two days due to a low-pressure area formed over the Bay of Bengal. The IMD said that the low-pressure area is very likely to concentrate into a depression off the Odisha-West Bengal coasts in the next 48 hours, according to PTI. The districts of Puri, Khurda, Cuttack, Jagatsinghpur, Kendrapara, Dhenkanal, Jajpur and Bhadrak are likely to receive heavy to very heavy downpour. Ganjam, Balasore, Nayagarh, Angul, Boudh, Sambalpur, Subarnapur, Bolangir and Mayurbhanj districts can also receive heavy rainfall.According to the MeT department, Uttarakhand will receive heavy rainfall from September 11-15. Western Uttar Pradesh is likely to witness a heavy downpour on Sunday, while Western Rajasthan on Sunday as well as Monday.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-predicts-heavy-rainfall-in-several-states-for-next-3-4-days-check-details-101631379513747.html
11-09-2021||India||Probe report on Kozhikode air crash lists non-adherence to SOP by pilot as probable cause||The final probe report on the Air India Express Kozhikode air crash that took place on August 7, 2020 released by the Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB) states the probable cause of the accident was non-adherence to the standard operating procedure by the pilot flying the aircraft. It also noted that the role of systemic failures as a contributory factor cannot be overlooked in this accident.“The probable cause of the accident was the non-adherence to SOP by the PF (Pilot Flying), wherein, he continued an unstabilized approach and landed beyond the touchdown zone, half way down the runway, in spite of ‘Go Around’ call by PM (Pilot Monitoring) which warranted a mandatory ‘Go Around’ and the failure of the PM to take over controls and execute a ‘Go Around’,” the report noted.On August 7, 2020 the Air India Express Boeing-737 plane repatriating Indians stranded in Dubai due to the pandemic overshot the runway in heavy rain, skidded off the table-top runway and broke into two parts after crashing nose-first into the ground. The flight was carrying 190 passengers and crew. It was the deadliest commercial aviation disaster in the country in 10 years and claimed 20 lives. Another Air India Express flight from Dubai overshot Mangalore’s table-top runway in 2010. It slid down a hill and left 158 people dead.On Thursday, Union civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia said the final probe report on the Air India Express Kozhikode air crash that took place on August 7, 2020 that has been delayed for over eight months will be made public in a few days.HT On January 21 reported that the final probe report due for submission in January 2021 will be delayed by two months. A civil aviation ministry order, reviewed by HT, had granted a two-month extension to the Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB), the regulatory body in charge of the investigation, to submit the report. Following an extension till March the final probe report was finally released on September 11.The report noted that the investigation team is of the opinion that the role of systemic failures as a contributory factor cannot be overlooked in this accident.“A large number of similar accidents/incidents that have continued to take place, more so in AIXL (Air India Express Ltd), reinforce existing systemic failures within the aviation sector. These usually occur due to prevailing safety culture that give rise to errors, mistakes and violation of routine tasks performed by people operating within the system,” it said.The report noted the actions and decisions of the PIC (Pilot in Command) were steered by a “misplaced motivation to land back at Kozhikode to operate next day morning flight AXB 1373.”It also said the unavailability of sufficient number of Captains at Kozhikode was the result of faulty AIXL HR policy which does not take into account operational requirement while assigning permanent base to its Captains. There was only 01 Captain against 26 First Officers on the posted strength at Kozhikode.“The PIC had vast experience of landing at Kozhikode under similar weather conditions. This experience might have led to over confidence leading to complacency and a state of reduced conscious attention that would have seriously affected his actions, decision making as well as CRM (CREW RESOURCE MANAGEMENT),” it noted.The report also noted the possibility of visual illusions causing errors in distance and depth perception (like black hole approach and up-sloping runway) cannot be ruled out due to degraded visual cues of orientation due to low visibility and sub- optimal performance of the PIC’s windshield wiper in rain.“The AIXL pilot training program lacked effectiveness and did not impart the requisite skills for performance enhancement. One of the drawbacks in training was inadequate maintenance and lack of periodic system upgrades of the simulator. Frequently recurring major snags resulted in negative training. Further, pilots were often not checked for all the mandatory flying exercises during simulator check sessions by the Examiners,” it said. Nineteen passengers were fatally injured and seventy five passengers suffered serious injuries in the accident while ninety passengers suffered minor or no injuries. Both pilots suffered fatal injuries while one cabin crew was seriously injured and three cabin crew received minor injuries.The draft report was shared with the Accredited Representative appointed by the National Transport Safety Board of the United States of America. Relevant comments from them have been incorporated in the report, it noted.There was fuel leak from both the wing tanks; however, there was no post-crash fire. The aircraft was destroyed and its fuselage broke into three sections. Both engines were completely separated from the wings.The AAIB in August last year appointed a team of five investigators to lead the probe and submit a report within five months.AAIB director-general Aurobindo Handa appointed Captain SS Chahar, a former Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA)-designated examiner for pilots of B737NG aircraft, as the investigator-in-charge tasked with completing its inquiry and submitting the report.He was assisted by Operations Expert Ved Prakash, Senior Aircraft Maintenance Engineer-B737 Mukul Bhardwaj, Group Captain Y S Dahiya, Aviation Medicine Expert, and Jasbir Singh Larhga, Deputy Director AAIB.The bureau’s role is to conduct an independent aircraft accident investigation, obtain a preliminary report to assist in setting up a committee of inquiry in accordance with International Civil Aviation Organisation rules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/probe-report-on-kozhikode-air-crash-lists-non-adherence-to-sop-by-pilot-as-probable-cause-101631378887977.html
11-09-2021||India||'CM stands for Chairs Musical': Trinamool, AAP, Congress react to Vijay Rupani's exit||As Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani made an unexpected exit on Saturday, the Congress, the Aam Aadmi Party, the Trinamool and other opposition parties reacted commenting on how BJP is 'scared' in states that are going to the polls soon.Vijay Rupani is the fourth chief minister to resign this year, following Uttarakhand's Tirath Singh Rawat, Trivendra Singh Rawat and Karnataka's BS Yediyurappa."Is anyone counting? The two really think CM stands for Chairs Musical," Trinamool leader Derek O'Brien tweeted.The Aam Aadmi Party said the BJP is scared of the AAP in both Uttarakhand and Gujarat. "AAP enters Uttrakhand, presents a robust & effective opposition to ruling BJP. BJP compelled to remove its CM. AAP breaches BJP's citadel, wins 27 seats in Surat, captures the space of opposition in Gujarat dislodging ineffective Congress. BJP forced to remove its CM," AAP leader Raghav Chadha said.All BJP-ruled states are suffering from deep-seated infighting inside the party, Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala said. "This shows the failure of PM's and HM's leadership. If their anointed CM, Vijay Rupani has failed Gujarat and its people after 5 years, the onus must lie at the doorsteps of Modiji. Time to rid Gandhi-Patel’s ‘Karambhoomi’ of the machiavellian BJP & its leadership," Surjewala tweeted."In the election states, people have made up their mind to change the BJP government, but they are constantly changing the Chief Minister to mislead the people. No matter how many Chief Ministers they change, the people have made up their mind to change the BJP itself!" the Indian Youth Congress tweeted in Hindi. Vijay Rupani on Saturday made the unexpected announcement of his resignation, which is being seen as BJP's governance overhaul drive, a part of which was executed in the recent Union cabinet reshuffle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cm-stands-for-chairs-musical-trinamool-aap-congress-react-to-vijay-rupani-s-exit-101631375699407.html
11-09-2021||India||India raises return of students with Australia||India on Saturday raised with Australia the issue of problems faced by Indian students wishing to travel to Australian campuses because of existing Covid-19 restrictions and asked for the issue to be addressed as soon as possible. Students from India have faced problems since last year in travelling to several countries, including China, the US, Canada, Germany and Australia. This issue was raised by external affairs minister S Jaishankar with his Australian counterpart during the first India-Australia 2+2 dialogue of defence and foreign ministers. Jaishankar said in his opening remarks at a media interaction following the meeting that he specifically took up with Payne problems faced by Indian students in Australia and “those wishing to go to Australia as well as the Indian-origin community” there. He added, “I urged that the difficulties faced by the students due to travel restrictions be sympathetically addressed as soon as possible.” Replying to a question on the same issue, Jaishankar said the government had heard a lot from the students and that “their frustrations, their feelings are completely understandable”. He said the matter was discussed in some detail and Payne had “shared with me what is Australia’s thinking about when students would be able to come”. Payne described herself as an “enthusiastic proponent” of welcoming the “much-loved Indian students back into the Australian education system as soon as it is possible”, and noted that there are currently more than 60,000 Indian students in her country. Research and modelling done by the Australian government has led to a four-phase pathway for the country’s Covid-19 response and progression out of restrictions. Once enough Australians have been vaccinated, the government will begin reopening and students will be able to return in phases three and four, she said. “There is shared desire on both sides to see that travel resumes between our countries as soon as it is safe to do so and I look forward to being one of the people at the airport to welcome the first arrivals of Indian students coming back to Australia,” Payne said. Jaishankar noted that India had been having “some problems” regarding the travel of students with “some other countries”. He said, “We had [problems] initially with the US, we are still having some issues with Canada. So I do want the students of the country and [their] parents...to know that it is something we take as a very high priority and take up very, very vigorously with our foreign partners.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-raises-return-of-students-with-australia-101631377027579.html
11-09-2021||India||Afghanistan’s soil must not become safe haven for terrorists: India, Australia at 2+2 meet||India and Australia on Saturday insisted Afghanistan’s soil must not become a safe haven for terrorists or be used for attacks on other nations, even as they called for steps to ensure an inclusive governing structure in Kabul and the safe departure of people wishing to leave the war-torn country. At the conclusion of the inaugural India-Australia 2+2 dialogue of defence and foreign ministers, the two sides asserted that their bilateral partnership and cooperation in groupings such as the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad was focused on ensuring an open and inclusive Indo-Pacific and not aimed at any country. Remarks by defence minister Rajnath Singh, external affairs minister S Jaishankar and their Australian counterparts, Marise Payne and Peter Dutton, at a media interaction following the meeting made it evident the situation in Afghanistan following the Taliban takeover on August 15, and mounting concerns about terror emanating from Afghan soil were a major part of the discussions. The significance of the meeting being held on the 20th anniversary of the 9/11 attacks in the US – an event that triggered the American invasion of Afghanistan – wasn’t lost on the ministers. Jaishankar said in his opening remarks this was a reminder of the importance of “combating terrorism without compromise”, and India appreciates the value of global cooperation given its location close to the “epicentre” of terror. In her opening remarks, Payne said: “Last month did see the fall of Kabul and along with the ongoing fight of terrorism, the future of Afghanistan remains a central concern to both of our countries.” Jaishankar said in response to a question that UN Security Council resolution 2593 emphasises “Afghanistan must not allow its soil to be used in any manner, by anybody for terrorism”. Payne added: “We do share a very strong interest in ensuring that Afghanistan never again becomes a safe haven for the breeding or the training of terrorists and that is an abiding concern of the international community.” The two sides, Jaishankar said, have concerns about the “inclusiveness of the dispensation” in Kabul, the treatment of women and minorities, the travel of Afghan nationals and humanitarian aid. Payne said Australia’s focus is on seeking safe passage for its citizens, foreign nationals and visa holders of other countries who want to leave Afghanistan. “We are very conscious of the impact of violence and breaches of human rights on the Afghanistan community and again would call for those fundamental human rights to be observed,” she said. The Taliban takeover exacerbated issues that were already affecting the Afghans, such as a drought and significant internal and external displacement of citizens, and international organisations such as UNHCR should be allowed unimpeded access to provide humanitarian support, she added. Payne, who is also Australia’s minister for women, spoke strongly for the rights of Afghan women and girls. Australia worked for two decades to ensure such rights, including in education and participation in the workforce, were preserved and the international community must now ensure these rights are “not wound back”, she said. People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that developments in Afghanistan were a key part of separate meetings held by the foreign and defence ministers. The Indian side also raised its concerns about terrorism from Afghan soil and Pakistan’s backing for the Taliban at all the meetings, the people said. Jaishankar’s reference to the Taliban setup in Kabul as a “dispensation” was an indication the Indian side is in no hurry to accord any recognition to the interim cabinet formed by the group this week. Responding to another question on the Chinese side referring to Quad as an “Asian NATO”, Jaishankar said this is a platform for India, Australia, Japan and the US to cooperate for the benefit of the world, and such a description amounts to a misrepresentation of reality. “I think a term like NATO is very much a Cold War term, looking back. I think Quad looks [to] the future, it reflects globalisation [and] the compulsions of countries to work together,” he said. There is no relationship between issues the Quad is focused on – such as vaccines, supply chains, education and connectivity –and NATO, he added. Payne said the Quad champions Asean centrality and has a “positive and practical agenda” that includes Covid-19 vaccines, climate change, critical technologies and countering “dangerous disinformation”. She added, “Our constructive engagement in an informal diplomatic network is overwhelmingly about contributing positively for that open, inclusive and resilient region in which we all want to live.” The four ministers asserted that India and Australia are committed to bolstering cooperation across the Indo-Pacific to ensure a free and open region based on a rules-based order and to improve coordination for maritime security and information-sharing. Singh said the two sides discussed institutional frameworks for collaboration in defence and fighting the pandemic, and emphasised the need to ensure free flow of trade and adherence to international rules. “On bilateral defence cooperation, we decided to expand military engagements across services, facilitate greater defence information-sharing and to work closely for mutual logistics support,” Singh said. Dutton described India as a “rising Indo-Pacific great power” and an “increasingly significant security partner for Australia”, and said the bilateral logistics support arrangement enabled Australia to airlift oxygen to India during the second wave of Covid-19 infections this year. He said he and Singh had agreed on new initiatives to further defence ties and engagement between the armed forces. Australia will invite India to participate in the Talisman Sabre exercise and continue to participate in India’s Malabar naval exercise along with the US and Japan. The two sides agreed to reinforce each other’s maritime domain awareness through increased information-sharing, and Australia will increase its defence diplomatic representation in New Delhi to support coordination on maritime security and greater information-sharing, Dutton said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afghanistans-soil-must-not-become-safe-haven-for-terrorists-india-australia-at-2-2-meet-101631373727332.html
11-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: Kejriwal asks AAP workers to work for nation, not for post and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.At national council meet, Kejriwal asks workers to work for the nation, not aspire for posts, poll ticketsAam Aadmi Party chief Arvind Kejriwal at the party’s national council meeting made it clear that party leaders should dedicate themselves towards working for the society and the nation to prove their worth. He said no one should aspire for posts and tickets like ‘other parties’. Read more.Caste and Covid-19, the two reasons for Vijay Rupani’s ousterGujarat on Saturday joined the list of states where the Bharatiya Janata Party leadership at the Centre opted to change the state leadership ahead of the assembly elections. After Karnataka where Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa was replaced by Basavaraj Bommai ahead of the 2023 elections and Uttarakhand where the incumbent Trivendra Singh Rawat was first replaced by Tirath Singh and later by Pushkar Dhami, Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani on Saturday announced his resignation. Both Gujarat and Uttarakhand will pick new assemblies in 2022. Read more.Boost for QUAD as India, Australia call for terror-free Afghanistan at 2+2 meetIndia and Australia have called for a terror-free Afghanistan as both nations hold a 2+2 ministerial dialogue in New Delhi. Watch here.When can Indian students return to Australia for studies? Ministers answerUnion foreign minister S Jaishankar on Saturday said that detailed discussions were held between him and his Australian counterpart Marise Payne regarding when Indian students can return to Australia for their higher studies at Australian universities. Read more.Players rush from England to join IPL bubble in the UAETwenty-four hours after the Manchester Test was cancelled, majority of the IPL players from India and England had left English shores for the UAE to take part in the lucrative franchise league that resumes on September 19. Some like Mumbai Indians’ Rohit Sharma, Jasprit Bumrah and Suryakumar Yadav have already joined the team’s base in the UAE. Read more.Yoga for diabetes: 5 asanas for managing the conditionDiabetes, a metabolic disorder, needs to be managed effectively in order to prevent one from the risk of several diseases like cardiac problems, stroke, kidney troubles, lower leg amputation, blindness etc. Apart from medication, the patients are advised to lose weight, modify their dietary habits by incorporating low GI (Glycemic Index) foods in their diet, do yoga and other exercises to keep blood sugar level in check. Read more.Mallika Sherawat changed her name after dad said she'd tarnish family name: 'It was my rebellion against patriarchy'Mallika Sherawat had previously revealed that she had changed her name when she entered the film industry. The actor was born as Reema Lamba and ran away from home to become an actor in Bollywood. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-kejriwal-asks-aap-workers-to-work-for-nation-not-for-post-101631371448763.html
11-09-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: Sept 11, 2001 — America under attack: Thousands feared dead in multiple terrorist strikes on US cities||Washington- Fortress America was breached today by the world’s most spectacular terrorist attack. In the first of a series of coordinated attacks, two hijacked planes crashed into and levelled New York’s 110-storey World Trade Center. In Washington DC, another hijacked aircraft wrecked parts of the Pentagon and a car bomb damaged the State Department. Thousands of people are feared dead. US President George Bush said the explosions were an “apparent terrorist attack” and said “terrorism against our nation will not stand”. He promised the US would hunt down those responsible. A Boeing 767, also believed to have been hijacked, also crashed in western Pennsylvania. The attacks began shortly before 9 a.m. local time (2 p.m. EST), when two hijacked passenger planes flew directly into the upper floors of the World Trade Center towers in the heart of New York’s financial district. Shortly afterwards in Washington DC an aircraft hit the helicopter pad at the Pentagon. One side of the five-sided US military headquarters collapsed and there are an unknown number of casualties. A third explosion in New York an hour after the initial crashes brought the south tower of the World Trade Center crashing to the ground. A witness said he saw bodies falling from the towers and people jumping out. Minutes later, the Center’s north tower also collapsed. “I just saw the building I work in come down,” said businessman Gabriel Ioan, outside City Hall, with a cloud of smoke and ash from the World Trade Center behind him. “I just saw the top of Trade Two come down.” The ash was two to three inches deep in places. People wandered dazed and terrified. Senator Chuck Hagel said: “This is the second Pearl Harbour. I don’t think that I overstate it.” Authorities had been trying to evacuate the 50,000 people who work in the twin towers. New Yorkers have been told to head to the north of the city away from the disaster zone, and bridges and tunnels in Manhattan have been closed amid fears of further attacks. Subway lines were shut down and trading on Wall Street suspended. The Federal Aviation Administration said it was diverting transatlantic flights headed for the US to Canada after earlier grounding all flights in response to the attacks in New York and Washington. Thousands of people have been evacuated from the White House and all other government and public buildings in Washington DC and New York, including the Treasury, the White House, the UN headquarters and the State Department. Chicago has also begun evacuations. Other US cities are on alert. Borders with Canada and Mexico have been sealed. An Arab journalist said that bin Laden had warned of an unprecedented attack against the US a fortnight ago. From Abu Dhabi there was a report that a Palestinian group had owned responsibility but the group later denied these reports.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/american-under-attack-thousands-feared-dead-in-multiple-terrorist-strikes-on-us-cities-101631369227554.html
11-09-2021||India||‘Concern about inclusiveness’: Jaishankar on Afghanistan dispensation||External affairs minister S Jaishankar on Saturday said there is a concern about the inclusiveness of the dispensation, about the treatment of women and minorities in Afghanistan as he stated Afghanistan was a key issue of discussion in the India, Australia 2+2 dialogue."We had a detailed exhange of views on Afghanistan with Australia," the minister said adding that the views of the two countries are very similar and can be summed up by United National Security Council Resolution 2593. "...which emphasises most of all that Afghanistan must not allow its soil to be used in any manner by anybody for terrorism," the minister said in what is the first statement coming from India after the Taliban announced their interim government on Tuesday this week, under the leadership of Supreme leader Akhundzada.First formal diplomatic contact between India, Taliban: Safe return of nationals a priority"But apart from that, there is a concern about the inclusive of the dispensation, concerns about the treatment of women and minorities, matters related to travel of Afghans, issues regarding humanitarian assistance. So, it is an evolving situation," the foreign minister said, without naming the Taliban.Australian foreign minister Marise Payne too said the humanitarian crisis in Afghanistan is being seriously watched by the international community. "For 20 years, we have worked for the people of Afghanistan," the minister said.India has maintained a ‘wait and watch’ stance on the question of recognising the present government in Afghanistan, like the international community. It emphasised time and again that the focus at present is to help Afghans.The interim Cabinet announced by the Taliban has drawn criticism from the United States which pointed out the fact that the cabinet does not include women and mostly comprise known faces of the Taliban leadership. The inclusion of sanctioned Haqqani members Sirajuddin Haqqqani and Khalil Haqqani has also drawn criticism. Over a dozen of members in the Cabinet are sanctioned, reports claimed. To this, the Taliban took objection and urged the United States to remove these names from its sanction list.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/concern-about-inclusiveness-jaishankar-on-afghanistan-dispensation-101631368085677.html
11-09-2021||India||Caste and Covid-19, the two reasons for Vijay Rupani’s ouster||Gujarat on Saturday joined the list of states where the Bharatiya Janata Party leadership at the Centre opted to change the state leadership ahead of the assembly elections. After Karnataka where Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa was replaced by Basavaraj Bommai ahead of the 2023 elections and Uttarakhand where the incumbent Trivendra Singh Rawat was first replaced by Tirath Singh and later by Pushkar Dhami, Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani on Saturday announced his resignation. Both Gujarat and Uttarakhand will pick new assemblies in 2022.Among the reasons cited by party leaders for the 65-years old Rupani’s replacement are his response to Covid-19 and his caste. The Jain CM’s performance in facing the challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic and failing to build cohesive political support for the BJP which still faces challenges from the Patidars, a community with immense political power that can swing electoral outcome, were stated as key determinants in the decision.A change of face a little over a year ahead of the elections is expected to blunt anti-incumbency in the state. The term of the 182 member assembly ends in February 2023.A senior party leader based in Delhi said the change should not be attributed to Rupani’s performance but is part of the BJP’s policy of fostering newer leadership. “The BJP believes in leadership development process whereby newer people are given a chance to be in charge. In Gujarat that is what has happened… it’s a generational change. New leaders will take over the charge with enthusiasm,” said the functionary.However, a section of party leaders also said the resignation is an indication that the central command is not inclined to go to polls with incumbent leaders in states where public perception is not in their favour.“Even though the chief minister carried forward the development agenda that was set by Prime Minister Modi when he was the chief minister of the state there were many issues that could be attributed to for this change. The first and foremost being the state’s response to the Covid-19 challenge,” said a second leader. He went on to add “…Since he also did not meet the criterion that was arrived at after doing the electoral calculations the party decided that he should be replaced and a newer person given charge till elections.”The central leadership that included general secretary (organisation) BL Santhosh and Union minister and state in-charge Bhupendra Yadav held a series of meetings with the state party leaders in the past few months to get an insight into the public sentiment against the CM.In April this year, the High Court of Gujarat took a serious view of the state‘s preparedness for the pandemic and said the manner in which the government had dealt with the challenge was “not satisfactory and not transparent”.There was uproar over the lack of oxygen supply in hospitals that led to deaths, hospital beds were also in short supply.Rupani, a non Patidar leader had replaced Anandiben Patel in 2016 in the aftermath of the agitation by the politically powerful Patidar community that was rallying for being brought under the ambit of the castes based on quotas. He was sworn in for a second term after the party won the 2017 assembly elections even though there were reservations among the state leaders on his elevation.The party has been concerned over the state unit leaders losing hold over the electorate. In 2017 when the party returned to power it won just 99 of the 182 seats down from the previous election’s 115. Later, the Aam Aadmi Party‘s performance in the Surat municipal Corporation rang alarm bells again. The party has officially dismissed the AAP‘s emergence in the state, but it is aware of the simmering discontent among the Patidars over the delay in taking back cases that were filed against those booked in the 2015 agitation, said a third leader.This is not the first time that Rupani‘s credentials as a leader have been called into question. After the 2017 election a section in the party was not inclined to support his candidacy as chief minister and had preferred Nitin Patel for the top job. “The two names that were proposed in 2017 were Nitin Patel a powerful leader of the Kadva Patels, and the Leuva Patel leader Jitu Vaghani who also has clout among the Patidars but was later made the party chief. The choice of a non Patidar CM was seen as an unorthodox move, but had support from the PM and Amit Shah and he was the RSS’s pick as well,” said the third leader.Political commentator Ghanshaym Shah said there was pressure from the party cadre and the Patidar community to change the Chief Minister. “The party cadre had relayed to the central leadership the need to have the Patidars on their side so the change can be attributed to this pressure,” he said.On the speculation that the party could favour moving the assembly elections to the first half of 2022 to coincide with five other states including Uttar Pradesh; a senior election commission official said, elections can be held ahead of scheduled only if the term of assembly is set to expire in the next six months. In this case, since elections are 15 months away, polls ahead of schedule will only be possible if the state assembly is dissolved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/caste-and-covid-19-the-two-reasons-for-vijay-rupani-s-ouster-101631368266945.html
11-09-2021||India||When can Indian students return to Australia for studies? Ministers answer||Union foreign minister S Jaishankar on Saturday said that detailed discussions were held between him and his Australian counterpart Marise Payne regarding when Indian students can return to Australia for their higher studies at Australian universities.The Australian foreign minister said that it is following the modelling suggested by Peter Doherty Institute for Infection and Immunity and after the Australian government vaccinates its citizens to a certain level it can take a decision on reopening in a manner that will allow foreign students to return to Australian campuses where they have enrolled for studies.“Our response in Australia has been based on research and modelling suggested by the Doherty Institute and that gave us a four-phase pathway in terms of our response to Covid and our progression through and out of the restrictions in place. We are on our way to vaccinating Australians to a level which will give us the confidence to reopen in a manner that will enable students to return in phase 3 and phase 4. There is a shared desire on both sides to see that travel resumes,” Payne said at the press conference held after the India-Australia 2+2 ministerial meeting.Jaishankar said the problems with students returning to their universities or joining universities in courses they have taken admission in are not limited to Australia but with the US and Canada as well. He said that problems have been sorted out to some extent with the American authorities but some problems remain to be solved with regard to the Canadian government. He further added that these issues which concern higher education in foreign countries are being taken on high priority by the Centre.“The frustrations felt by students and their parents are completely understandable. Students would like to be in the institutions where they were studying or were already studying. We discussed it in some detail today. Minister Payne also told me what Australia thinks about this situation,” Jaishankar said.Australian foreign minister Payne also said that she is one of the ‘most enthusiastic proponents of welcoming our much-loved Indian students’ back to Australia. “We are ready to welcome back Indian students as soon as possible. The diaspora is present and very much active where I live and where I work (Western Sydney). We miss their engagements sincerely,” Payne said.Payne also said that there are over 60,000 students in Australia. “I do definitely understand the desire that students have for on-campus and in-country experience. The Covid-19 restrictions have impacted travel to and from Australia, even for Australians themselves. Even ministers like us have to comply with quarantine restrictions,” Payne said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/when-can-indian-students-return-to-australia-for-studies-ministers-answer-101631365452886.html
11-09-2021||India||IRCTC to launch India's first luxury cruise liner. Check date, itinerary||IRCTC will start India's first indigenous cruise liner from September 18 and bookings can be done on its website, the railway PSU has said. "IRCTC has joined hands and signed the agreement with Cordelia Cruises being operated by M/s Waterways Leisure Tourism Pvt Ltd for promotion and marketing of the first indigenous luxury cruise in India. This is another incredible luxury travel offering under IRCTC's umbrella of tourism services to the public," IRCTC said in a statement earlier this week."Cordelia Cruises is India's premium cruise liner. It aspires to promote and drive the cruise culture in India through experiences that are stylish, luxurious, and most importantly, inherently Indian. It is a cruise liner for Indians catering to the way Indians love to holiday," the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation said.IRCTC said guests onboard the ship will have an experience of sailing to some of the best Indian and international destinations like Goa, Diu, Lakshadweep, Kochi, and Sri Lanka. Cordelia Cruises’ first phase will sail through Indian destinations with its base at Mumbai and the cruise will be shifted to Chennai from May next year and set sail to Sri Lankan destinations like Colombo, Galle, Trincomalee and Jaffna. Mumbai-Goa-Mumbai, Mumbai-Diu-Mumbai, Mumbai-At sea-Mumbai, Kochi-Lakshadweep-At sea-Mumbai and Mumbai-At sea-Lakshadweep-At sea-Mumbai are some of the popular tour itineraries of Cordelia Cruises."While travelling on Cordelia Cruises, one can enjoy a lot of recreational and leisure activities such as restaurants, swimming pool, bars, open cinemas, theatre, kids area, gymnasium," the IRCTC statement said.Crew members are fully vaccinated according to Covid-19 protocol and their daily health checks, hourly sanitisation of the facilities, air filtration and social distancing norms would also be followed, IRCTC said. The number of guests will also be limited according to the official mandate. There is also a fully functional medical centre onboard the cruise equipped with all the required essential items.According to PTI, IRCTC is also in the process of signing agreements with all major international cruise liners. The news agency reported that IRCTC will provide their bookings on its web portal as soon as the Covid-19 situation normalises and the international cruises start their operations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/irctc-to-launch-india-s-first-luxury-cruise-liner-check-date-itinerary-101631364328973.html
11-09-2021||India||Rains threaten kharif crops, onion prices||Moisture-propelling weather patterns across India have re-activated the monsoon system again, flooding several states and risking key summer-sown or kharif crops, including onion, a widely consumed price-sensitive food item. A cyclonic circulation over the Bay of Bengal, dumping heavy rainfall in West Bengal, moisture drafts due to a low-pressure formation over northern states and a rainy trail across Gujarat, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Odisha has flooded large parts of several states, endangering crops. Rice fields in many districts of the food bowl states of Punjab, Haryana and parts of Uttar Pradesh have gone under water, growers said, while Delhi witnessed historic rains on Saturday. A monsoon going into hyperactive mode in a month when it should begin tapering off could bring misery to the farm sector, which supports half of India’s population. The India Meteorological Department, the national weather agency, in an alert on Saturday said there could be “damage to horticulture and standing crops in some areas due to inundation”. After hampering planting of summer-sown crops such as soybean, rice, cotton and vegetables due to a long dry spell from mid-June to mid-July, flooding has now affected crops in states such as Uttarakhand, parts of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal and Madhya Pradesh. Lower yields or output can stoke food prices, as job cuts post Covid-19 has impacted nearly one million Indians, according to data from the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy, a private data firm. “Onions, a staple in most Indian households, are likely to make consumers cry again with erratic monsoon leading to an eventual delay in harvest,” Crisil Ltd, a ratings firm, said in a research note Saturday. Maharashtra, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh are major onion-producing states, accounting for over 75% of total summer onion output. Although harvest time is a month away, Crisil Ltd’s “on-ground report” said onion seed transplantation suffered critical lags due to on-off rains, potentially delaying the time onion crop takes to mature. Summer onions account for no more than 30% of India’s annual supply, but they are critical to prices stability because they replenish supplies during the lean September-November, period. Experts hold that longer dry spells followed by short periods of heavy rainfall are tell-tale signs of a changing climate’s impact on the monsoon, which waters 60% of the country’s net-sown area. “If heavy rainfall persists, yields may be affected, although mild rainfall in September is beneficial,” said Ashok Renjen, a former agronomist with Punjab agriculture department. The IMD on Saturday forecast “fairly widespread” rainfall with “isolated heavy to very heavy falls”, which correlates to hazardous rainfall, in many states until September 14, especially in parts of Konkan and Goa, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Odisha. While rice planting stood at normal levels for the current week, at 106 million hectares, farmers have sown oilseeds over 17 million hectares, which is also considered normal, according to official data. Pulses, another essential basket of legumes, have been sown over 13.9 million hectares, marginally higher than normal. “Standing water could cause crops to wilt,” said Gambhir Singh, a farmer from Haryana’s Babbain region, speaking in Hindi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rains-threaten-kharif-crops-onion-prices-101631361846891.html
11-09-2021||India||As Vijay Rupani resigns, CR Paatil, Nitin Patel among frontrunners for CM post||The BJP leadership has not yet commented on Vijay Rupani's sudden resignation but reports said that the process of announcing Rupani's successor ahead of the assembly election next year is already on and the frontrunners are deputy chief minister Nitin Patel, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya, state Cabinet minister RC Faldu, Gujarat BJP chief CR Paatil, state BJP vice president Gordhan Zadafia.Though the resignation that Rupani submitted to the governor on Saturday comes as unexpected, the change of guard in BJP-rules states ahead of elections is not new as this is the fourth resignation of a chief minister this year, following Uttarkhand's Trivendra Singh Rawat, Tirath Singh Rawat and Karnataka's BS Yeddyurappa."People of Gujarat would have appreciated has Mr Rupani resigned for his monumental mismanagement of Covid crisis. This resignation comes purely to take care of electoral assembly polls in mind," Gujarat MLA Jignesh Mevani tweeted.Here is a look at the frontrunnersNitin Patel is currently serving as the deputy chief minister of Gujarat. He is also the minister of finance, health, medical education among others.Mansukh Mandaviya belongs to the Leuva Patel community of Bhavnagar and is the Union health minister. He is a Rajya Sabha member from GujaratRC Faldu was the former president of the state BJP unit and is the present Cabinet minister of agriculture, rural development and transport.CR Paatil is the present chief of the state BJP unit. He represents Navsari in the Lok Sabha.Gordhan Zadafia is a Gujarat BJP leader with roots in the Vishva Hindu Parishad.While there was a buzz regarding Uttarakhand and Karnataka, the party did not drop any hint regarding the removal of Vijay Rupani. Reports said Union home minister Amit Shah will reach Gujarat on Saturday night while the state party leadership has already met the MLAs.“The journey of Gujarat’s development should be moved under new leadership that’s why I have resigned. Will perform the new role assigned by the party. In the last 5 years. I have got full support and cooperation of people during elections and by-elections," Rupani said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-vijay-rupani-resigns-cr-patil-nitil-patel-among-frontrunners-for-cm-post-101631359572028.html
11-09-2021||India||From development to relay race: What Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani said after quitting||Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani said on Saturday that the development journey of the state should continue under Prime Minister Narendra Modi's guidance and the new leadership as he resigned from the top post. Vijay Rupani met Governor Acharya Devvrat and submitted his resignation from the post of Gujarat chief minister. Along with Rupani, state BJP in-charge Bhupendra Yadav, Union ministers Purshottam Rupala and Mansukh Mandaviya, and state cabinet colleagues deputy chief minister Nitin Patel, Bhupndrasinh Chudasama and Pradeepsinh Jadeja also met the governor and submitted their resignations.Vijay Rupani resigned as the chief minister of Gujarat just ahead of the elections to the 182-member assembly are due in December next year. The 65-year-old Rupani was sworn in as the chief minister for the second time in December 2017. "I was allowed to serve the state for five years. I have contributed to the development of the state. I will further do whatever is asked by my party,” Rupani said. “I thank Prime Minister Narendra Modi for giving a common worker like me this opportunity to serve the people of the state as chief minister,” he also said.Also read | Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani resigns, says 'in accordance to BJP's principle'Vijay Rupani said that the BJP is an ideology-driven party and the roles of workers keep changing there. “In BJP, there has been a tradition that responsibilities of party workers change from time to time. I will be ready to take whatever responsibility that the party will give me in the future,” he added.Asked about reasons for his resignation, Rupani said, “In BJP, it is like a relay race for party workers. One gives the baton to the other.”Rupani, who is from the Jain community which has around 2% population in the state, said the Bharatiya Janata Party will decide about who will be the next Gujarat chief minister as he denied that he had any differences with state BJP president CR Patil. There is speculation that his successor may be from the Patidar community.Vijay Rupani first became the Gujarat chief minister on August 7, 2016, after the resignation of incumbent Anandiben Patel and continued in the office after the BJP's victory in the 2017 assembly elections. The BJP won 99 of the state's 182 assembly seats and Congress got 77 seats in the 2017 state election.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-development-to-relay-race-what-gujarat-cm-vijay-rupani-said-after-quitting-101631359120404.html
11-09-2021||India||Low pressure over Rajasthan behind Delhi's massive rain, more predicted | 10 updates||The short and heavy spell of rain will continue to lash Delhi and its adjoining areas on Saturday, the weather department has predicted. From tomorrow onwards, there will be a gradual reduction while rainfall will continue in western Rajasthan and Uttarakhand.The monsoon withdraws from Delhi generally by September 25. Another wet spell is predicted around September 17-18, the weather department said.Here are the latest updates of Delhi rain1. According to IMD, a low-pressure area lies over East Rajasthan and the neighbourhood with associated cyclonic circulation extending up to middle tropospheric levels. The low-pressure area and its remnant are likely to persist over the same area during 3-4 days.2. Weathermen have identified this low pressure as a long-lived one that entered through Andhra Pradesh and then moved towards Maharashtra and Gujarat and is now lying over Rajasthan.3. Even before Saturday's rain, Delhi recorded the highest rainfall in 46 years. According to the IMD, Delhi records 648.9 mm of rainfall during the monsoon season. This year, the city already reported 1,100 mm of rainfall till Friday.‘Cleared up within 30 minutes...’: Aviation minister Scindia on waterlogging at Delhi airport4. Delhi reported 636 mm, 544 mm, 876 mm, 370.8 mm and 505.5 mm during the monsoon season in 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015, respectively.5. More rain is expected over Delhi, Punjab, Haryana on Saturday which will subsequently reduce, the weather department said. Heavy rain is predicted over Uttarakhand between September 11 and September 15 and over west Rajasthan on September 11 and 12.6. Major traffic disruption was caused in the city while the Delhi traffic police issued an advisory informing about the road conditions. Overall, traffic was slow throughout the day.7. Parts of Delhi Airport went under water following the heavy rainfall. The visuals of Delhi airport's submerged terminal 3 went viral on social media. "We regret the inconvenience caused. Due to sudden heavy rain, for a short period, there was waterlogging at the forecourt. Our team was immediately aligned to look into it and the issue has been resolved," the airport authorities said.8. Vistara, SpiceJet Ltd, IndiGo and other airlines issued travel advisories, asking passengers to check the status of their flights.9. Several flights were either cancelled or delayed because of the incessant rain since morning. The airport authorities said that operations became normal since 9am. Four domestic flights -- two of SpiceJet and one each of IndiGo and Go First -- were diverted to Jaipur. One international flight -- Emirates flight from Dubai to Delhi -- was diverted to Ahmedabad, reports said.10. Civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia said after the images of a flooded terminal came to the surface, he spoke to the airport officials and was told that the waterlogged forecourt was cleared up within 30 minutes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/low-pressure-over-rajasthan-behind-delhi-s-massive-rain-more-predicted-10-updates-101631355009230.html
11-09-2021||India||Key numbers show economy is finally turning; here’s how to read them||Saturday’s numbers around the Index of Industrial Production (IIP) – a measure of economic activity – suggest the economy is finally turning. On an annual basis, the index expanded 11.5% in July. Over last month, it grew 7.2%. In other words, the metric continues to grow and is now at pre-pandemic levels. First off, what is the IIP and how good a measure is it of economic growth? The IIP is a composite indicator. It’s a number, and the rate at which that number increases, expressed as a per cent, measures short-term changes in the quantity of production of a basket of industrial products during a given period. How much factories raise output of goods by – that’s is an important dipstick for many other indicators, such as demand, people’s spending levels and future demand. Demand can only pick up when consumers get access to money, either as income or credit. The IIP measures sub-indices for primary goods (for instance, bread), capital goods (machinery), intermediate goods (say, a mobile-phone chip) and infrastructure and construction goods (like cement). Further, the sub-indices also measure the output of consumer durables and consumer non-durables. Manufacturing is a key sector tracked. For instance, the latest data show that consumer durables output rose 19.5% in July on a month-on-month basis. This is a slowdown from a rise of 31.2% in June but confirms that white goods continue to be in expansion mode. These are signs of factories humming again. The abatement in Covid infection rates are the biggest reason for the uptick, and barring another wave, things should look good. However, the green shoots continue to mask the underlying weaknesses from a Covid double blow. About 2.5 crore rural households demanded unskilled, menial jobs under the make-work rural jobs guarantee programme, MNREGA, in August, official data show. The government was able to provide paid work to only 1.6 crore households under the programme, which points to a lack of enough supply of jobs (funding) to meet demand. A proprietary gauge of manufacturing activity in August fell, compared to the previous month, suggesting industrial output has yet to stabilise. The IHS Markit India Manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) came in at 52.3 in August, compared to 55.3 in July, an IHS media statement said. A PMI number above 50 is indicative of economic expansion. This means that manufacturing is picking pace. An area of concern is employment. Unemployment in August rose 8.32% from 6.95% in July, according to the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy or CMIE. Mounting unemployment will pile more pressure on the Modi government if economic expansion doesn’t correlate to more jobs, which is not always the case. In any jobs survey, people with jobs are categorised as employed. People without jobs but looking for work are considered unemployed. The labour force participation rate is simply equal to people who are employed plus people who are not employed. In a rough-and-ready sense, the unemployment rate is then simply the number of unemployed divided by the total labour force times 100. Capital-intensive growth, for instance, a scenario where automation drives profits, can lead to fewer jobs being added to the economy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/key-numbers-show-economy-is-finally-turning-here-s-how-to-read-them-101631354947495.html
11-09-2021||India||Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani resigns, says 'in accordance with BJP's principles'||Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani tendered his resignation to governor Acharya Devvratas on Saturday and said he is ready to take new responsibilities assigned to him by the party. The resignation is in accordance with the party's principle of providing all party workers an equal opportunity. Gujarat is slated to go to the polls in 2022.As Rupani went to meet the governor, he was accompanied by the Bharatiya Janata Party national general secretary Nitin Patel, according to reports by local media outlets.Rupani spoke to media persons and announced his resignation without outlining any specific reason behind his decision. The BJP has not yet commented on his resignation.Thanking PM Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and the people of the state for giving him the opprtunity to add to the development of the state, Rupani said he is ready to take on any new role that the party deems fit for him.“I have resigned as chief minister of Gujarat. I was given the opportunity to serve the state for five years. I will further do whatever is asked by my party,” Rupani said.Rupani reached the Raj Bhavan shortly after PM Modi inaugurated Sardardham Bhavan in Gujarat's Ahmedabad and performed 'bhoomi pujan' of Sardardham Phase-II Kanya Chhatralaya (girls' hostel) through video conferencing.According to reports by local news agencies, Bharatiya Janata Party's national general secretary BL Santhosh is also currently camping in the state. Navsari MP and Gujarat party unit chief C R Paatil also held a series of meetings with Santhosh, agencies reported.Earlier on Thursday, Union home minister Amit Shah arrived in Ahmedabad on a personal visit, a Gujarat BJP leader told news agency PTI. Shah was reportedly scheduled to leave on Friday night. “He has come to Ahmedabad for some personal reason and will leave for Delhi on Friday morning,” a BJP leader familiar with developments related to Shah’s visit told the news agency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-chief-minister-vijay-rupani-resigns-101631353512670.html
11-09-2021||India||Medicines from the sky: Drones to deliver vaccines, drugs in Telangana||Civil aviation minister Jyotiradtiya Scindia on Saturday launched “a first of its kind” Medicine From the Sky project aimed at transporting vaccines and other essential products to remote areas using drones. The Medicine From the Sky project will be taken up on a pilot basis in 16 green zones in Telangana and later scaled up on the national level based on data, Scindia said. “This 'Medicines from the Sky' project will be taken up in 16 green zones. The data will be analysed for three months. We along with the health ministry, IT ministry, state government and the Centre will together analyse the data and make a model for the whole country. Today is a revolutionary day not only for Telangana but for the whole country,” the minister said.Scindia said the new drone policy brought out by the NDA government at the Centre recently eased rules regarding drone operations in the country by reducing the number of forms that need to be filled to operate them from 25 to 5 and the type of thefee charged from the operator from 72 to 4. While no permission is needed to fly drones under the green zone, a nod is needed in the yellow zone but red zones are no-fly areas.Scindia said the drone policy was envisaged under the visionary leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The minister added that an interactive aerospace map is being prepared and various zones are being earmarked with the help of states.The Medicine From the Sky project is an initiative of Telangana in partnership with the World Economic Forum, NITI Aayog, and HealthNet Global of the Apollo Hospitals. The Medicine From the Sky project was launched on experimental Beyond Visual Line of Sight (BVLOS) drone flights for the delivery of vaccines using the identified airspace of the Vikarabad district.From Saturday, BVLOS drone flights will travel a distance of 9-10km and carry consignments of vaccines, medical samples and other healthcare items. According to reports, trials of delivering medicines and vaccines using drones began from Thursday under the Telangana government's ambitious 'Medicine From The Sky' project. The trial flights are to be conducted till October 10 at Vikarabad and a majority of them will be by tech start-up Skye Air Mobility, PTI reported earlier.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/medicines-from-the-sky-drones-to-deliver-vaccines-drugs-in-telangana-101631351421934.html
11-09-2021||India||CPM’s Brinda Karat underscores significance of women’s reservation bill in conversation with HT||This Sunday, it will be 25 years since the first time the Women’s Reservation Bill was introduced in Parliament. The bill which proposed to amend the Constitution of India to reserve 1/3rd of all seats in the Lok Sabha and state assemblies for women was introduced by the Deve Gowda government in 1996. There were four attempts to do so but it was only passed in Rajya Sabha during the UPA government in 2010, with both Congress, the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Left parties pushing it through. However, since then, it has lapsed as regional parties, and even critics within the Congress and the BJP, have stalled its passage. HT’s Sunetra Choudhury spoke to CPM’s politburo member and former MP Brinda Karat about whether this proposed law is still relevant and why women need quotas in politics. Here are the excerpts from the interview. Q: Has anything changed since then?Karat: Well, I remember that day 25 years ago. We were all so happy and we really felt that it was going to usher in a mechanism to fill the gap between men and women, and just the following day, this issue came on the reservation raised by the BJP MPs at the time, and from then to 2021, there have been so many excuses - from obviously a parliament or government or governments who have not thought it to be top on the agenda and that is the reality. Q: We remember those images very clearly of you and Sushma Swaraj, all holding hands outside Rajya Sabha because the bill had been passed. How is it that you had the Congress and the BJP, two major parties, supporting this and yet it seems impossible?Karat: I don’t think it’s impossible at all, it just requires political will. Now, for example, both the Congress and the BJP had many sections within their parties, as you rightly say, which oppose the bill. The TMC at that time abstained from the bill, that was also a very unexpected gesture because if you remember, there were a lot of histrionics by TMC MPs in the Lok Sabha but when it came to the actual passage of the bill, they abstained from it. But the political will was also shown by the Chairperson of the Rajya Sabha. If you recall, there were very ugly physical attacks which were sought to be made on the minister, and women of all parties stood as sort of a wall around him. The person just behind me stood on the table and smashed the glass and was bleeding on the table next to me. But at the end of the day, there was a political will that ensured that the bill was discussed, debated and then adopted. So, the first issue here is why is the present government, with such a strong majority and having promised the bill in 2014, not pushing for it? Change the constitution, destroy a state like Kashmir, everything they can do with that majority but why have they not used that majority to get the Women’s Reservation Bill passed? So, the first question is, if the Bharatiya Janata Party-led Modi government have the political will to get this bill through? I think no. And there are many reasons for that. One of the reasons is also a kind of a cultural framework in which they operate. One of the objections before the OBC reservation within the reservation was if you bring more women into politics you’re going to destroy the ideal family. Because every woman will then have the ambition to be in the public life, and what’s going to happen to the ideal family? Which represents our Sanskriti, which represents our civilisation, our women whose main job is to bring up children, preferably sons. What is going to happen to all of that? So, there are cultural reasons also within the BJP’s ideology which baulks at bringing legislation as a right for women to be at least one-third. So, I say today, it’s good you have 78 women, it’s the highest Indian Lok Sabha has ever had, but it’s still just 14.4 per cent. If you would have the bill, there would be 180 women in the Lok Sabha. So where are the missing women? And why are they missing? That’s the issue.Q: Would you like to remind people exactly what kind of role each party played?Karat: Firstly, I think it’s positive that regional parties, such as the TMC, the Biju Janata Dal, the YSR Congress, have been successful in giving a better representation to women compared to the national parties. If you look at the Lok Sabha now, actually it is the regional parties who have given a much representation to women. And as far as the Left is concerned, although we did have much improved numbers of candidates in the last Lok Sabha election, as you can see, we didn’t win the seats, so we have only one member in the Lok Sabha right now which is the worst we have ever had. So, certainly, as far as regional parties including TMC is concerned, it is better, but you have to look at the national perspective. And these parties within their own states, for their own reasons, are within their own parties. Allegiance to the leader, for example, is a very important part of regional parties but if you look at the national perspective, that is why these parties play a completely different role when it comes to parliament. So the point is, there are differences within parties, but unfortunately because of those differences it’s not just women who suffer, I would say, it’s democracy that suffers. Q: The other thing you talked about, the bleeding arm of the MP who was trying to protest, it’s interesting to see that Parliament has always had strident protests like we witnessed recently.Karat: That’s absolutely true, and also it requires the commitment of the chair to push through legislation, and I am sure that the present Speaker, if he was given an opportunity by the party in power to steer the reservation bill through, would be strong and committed enough to do it. But the question that I again raise is, why is the BJP government not even listing it in its agenda of business? I mean, we talk about being the vishwa guru but unfortunately but fare badly on a measure of social justice for women. Out of 193 countries, when women’s representation in the lower house is concerned, the elected parliament, we are at the 135th or 136th spot, I mean that’s a pretty shocking statistic, isn’t it?Q: But why didn’t the UPA push for it between 2010 and 2014?Karat: No, they didn’t have the numbers. If they worked hard enough to get the numbers, as they did for many other reservations. So, again I think, numbers was an issue at that time for UPA 2 because they were dependent on certain parties which were not in favour of the women’s reservation bill. The kind of political leadership that was required to push it through, they failed at that. And you know their default was to set up a UPA committee, have a select committee, let’s have another select committee. I mean they have had 3 committees on the women’s reservation bill. I don’t think any other bill has gone through that torture process. And if you look at another figure, Sunetra, how long is it going to take? People ask me every often, why do you want legislation? Aren’t you notorious enough to get people representation? A lot of women feel why are we people asking for quotas et cetera? Look at this figure - in the 1st Parliament of India after Independence, where women had come out in such large numbers, we had 24 women. That’s in 1952. In 2019, when the last elections were held, we got 78. So if it takes 73 years to get about 50 more women in parliament, how many years is it going to take to reach one-third reservation without a quota?Q: The government is very proud of the fact that they have two cabinet ministers, top ministers, including the finance minister, as women and seven new ministers who have now come into the council of ministers. Surely, even if it is tokenism, it counts for something, doesn’t it? Karat: Certainly. There’s no doubt about it. To increase the number of women and to show that women are more than capable of taking responsibility in higher places, certainly has an important message for the country. The question that I raise is - what are these women doing, as far as women’s reservation bill is concerned? Why are they not raising their voices? I remember in their own party there was a Sushma Swaraj, there was a Najma Heptulla, cause she shifted from the Congress to the BJP, but even in her position in the BJP I remember Sushma Swaraj; how she fought for that bill against many in her own party. So, we can have some really fundamental differences, oppositions and be on opposite sides of the barricade on so many other major issues, but on the women’s reservations bill, why are these women ministers, who have shown that they are more than capable of following their government policies, why are they not expanding the framework of their work to challenge those who are not bringing the bill, why? That will be meaningful. One is that it’s very good, at least I think, to have more women in public life, it certainly pushes the envelope for women in a patriarchal society, there’s no doubt about it, but the second aspect is also the policies that you follow. You need to push a wider agenda. Q: Do you think in the last 25 years things have become easier for women in politics? Karat: I certainly do. And I think having around 50% of women in local bodies through the reservation quota, I think that has made a huge difference in rural India. And I don’t go for this proxy politics kind of a thing, cause there is proxy politics where there’s class, where there’s caste, where there’s gender, that blotch on our democracy is there, but why I am so convinced that reservation in parliament and assembly is so important for democracy is because we have seen the way India has really set a record for the whole world in 50% reservation for women at local body level. And women have gained that confidence and I think its a chain reaction, women voters, making their needs and requirements known to political parties, women voters voting independently, women seeing representation growing at the local level in the rural areas of India, in the villages, in the urban local bodies. So in the last 20 years, there has been a tremendous increase of women in public life and the patriarchal conservative orthodox framework that women are best suited in homes, we have seen a huge change in that in the last 20 years. And we have to salute the women of India and that is why it is all the more criminal, I use that word advisedly, it is criminal to have a huge majority and not want to take India’s democratic process forward but block it by blocking the bill.Q: My final question, why is it that 25 years later, the women’s reservations bill is still relevant?Karat: I believe that the power of patriarchy is bad for everyone, it is bad for men, women and for Indian society. And the will of patriarchy is being reflected in the blockages, the blockade of the women’s bill. So, the first point is, bring the women’s bill, it does weaken the patriarchal process, patriarchal attitudes and that can only be good for social justice. Secondly, I believe if you bring more women into parliament and have more women in public spaces, it also helps to make that public space less unequal. And I think that is also a good thing for Indian democracy. And the third joint is, within the women’s reservation bill, there are reservations for Scheduled Tribe and Scheduled Caste women, and I believe that reservation for Scheduled Tribe and Scheduled Caste women will strengthen the role of women not only in those communities but will set an example for the rest of India who may be so elitist to think that there is only a particular set of women who can be in parliament and can be a leader. So, this gives the opportunity to a much larger range of women politicians. So all in all, it would be very useful, helpful to strengthen the process of Indian democracy. (Inputs by Amitoj Singh Kalsi)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cpms-brinda-karat-underscores-significance-of-women-s-reservation-bill-in-conversation-with-ht-101631350987112.html
11-09-2021||India||President Kovind in Prayagraj, lays foundation of National Law University, high court complex||President of India Ram Nath Kovind visited Prayagraj (formerly known as Allahabad) in Uttar Pradesh on Saturday and laid the foundations of the Uttar Pradesh National Law University and Advocate Chambers, the new building complex of the Allahabad high court. The President was welcomed at the Bamrauli airport by UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath and governor Anandiben Patel. Keshav Prasad Maurya, the deputy chief minister of the state, MP Rita Bahuguna Joshi, and other local MLAs were also present to welcome the president at the airport.President Ram Nath Kovind lays foundation stone of Uttar Pradesh National Law University and Advocates Chambers, Allahabad High Court in Prayagraj UP CM Yogi Adityanath & UP Governor Anandiben Patel were also present at the event pic.twitter.com/Xhie6wojouThe new Allahabad high court complex includes a multi-level parking facility, an advocate chamber library, and an auditorium. According to the Uttar Pradesh government, the building complex will have around 2,600 chambers for the lawyers of the court. Around 6,00 crore rupees have been released for the entire project.Speaking at the foundation-stone laying ceremony, the President said that timely and cheap justice in the common man's language is “our responsibility”.“Lawyers and litigants face problems due to the lack of infrastructure in the judiciary,” the President said. “I have seen the struggle of the poor seeking justice. Proper infrastructure and the judicial appointment will ensure that justice is imparted on a timely basis.”The Uttar Pradesh National Law University is being constructed in the Jhalwa area of Prayagraj. Referring to the varsity, the President said that the NLU must be built in accordance with guidelines that were designed after studying the very best law universities in the world. Union law minister Kiren Rijiju, Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana, and other senior judges also graced the foundation-stone laying ceremony today with their presence. After the President unveiled the plaque for the institution, Union minister Rijiju said that Prayagraj is the center of culture and education and emboldens the spirit that the judiciary must always remain independent in its approach.“We want India to be the center of arbitration and mediation of the world,” he said. “Speedy and timely delivery of justice to the common man is our target. I ensure that the central government is working with all its might to strengthen the judiciary.”Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath welcomed all the guests present at the event, which included the President of India, UP governor, the CJI, the law minister, other judges of the Supreme Court, and senior officials. He said that a demand for a separate law university and a multi-level parking facility was being raised for years. “Prayagraj is the land of ‘Dharma’ and about 24 crore people depend on Prayagraj for justice,” he said. “The state government will fully cooperate in the National Law University project.”The Chief Justice of India, NV Ramana, addressed the event in English and talked about the city's role in the freedom struggle. Pointing out that he is privileged to be in the land of Triveni, the CJI congratulated all the staff of the Prayagraj administration. Quoting Gandhi, he said, “What is really needed to make a democracy function is not knowledge or facts, but right education.”Notably, this is the second time in two weeks that the President has made a visit to the state of Uttar Pradesh. President Kovind had earlier on August 26 gone on a four-day visit to the state by a special train, inaugurating multiple projects in the process. In late June, he had visited his ancestral village of Paraukh in the Kanpur Dehat district of Uttar Pradesh and interacted with old friends from his school days and his early days of social service.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-kovind-in-prayagraj-lays-foundation-of-law-university-high-court-complex-101631345232648.html
11-09-2021||India||PM Modi announces Chair at BHU in honour of Tamil poet Subramania Bharati||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday announced the setting up of chair in memory of Tamil poet Subramania Bharati at Banaras Hindu University (BHU) for Tamil studies. The Chair will be established in the faculty of arts at the BHU.PM Modi made the announcement on the 100th death anniversary of Subramania Bharati, while inaugurating Ahmedabad-based Sardardham Bhavan via video conferencing. The Tamil poet passed away on this date in 1921."Today, September 11, is another big occasion. Today is the 100th death anniversary of India's great scholar, philosopher and freedom fighter 'Subramanya Bharati' ji. The vision of Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat that Sardar Saheb used to carry, the same philosophy has been shining with full divinity in the Tamil writings of Mahakavi Bharati," PM Modi said on the occasion."I am also making an important announcement on this occasion. It has been decided to establish a chair in the name of Subramanya Bharti ji at Banaras Hindu University. 'Subramanya Bharati Chair' on Tamil Studies will be established in Faculty of Arts of BHU," the Prime Minister added.Earlier in the day, paid tributes to Bharati, recalling his "rich scholarship, multi-faceted contributions to our nation, noble ideals on social justice and women empowerment".The Prime Minister also performed 'bhoomi pujan' of Sardardham Phase-II Kanya Chhatralaya (girls' hostel) and extended Ganesh Chaturthi greetings to the people."Before starting any new work we offer our prayers to Lord Ganesh, and fortunately, the inauguration of Sardardham Bhavan is also being done on the auspicious occasion of 'Ganesha' festival. Yesterday was 'Ganesh Chaturthi and today the entire nation is celebrating the festival," he said.Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani and his deputy Nitin Patel were also present at the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-announces-chair-at-bhu-in-honour-of-tamil-poet-subramania-bharati-101631345149470.html
11-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: Karnal sit-in to end after administration accepts farmers' demands and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 1pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Karnal farmers to end protest after administration agrees to their demandsAnnouncement regarding this was made during a joint press conference by farmers leaders and Karnal administration. Read moreDid US make a mistake? Report claims Kabul drone strike killed aid worker, 9 of his family membersThe US may have mistakenly targeted an aid worker rather than Islamic State fighters in a drone strike in Kabul, according to the New York Times. Read more‘A player should return to setup only after 3-4 years but seems like MS Dhoni’s case was special': Kapil DevIndia's 1983 World Cup-winning captain Kapil Dev welcomed BCCI's decision to appoint Dhoni as India's mentor for T20 World Cup. Read moreAnkita Lokhande recalls her 'really weird' first meeting with Sushant Singh Rajput: 'He was very angry'Ankita Lokhande has spoken about her first meeting with late actor Sushant Singh Rajput. She said that it was ‘really weird’. Read moreIndia-bound Husqvarna electric bike, scooter make first public debutThe public debut of Husqvarna's electric range took place at the recently held IAA International Motor Show 2021 in Munich Germany. Read moreBeautiful day to go after your dreams: Alia Bhatt does Sukhasana for Saturday yoga sessionGetting fit and healthy is something that Bollywood actor Alia Bhatt promotes with her occasional posts on yoga and gym exercise sessions. Read moreRescue team releases massive green sea turtle back into the wildA video shared on Instagram by Australia Zoo has created a buzz online and won people's hearts. It captures the release of a massive sea turtle. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-karnal-sit-in-to-end-after-administration-accepts-farmers-demands-and-all-the-latest-news-101631342975998.html
11-09-2021||India||India, Australia hold 2+2 dialogue, Jaishankar welcomes Payne with fist bump||India and Australia began the high-level 2+2 foreign and defence ministerial dialogue in New Delhi on Saturday. External affairs minister S Jaishankar and defence minister Rajnath Singh held the closed-door talks with their Australian counterparts Marise Payne and Peter Dutton.The dialogue is aimed at further ramping up the overall defence and strategic cooperation between the two countries, including in the Indo-Pacific amid China's increasing military assertiveness in the region.Just before the beginning of the talks, Jaishankar welcomed Payne with a fist bump, which has become the new handshake during the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic."EAM Dr S Jaishankar & Defence Minister Rajnath Singh welcomed their Australian counterparts FM Marise Payne & Australia Defence Minister Peter Dutton for the India-Australia 2+2 Ministerial Dialogue. Bilateral, regional and global issues on the agenda," ministry of external affairs spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said on Twitter.The in-person talks are taking place at a time the global focus has been on the situation in Afghanistan and the issue is likely to figure in the deliberations.The foreign and defence ministerial talks are taking place amid renewed efforts by the Quad member countries to expand cooperation in the Indo-Pacific region. Besides India and Australia, the Quad comprises the US and Japan.In an address at an event organised by the Observer Research Organisation, Payne on Friday said the Quad has evolved "swiftly" and very "effectively" and commended India for taking a strong leadership role in the region.The Australian ministers will also call on Prime Minister Narendra Modi at his 7, Lok Kalyan Marg residence in the afternoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-australia-hold-2-2-dialogue-jaishankar-welcomes-payne-with-fist-bump-101631343958830.html
11-09-2021||India||PM Modi inaugurates Sardardham Bhavan; pays tribute to Sardar Patel||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday inaugurated via video conferencing the Ahmedabad-based Sardardham Bhavan and, in the same function, also performed the “Bhoomi Pujan” of the Sardardham Phase-II Kanya Chhatralaya (girls’ hostel). The two establishments, as their names suggest, are dedicated to the “Iron Man of India,” Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel.Also Read | PM Modi to inaugurate Sardardham Bhavan in Ahmedabad todayPM Modi noted how Lord Ganesha is invoked before doing something new and, coincidentally, the Sardardham Bhavan is being inaugurated at a time when the nation is celebrating Ganeshotsav. “I have full faith that the Sardardham Bhavan will not only empower our future generations, but also inspire them to lead their lives by following principles followed by Sardar Patel in his life,” he remarked.“All these youngsters will be in decisive roles by the time the country completed 100 years of independence in 2047,” Prime Minister Modi noted.Remembering the role played by Patel in Kheda movement, PM Modi said that under the Sardar's leadership, all sections of the society came together, forcing the British to listen to their demands. “That inspiration, that energy today stands in front of us as the Statue of Unity,” the Prime Minister said, referring to the world's tallest statue located in Gujarat's Kevadia. It was inaugurated on October 31, 2018, on the 143rd birth anniversary of the “Iron Man.”PM Modi also recalled various notable events which took place on September 11, including the 9/11 attacks in the United States 20 years ago. However, this date is also associated with inspirational events such as Swami Vivekanand's famous speech in Chicago in 1893 at the World's Parliament of Religions, PM Modi said.Also Read | PM Modi recalls Swami Vivekananda's iconic Chicago speech. Here's what he saidHe also announced that a Chair would be established at the Faculty of Arts in Banaras Hindu University (BHU) in the memory of Tamil poet Subramania Bharati, who passes away on this date in 1921.Vijay Rupani, the chief minister of Gujarat, and his deputy, Nitin Patel, also attended the event and addressed the gathering.Located in Ahmedabad, the largest city in the western state, the Sardardham Bhavan has state-of-the-art facilities for students, with modern amenities. The Kanya Chhatralaya, meanwhile, will house 2000 girls, irrespective of their economic criteria.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-inaugurates-sardardham-bhavan-pays-tribute-to-sardar-patel-101631337753362.html
11-09-2021||India||Karnal farmers to end protest after administration agrees to their demands||The farmers, who have been protesting in Haryana's Karnal for the last five day, agreed to end their stir on Saturday. An announcement regarding this was made during a joint press conference by farmers leaders and Karnal administration after a meeting where administration accepted most of the demands of the protesters.“After discussions, we have collectively decided to call off the protest here (outside mini-secretariat),” said Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) and farmer leader Gurnam Singh Charuni.The farmers had launched the protest on September 7 against the police action last month in which 10 farmers were injured.At the press conference, which was held after fourth round of meeting between both the sides, Haryana additional chief secretary Devender Singh promised a judicial enquiry by a retired judge of the high court into the August 28 violence when several protesters were lathicharged while heading towards Karnal to protest against a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) meeting. Singh said the probe report will be submitted within a month.The officer also announced government job (against a vacant post) to the next kin of the farmer Shushil Kajal, who the farmers claimed died due to police action. "Farmers are our brothers," said Singh.Karnal SDM Ayush Sinha, who was allegedly heard in a video giving instruction to policemen to "break heads" of the farmers if they breached the security cordon, will remain on leave during the investigation, Singh added. The farmers demanded FIR against the IAS officer and the cops on duty, but today agreed for a judicial probe."We have now taken a legal opinion and found that judicial enquiry is better option than the FIR. And the FIR will be registered later if he was found guilty in the investigation," said Charuni, who also addressed the joint press conference.Though Singh or any other official did not announce any compensation for those injured in August 28 violence, farmer leaders claimed that government has agreed to it.The farmers launched their indefinite protest at the main entrance of Karnal's mini-secretariat. It was led by Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), a platform of farm unions spearheading the protests against the agricultural laws since November last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnal-farmers-agree-to-end-protest-after-administration-agrees-to-their-demands-101631341799127.html
11-09-2021||India||After Firozabad outbreak, 16 dengue cases confirmed in Agra||More than a dozen cases of dengue have been found in Uttar Pradesh’s Agra as the Firozabad district of the state continues to battle the mosquito-borne disease and a viral fever outbreak, a senior medical officer has said. "Out of the 16 confirmed cases, six patients have been admitted to different hospitals of the city, while the rest of them are at their respective homes. Some patients have also recovered and no deaths have been reported till now," Agra's chief medical officer (CMO) Arun Kumar Srivastava told ANI on Friday.Kumar also listed the steps being taken by the district administration, including door-to-door surveys and fogging, to tackle the spread of dengue in the area. "We are carrying out the door-to-door surveys as per the instructions of Uttar Pradesh health minister Jai Pratap Singh and all the suspect cases are being immediately treated," he was quoted as saying by ANI.Also read | UP districts saw outbreak of D2 dengue, says health ministry; urges cautionAccredited Social Health Activists or ASHA workers have been directed to keep a regular check on the patients and bring them to the hospital in case of an emergency, Kumar added. He also said that fogging is being carried out regularly in the medical college and the water is being regularly monitored to avoid the spread of dengue. "The municipality also is on high alert and a regular cleanliness drive is being conducted," he said.Firozabad, around 50km from Agra, has been battling the outbreak of dengue and deadly viral fever for the past three weeks now, with most of the victims being children.Also read | Majority of child deaths in UP's Firozabad 'due to dengue', says CentreThe government has said that 57 people, mostly children, have died due to the diseases so far and 404 patients are being treated in the medical college hospital. “As many as 120 new patients were admitted on Friday while 102 people were discharged after recovery,” Sangeeta Aneja, the principal of the medical college said, adding that of the 195 tests done for dengue, 62 have been found positive.The Uttar Pradesh government on Friday suspended the health officer of the municipal corporation in Firozabad for abstaining from duty without any prior information and also sealed the clinics of unauthorised medical practitioners. Meanwhile, SN Singh of Lucknow’s King George's Medical University (KGMU), who has been camping in Firozabad for the past five days to ascertain the type of fever among the patients, said it has been found that the outbreak of viral fever and dengue was due to the abundance of mosquitoes in the region. “The investigation is going on and only after reaching some conclusion, I will be able to say more,” Singh said.ALso read | Uptick in dengue cases in Delhi, doctors urge cautionUttar Pradesh health minister Jai Pratap Singh has said that the state government is taking all the possible steps to control the outbreak of viral fever in the state. Singh also said the government has noticed loopholes in the way officials have been working and that has been the main reason for the viral outbreak in Firozabad.Authorities in several districts, including Prayagraj, Mathura, Meerut and Mainpuri districts, have also said that they have detected several cases of dengue.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has said it has found the D2 strain of dengue in the specimens from Uttar Pradesh, which is deadlier, often cause haemorrhage and also impacts the platelet count.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-firozabad-outbreak-16-dengue-cases-confirmed-in-agra-101631336838824.html
11-09-2021||India||Covid-19 global roundup: Cases on a high in Australia, Biden's vaccination plan||The Pan-European Commission on Health and Sustainable Development convened by the World Health Organization (WHO) has called for global governance and recommended the establishment of a Global Health Board "under the auspices of the G20", reports news agency AFP. This comes at a time when the global caseload of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has topped 223.7 million, while the deaths have surged to more than 4.61 million, according to the Johns Hopkins University.Australia is the latest country to record new highs of Covid-19 infections in the current outbreak.Australia's second most populous state Victoria on Saturday reported the biggest one-day rise in locally acquired Covid-19 cases in more than a year. Victoria state said it had detected 450 locally acquired Covid-19 cases in the past 24 hours, the biggest one-day rise since August 8, 2020. The spike in new cases comes as Australia struggles to contain the highly infectious Delta variant.Here's a look at other nation's Covid-19 situation:1. India: India saw a single-day rise of 33,376 coronavirus infections on Saturday, taking the overall tally of cases to 3,32,08,330, while the number of active cases increased marginally since Friday to stand at 3,91,516, according to the Union health ministry.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday chaired a high-level meeting to review the Covid-19 situation in the country. The topics covered included a review of the prevailing Covid-19 scenario, preparedness of the health systems to respond, availability of medical oxygen and matters relating to production, supply and distribution of the Covid-19 vaccine.2. United States: The situation is dire in the US, with an average of 1,50,000 new cases emerging and 1,500 people dying every day. President Joe Biden announced a new Covid-19 strategy which focuses on increasing vaccine coverage and increase testing. He has asked officer with more than 100 workers to make sure that employees are vaccinated. He also reprimanded GOP leaders for fighting rules on face coverings and other virus precautions in schools.3. United Kingdom: Britain's medical regulator on Thursday gave the go-ahead for Pfizer and AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccine to be used as booster shots, but said any decision to proceed with a booster programme was for others to make.4. Egypt: Egypt's daily cases of coronavirus have surpassed 400 for the first time in months. The health ministry on Friday reported 413 cases and 12 fatalities for the past 24 hours.5. Germany: Germany's standing committee on vaccination is recommending that pregnant women get vaccinated against Covid-19. The committee said on Friday that after evaluating of the available evidence, it is issuing a draft recommendation that women from the second trimester of pregnancy onward and breastfeeding mothers get two doses of an mRNA vaccine. It also recommended that all those of child-bearing age who haven't yet been vaccinated get inoculated so they are protected from the coronavirus before any pregnancy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-global-roundup-cases-on-a-high-in-australia-biden-s-vaccination-plan-101631334436993.html
11-09-2021||India||PM Modi recalls Swami Vivekananda's iconic Chicago speech. Here's what he said||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday recalled Swami Vivekananda's famous speech at the World's Parliament of Religions in Chicago in 1893 and said its spirit has the potential to create a more just, prosperous, and inclusive planet.Vivekananda's speech, which dwelt at length on Hinduism and Indian culture, had drawn all-around praise and remains resonant.Modi tweeted, “Recalling Swami Vivekananda's iconic 1893 speech at Chicago, which beautifully demonstrated the salience of Indian culture. The spirit of his speech has the potential to create a more just, prosperous and inclusive planet.”The Prime Minister shared Swami Vivekananda’s speeches at the World's Parliament of Religions at Chicago in 1893, attaching a link to the official website of Belur Math.Recalling Swami Vivekananda’s iconic 1893 speech at Chicago, which beautifully demonstrated the salience of Indian culture. The spirit of his speech has the potential to create a more just, prosperous and inclusive planet. https://t.co/1iz7OgAWm3Here's the full text of Swami Vivekananda's iconic 1893 speech at Chicago, courtesy of Belur Math:RESPONSE TO WELCOMEAt the World’s Parliament of Religions, Chicago, 11 September 1893"Sisters and Brothers of America,It fills my heart with joy unspeakable to rise in response to the warm and cordial welcome which you have given us. I thank you in the name of the most ancient order of monks in the world; I thank you in the name of the mother of religions; I thank you in the name of the millions and millions of Hindu people of all classes and sects.My thanks, also, to some of the speakers on this platform who, referring to the delegates from the Orient, have told you that these men from far-off nations may well claim the honour of bearing to different lands the idea of toleration. I am proud to belong to a religion that has taught the world both tolerance and universal acceptance. We believe not only in universal toleration, but we accept all religions as true. I am proud to belong to a nation that has sheltered the persecuted and the refugees of all religions and all nations of the earth. I am proud to tell you that we have gathered in our bosom the purest remnant of the Israelites, who came to southern India and took refuge with us in the very year in which their holy temple was shattered to pieces by Roman tyranny. I am proud to belong to the religion which has sheltered and is still fostering the remnant of the grand Zoroastrian nation. I will quote to you, brethren, a few lines from a hymn which I remember to have repeated from my earliest boyhood, which is every day repeated by millions of human beings: ‘As the different streams having their sources in different places all mingle their water in the sea, so, O Lord, the different paths which men take through different tendencies, various though they appear, crooked or straight, all lead to Thee.’The present convention, which is one of the most august assemblies ever held, is in itself a vindication, a declaration to the world, of the wonderful doctrine preached in the Gita: ‘Whosoever comes to Me, through whatsoever form, I reach him; all men are struggling through paths which in the end lead to Me.’ Sectarianism, bigotry, and its horrible descendant, fanaticism, have long possessed this beautiful earth. They have filled the earth with violence, drenched it often and often with human blood, destroyed civilization, and sent whole nations to despair. Had it not been for these horrible demons, human society would be far more advanced than it is now. But their time has come; and I fervently hope that the bell that tolled this morning in honour of this convention may be the death-knell of all fanaticism, of all persecutions with the sword or with the pen, and of all uncharitable feelings between persons wending their way to the same goal."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-recalls-swami-vivekananda-s-iconic-chicago-speech-here-s-what-he-said-101631335598787.html
11-09-2021||India||‘Thinker par excellence’: PM Modi pays tributes to social reformer Acharya Vinoba Bhave||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday paid his tributes to social reformer Vinayak Narahari Bhave, better known as Acharya Vinoba Bhave, on the latter's 126th birth anniversary. Taking to his official account on Twitter, the Prime Minister lauded the scholar-saint for his “commitment to India's freedom” and for being a “firm believer in non-violence”. Modi, in his tribute, also mentioned that Mahatma Gandhi had once referred to Acharya Vinoba Bhave as someone who was “absolutely against untouchability.”“Mahatma Gandhi described him as someone who was absolutely against untouchability, unwavering in his commitment to India's freedom and a firm believer in non-violence as well as constructive work,” the Prime Minister wrote in his tweet. “He was a thinker par excellence.”Mahatma Gandhi described him as someone who was absolutely against untouchability, unwavering in his commitment to India’s freedom and a firm believer in non-violence as well as constructive work. He was a thinker par excellence. Tributes to Acharya Vinoba Bhave on his Jayanti. pic.twitter.com/SEDDY1oo0AVinoba Bhave, remembered as a great scholar-saint, was a 20th-century Gandhian thinker who advocated for non-violence and human rights. Often called Acharya (the Sanskrit term for ‘teacher’), he is best known for the Bhoodan Movement or ‘Bloodless Revolution’, a voluntary land reform movement at the Pochampally village, now in Telangana. He also translated the Gita into the Marathi language and termed it ‘Geetai’, meaning ‘Mother Geeta’ in the vernacular.Vinoba Bhave was inspired by Mahatma Gandhi's speech at the Benaras College during the heydays of the freedom struggle. He later exchanged letters with Gandhi, following which the Mahatma asked him to come to the Kochrab Ashram in Ahmedabad for a personal meeting. Bhave later participated in several activities at Gandhi's ashram, which included teaching, studying, spinning khadi, and working for the welfare of village industries and the state of education in the country, along with other socio-political issues.On the occasion of his 126th birth anniversary, Films Division paid a tribute to Acharya Vinoba Bhave by screeing a 47-minute biopic, titled ‘Vinoba Bhave, the Man’ on the FD website and the YouTube channel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thinker-par-excellence-pm-modi-pays-tributes-to-social-reformer-acharya-vinoba-bhave-101631332617113.html
11-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: Farmers in Karnal to hold another meet with administration today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Karnal: Farmers to hold another meet with administration, impasse may end todayFarmers protesting outside the Karnal mini-secretariat in Haryana will be meeting the district administration for another round of talks today. Read moreUkraine says all-out war with Russia is 'a possibility'Ukraine's president Volodymyr Zelenskiy said on Friday that an all-out war with neighbouring Russia is very much an ‘unfortunate’ possibility. Read moreUS Open: Novak Djokovic wins semifinal, keeps quest for calendar Grand Slam onWorld number 1 Djokovic kept his bid for a calendar Grand Slam alive on Friday, beating Alexander Zverev 4-6 6-2 6-4 4-6 6-2 in the US Open semi-final. Read moreVicky Kaushal's brother Sunny Kaushal reveals parents said ‘mithai toh khila de’ after Katrina Kaif engagement rumoursLast month, reports of Vicky and Katrina’s roka ceremony surfaced online. However, her team denied them. Read moreJennifer Lopez with Ben Affleck makes a jaw-dropping appearance at Venice Film FestivalJennifer Lopez and Ben Affleck arrived at the Venice Film Festival looking like a dream in their jaw-dropping ensembles. Read moreOn 9/11 anniversary, Taliban oath-taking reports rub salt on US' woundsTaliban may hold the oath-taking ceremony on September 11, on the 20th anniversary of the 9/11 attacks in the United States, reports have claimed. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-farmers-in-karnal-to-hold-another-meet-with-administration-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101631327643220.html
11-09-2021||India||Earthquake of 4.6 magnitude hits Uttarakhand's Joshimath||An earthquake of magnitude 4.6 on the Richter scale hit Uttarakhand's Joshimath on Saturday, informed the National Center for Seismology (NCS).According to NCS, the tremors were felt 31 kilometres WSW of Joshimath at 5.58 am on Sunday."Earthquake of Magnitude:4.6, Occurred on 11-09-2021, 05:58:31 IST, Lat: 30.43 & Long: 79.26, Depth: 5.0 Km ,Location: 31km WSW of Joshimath, Uttarakhand," NCS said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/earthquake-of-4-6-magnitude-hits-uttarakhand-s-joshimath-101631329401300.html
11-09-2021||India||Postal service official sold secrets to Pak spy, was honey-trapped: Officials||A 27-year-old Railway postal service official was arrested on Friday for allegedly supplying secret documents of the Indian Army to a Pakistan woman agent. A case has been registered and further investigation is underway.The official, identified as Bharat Bhawri, was arrested by Military Intelligence of Southern Command of Indian Army and Rajasthan State Intelligence Department.The accused is said to be a victim of a honey trap.According to the intelligence agency, Bhawri, who is a native of the Jodhpur district, joined the post office department three years ago.According to the agency, at least four months ago, the accused had received a message from the Pakistani woman on Facebook. The accused talked to the woman, who reportedly told him over WhatsApp voice and video call that she is from Port Blair and pursuing MBBS.Then later the woman slowly started demanding photos related to the Indian Army and also requested him to meet her at Jaipur. She also reportedly sent her photos to him, the agency said.The case has been registered under Official Secrets Act, 1923.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/postal-service-official-sold-secrets-to-pak-spy-was-honey-trapped-officials-101631328055153.html
11-09-2021||India||Covid-19: Kerala aims to inoculate all adults by Sept 30||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Friday that his government is aiming to give at least one shot of Covid-19 vaccine to all the adults of the state by September 30. The statement comes at a time when the southern state is recording a huge spike in the number of Covid-19 infections.The exercise is expected to be completed for the age group 18 years and above by September 30, the chief minister said at a press conference.Vijayan shared the latest data saying that 78 per cent of the adult population in Kerala has received the first dose of the Covid vaccine. He said that 93 per cent of people above 45 years received the first dose of vaccine while 50 per cent received the second dose too.The chief minister added that unlike the first wave, Kerala faced many new crises during the second wave. "The first zero prevalence study of ICMR found that the number of cases in Kerala during the first wave was very low. Only about 11 per cent of the people in the state were infected," he said.Vijayan further said that only two per cent of the active cases during September 3-9 in the state required oxygen beds and only one per cent got admitted to ICUs."During the period between September 3 to 9, there was an average of 2,42,278 active cases in the state of which only two per cent required oxygen beds and one one per cent got admitted in the ICUs," he said at the press conference.Kerala on Friday logged 25,010 new cases of Covid-19 and 177 deaths, taking the caseload to 43,34,704 and the death toll to 22,303, respectively. Health minister Veena George said that 1,51,317 samples were tested in the last 24 hours (till Friday) and the test positivity rate was 16.53 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-kerala-aims-to-inoculate-all-adults-by-sept-30-101631324581700.html
11-09-2021||India||Forced resignation, penalties: Here's how nations are making Covid vaccines must||Countries across the world are emphasising on the importance of Covid-19 vaccines in the wake of the rise in infections. Some of these nations have made it mandatory for their citizens to get vaccinated against the coronavirus disease. These countries say these measures have been taken to protect the people from the deadly disease.The United States is the latest to make it mandatory for the companies to ensure their workers are vaccinated, or at least tested. Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Vatican are among the rare nations which have made vaccinations mandatory for all adults. The South Pacific French territory of New Caledonia has also said that it will make Covid-19 vaccination compulsory for all.In India, the Punjab government on Friday decided to send its state employees on compulsory leave who have not been given the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine.Here's a look at the countries coming up with measures to pressure people into getting vaccinated against Covid-19.1. United States: President Joe Biden announced strict new vaccination rules on Thursday. American companies with more than 100 workers will have to ensure they all are vaccinated or take weekly tests, the federal government said in the order. Among the US states and cities to issue their own regulations, California and New York City have demanded the same from public sector workers. San Francisco has said that it will require all municipal employees to be vaccinated or they could face penalties including dismissal. Children aged 12 or above who attend public schools in Los Angeles must be fully vaccinated by the beginning of 2022.2. China: Around 20 local authorities including the city of Chuxiong in Yunnan province of China have said that unvaccinated residents over 18 will soon no longer be admitted to hospitals, schools or on public transport.3. Zimbabwe: Zimbabwe on Wednesday said that it would force officials to resign if they do not get jabbed against Covid-19.4. Canada: Canada has said that it would require all federal workers to be vaccinated by the end of September and most commercial rail, air and ship passengers to also have shots.5. United Kingdom: The United Kingdom has said that from November 11 anyone working or volunteering in a care home will need to be fully vaccinated against Covid-19.6. Saudi Arabia: Saudi Arabia has said that only vaccinated employees can enter their workplaces.7. France: French healthcare staff, retirement home workers and others working with vulnerable people have been asked to get vaccinated by Wednesday.8. Italy: Italian doctors and health workers have been asked to get vaccinated or they will be banned from working directly with patients. Vaccinations will be compulsory for retirement home workers from October 10. Unvaccinated teachers, school and university staff and students must show proof of a negative test every two days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/forced-resignation-penalties-here-s-how-nations-are-making-covid-vaccines-must-101631322366446.html
11-09-2021||India||India-Australia 2+2 dialogue today, Afghanistan crisis likely to top agenda||India is all set to host on Saturday the first-ever 2+2 ministerial dialogue in New Delhi with Australia. The country's defence minister Peter Dutton and foreign minister Marise Payne have already arrived in the national capital, where they will meet this morning with their respective Indian counterparts – defence minister Rajnath Singh and external affairs minister S Jaishankar. The Australian ministers will also call on Prime Minister Narendra Modi at his 7, Lok Kalyan Marg residence in the afternoon.Also Read | India, US will hold 2+2 talks in NovemberThe ministers will discuss matters related to economic security, cyber, climate, critical technology, and supply chains. The Afghanistan crisis is, however, likely to top the agenda of the India-Australia 2+2 dialogue, along with other important security issues such as China’s role in the region and the situation in the East and South China Seas.According to a tentative schedule available with the media, Australian foreign minister Marise Payne will meet minister of external affairs Dr S Jaishankar at the Hyderabad House in New Delhi at 10:30am. Before that, she is scheduled to lay a wreath at the National War Memorial. While delivering an address at an event organised by the Observer Research Foundation (ORF) on Friday, Payne said that India and Australia are working towards an “early harvest” trade deal that will prepare the grounds for a comprehensive economic cooperation agreement.“These inaugural 2+2 discussions are a cornerstone of the Australia-India comprehensive strategic partnership, which is founded on a shared commitment to a secure, stable, and prosperous Indo-Pacific region,” she added.Also Read | Any engagement with the Taliban will be based on its actions: Australian envoyAustralia's foreign minister and defence minister are expected to meet Prime Minister Modi at his New Delhi residence at around 4:30pm.​The 2+2 dialogue is the outcome of a decision made at the India-Australia leaders’ virtual summit in June 2020 to elevate bilateral relations to a comprehensive strategic partnership.Both India and Australia admit that diplomatic ties between the two countries are at an all-time high right now. An official from the Indian side familiar with the developments told a news agency that the 2+2 dialogue with Australia reflects the “transformation in relations over the past few years.” Australian envoy Barry O’Farrell also said earlier this week that Australia is looking forward to the meeting to help deepen the relationship between two “dependable and trusted partners” that are already working closely on strategic issues both bilaterally and in forums such as the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indiaaustralia-2-2-dialogue-today-afghanistan-crisis-likely-to-top-agenda-101631321509951.html
11-09-2021||India||Karnal: Farmers to hold another meet with administration, impasse may end today||Farmers putting up their demonstrations outside the Karnal mini-secretariat in Haryana will be meeting the district administration for another round of talks today, following which the impasse is expected to come to an end. The protesting farmers on Friday held the third round of talks – one which they said concluded on a “positive” note – over the August 28 police action which had led to the entire contention. According to a farmer leader, now the fourth round of talks will take place at 9am on Saturday, where all issues are likely to be cleared.Also Read | After ‘positive talks’, farmers say Karnal impasse may endTo provide a bit of context, several anti-farm law demonstrators, heading towards Karnal to protest a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) meeting on August 28, were lathi-charged by cops - an incident that left around 10 farmers injured. A video later surfaced and went viral on the internet, in which IAS officer Ayush Sinha was seen allegedly instructing policemen to “break heads” of the cultivators if they breached the security cordon at the BJP meeting.The farmers, spearheaded by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) – a platform for farm unions – then started staging an indefinite protest at the main entrance of the Karnal mini-secretariat since September 7 against the police action last month. The farmers seek, among other demands, the suspension and police action against Sinha, who has already been transferred out of Karnal and posted as additional secretary of Citizen Resources Information Department (CRID).Also Read | Tents, langar, hookah…farmers prepared for a long haul at Karnal protest siteSince then, the SKM-led farmers and the Karnal district administration have held several rounds of talks while the protests outside the mini-secretariat rolled on for four days, leading to an impasse. However, the farmers' union said that Friday's meeting was “very positive”, one where most of the issues pertaining to the police clashes last month were resolved, and only two or three of those matters were left for discussion in the next round of meeting on Saturday.Haryana's additional chief secretary Devender Singh, who presided over the meeting, also informed Hindustan Times that talks with the farmers proved to be positive.Earlier on Thursday, Haryana's home minister Anil Vij said that the state government is ready to conduct a fair investigation into the Karnal incident.“Farmers are agitating in Karnal, it is their right,” he said. “Our officers are talking to them. Talks are important but only valid demands will be accepted... We are ready to conduct a fair investigation but it's not only the sub-divisional magistrate who will be probed, the entire episode will be investigated.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnal-farmers-to-hold-another-meet-with-administration-impasse-may-end-today-101631319182739.html
11-09-2021||India||Met issues heavy rain warning for Odisha; yellow alert for 19 MP districts||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has warned of heavy rainfall in Odisha over the next few days. The IMD's regional centre in Bhubaneswar, in its weather bulletin on Friday, said that a cyclonic circulation lies over the east-central Bay of Bengal and neighbourhood and extends up to 7.6 km above the sea level. Under its influence, the low-pressure area is likely to form over central Bay of Bengal during the next 24 hours.It is very likely to move west northwestwards and concentrate into a depression during the subsequent 48 hours, the bulleting further said. Widespread light to moderate rain, isolated heavy to very heavy downpour and extremely heavy falls at one or two places are likely on Sunday and Monday over the state, it added.The MeT department has forecast heavy rainfall at isolated places in Gajapati, Ganjam, Malkangiri, Koraput, Jagatsinghpur and Kendrapara districts on Saturday.The weather department has issued an orange warning of heavy to very heavy rainfall in Puri, Khordha, Jagatsinghpur, Kendrapara, Cuttack, Ganjam, Nayagarh, Bhadrak and Jajpur on Sunday. On Monday, heavy to very heavy rainfall and isolated extremely heavy showers are very likely to occur in Bolangir, Sonepur, Boudh, Angul, Sambalpur, Bargarh and Deogarh districts, it said, warning of possibility of some damage to kutcha roads.Meanwhile, the IMD on Friday issued a yellow alert, indicating heavy rainfall, for 19 districts in Madhya Pradesh, according to an official quoted by news agency PTI. The alert for heavy rainfall in isolated places covers Jabalpur, Sehore, Dewas, Shajapur, Agar Malwa, Neemuch, Mandsaur, Ratlam, Alirajpur, Jhabua, Rajgarh, Guna, Sheopur, Anuppur, Balaghat, Seoni, Dhar, Shivpuri and Morena districts, and is valid till Saturday morning, PK Saha, senior meteorologist with IMD's Bhopal office told PTI.Thunderstorms along with lightning are also likely to occur in isolated places in ten divisions of the state, including Bhopal, Indore, Gwalior, Chambal and Jabalpur. "A monsoon trough was passing through Tikamgarh. Besides, a low pressure area was lying over east Rajasthan, which has brought moisture to MP. A low pressure area is expected to form over central Bay of Bengal in the next 24 hours and this too would bring rains to the state," he explained. Saha said a wet spell is likely in Madhya Pradesh till September 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/met-issues-heavy-rain-warning-for-odisha-yellow-alert-for-19-mp-districts-101631318315230.html
11-09-2021||India||PM Modi to inaugurate Sardardham Bhavan in Ahmedabad today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Saturday inaugurate Sardardham Bhavan in Ahmedabad, which will provide hostel facility to girls and boys from rural areas who aspire for a better job. Developed by Patidar Samaj, the complex promises to provide training, boarding and lodging facilities to all such students "at reasonable rate".PM Modi will also perform the 'bhoomi pujan' of Sardardham Phase-II Kanya Chhatralaya (girls hostel), at 11am via video conference, a statement from the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said on Friday.Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani and deputy chief minister Nitin Patel will also be present during the event.According to the PMO, Sardardham has been working towards educational and social transformation, upliftment of the weaker sections of the society and providing employment opportunities to the youth.The building complex includes state-of-the-art facilities for students, with modern amenities. The girls hostel will provide lodging facility for 2,000 girls irrespective of economic criteria, the release stated.According to the official website of Sardardham, the construction of the first phase in Ahmedabad has been completed at an estimated cost of ₹200 crore. It is built over an area of 11,672 square feet near the Vaishnodevi circle in the Ahmedabad-Gandhinagar border area.The Sardardham has residential facilities for 1,600 students/aspirants, e-library with 1,000 computer systems, library, high tech classrooms, gymnasium, auditoriums, multi-purpose halls, rest house with 50 luxury rooms along with other amenities for business and political meetings.It has a library with a capacity of 1,000 students, a 450-seated auditorium, two multipurpose halls of 1,000 persons each capacity, indoor games and other amenities, the website stated. A 50-feet tall bronze statue of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel is installed in front of the building.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-sardardham-bhavan-in-ahmedabad-today-101631316959775.html
11-09-2021||India||36th Rafale to get India specific enhancements||France will deliver three Rafale fighters a month to India for the next three months with the last of the 36 contracted omni-role fighters carrying all 13 India specific enhancements to be delivered in January 2022, HT learns.While 26 of the 4.5 generation fighter jets are already operational from Ambala in the western sector and Hashimara in the eastern sector, three more Dassault-manufactured fighters will be landing at Jamnagar base after refuelling mid-air over UAE on October 13. Three more are expected to be delivered in November and another three in December.However, it is the 36th Rafale fighter that will be equipped with all India specific enhancements to make the platform more lethal. India specific enhancements have been included in Hammer air to ground, SCALP land attack and Meteor air to air missiles used by Rafale with more range, and accuracy, but it is only after the 36th fighter has landed after testing all India specific enhancements with some technologies having Israeli origins that the previous 35 fighters will be fitted with all the enhancements.While the India specific enhancements remain classified, they are understood to be related to a more powerful radio altimeter, radar warning receiver, low band jammer, flight data recorder, high-altitude engine start-up, synthetic aperture radar, ground moving target indicator and tracking, infra-red search and track, helmet-mounted display, missile approach warning systems and very high-frequency range decoys.France, one of India’s closest strategic allies, has already sent the enhanced missiles and ammunition for Rafale to IAF. While the Meteor missile is best in its category in the Indian subcontinent, the Hammer and SCALP have pinpoint accuracy with last-minute target adjustment capability and radar avoidance. These weapon systems have multiple guidance facilities so that the enemy has no chance of jamming the missile either in the air to air or land-attack mode; they can be used in stand-off mode for land targets over 70 kilometres away.While the Indian Navy is also believed to be examining the option of a Rafale-Maritime fighter for its indigenous aircraft carrier INS Vikrant, to be launched next August, IAF has been asked to rationalize its fighter squadron strength due to the enhanced capability of Rafale.Experts say that one squadron of Rafale is equivalent to 2.5 squadrons of Russian Su-30 MKI in terms of turnaround and maintenance. IAF’s capability will further be multiplied with the addition of the S-400 air defence system to the Indian fighting capability, they add.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/36th-rafale-to-get-india-specific-enhancements-101631318098099.html
11-09-2021||India||President Kovind to visit Prayagraj today; lay foundations for high court complex, law varsity||President of India Ram Nath Kovind is all set to visit Prayagraj (earlier known as Allahabad) in Uttar Pradesh on Saturday to lay the foundation stones of the Uttar Pradesh National Law University and the new building complex of the Allahabad high court, according to an itinerary issued by the Rashtrapati Bhavan. He will also lay the foundation stones for a multi-level parking facility, an advocate chamber library, and an auditorium.Also Read | President Kovind honours 44 teachers for outstanding workThe new complex of the Allahabad high court will have around 2,600 chambers for the lawyers of the court, according to the Uttar Pradesh government, which has released 6,000 million rupees for the entire project. The President is also slated to visit the library hall of the high court bar association this time, according to a statement.The Uttar Pradesh National Law University is being constructed in the Jhalwa area of Prayagraj. Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana, along with other senior judges, is also expected to grace the foundation-stone laying ceremony today with his presence. Union law minister Kiren Rijiju, UP governor Anandiben Patel, and chief minister Yogi Adityanath are also likely to be present at the occasion, reports said.Confirming the President’s visit, ADM City, AK Kanaujia, said earlier this week, “Although we have yet not received the minute-to-minute protocol pertaining to President’s visit, all the preparations needed for the visit are being put in place.”Also Read | Gorakhpur on way to becoming city of knowledge, says President KovindThis is the second time in two weeks that the President is making a visit to the state of Uttar Pradesh. President Kovind had earlier on August 26 gone on a four-day visit to the state by a special train, inaugurating multiple projects in the process. In late June, he had visited his ancestral village of Paraukh in the Kanpur Dehat district of Uttar Pradesh and interacted with old friends from his school days and his early days of social service.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-kovind-to-visit-prayagraj-today-lay-foundations-for-high-court-complex-law-varsity-101631316884888.html
11-09-2021||India||RSS leaders’ books in varsity syllabus fan row||The Kannur University on Friday set up an external panel to review the inclusion of books authored by prominent Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) ideologues in one of its postgraduate courses, in view of protests by several student unions against the varsity’s alleged attempts to saffronise the academic syllabus.The books, written by RSS ideologues VD Savarkar, MS Golwalkar and Deendayal Upadhyaya, are among 30 others included in the third semester of the public administration course at Government Brennen College in Thalassery.Extracts of ‘Savarkar’s Hindutva: Who is a Hindu?’, Golwarkar’s ‘We or Our Nationhood Defined’, Upadhyaya’s ‘Integral Humanism’ and Balraj Madhok’s ‘Indianisation, What, Why and How’ are among those included in the syllabus.According to news agency PTI, vice-chancellor Gopinath Ravindran said a two-member committee, comprising experts outside the varsity, was directed to submit its report within five days, after which decision on the syllabus will be taken.“The saffronisation allegation is completely baseless. If you raise such allegations against Kannur University, you can raise similar charges against Jawaharlal Nehru University in New Delhi also. V D Savarkar is included in the syllabus of JNU also,” he told the media.Members of various student unions burnt copies of the books on Thursday, prompting state higher education minister R Bindhu to seek a report from the V-C. “This is a sensitive issue. I have sought details from the V-C. I feel that such content is not good,” Bindhu said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rss-leaders-books-in-varsity-syllabus-fan-row-101631317102592.html
11-09-2021||India||After ‘positive talks’, farmers say Karnal impasse may end||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Friday said the third round of talks with the Karnal district administration over the August 28 police action on farmers concluded on a “positive” note and hinted that the ongoing impasse may end by Saturday. The SKM is a platform of farm unions spearheading the protests against the agricultural laws since November last year. Neither the farmer leaders nor government representatives disclosed what was discussed in the meeting which lasted for more than four hours. The farmers, however, said that most of their issues pertaining to the police clashes last month were resolved and that only two or three were left for discussion in the next round of meeting on Saturday. “The meeting was very positive and we are expecting that this issue might be resolved in the next meeting at 9 am on Saturday,” farmer leader Gurnam Singh Charuni said. Haryana additional chief secretary Devender Singh, who presided over the meeting, also said the talks with farmers proved to be positive and that another meeting was slated for the weekend.The development comes at a time when farmers have been staging an indefinite protest at the main-entrance of Karnal’s mini-secretariat since September 7 against the police action last month.Several protesters were lathicharged while heading towards Karnal to protest against a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) meeting on August 28. Around 10 farmers were injured in the incident. Soon after, a video had surfaced in which IAS officer Ayush Sinha was allegedly instructing policemen to “break heads” of the cultivators if they breached the security cordon at the BJP meeting.Among other issues, the farmers have sought the suspension and registration of an FIR against Sinha, who was later transferred out of Karnal and posted as additional secretary of Citizen Resources Information Department (CRID).At Friday’s meeting, the government assured to initiate action against the IAS officer, according to people familiar with the development. The farmers also sought compensation of ₹25 lakh and a government job to the kin of farmer Sushil Kajal, who they claimed died due to police action, and financial assistance of ₹2 lakh each to the injured farmers besides free treatment in government hospitals.Charuni said the farmers will hold a discussion with other senior SKM leaders on Friday night and all issues are likely to be cleared during Saturday’s meeting.After two meetings with the protesters failed, the state government had sent Singh for talks with a 13-member delegation of farmers led by Charuni on Friday. The SKM had called a meeting of all senior leaders at Karnal on September 11 to announce a ‘big decision’ if their demands were not met. “As the talks were positive, the decision about SKM’s meeting for further course of action will be taken on Saturday morning,” said Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) spokesperson Rakesh Bains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-positive-talks-farmers-say-karnal-impasse-may-end-101631315516875.html
11-09-2021||India||Don’t hold rallies till polls are declared: SKM to Punjab parties||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), a joint forum of 32 farm organisations leading the protest against three controversial central laws, on Friday asked political parties in Punjab to not hold election rallies as it adversely impacted the campaign by cultivators, suggesting that poll speeches should start only after the elections are announced in early 2022.However, three key political parties, Congress, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), disagreed with the proposal.“They will face the music if they refuse to accept our appeal and it will be considered as anti-farmer,” announced BS Rajewal president of a faction of the Bharatiya Kisan Union. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was not called for the meeting.“I think a gathering of up to 300 persons is fine for an event by a political party or the government,” he said, adding that in case Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh holds public rallies, he would also face opposition. The announcement was made after one-to-one meetings with the leaders of the political parties.After disruption of its rally in Moga last week by farmers, SAD approached SKM for talks. The latter, then, decided to hold meetings with all the parties.“SKM should retain the national character of the Kisan Andolan by not imposing restrictions on political activities ,” suggested SAD’s Rajya Sabha MP Balwinder Singh Bhundar. Former MP Prem Singh Chandumajra, spokesperson Daljit Singh Cheema and Mahesh Inder Singh Grewal were part of the Akali Dal delegation.“We appeal to the SKM to reconsider its decision,” said AAP MLA Kultar Singh Sandhwan. MLAs Baljinder Kaur and Aman Aroa and former NRI wing convener Jagtar Singh Sanghera accompanied him for talks.SKM also asked the Congress government to withdraw cases against farmers and not force them to submit land record for the procurement of food grains from the upcoming crop of paddy, starting from October 1. State party chief Navjot Singh Sidhu assured them that he will take it up with the government. Working president Kuljit Singh Nagra and general secretary Pargat Singh were also part of Congress team.Congress Rajya Sabha MP Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa and ex-MP Ranjit Singh Brahmpura also met the farm leaders..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-hold-rallies-till-polls-are-declared-skm-to-punjab-parties-101631303102239.html
11-09-2021||India||Punjab to send unvaccinated govt employees on compulsory leave||Punjab on Friday announced that government employees without even one Covid-19 jab for any non-medical reasons will be compulsorily sent on leave after September 15, becoming the latest in a handful of states to attempt a mandatory vaccine mandate.A government statement said chief minister Amarinder Singh took the “strong measure” to protect the people of the state and ensure that vaccinated people do not pay the price for continued vaccine hesitancy.“Special efforts are taken to reach out to government employees, and those who continue to avoid getting vaccinated will now be asked to go on leave till they get the first dose,” the chief minister said at a a high-level virtual Covid review meeting.Till Friday, Punjab had administered nearly 15.9 million doses of the Covid-19 vaccine, of which 12,039,477 were first shots and 3,826,637 were second. This translates to roughly 53% of the state’s adult population having received at least one shot of the vaccine, which puts Punjab among the bottom 10 of India’s states. For comparison, 59% of India has received at least one shot of the Covid-19 vaccine.Singh also ordered the extension of existing Covid-19 restrictions till September 30, with a limit of 300 on all gatherings and strict enforcement of masks as well as social distancing.Earlier, the number of people allowed for indoor gatherings was 150 and outdoors was 300.He also allowed teaching and non-teaching school staff with at least one dose more than four weeks ago to resume duties, subject to submission of weekly RT-PCR Covid-negative test reports.However, people with co-morbidities will be allowed once they are fully vaccinated. Health minister Balbir Sidhu suggested the gap for the second dose to be reduced for school staff to 28 days.However, chief secretary Vini Mahajan informed the meeting that the Centre had rejected the state’s request.Citing the latest sero-survey, the chief minister said that for children between 6 and 17, the sero positivity was at 60%, and it was higher in the age bracket of 14-17. He also directed the health department to ensure that all staff at sweetshops, kiosks and dhabas was vaccinated with at least one dose.Earlier this year, the governments of Manipur and Mizoram tried to enforce a mandatory vaccine regime.In June, Mizoram said only vaccinated individuals should be engaged for manning shops and stores or undertaking any work, and only these people should be allowed to step out of houses.In July, Manipur proposed to prioritise the opening of institutions, factories, shops and offices where employees were vaccinated. MizoramBut both proposals were struck down by the high courts, which viewed these conditions as inimical to freedom of choice and expression, and said it would trample upon the freedom of the individual to get vaccinated or choose not to do so.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-to-send-unvaccinated-govt-employees-on-compulsory-leave-101631302682116.html
11-09-2021||India||Man beaten to death by 10 people in UP’s Shamli district||Muzaffarnagar: A 24-year-old man was allegedly beaten to death by 10 people when he was waiting at a bus stand in Banat town in Shamli district on Friday, police said.According to a senior police officer, the victim, identified as Sameer, was at the bus stand when he got into a fight with the group. The reason for the fight could not be ascertained, the officer added. A case has been registered against 10 people, eight of whom are named in the report. One of them has been arrested, Superintendent of Police Sukirti Madhav Mishra said.A search is on for the absconding accused, Mishra said. The victim’s body has been sent for postmortem. According to the complaint lodged by Sameer’s family, the incident took place when he was on his way back home. He was rushed to a hospital in serious condition where he was declared dead by the doctors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-beaten-to-death-by-10-people-in-up-s-shamli-district-101631302321435.html
11-09-2021||India||Mumbai: Woman raped, brutally assaulted in stationary vehicle||Mumbai: A 34-year-old woman was raped and brutally assaulted inside a stationary tempo in suburban Sakinaka and her condition was said to be serious, police said on Friday.Mohan Chouhan (45), the accused, was arrested within a few hours of the incident, said an official.The police control room received a call in the early hours of Friday that a man was thrashing a woman on Khairani Road, he said.A police team rushed to the spot to find a woman lying in a pool of blood. She was taken to the civic-run Rajawadi hospital, the official said.As per the preliminary probe, she had been raped and also assaulted with an iron rod in her private parts, he said, adding that the incident had taken place inside a tempo parked on the roadside.Bloodstains were found inside the vehicle. According to the doctors, the woman’s condition was serious, the official said.Acting on some leads, accused Chauhan was arrested under IPC sections 307 (attempt to murder) and 376 (rape) and further probe was on, he added.In December 2012, a young woman -- later referred to as `Nirbhaya’ -- was brutally gang- raped and assaulted inside a moving bus in Delhi, causing a wave of outrage across the country. She died in hospital after struggling for life for several days. PTI||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-woman-raped-brutally-assaulted-in-stationary-vehicle-101631302083017.html
11-09-2021||India||Bengaluru: Girl sets out on foot to meet grandparents 270 km away||In their quest to track the 15-year-old girl, who was missing her grandparents and set out on foot from Bengaluru to a village in Kodagu to meet them, the Bengaluru police on Friday said it analysed over 250 CCTV cameras. During her journey on foot, the girl lost her way and was reunited with her family after two weeks.“The painstaking efforts of the PI (police inspector) and the staff of the Banashankari PS in tracing a 15-yr-old orphan girl who was missing are praiseworthy. The girl left Bengaluru and decided to walk 270 km to meet her grandparents in Kodagu. She lost her way after walking for 20km and the police tracked her in 8 days after analysing the footage from 250 CCTV cameras,” Bengaluru police commissioner Kamal Pant said in Twitter post on Friday. According to police, the 15-year-old left home on the morning of August 21. “She had lost her parents at a young age and she was living with relatives in Bengaluru since 2020. After her parents’ death, she was raised by maternal grandparents in Kodagu district and she was very close to them,” said a Banashankari police station official. Recently she had expressed her wish to return to her grandparents since she was not happy living in Bengaluru. However, the elderly couple insisted on her stay in Bengaluru for her education. Unable to convince her grandparents or relatives to take her back, she had decided to walk to Kodagu, the official said. Soon after this, the relatives of the girl filed a complaint with the police who then began searching for her. “We started looking at the CCTV cameras in the area. In total, we scanned through the footage of at least 250 cameras in the location. We first spotted her on a camera walking on Mysuru Road. So, we followed her on multiple CCTV cameras and found that she was near Kengeri. We couldn’t trace her after that,” said HP Puttaswamy, inspector at Banashankari police station. Meanwhile, after walking for hours, hungry and lost, she knocked on the door of a random house off Mysuru Road. A woman in the house took her in and fed her. “The girl explained the entire situation to the woman and asked her not to inform police since they would send her back to her relatives. And the woman agreed,” said the police officer. The girl was in the house for eight days. The police working on the input from the CCTV footage started doing a door-to-door enquiry to locate the girl. “We had reached the area where the girl was. It was during this time, the woman who had given her shelter came forward to inform the police that the girl was with her,” said the officer. Police who suspected harassment from the relatives counselled the girl. She however insisted that they didn’t cause any problem and that she started walking because she wanted to meet her grandparents. The girl was taken to a rehabilitation centre near Nimhans and was later reunited with her grandparents, who took her to Kodagu on September 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengalurugirl-sets-out-on-foot-to-meet-grandparents-270-km-away-101631300522189.html
11-09-2021||India||K’taka logs 967 fresh Covid cases, 10 deaths||Karnataka on Friday clocked 967 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the caseload to 2,960,131, while 10 deaths pushed the toll to 37,472.The day also saw 921 people being discharged, taking the total number of recoveries to 2,905,604. Active cases stood at 17,028, a health department bulletin said.Bengaluru Urban accounted for the maximum number of 310 cases and two fatalities, it said.Dakshina Kannada district bordering Kerala remained a major Covid-19 hotspot with 141 fresh infections and two fatalities.Other districts too reported fresh cases, including Udupi 96, Kodagu 74, Hassan 61, Mysuru 55, Tumakuru 41 and Chikkamagaluru 37.Bidar, Chikkaballapura, Gadag, Haveri, Ramanagara and Yadgir reported zero infections and zero deaths.Twenty-four districts reported zero fatalities, the bulletin said. A total of 167,679 samples were tested, taking the cumulative number of specimens examined to 45.1 million.The number of vaccinations done so far in the state rose to 47.1 million, with 44,634 people being inoculated on Friday, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ktaka-logs-967-fresh-covid-cases-10-deaths-101631300462188.html
11-09-2021||India||Right-wing group attacks prayer Hall in Udupi distt, no arrest yet: police||A group of right-wing activists barged into a Christian prayer hall in Karkala in Udupi district on Friday and allegedly attacked devotees while a prayer meeting was underway, police said. The officials of the prayer hall, in their complaint, have accused the members of the Hindu Jagarana Vedike (HJV) for the attack. In a counter-complaint, HJV alleged that the prayer hall was promoting religious conversions. The situation was brought under control only after police arrived. N Vishnuvardhan, Superintendent of Police, Udupi district said that the police are in the process of verifying complaints filed by both parties and FIRs with appropriate sections will be filed soon. The SP said that no one was injured in the attack. No arrests have been made so far. Talking to media, HJV leaders Prakash Kukkehalli alleged that the centre was responsible for religious conversions. He said they have been complaining about the illegal conversions in the state. “As we had reliable information, we attacked the place,” he said, adding that police have to investigate the matter further. He also argued that while the Ganesh puja festival was cut short in the city, how could such prayer meetings be held. “Covid rules do not apply to those who convert people. How was permission given for such a prayer meeting?” he asked. The SP said that that prayer hall didn’t have any permission to hold any meeting and based on the complaint of HJV, an FIR will be lodged. “The officials of the prayer hall have alleged that they were attacked. We will file an FIR,” said the SP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rightwing-group-attacks-prayer-hall-in-udupi-distt-no-arrest-yet-police-101631300401852.html
11-09-2021||India||Residents mark Ganesh Chaturthi amid uncertainty over festive days||Even as people were seen visiting temples to get a glimpse of the deity and take part in the festivities, confusion continues to engulf the Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations in Karnataka and across Bengaluru as the Basavaraj Bommai government is yet to clarify on the number of days the festival will be allowed. Bommai on Friday said that he has asked revenue minister R Ashok to speak with the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) to get a clarification on the issue. However, the BBMP has stated that it will decide on a “case-by-case” basis on where it can allow the festival to go on for five days. The civic body, however, maintained that the celebrations, according to the government orders, are limited to just three days. “In Bengaluru it has always been three days, but the government order said that the outer limit (of the city) is five days,” Randeep D, the special commissioner (health) and BBMP’s zonal commissioner (Mahadevapura) said on Friday. He added that the BBMP expects all public celebrations to end by three days but that the officials will take a “reasonable call” based on specific requests. The oral statements with no written order have fueled confusion among the people in Bengaluru where Ganesh Chaturthi will be celebrated in a muted manner for a second year in a row due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the impending third wave of infections. Amid the uncertainty and gloom, a temple in Bengaluru decorated itself with eco-friendly items, which caught the eyes of several devotees.We celebrate it (Ganesha festival) every year and this temple is very famous for all those decorations. Every year they have a different concept. This year it is corn and last year I guess it was grapes,” said one devotee at the Sri Sathya Ganapathi Temple in Bengaluru. The temple was decorated with nine different types of flowers, corn, banana and pineapples. The corn was hung from the ceilings and droned the pillars of the temple. “Actually this year we got the news from government on Monday so that we can do Alankar (decorations) only in the temple and not outside. Otherwise, we would have installed a 30 feet high Ganesh idol with different types of items ,” Mohan Raju, the former deputy mayor of Bengaluru said on Friday. He added that after the three-day celebrations, the fruits will be removed and given back to devotees to avoid any of it going for a waste. Though there were strict guidelines mentioned at the entrance of such temples across the state, people inside were seen moving around freely and at times in violation of Covid norms. Members of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) on Thursday had stormed into the BBMP headquarters in Bengaluru to protest the city administration’s decision to reduce public celebration of Ganesh puja to three days. VHP workers also carried a large Ganesh statue with them that they placed in front of the city administration headquarters in protest. “The government will not decide how we will practice our religion and they will not decide how we will keep out Ganesh idols. We will continue to do what has been practiced so far. I don’t follow the government’s order, I will only follow what my parents and gurus have taught me,” said Shashi Kant, one of the VHP workers who stormed into the BBMP headquarters, Hindustan Times had reported. Ashok, on September 6, had announced after a meeting with the chief minister, officials and other experts, that the government has approved five days, starting September 10, to celebrate Ganesh festival. People were seen thronging markets and other busy areas of the city as festival shopping took precedence over the threat of contracting the infection in Bengaluru which is home to almost a quarter of Karnataka’s over 70 million population. The entire locality of KR Market, one of Bengaluru’s busiest business spaces, was abuzz with people all jostling for festival-related shopping. The government was forced to cede to the demands of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislators and other right wing groups who demanded that there be no restrictions on the celebration of “Hindu festivals”. Ashok had earlier said that the celebrations will be permitted only in taluks or administrative units where the Covid-19 positivity rate is lower than 2%. The government had also restricted orchestra, cultural programmes and processions during these five days. The Karnataka government in an order, specifying extension of guidelines for surveillance, containment and caution on Thursday night stated that the Covid-19 situation had been on the decline. “The state as a whole has an average case positivity rate of 0.73% and the districts have a case positivity rate of less than 2%. Hence, to sustain the substantial gains that have been achieved due to stringent containment measures, there is a need to continue with the existing measures along with focused surveillance, testing-tracking-treatment, vaccination, micro containment measures, and strict adherence to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour,” the order stated. It further stated that guidelines for extension will be in force up to 6 am on September 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/residents-mark-ganesh-chaturthi-amid-uncertainty-over-festive-days-101631300163386.html
11-09-2021||India||Right-wing group attacks prayer Hall in Udupi district, no arrest yet: police||A group of right-wing activists barged into a Christian prayer hall in Karkala in Udupi district on Friday. While a prayer meeting was underway. The officials of the prayer hall, in their complaint, have accused the members of the Hindu Jagarana Vedike (HJV) for the attack. In a counter- complaint, HJV alleged that the prayer hall was promoting religious conversions. The police reached the location and brought the situation under control. N Vishnuvardhan, Superintendent of Police, Udupi district said that the police are in the process of verifying complaints filed by both parties and FIRs with appropriate sections will be filed soon. The SP said that no one was injured in the attack. The incident took place on Friday morning at Pragathi Centre, a private prayer hall. According to a statement given to the police, the officials of the centre said that the group barged into the prayer hall unexpectedly and started attacking the devotees. They further added the officials’ attempt to reason with the activists didn’t work. There were some heated arguments and alleged assault. According to police, the prayer centre has been active in the district for over 10 years and earlier it was operating in Doopadakatte area of the district. They recently moved to the new building, where the attack took place. The centre was operated by one Benedict. Talking to the media, HJV leaders Prakash Kukkehalli alleged that the centre was responsible for religious conversions. He said they have been complaining about the illegal conversions in the state. “As we had reliable information, we attacked the place,” he said, adding that police have to investigate the matter further. He also argued that while the Ganesh puja festival was cut short in the city, how could such prayer meetings be held. “Covid rules do not apply to those who convert people. How was permission given for such a prayer meeting?” he asked. Prakash also issued a warning that if the police don’t act against such religious bodies, the HJV will continue to carry out such attacks. SP Vishnuvardhan said that that prayer hall didn’t have any permission to hold any meeting and based on the complaint of HJV, an FIR will be lodged in this regard. “The officials of the prayer hall have alleged that they were attacked. So, will file FIR under relevant sections,” said the SP. No arrests have been made in the case so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rightwing-group-attacks-prayer-hall-in-udupi-district-no-arrest-yet-police-101631300161727.html
11-09-2021||India||JD(S) to hold key meet amid discord murmurs||The Janata Dal (Secular) is scheduled to meet on Monday, the first of the 10-day session of the state legislature, not only to discuss the party’s strategy but also to decide the next course of action against growing discontent within its ranks.In the last few weeks, the party’s top leadership was seen making scathing remarks against at least three of their legislators that include GT Deve Gowda, SR Srinivas (Vasu) and now K Srinivas Gowda who represent Chamundeshwari, Gubbi and Kolar constituencies respectively.Considering the party has just 32 legislators out of the 225 seats in the state legislature, possibility of a disciplinary action and growing discontent within the party against them constitutes a larger problem for former prime minister HD Deve Gowda and former chief minister HD Kumaraswamy-led regional outfit.“It (taking disciplinary action) is still in discussion and nothing has been decided. This issue (disciplinary action) is likely to come up on Monday,” HD Kumaraswamy, the state president of the JD(S) told Hindustan Times on Friday.“The session is on for two weeks and we will get an idea on this (on growing dissent),” he added.The three legislators who are likely to face disciplinary action could not be reached for comment.The JD(S), whose support mainly comes from the Vokkaligas, believed to be the second largest caste group in the state, is now running short of options to keep its flock together, analysts said.“The JD(S) is nothing but a fill-in-the-gap party. They will go with whoever assures them power,” said a north Karnataka-based political analyst, requesting not to be named.He added that the party’s “unprincipled” political functioning will further add to its oblivion in the state as workers get disenchanted with its functioning and enamoured by the rise of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).The JD(S) is the only major political outfit that has allied both with the BJP and the Congress in the past and had bitter fall outs, albeit temporarily. The party continues to have alliances at the local level with the two national parties that has added to the disenchantment of grass root level workers ahead of the soon-to-be held zilla and taluk panchayat elections apart from the 2023 assembly polls. The JD(S) is in talks with the BJP in Kalaburagi district where the Urban Local Body (ULB) polls held on September 3 has given the former a chance once again to play the role of a ‘kingmaker’, which it has played in state and local administration on more than one occasion.The BJP is also trying to mobilise support in the southern districts of Karnataka where JD(S) draws most of its strength in terms of elected representatives to the lower house of the legislature.The BJP is also eyeing reach out to the Vokkaliga community by first forming a board and doling out a whopping ₹500 crore for it. The party can also help benefit the community amid the raging caste census row. The Vokkaligas have at least so far firmly stood behind HD Deve Gowda.The dominant communities like Vokkaligas and Lingayats have now come together to oppose the release of the findings of the caste census data that was commissioned by the Siddaramaiah-led Congress government in 2015 as a way to safeguard their dominant position in the state.On the other hand, a group of extremely backward castes approached the Karnataka high court in August to compel the Basavaraj Bommai-led BJP government to release the findings of the caste census as a way to block attempts by more dominant communities from moving up the reservation ladder.Another Benglauru-based analyst said that it would be more beneficial for the BJP to side with the dominant communities demand rather than depend on the support of a fragmented backward classes group who are not known to vote en-masse.“(HD) Deve Gowda, Kumaraswamy and HD Revanna, who are liked by all political parties, will continue to be kingmakers and this could go up to 2023 elections also. We cannot rule them out,” Professor Chambi Puranik, a political analyst said.He added that those leaving the party or considering it are doing so to secure their own future or that of their family’s and not because of ideological reasons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jds-to-hold-key-meet-amid-discord-murmurs-101631300101812.html
11-09-2021||India||3 labourers die while cleaning water reservoir in Assam||Silchar: Three labourers, including a 16-year-old, died in Assam’s Silchar while cleaning a drinking water reservoir tank of the public health and engineering department on Friday evening, officials of the disaster management authority said.According to the officials, all three died of suffocation due to smoke created by an electric generator inside the 12-foot-deep reservoir. The deceased were identified as Salim Uddin Laskar (40), Nazim Uddin Mazumder (45) and Samsul Alom Mazumdar (16). Laskar died inside the reservoir while the other two were declared dead at Silchar Medical College and Hospitals, officials said.Tapan Sharma from the public health and engineering department’s Silchar division said their initial investigation revealed presence of gas inside the reservoir tank, but they were not sure how it was generated.“This is an old reservoir tank and we outsourced the reconstruction work to an agency named Binni construction. They used some labourers but we believe there was a security laps somewhere which led to unfortunate death of three individuals. Police are investigating the matter and more information will come later.”Soon after the incident, officials of Cachar district administration along with a team of disaster management authority rushed to the spot. Biprojit Choudhary from the disaster management authority said that locals called them around 4pm on Friday after they rescued two unconscious individuals from the tank.“Salim Uddin Laskar, a resident of Karimganj district, first suffocated inside the reservoir and lost his consciousness. Nazim Uddin Mazumder and his son Samsul went inside to rescue Salim but they also got stuck inside. Local residents gathered to rescue them and also informed us. One person died inside the reservoir while the rest two were declared dead in Silchar Medical College and Hospitals on arrival.”Locals blamed the contractors of negligence after the incident. Miya Khan, president of Tupkhana gaon panchayat, said, “The agency which involved the labourers in the work didn’t provide them basic security measures so that they can come out if something unfortunate happens. When the three persons got stuck inside, they did not have a staircase to help themselves. There was no technical instructor who can support them. It’s a serious security laps which killed the three poor labourers. We demand adequate compensation to the families of these three individuals. The department should give us assurance that these kinds of security laps will not repeat in future.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-labourers-die-while-cleaning-water-reservoir-in-assam-101631299861589.html
11-09-2021||India||Chhattisgarh CM Baghel’s father gets bail after 3 nights in prison||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel’s father, Nand Kumar Baghel, who was arrested for allegedly making derogatory remarks against the Brahmin community, was released on bail from a Raipur jail on Friday evening, his lawyer said.Nand Kumar Baghel, 86, was arrested by the Chhattisgarh police on Tuesday. Since he did not seek bail when he was produced before a judge following his arrest, the court remanded him in judicial custody for 15 days.His lawyer Gajendra Sonkar, said he subsequently moved a bail application and sought a hearing.“After hearing the arguments, Judicial Magistrate First Class (JMFC) Janak Kumar Hidko granted him bail on Friday,” Sonkar said.Nand Kumar Baghel walked out of prison hours later after spending three nights behind bars.Nand Kumar Patel was booked for promoting enmity between different groups on a complaint by Sarv Brahmin Samaj, the outfit that alleged that the chief minister’s father, speaking at an event in Uttar Pradesh, recently urged people to “boycott Brahmins”, evict Brahmins from the country and called them “foreigners”.In a statement after the police filed the First Information Report (FIR) against his father, chief minister Baghel said the reported comments by his father hurt the sentiments of the community.“Every person is equal before my government. Everyone knows about my ideological differences with my father. Our political thoughts and beliefs are different. I honour him as his son but as a CM I cannot forgive him for such statements which disturb public order,” the statement said, adding that legal action in the matter will be ensured.“Nobody is above the law in my government even if he is the chief minister’s 86-year-old father,” the chief minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/antibrahmin-remarks-chhattisgarh-cm-s-father-gets-bail-after-3-nights-in-prison-101631299621038.html
11-09-2021||India||Cong questions Centre’s decision to appoint new governor in Tamil Nadu||Tamil Nadu Congress unit has raised doubts over the Union government’s “intention” behind the appointment of a new governor for the state, wondering if it was an attempt to target the MK Stalin-led DMK. On late Thursday night, the Rashtrapati Bhavan made new appointments and shuffled governors, including R N Ravi, governor of Nagaland who was appointed as the governor of Tamil Nadu. Ravi replaces Banwarilal Purohit, who held additional charge as governor of Punjab and is now appointed as regular governor in poll-bound Punjab.Incoming governor, Ravi was born in Bihar and joined the Indian Police Service (IPS) in 1976, and was allotted the Kerala cadre. He has also held positions in the CBI and IB. He was appointed as the Centre’s interlocutor for the Nagaland peace talks in August 2014 and was appointed as Nagaland governor in 2019.On Friday, state Congress chief K S Alagiri referred to the case of another former IPS officer Kiran Bedi, who he said as lieutenant governor (L-G) of the neighbouring union territory of Puducherry, interfered with the functioning of the Congress government there. The Congress government eventually fell earlier this year, owing to a spate of resignations of MLAs, some of whom jumped ship to the BJP. The Congress had often met the President to recall Bedi, accusing her of running a parallel administration and not allowing for welfare schemes to be implemented. She was eventually replaced by former Tamil Nadu BJP-chief Tamilisai Soundararajan, who was given additional charge as LG of Puducherry while she was also the governor of Telangana. Alagiri brought up their common police background. “The appointment of a retired police officer as Tamil Nadu governor has raised suspicion,” Alagiri said in a statement. “I suspect that Ravi has been appointed to create problems for chief minister M K Stalin.” However, Stalin and former chief minister Edappadi Palanwami expressed gratitude towards Purohit and welcomed the new governor for the state. According to a Rashtrapati Bhavan communique, President Ram Nath Kovind released late on Thursday night said that new appointments will take effect when they take charge of their respective offices. In October 2017, Purohit was appointed as the 14th Governor of Tamil Nadu when the state was reeling under a political crisis following J Jayalalithaa’s death in office as chief minister in December 2016. He has been embroiled in several controversies during his stint. He also leaves the state office having avoided taking a decision on the clemency plea of one of the convicts serving a sentence for former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi’s assassination and handing the decision over to the President of India stating that he was the right person to rule on this. “Evasion is not a constitutional act,” says political commentator, Ramu Manivannan. “Governors are being seen as instruments of the central ruling party. This office seems to be functioning against the tenets of a federal system and we should address the office of the Governor through political and constitutional reforms to bring in accountability for their actions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-questions-centre-s-decision-to-appoint-new-governor-in-tamil-nadu-101631299443811.html
11-09-2021||India||EC meets Rijiju, seeks power to delist inactive political parties||The Election Commission of India last week met law minister Kiren Rijiju regarding a host of electoral reforms, including the power to delist inactive political parties and linking Aadhaar to voter identity cards, people familiar with the matter said. “The law minister was briefed on several of the reforms that are pending with the ministry,” one such person said on the condition of anonymity. “Once the amendments are drafted, they will hopefully be introduced in the winter session of Parliament. The power to take action against political parties that have not contested elections for decades but are still enjoying tax exemptions on donations was discussed as well. HT sent the law ministry a detailed questionnaire but did not receive a response.The poll watchdog has the mandate to register a political party but no power under electoral law to deregister any party.An EC official familiar with the matter said that the voluntary linking of Aadhaar data was agreed upon with the government, while the power to delist the political parties remains a point still to be discussed. In 1999, the Commission put 200 parties on notice as they had not contested any polls. At present, India has over 2,700 political parties, but only seven are recognised at the national level and 50 at the state-level. A recognised national party has to poll 6% of valid votes in any four or more states and in addition win four Lok Sabha seats.According to the Association of Democratic Reforms, the number of registered unrecognised parties has doubled in the last decades. The number rose from 1,112 IN 2010 to 2,301 in 2019.The commission, composed of chief election commissioner Sushil Chandra and election commissioners Rajiv Kumar and Anup Chandra Pandey, been pushing for the reforms with the CEC writing to the ministry in May to “expedite them”. Election Commission of India is pushing for at least five key electoral reforms. including making paid news an electoral offence, linking Aadhaar numbers to the electoral roll , and increasing the punishment for filing a false affidavit (to two years of imprisonment), and has written to the government in this regard, HT reported on June 8.There are nearly 40 proposals pending with the ministry. Elections in the states of Goa, Manipur, Uttarakhand, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh are due early next year. ECI has been considering a wide range of electoral reforms to usher in digitisation, removing duplication of voters and enabling remote voting for non-resident Indians (NRIs), even migrant workers within the country. The commission on May 17, sent a reminder to then law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad to revisit at least the five key reforms.ECI has proposed that the voters who turn 18 should be able to register more than just once in a year. At present, only those who turn 18 as of January 1 are eligible to register as voters. ECI also wants to get tough on false affidavits. At present, candidates who furnish false information can be punished with up to six months of imprisonment. The Commission has suggested increasing this to two years.Documents reviewed by HT show that the commission has also pitched the linking of Aadhaar data to the electoral roll, part of its plan to eliminate duplication of voter ID cards. According to the person mentioned above, the commission wrote to the law ministry last month to approve the voluntary linking of Aadhaar data to voter ID cards by means of a gazette notification. “The Election Commission proposes verification of elector using Aadhaar Authentication and voluntary seeding of Aadhaar for providing speedy services to voters like registration of new voters, change of address, downloading voter slips etc,” the commission said in a letter to the ministry. “The proposed Aadhaar authentication/seeding will be optional for those electors who want to use Aadhaar for faster delivery of services.”It adds the ministry of electronics and information technology is a gazette notification published on August 5, 2020, allows for the use of Aadhaar by the central government in the interest of good governance. “It is therefore requested that the proposal for voluntary authentication/seeding of Aadhaar from UIDAI (Unique Identification Authority of India), for providing faster electoral service, may be agreed to,” the letter said. A second person familiar with the matter said that the proposal is with the UIDAI and could be implemented within three months once approval is given. “The main consideration will be to create a data vault to protect the information,” the person said on the condition of anonymity. “The process normally takes within three to six months to be completed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ec-meets-rijiju-seeks-power-to-delist-inactive-political-parties-101631299442330.html
11-09-2021||India||Stalin tables Bill to set up panel for SC/ST members||Tamil Nadu government will set up a commission for Scheduled Caste (SC) and Scheduled Tribe (ST) communities, which will have functionary powers of a civil court, the chief minister MK Stalin announced in the state assembly this week. A Bill to this effect was introduced in the assembly on Thursday to be called The Tamil Nadu State Commission for the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes Act, 2021. The commission will be empowered to inquire suo moto or on a petition by the victims. With the powers of a civil court trying a suit (under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908), the commission can summon any person, examine witnesses, call for the production of any document, receive evidence on affidavits, and requisition any public record from any court or office. “To safeguard the welfare of the SCs and STs, and to protect and develop their economic and social wellbeing, the state government has decided to constitute the commission,” said Stalin, after the Bill was tabled. This decision was taken following suggestions from the vigilance and monitoring committee on August 19, a recently reconstituted body with Stalin as the chairman.The Bill clarifies that the National Commission for the SCs and STs will prevail over the yet to be set up state commission. If the national body is seized of any matter, the state body will not have jurisdiction on the same and in case of conflicting recommendations, the national body’s decisions will prevail. The state commission will have a chairperson, vice-chairperson and five members, out of which three will be from SCs, two from STs and a woman member. The commission will look into any violations of rights provided under the Protection of Civil Rights Act, 1955 and the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act 1989. Among its functions, the commission can recommend action against public servants who are negligent in preventing such violations. The commission is expected to investigate and monitor safeguards present in various legislations, in the interest of SC/STs and promote awareness of the same. “Undertake a review of the implementation of the policies pursued by the Union and state government with respect to SCs and STs,” the Bill read. The state government will consult the commission on policy matters related to the community, and the commission will also carry out research work to avoid discrimination. Stalin also drew on the past achievements of the DMK regime, which increased the reservation for the community and introducing a 3% special reservation for SC Arunthathiyars to state it was their tradition to protect the interests and ensure equality. In a separate announcement earlier this week, Stalin also supported the caste-based census and said that he would soon write to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the matter. On Wednesday, Stalin said that ₹10 lakh reward as an incentive to panchayats following the practice of common crematoriums or graveyards. And to expedite cases related to the SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act, Stalin announced setting up four new special courts in Salem, Krishnagiri, Madurai and Tirunelveli, since these places have more pending cases. He also said that schools run by the Adi Dravidar Welfare Department will be brought to the mainstream under the guidance of the School Education Department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stalin-tables-bill-to-set-up-panel-for-sc-st-members-101631299323677.html
11-09-2021||India||6-year-old murdered in Telangana, kin allege rape: Police||A 6-year-old girl was found murdered at her neighbour’s house in Saidabad on Friday, triggering protests by local residents, police said, suspecting the minor was sexually assaulted.According to the police, the minor girl went missing on Thursday and after her family lodged a police complaint, her body was found in her neighbour’s house on Friday morning. Rape was suspected in the incident as per preliminary information, but a medical examination would bring out the facts, police said.A senior Hyderabad police officer from the east zone said more details about the assault could only be ascertained after the post-mortem, as the victim’s body had several injury marks A senior police officer, who did not wish to be named, said the girl’s neighbour, who is the prime suspect in the case, was absconding. “The accused is a daily wager and will be taken into custody soon,” the officer added.Police said a case was registered following a complaint made by the girl’s father and investigation was in progress.Soon after the incident came to light, local residents held a protest demanding strict action against the accused. Locals also obstructed police officers and demanded monetary compensation for the girl’s family from the Telangana government. Police deployed additional personnel in the area after some local media claimed that crowd pelted stones at the house of the accused.Meanwhile, state women and child welfare minister Satyavati Rathod, who expressed anguish over the incident, urged city police commissioner Anjani Kumar and women and child welfare commissioner Divya Devarajan to take steps to bring the culprit to book and to ensure tough punishment, an official release said.The parents of the girl be provided with financial assistance of ₹50,000, the minister said.Observing that the Telangana government under the leadership of chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has initiated several measures for women’s safety, the minister directed officials to be tough in dealing with such incidents.Appealing to the residents of the locality to observe restraint, she said the government would stand by the family of the deceased girl and take steps to hand out stringent punishment to the culprits, the release added.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6yearold-murdered-in-telangana-kin-allege-rapepolice-101631299321692.html
11-09-2021||India||Andhra government to run website for online sale of movie tickets||Andhra Pradesh government is preparing a state-run website for online sale of movie tickets, both single and multiplex theatres, across the state, an order issued by principal secretary (home) Kumar Vishwajit on August 31 stated.The website would be similar to the railway reservation ticketing system, the order said. Andhra Pradesh state film, television and theatre development corporation will run the upcoming portal, and the government is working out other modalities. As of now, tickets in Andhra are sold online by private entities such as BookMyShow whereas, offline tickets are available at the theatre box office.Currently, online ticket sales are restricted to major cities like Vijayawada and Visakhapatnam. Physical counters at theatres are the only mode of buying tickets in rural areas. A government official who did not want to be quoted said the order was passed keeping in mind tax collections or tax revenues to the state government from movie theatres. “The tax collected per year is just a small percentage of the business the Telugu film industry makes. It is an old issue and is being sorted out. For example, if a film-maker earns ₹100 crores, the tax has to be paid accordingly,” he added. The order further stated that the state government constituted a committee to create a blueprint of the system. The committee comprises the principal secretary (home) as the chairman and the principal secretary (Information technology) as co-chairman.Other members include the secretary of the Andhra information and public relations (I&PR) department and managing director of the Andhra state film, television and theatre development corporation, managing director of the Andhra technological services and a representative of the commercial taxes department’s commissioner.The move has worried industry bigwigs, who are concerned about the government’s intention behind this order. Several people refused to comment on the matter, terming it ‘very sensitive’. A senior person from the film industry, who didn’t want to be named, said that the issue will only be resolved if one of the senior actors meets chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy to sort it out.A well-known movie producer from Andhra, who also requested anonymity, said that the film industry had recommended online ticketing to streamline taxation earlier. “But the issue now is that there is no clarity about what the government wants to do. They mentioned that they would create something like a railway ticket portal. But how can money first come to the government and then come to us?” he questioned. The movie producer added that one can not go to the government for their money, as it will lead to red tapes. “There is no clarity on this. This is not an essential community, it is a business,” he remarked. According to estimates, the Telugu movie industry, known as Tollywood, used to generate over ₹1000 crores every year during pre-Covid times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-government-to-run-website-for-online-sale-of-movie-tickets-101631299261581.html
11-09-2021||India||Farm income rose 16%, but share from cultivation dropped: NSO data||Farm incomes rose 57% between 2018-19 and 2012-13, at a compounded annual growth rate of 7.8%, and the inflation adjusted numbers work out to 16% at a CAGR of 2.5%.Interestingly, much of the increase seems to have come from wages and animal husbandry, with the share of income from cultivation actually declining from 48% to 38%.The numbers are the first indication of how farmers fared under the first Narendra Modi government, and are from the National Statistical Office’s (NSO) results of the “Situation Assessment of Agricultural Households and Land and Holdings of Households in Rural India” (SAS) survey conducted in 2019.According to the survey, the average debt of a farm household increased by 58% to ₹74,100 in 2018-19, from ₹47,000 during 2012-13. In real terms, that’s a 16.5% increase. But the share of agricultural households with outstanding loans decreased marginally from 51.9% to 50.2%.The numbers indicate that agriculture has not fared badly under the Modi government, although their income from the production of crops or allied activities has actually declined in real terms; they are also a reflection of the fact that the monsoon has not let down farmers in the past seven years (except in certain parts of the country, but regional variations in income and indebtedness will become clear only in a disaggregated analysis).The survey is the most comprehensive one on the condition of agricultural households and gives data for the July 2018-June 2019 period. The previous round of this survey was conducted in 2013 and collected data for the July 2012-June 2013 period. This is the first compressive account of the state of farmers under the Modi government.Agricultural incomes rose...CAGR of the gross value added or GVA added in agriculture was 3.6% between 2012-13 and 2018-19 (considering a July-June year), the latest two rounds of the SAS rounds. But that doesn’t say much about the condition of farmers in India. The SAS gives data on average income of agricultural households. This was ₹10,218 per month in 2018-19. To be sure, the household income in this round of the survey included income from rent of leasing out of land, which was not included in 2012-13. Without such rent, the average household income in 2018-19 is ₹10,084. This is a 57% increase (CAGR of 7.8%) over the nominal income of ₹6,426 in 2012-13. Adjusting with CPI rural for inflation, makes the growth 16% or a CAGR of 2.5%.... but were powered by non-cultivation incomeAn agricultural household may earn from sources other than agriculture, such as wages or non-farm business. Wages, cultivation, farming of animals, and non-farm business had a share of 40%, 38%, 16%, and 6% in 2018-19. These shares were 32%, 48%, 12%, and 8% in 2012-13. This suggests that farming or crop production as an occupation is on the decline. Not only do agricultural households not earn even a majority of their incomes from cultivation, it is not even their largest source of income.In absolute terms, the nominal income from crop production or cultivation per agricultural household was ₹3,798 in 2018-19, 23% higher than in 2012-13. However, in real terms it has declined by 8.9%.To be sure, such decline can also happen if agricultural households (it includes even those who are engaged in animal farming) remain the same or increase, but they don’t earn from production of crops. Therefore, it is important to look at the change in this income per agricultural household actually engaged in crop production. From cultivation or production of crops and related activities alone, the net nominal income (receipts less expense) of households actually engaged in cultivation was ₹4,001 in 2018-19, 19.4% more than ₹3,350 in 2012-13. In real terms, such income declined 11.7%.Not all farmers are part of agricultural householdsNot all farmers are part of an agricultural household. The survey defines an agricultural household as one which produces field or horticultural crops, livestock or products of other specified agricultural activities even if it does not possess or operate any land. To exclude households with insignificant production, only households receiving value of produce more than ₹4,000 and having a member self-employed in agriculture in the previous 365 days are considered. The income cutoff in 2018-19 has been adjusted for inflation – it was ₹3,000 in 2012-13 – and the definitions are identical to that in 2012-13, the report shows.What happened to farm loans?The average amount of outstanding loans per agricultural household was ₹74,100 in 2018-19, 58% more than ₹47,000 during 2012-13. In real terms, however, outstanding loans increased by 16.5%. The share of agricultural households with outstanding loans decreased marginally from 51.9% to 50.2%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-income-rose-16-but-share-from-cultivation-droppednsodata-101631298840933.html
11-09-2021||India||Govt enables vaccine status check by firms, services||The Union government on Friday launched a new digital tool to verify a person’s vaccination status directly from Co-WIN, a step it said will allow various entities such as employers, hotels, airlines and railways to safely resume or expand activities.The tool, called the Know your Customer’s/Client’s Vaccination Status, or KYC-VS, paves the way for wider adoption of so-called vaccine passports that an increasing number of countries are seeing as key to the recovery from the pandemic. Many western countries are now making it mandatory for people to get a shot before they can enter public transport and crowded venues like nightclubs.Similar restrictions may now be possible at scale in India once the system is adopted widely. For instance, people wanting to use the local train network in Mumbai at present need to apply for a pass after having their vaccine -- the new API can now digitise and speed up the process.“CoWIN is launching a new API that will make it easy for organisations/institutions to know the vaccination status of their employees, associates, customers. We believe this will help us resume socio-economic activities faster while ensuring everyone’s safety,” RS Sharma, the CEO of the National Health Authority, said in a tweet on Friday.“This consent-based/privacy-preserving API is being offered with a webpage that can be embedded in any system/portal. This will ensure a quick and seamless integration with any system,” he added.According to the details in a government release, a person will be able to approve a verification request since they will be sent a one-time password (OTP), without which the system will not return the vaccination status.“This response will be digitally signed and can be shared instantly with the verifying entity. A real-life example could be when at the time of booking a railway ticket, an individual will input the necessary details for buying the ticket and if required, the concerned entity will also get the vaccination status in the same transaction, with the due consent of the individual,” a government statement said.According to an official, who asked not to be named, the new tool will help avoid the need for people to present their full certificates. “One really does not need to access a person’s full Covid-19 vaccination certificate; this tool will provide just the confirmation to those who want to know it as part of business dealings or offering services etc,” this person said.At least 58% of India’s eligible population – which comprises all adults – have received at least one dose. Of these, 18% have been fully vaccinated. In all, 720 million doses have been delivered till September 10.Health experts have said being vaccinated is likely to become a crucial prerequisite, as it has in many parts of the world, for activities to return to pre-pandemic levels. But such a move comes with concerns of possible discrimination until universal coverage has been achieved and everyone has had adequate opportunity to get a dose.“It is also a polite way of urging people to come forward and get vaccinated; there’s still a section that needs convincing. It’s a well established fact that when you get vaccinated then the disease largely does not take a wild turn,” said Dr Sandeep Nayar, director and head, chest and respiratory diseases department, BLK Super Specialty Hospital. “It will also help at the psychological level as you’d feel comfortable if you know passengers in your flight are vaccinated,” he added.Privacy experts, however, said there could be several issues involved.“Once information about where and by whom a person’s vaccination status is verified is recorded, it will allow for an individual’s social graph to be created. This has serious privacy concerns because it could potentially identify where you have been and if you have taken, for example, a flight or a train,” said Anand Venkatanarayanan, privacy and cybersecurity researcher.He added that since the Co-WIN database is centralised, it adds to the risks in case of a breach. “Such verification would have been possible with decentralised verification with the QR codes, but it will now be aggregated into what can turn into a centralised social graph.”PM chairs high-level meetMeanwhile, Prime Minister Narendra Modi chaired a high-level meeting to review the Covid-19 outbreak in India and the government’s measures, including on vaccination. According to a government statement, the PM was briefed about current outbreak hot spots and on the availability of critical resources like oxygen supply, as well as vaccine stocks.“PM spoke about the need for constant genome sequencing to monitor emergence of mutants,” the statement said. “PM spoke about the need to ensure adequate testing across the country... (and) said that the entire ecosystem to ensure increased oxygen availability, including oxygen concentrators, cylinders and PSA plants, needs to be rapidly augmented,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-enables-vaccine-status-check-by-firms-services-101631298601444.html
11-09-2021||India||Cops, jail staff, doctors lax in Tihar murder||New Delhi:  Delhi Police, jail authorities, and prison doctors, all allegedly violated rules at every level in the case of gangster Ankit Gujjar’s alleged murder inside Tihar, and interventions from all three were either delayed or in violation of prescribed procedure, according to case papers seen by HT. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is probing Gujjar’s death after the Delhi high court on Wednesday transferred the case to the agency while calling the incident a “serious offence, which required in-depth investigation”. The case was earlier with Delhi Police. Gujjar, 29, one of western Uttar Pradesh’s most wanted men who had at least 13 cases in Delhi and Uttar Pradesh against him, was, according to a complaint by his family, beaten to death by prison officers inside Tihar’s jail 3 on August 3. The prison department have said Gujjar and two others were injured in a scuffle that broke out after jail officers confiscated a cell phone, data cable, and a knife inside Gujjar’s cell. HT has accessed copies of the FIR, the status report filed by the police and jail authorities, and the prison’s inquiry report, which show how authorities appeared to cover up Gujjar’s murder, and the Delhi Police failed to intervene in time. Here, according to official documents, are how each of the branches acted, and how they fell short of taking measures that could have saved the life of the prisoner, who was facing trial in at least five cases registered across police stations in the Capital. Delhi PoliceGujjar’s family made 16 distress calls to the Delhi Police control room informing them that Gujjar had been beaten inside the jail, according to a status reportprepared by the police and submitted to the high court. The first call was made at 10.55pm on August 3, within three to four hours of the initial scuffle inside the jail, when Gujjar was still alive.The family was first informed by another prisoner, who came out on bail on the evening of August 3, and called Gujjar’s house in Baghpat. The man claimed to have seen jail officers beating Gujjar. Despite the 16 calls, Delhi Police entered the jail only after learning about Gujjar’s death the following day. The FIR related to Gujjar’s murder shows that a police officer visited the jail office after the distress call, but did not go inside the cells where the alleged scuffle took place, or where Gujjar was lodged after the incident. Neither the FIR nor the police’s status report mentions a visit by any officer to Gujjar’s cell.When police did not directly check on Gujjar on the night of August 3, Gujjar’s family, who live in Baghpat, Uttar Pradesh, reached the Hari Nagar police station at 4am on August 4 and asked the police to intervene. The distance from Baghpat to Hari Nagar police station in Delhi is about 50km. The case papers also show that police officers met the prime suspect in the case, deputy superintendent of police Narendra Meena, at the Deen Dayal Upadhyay (DDU) hospital at 11.11pm (August 3). Two hours later, at 1.10 am (August 4), Delhi Police filed an FIR against Gujjar, in which the prison officers alleged that Gujjar had beaten the jailors. The case against Gujjar, FIR number 434/2021 was registered under sections of 186,332,353 and 34 (related to assaulting public servant on duty), but police did not file any case against the jail officers. A case of murder against the jail officers was registered only on August 9, on the directions of a city court. This FIR, under Section 302 (murder), named deputy superintendent Meena. Gujjar’s lawyer Mehmood Pracha accused the Delhi Police of trying to cover up the jail officers’ crime. “The victim’s family made a distress call to save his life, but the police conveniently met the accused people instead of the victims. The police only met accused jail officer in hospital, but did not meet Gujjar. They also agreed to the jail officer’s version of events. Should they not meet the victim first and verify the facts?” Experts said that the Delhi Police should have entered the prison cell and checked on Gujjar. Vikram Singh, former director general of the Uttar Pradesh police, said if there is a distress call, police have every right to enter the prison. “It is a distress call -- somebody made a call for help. Normally when there is an inspection or a visit, police or other agencies inform and coordinate with the prison department. But if there is a distress call, and a complaint has been filed, police have every right to enter the jail. I remember an episode in 2008 at UP’s Sultanpur jail, when police entered the prison and helped stop a riot. Police are trained to deal with different situations.”A senior Delhi Police officer, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said it will not be appropriate to comment at this stage because the case is being investigated by the CBI.Tihar jail authoritiesDelhi Police, in their statement in the case FIR, filed on August 9, have noted that one of their officers, assistant sub inspector Ram Avtar, visited jail number 3 of Tihar after receiving a 10.55pm distress call from Gujjar’s family. Police accused the jail officers of not allowing them to enter the jail. The FIR mentions that when ASI Avtar visited jail 3, deputy superintendent Vinay Thakur informed him about a scuffle between prisoners and the jail staff. Thakur, according to the FIR, told the police officer to “come later in the day” because “treatment had been provided to Ankit Gujjar”. The FIR also mentions that the jail officers told police Gujjar suffered “minor injuries” after a “minor scuffle”. A statement to the police by a witness, prisoner Vikas alias Veeru, seen by HT, says that during the scuffle, deputy superintendent Meena requested the jail superintendent to blow the siren and sound an emergency. Vikas has alleged that the superintendent did not give permission to blow the siren. To be sure, the siren inside the jail is sounded when an incident requires intervention of the topmost officials, who have to visit the prison cells immediately and take necessary action. Vikas’s statement is important because he was not just an inmate but was also a “sewadar” who helped jail officers at the control room. Sewadars are prisoners chosen to help jail officers manage the prison. Vikas, who claimed to be part of the search team that inspected Gujjar’s cell, alleged in his statement related to the FIR registered against jail officers, that the prison authorities ordered the CCTVs be turned off during the scuffle, after which around “50 jailers with dandas” assaulted Gujjar. HT on September 4 reported how the CCTV cameras, which could have recorded the scuffle and the events thereafter, were switched off because of “maintenance work”. The Delhi high court on Wednesday also asked the state government and prison director general asking them for “immediate remedial” action to ensure that “unscruplous officers do not take advantage of the knowledge of non working of CCTVs” and get away by doing “any illegal act/ offences”.Also, while Delhi Police was unable to enter the jail, Gujjar’s family, who reached the Hari Nagar police station, sent an email to the superintendent informing them about the incident. There was no response. The high court on Wednesday also directed the prison department to set in place a mechanism, by which “immediate entry is provided to the police on receipt of information of a cognisable offence”. A senior Tihar jail officer said, “Four jail officers including the alleged accused were suspended immediately. Eight others including the jail’s superintendent were transferred to ensure a fair probe. The departmental inquiry has found some other prison officers of jail 3, who were negligent in their duty. Appropriate action will be taken against them too. The prison headquarters is cooperating with the investigating agency and will assist in all forms to aid the investigation.”Jail doctorsThe Delhi high court on Wednesday also noted that when Gujjar was injured, his life could have been saved if proper medical treatment was provided. The high court has also asked CBI to probe the role of jail doctors in this regard. Papers seen by HT show how the doctors failed to provide treatment to Gujjar. After the scuffle inside jail 3, Gujjar was shifted from his cell in ward 5 to ward 1A. The post-mortem report conducted by a medical board at All India Institute of Medical Sciences shows he suffered 12 grievous injuries on his neck, eyes, chest, abdomen, hands, back, knees, and collar bone among other parts of his body. But the jail doctors, who visited Gujjar at 1.10 am (August 4), gave him a painkiller, according to the prison’s inquiry report. Meanwhile, the prime suspect Meena, on the advice of the doctors, checked himself into the DDU hospital. The prison doctors in their statement to police have claimed that “Gujjar refused treatment”. On the morning of August 4, during the roll call of inmates, Gujjar was found dead inside cell 1A of Tihar jail 3. The high court has also asked the CBI to probe the role of the jail doctors. Gujjar’s counsel Mehmood Pracha said every branch of the government worked together to ensure no case was filed because Gujjar’s death “exposed an extortion racket inside the prison”. He said, “We have also submitted proof in the form of bank statements about money Gujjar’s family paid the jail officers. We urged for a CBI investigation because this is not just a murder but a case that exposes the extortion inside Tihar by senior officers. There is no reason why doctors would just administer painkillers. It is convenient for them to say Gujjar refused treatment. The Delhi Police did not register a case and was forced to do so only on the court’s orders. Instead, they met the jail officers and file case against the deceased.” Prisons expert, advocate Ajay Verma, convener of the National Forum for Prison Reforms, a group of lawyers that works to implement reforms across prisons in the country, said, “The high court found merit in the allegations of the family and has ordered a CBI inquiry. So what if the man is an alleged gangster? He also has rights guaranteed by the Constitution.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cops-jail-staff-doctors-lax-in-tihar-murder-101631298600799.html
11-09-2021||India||CM rejects Catholic bishop’s remark, says narcotics issue not linked to religion||A day after a Catholic bishop remarked that girls and youth from the community were becoming victims of a “well-orchestrated narcotic jihad” in Kerala, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Friday stressed that the problem of narcotics has “no religion” and those holding responsible positions should refrain from making statements causing division in society. Taking note of Bishop of Pala Diocese of the Syro-Malabar church, Mar Joseph Kallaranghatt’s controversial remarks on Thursday, the chief minister said: “It (narcotic jihad) is a new term. I never expected such a statement from a person like him. I have no idea what prompted him to make it. Narcotics has no religion and nobody encourages it.”“Persons holding such respectable positions should be careful while making such a statement. It will create unnecessary rift and animosity. It is a fact that all religions and governments are concerned about increased use of narcotics. It is not proper to put everything into the account of a particular section,” he told reporters here. The priest also came under criticism of the opposition Congress. Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly V D Satheesan, in a social media post, requested the community and spiritual leaders to desist from making any move or such statement. “We can’t count the number of crimes based on caste or religion. Such a statement was not expected from a religious leader. All will have to keep restraint to ensure brotherhood and peace,” he said. Echoing the same, senior Congress leader and MLA P T Thomas said the bishop’s remark is not conducive to communal harmony.“It should not have come from a person like him who is a known thinker and theology expert. Such statements will affect our communal harmony and amity,” he said. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), however, rallied behind the Catholic priest. “What he said is true. Both ‘love jihad’ and ‘narcotic jihad’ are prevalent. We are not blaming the whole community, but extremists elements within it. Even top police officers admitted that a syndicate is working behind this,” state BJP president K Surendran said. “Love jihad” is a term often used by right-wing groups to describe unions between Muslim men and women belonging to other religion.Several Christian leaders also came out in support of the Bishop. “You can’t crucify a religious head who is reeling out facts. His words are not against the whole community but against a section of misguided people who have the least regard for other religions,” Janapaksham (a political party) leader P C George said. Former spokesman of Kerala Catholic Bishops Council, Varghese Vallikat, also supported the Catholic priest. Muslim organisations such as the Samasta Kerala Sunni Students Federation (SKSSF) and Kerala Naduvathul Mujahideen, however, demanded the Bishop present evidence to substantiate his claims.“His statement is intended to create a rift between two communities. The government should take legal action against him for promoting hatred,” Sathar Panthallur, SKSSF general secretary, said. Last month, the Bishop had exhorted believers to have more children to check the depleting population of Christians. The Pala diocese had announced a monthly assistance of ₹1,500 for couples married after 2000, and who have four or more children.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vijayan-rejects-catholic-bishop-s-remark-says-narcotics-issue-not-linked-to-religion-101631298545768.html
11-09-2021||India||Abhishek Banerjee to hold roadshow in Tripura as TMC eyes state polls||Intensifying its plans to make inroads in Tripura in the 2023 state elections, the Trinamool Congress (TMC) on Friday announced that its national general secretary, Abhishek Banerjee, will lead the party’s first roadshow in Agartala on September 15.Several Parliament members and legislators from Bengal will accompany Abhishek to the north-eastern state for the mega rally next week, the party said. At least 43 of 60 seats in the state are in control of the BJP and its allies.“Abhishek will lead the roadshow in Agartala,” TMC’s state general secretary Kunal Ghosh confirmed.The Mamata Banerjee-led party has been focusing on expanding the TMC’s footprint to states outside West Bengal after the chief minister’s spectacular victory against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the West Bengal assembly elections this year.The TMC leader’s plan to visit Tripura also comes amid increasing clashes between workers of the BJP and CPI(M), which ruled the state from 1978 to 1988 and again from 1993 to 2018. “The BJP has been intentionally attacking CPI(M) workers since last week to divert people’s attention from the rise of the TMC. But the strategy will not work. We are fully sympathetic towards the CPI(M) workers and support their struggle. However, we urge them to vote for us and oust the BJP,” Ghosh said. However, former Tripura CPI(M) state secretary Baijan Dhan told HT that by asking Left supporters to vote for the TMC, Bengal’s ruling party was making a mockery of the current situation. “We are not opposed to any party holding rallies in Tripura but TMC leaders should not drag electoral politics into the current situation. They should have sympathy for our workers who are facing attacks every day. This is not the time to talk about elections,” Dhar said. Taking a swipe at the TMC, Tripura BJP spokesperson Subrata Chakraborty said the former is always welcome to hold rallies as democracy prevails in the state. “Abhishek Banerjee is welcome to hold the roadshow because democracy prevails here. TMC leaders are claiming that it is going to be a historic event. We wonder if it will historically mark the end of TMC’s journey in Tripura like the three earlier occasions when it unsuccessfully contested the state polls. We know that TMC and CPI(M) have an understanding but people have faith in the governance and welfare measures of Biplab Dev,” he said. The TMC had unsuccessfully contested the polls in 2008, 2013 and 2018. “In 2008, the TMC was literally an unknown force in Tripura,” Chakraborty added. It is for the third time in two months that Abhishek will be visiting Agartala next week. During his last visit on August 2, Abhishek had told local leaders that organisational committees will need to be set up right down till the polling booth-level by end of the year. I-Pac, the company formed by election strategist Prashant Kishor which helped the Mamata government to sweep the April elections in Bengal, has already begun collecting data on the ground to help TMC make inroads into Tripura. The Trinamool Congress (TMC) on Friday announced that its national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee will lead the party’s first roadshow in Agartala on September 15, months after youth and senior leaders started visiting Tripura and announced that they will oust the Biplab Deb-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in the 2023 assembly polls.Sushmita Dev, former Congress Lok Sabha member from Silchar in Assam, who joined the TMC in August, has been regularly touring the state where her deceased father, former Union minister Santosh Mohan Dev earlier held the Tripura West Lok Sabha seat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/abhishek-banerjee-to-hold-roadshow-in-tripura-as-tmc-eyes-state-polls-101631298544521.html
11-09-2021||India||I-T dept ‘surveys’ offices of NewsClick, Newslaundry||The Income Tax department on Friday carried out a “survey operation” at the office of website Newslaundry as part of an investigation into the finances and funding of the organisation, according to four people familiar with the matter who asked not to be named.The department also carried out a separate survey operation at the office of NewsClick.One person familiar with the development said the I-T action came after certain gaps were noticed in the financial statements, as well as irregularities in the foreign investments, received by both the portals. A second person said the department was looking into the sources of funds of current as well as previous promoters of the websites and that it had “sufficient reason” to carry out a survey“NewsClick and Newslaundry received Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) at very high premium while their net worth was very low. There are also gaps in the financials of both the companies, which suggest tax evasion but we are verifying the same,” the first person added. While the foreign investment in NewsClick was received in 2018-19, this officer didn’t disclose the period when Newslaundry received such funds from outside India.According to the Newslaundry website, much of the company’s equity is held by its three co-founders, Sekhri, Roopak Kapoor, and Prashant Sareen, and by an impact fund Omidyar Network (the current managing director and partner of its Indian operations is Roopa Kudva). Madhu Trehan, another co-founder, divested her stake in favour of the other three co-founders. She did not respond to a text message seeking comment.HT reached out to Newslaundry CEO Abhinandan Sekhri and NewsClick founder Purkaystha on Friday for their reaction but there was no response.In a message posted on his Twitter handle on Saturday, Sekhri referred to the income tax 'surveys."We have nothing to hide and have done everything by the book and are not in any breach or violation of any law. We conduct our business honestly and with integrity," Abhinandan Sekhri said on Twitter. "We have in the past given the IT authorities all documents related to our funding and accounts. We will cooperate in whatever way we are required to by the law. We will also continue to practice public interest journalism which is why we exist”.NewsClick also released a statement on the I-T action on Saturday, asserting that the latest action "appears to relate to the same false and unfounded allegations being investigated by the Enforcement Directorate and the Economic Offences Wing, Delhi Police. We have these allegations challenged in the courts"."These investigations by various agencies, and these selective allegations, are attempts to stifle the independent journalism of media organisations – including Newsclick," the news portal's Prabir Purkayastha said in the statement.The I-T department and the finance ministry did not respond to e-mail queries and text messagesIn a survey operation, which is carried out under provisions of Section 133 A of the Income Tax Act, 1961, tax officials cover only the business premises of an assessee and those linked to it and not their residential addresses. However, tax authorities can seize documents. During a survey, I-T officials look into documents such as books of accounts, bank statements, and details of cash and stock.The I-T teams reached the Newslaundry and NewsClick offices at Sarvodaya Enclave and Saidulajab respectively in the morning, and checked the documents till evening while asking those in the office to switch off their phones.Officials said they have seized documents and electronic communications from both the companies.As the next step, the survey team will study the finances of the companies and prepare a report for further action, if any, by the concerned assessing officer, so that a formal investigation can be launched under the I-T Act , a third person, a government officer explained.I-T officials had visited the offices of both the portals on June 30 as well and notices were served to the concerned office bearers.NewsClick was earlier raided by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on February 9 this year for alleged money laundering linked to foreign funding received by it. The Delhi high court in June this year directed the ED to not take any coercive action against Purkayastha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-dept-surveys-offices-of-newsclick-newslaundry-101631298542785.html
11-09-2021||India||Kerala woman travels 300km to meet her ‘online’ friend. She’s gang-raped, filmed||Thiruvananthapuram: A 28-year-old woman who travelled 300 km to meet a man she befriended online was gang-raped by the man and his three friends in north Kerala’s Kozhikode, police said on Friday.Police said the four drugged her, took turns to rape her and filmed the assault before they finally dumped her a short distance from a private hospital. They warned her against complaining to the police, threatening to put out videos and photos of the assault on the Internet.“The hospital alerted the police,” assistant commissioner of police K Sudarshan said, adding that the accused left her near a hospital because they were afraid she may die. Her condition now is stable, he said.The woman, who is still under treatment at the hospital, shared the phone number of the man she was in touch with and some other details to help the police track down the accused.Police officer Sudarshan said two accused including P Anas, the man she became friends with over short video streaming mobile application TikTok, have been arrested. “We have some leads about absconding two and they will be arrested soon,” the police officer said.The woman, a resident of Kollam in south Kerala, had been in touch with Anas for nearly two years on social media. Anas insisted that they meet and invited her to come to Kozhikode. She finally made the trip on Thursday.He took her to a flat in the city; his friends later joined in. The accused first forced the woman to drink liquor and then some substance, possibly narcotics, and then raped her one by one.One of the accused has criminal antecedents, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-woman-travels-300km-to-meet-her-online-friend-she-s-gang-raped-filmed-101631296681232.html
11-09-2021||India||Mathura-Vrindavan area declared pilgrimage site; meat, liquor sale banned||The Uttar Pradesh government on Friday declared an area of 10 sq km around the birthplace of Lord Krishna in Mathura-Vrindavan as a “teerth sthal” (pilgrimage site) and banned the sale of liquor and meat in this area which spans 22 wards of the Mathura Nagar Nigam. The city has a total of 70 wards managed by the local body.Seven other areas in Mathura linked to the life of Lord Krishna and his consort Radha, have already been declared pilgrimage sites by the Yogi Adityanath regime. These include Vrindavan, Gokul, Barsana, Nandgaon, Goverdhan, Baldev and Radhakund.“The Uttar Pradesh government on Friday declared 10 sq km area under Mathura Nagar Nigam a teerth sthal (pilgrimage spot). The area comprises 22 municipal wards of the municipality. This automatically means that meat and liquor cannot be sold in the area,” said Navneet Sehgal, additional chief secretary (ACS), information department, UP.Additional chief secretary Avnish Kumar Awasthi issued a detailed order, specifying the names of the 22 wards. A copy of the order was marked to the commissioner, Agra division, district magistrate (Mathura), SSP (Mathura), Mathura Nagar Nigam and vice-chairman of the Braj Teerth Vikas Parishad in Mathura.The decision was welcomed in Mathura and Vrindavan.“Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has kept his word and declared Mathura as teerth sthal. It was a long pending demand and will ensure the revival of the glorious past of this religious city with Sri Krishna Janmabhoomi as its centre. Devotees coming to Mathura were not happy over the sale of meat and liquor in the land of Krishna,” stated Kapil Sharma, secretary of Shri Krishna Janmabhoomi Trust in Mathura.Mahesh Pathak, national president of Akhil Bharatiya Teerth Purohit Mahasabha, also welcomed the decision to declare 22 wards of Mathura as a pilgrimage site.“There are 70 wards in Mathura-Vrindavan Nagar Nigam, including nine wards of Vrindavan, which already has pilgrimage site status. Of the remaining 61 wards of Mathura, 22 are being declared as pilgrimage spots. We would have loved having all 61 wards of Mathura Nagar Nigam as pilgrimage spots but declaring 22 wards with Sri Krishna Janmabhoomi as epicentre is no less a welcome decision,” stated Pathak.The issue of pilgrimage site status to Mathura was raised on ‘Janmashtami’ last month when chief minister Yogi Adityanath was in Mathura to offer prayers to Lord Krishna at Shri Krishna Janmabhoomi. In his address, he favoured the sale of meat and liquor in the temple town. He even suggested that those engaged in the sale of meat and liquor be rehabilitated by getting them to open milk vends.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mathuravrindavan-area-declared-pilgrimage-site-meat-liquor-sale-banned-101631296261175.html
11-09-2021||India||India, Australia discuss Afghanistan crisis implications, terrorism||New Delhi: The defence ministers of India and Australia on Friday discussed the security situation in Afghanistan, its implications for the region, issues related to the Indo-Pacific where China has scaled up its maritime activities, and steps to further bilateral military cooperation across domains, people familiar with the developments said on Friday. Defence minister Rajnath Singh and his Australian counterpart Peter Dutton met on the eve of the first 2+2 dialogue between the two countries. Australian foreign minister Marise Payne and Dutton are in India for the dialogue with their Indian counterparts S Jaishankar and Singh on Saturday. “The defence minister told Dutton that India was monitoring the Afghanistan situation closely. He also said India was concerned about terrorist activity emanating from that country,” said one of the officials cited above. The Indian security establishment is concerned about terrorist activity in Afghanistan spilling over into the country after the Taliban takeover. The situation in Afghanistan is expected to figure in the 2+2 dialogue between the two countries on Saturday, along with other important security issues such as China’s role in the region, and the situation in the East and South China Seas, as previously reported by HT. Australia is also working with its partners to ensure a “joined up approach in any engagement with the Taliban”, though the current focus is on ensuring that the Taliban permits the safe passage of Australian and other citizens who wish to leave Afghanistan, Australian envoy Barry O’Farrell said on Thursday. He also said that Australia was concerned that the new regime created by the Taliban in Afghanistan was not inclusive and had UN-sanctioned members of the Haqqani Network, and any engagement with the group would be based on its actions. Both countries are keen to work jointly to realise the full potential of the India-Australia Comprehensive Strategic Partnership, Singh said after the bilateral meeting with Dutton. “This partnership is based on our shared vision of free, open, inclusive and rule-based Indo-Pacific region. Both Australia and India have tremendous stakes in peace, development and free flow of trade, rules-based order and economic growth in the region,” Singh said. Strengthening defence ties was on the agenda. Singh said the wide-ranging talks focused on defence cooperation and expanding military engagements across the three services, enhancing defence information sharing, cooperation in emerging defence technologies and mutual logistics support. “Both sides noted with happiness that Australia joined the Malabar Exercise in 2020. In this context, we also expressed satisfaction in the continued participation of Australia in Malabar Exercise this year,” he said. India, the US, Japan and Australia -- or the Quad -- conducted complex naval drills off the Pacific Ocean island of Guam last month under the Malabar banner, with the exercise involving destroyers, frigates, corvettes, submarines, helicopters, long-range maritime patrol aircraft and elite special forces elements. The second phase of the Malabar exercise will be held in the Bay of Bengal from October 11-14, said another official. China has been monitoring the activities of the Quad countries. Beijing has been wary of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue, which was revived in late 2017 by India, the US, Australia and Japan, and these suspicions have increased since the four countries upgraded the forum to the ministerial level in 2019. Singh apprised Dutton about steps being taken by India to achieve self-reliance in the defence sector and the “growing innovation ecosystem in India”. “We discussed opportunities to work together in defence, science and technology areas. I invited Australian industry to take advantage of India’s liberalised foreign direct investment policies in the defence sector. We both agreed that there are opportunities of bilateral collaboration for co-development and co­-production [of systems],” Singh said. He added that India was committed to forging a robust partnership with Australia to promote regional security and growth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-australia-discuss-afghanistan-crisis-implications-terrorism-101631295786210.html
11-09-2021||India||BJP, RSS breaking J&K’s composite culture: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its ideological fount, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), of trying to break the composite culture of Jammu & Kashmir.“The feeling of love, brotherhood that exists amongst you all is being ruined by the people of BJP and RSS. Your composite culture was attacked, your brotherhood was attacked and they weakened you before snatching your statehood. You can see for yourself that the Union territory’s economy, tourism, business are badly hurt,” Gandhi told party officer bearers at a function, on the second day of his two-day visit in Jammu. The former Congress chief, who paid obeisance at the Mata Vaishno Devi shrine in Katra on Thursday, said: “There are three symbols of mata (pindis) there - Mata Durga, Mata Lakshmi and Mata Saraswati. Durga ji symbolises the power to protect, Lakshmi ji fulfils one’s aim and Saraswati ji is for knowledge. The BJP weakened all these powers when it converted Jammu & Kashmir into a Union territory, brought farm laws, demonetisation, Goods and Services Tax, and installed people having RSS background in educational institutions.” “When these three shaktis (powers) are in your home and country, your home and country will make progress,” he said in an indirect attack on the Centre over its economic policies. Gandhi further recalled how the three powers were strengthened during the Congress regime when the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act or MGNREGA was implemented and the gross domestic product rate stood at 9%. Pointing towards his hand, Gandhi correlated the Congress election symbol with Lord Shiva and Guru Nanak Dev, and said it was the symbol of being fearless. “This hand is the symbol that you should not be afraid of anything,” he said, adding that the “BJP is afraid of everything”.Asking party cadres to strengthen the Congress, Gandhi said: “The day party workers feel that they are being heard in the party, Congress will come back with not 100, 200, 300, but 450 seats.” The Congress leader also spoke of his meeting with a delegation of Kashmiri Pandits earlier in the day. “During the meeting, I realised that I am part of this delegation. My family is also a Kashmiri Pandit family and I am a Kashmiri Pandit. Therefore, I want to say here that I don’t lie and I want to tell my Kashmiri Pandit brethren that I will help you,” he said. Gandhi said he planned to visit Ladakh soon, and added that his visits to the Union territory always made him feel “at home”.“This is my second visit to Jammu & Kashmir in a month and I will be visiting Ladakh shortly. I had said in Srinagar that whenever I come to Jammu & Kashmir, I feel that I have come home. Yesterday I went to offer prayers at Vaishno Devi and I felt at home. My family has very old relations with Jammu & Kashmir,” the Congress leader said. The Congress leader also reached out to displaced Kashmiri Pandits, saying he and his family belong to this community, and promised them all help. “I do not tell lies,” the Congress leader said.Hitting back, BJP leader Sambit Patra said: “Astonishingly Gandhi forgot that the woes of the Kashmiri Pandit’s were because of the ‘politics of appeasement’ of Congress.Congress for its petty vote bank politics sacrificed also the development of Kashmir.”(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-rss-attacking-j-k-s-composite-culture-rahul-gandhi-101631273639025.html
11-09-2021||India||BJP’s UP election campaign buzzwords: ‘Damdaar’, ‘imandaar’||As it prepares to face tough questions on its performance on various fronts including the response to the Covid-19 pandemic, law and order and the state of economy, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in Uttar Pradesh has designed a campaign to project its image as damdaar (decisive) and imaandar (honest).Ahead of the assembly elections scheduled for early 2022, the election campaign, which will include social media outreach, will be pivoted on the “accomplishments” of the “Modi-Yogi partnership” said a person aware of the details. The Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh has been criticised for its inadequate preparedness for the second wave of the pandemic which left over 18,000 dead in the state according to union government data. The state faced an acute shortage of hospital beds, oxygen and other essential medical supplies that exacerbated the pandemic conditions. To be sure, UP’s current case fatality rate is, at 1.3%, on par with the national number of 1.3%, and medical infrastructure in almost all states was overwhelmed by the ferocity and intensity of the second wave – caused largely by the delta variant of the virus, which is now raging through the US – that took everyone by surprise. Still, like many other states, UP is also believed to have undercounted its dead. According to a June 21 report by news website Article 14, which analysed death registration data from the state’s 24 districts, UP registered around 197,000 excess fatalities during the pandemic period (July 2020-March 2021) over the pre-pandemic average – around 42 times the state’s official Covid death toll in the time period.To counter the charges against its systemic deficiencies that came to light during the second wave, and more recently with the death of children (from a mystery viral fever, not Covid) in Firozabad, the state government is bringing out a report card to list its achievements in the past five years and how its performance compares favourably to the previous government’s. “The party has decided to use social media content in the form of snippets, videos and cartoons to deliver the message of how the Yogi government fulfilled its promise of cracking down on crime and corruption and creating jobs,” said a party functionary who asked not to be named. To illustrate its accomplishments, the Fark Saaf Hai (the difference is clear) campaign has also been sharpened for social media dissemination. The party claims it has met most of the promises it made in its election manifesto. “In the last 70 years, there were just 12 medical colleges in the state; after the BJP came to power, in the last four years, 48 medical colleges have been set up. Of these, 23 medical colleges have already begun functioning, nine will be inaugurated soon and construction of 16 will begin soon,” the functionary added. Former Rajya Sabha MP and Samajwadi Party (SP) leader Javed Ali Khan, however, said the figures are incorrect. He said during SP rule, there were already over 30 medical colleges functioning in the state. Part of this comparison will be the Bhoole Toh Nahi (don’t forget) campaign where the party will recall incidents of crime committed when the Akhilesh Yadav government was in power. To blunt the criticism over the continued crimes against women, the state has listed steps such as setting up 1,535 women help desks in police stations across the state, ensuring a response within 10 minutes to distress calls made through the helpline number 112 and, how as part of its “mission” to curb crime, the state has made 8,000 arrests and filed several cases against criminals. “The state has been able to take action in at least 13,000 cases under the Gangster Act, property worth ₹1,800 crore that belonged to various mafia dons and criminals has been attached by the government. Cyber security cells have been set up in all 75 districts to strengthen the drive against crime in the state,” the BJP functionary said. The Opposition, however, dubbed these claims as hollow. Khan said the first promise that the party had made in its election manifesto was to create 700,000 jobs and double the income of farmers. “It has failed on both fronts, can they give us a list of even 350,000 jobs that were created?. As for decline in the crime rate, all one has to do is read the news reports from the ground; every day there are incidents of rape, abductions and dacoity in daylight. The national crime record bureau data belies their claims,” he said. As per the National Crime Records Bureau data of 2019, UP recorded the third-highest number of cases of crime against women after West Bengal and Maharashtra. In 2020, the UP government had claimed that crimes such as murder and rape had come down during the tenure of the Yogi government. Citing NCRB data, the government claimed that the number of murders in the state fell from 2,762 in 2016 to 2,032, and there was a reduction of 39% in instances of rape.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjps-new-up-campaign-themes-damdaar-and-imaandar-101631261218507.html
11-09-2021||India||Why India’s August was unbearable despite monsoon||This August, most Indians believe, was hot and dry -- and they are not wrong. The country saw its lowest August rain in 12 years this year (24% lower than the long-period average or LPA). The month was also the third hottest August in the past 120 years. HT reported last month that July was the sixth-warmest July on record with a mean temperature of 28.52 degrees Celsius, 0.55 degrees Celsius above normal, and the third-warmest July considering the minimum temperature at 24.88 degrees Celsius, 0.56 degrees Celsius above normal.That trend continued in August; the average maximum and mean temperatures were the third-highest during the 1901-2021 period; and the average minimum temperature was the eighth-highest. Specifically, the average maximum, average minimum and mean temperature for the country during August were 31.75 degrees Celsius, 24.39 degrees Celsius and 28.07 degrees Celsius respectively against the normal of 31.09 degrees Celsius, 24.01 degrees Celsius and 27.55 degrees Celsius based on the average for 1981-2010 period, the India Meteorological Department said. India ended August with an overall monsoon deficiency of 9%. IMD expects it to make up the balance because of higher than normal rains in September, although this will still only manage to take the overall rain to the “lower end of the normal category”, IMD said at the beginning of September. A rainfall that is within 20% of the long period average in either direction is considered normal. “The main reason why August recorded high temperatures (both maximum and mean) is that the monsoon was subdued for several days over a large part of the country. Naturally, when there is less rain there is less clouding and temperature goes up. But this is also a signature of climate change--which is why several recent months have made records in terms of temperature. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) in its Physical Science Basis report has also flagged that we can expect record temperatures in the coming years,” said OP Sreejith, head, climate monitoring and prediction group, IMD.Central India, especially, was hit hard. The average maximum temperature over central India recorded during August is the second-highest (31.25 degrees Celsius), while the average minimum temperature is the sixth-highest (24.50 degrees Celsius) and average mean temperature is the third-highest (27.88 degrees Celsius) since 1901. There were two major breaks in the monsoon, August 9-16 and August 23-27, when northwest, central and adjoining peninsular, and west coast of India received subdued rainfall. Intra-seasonal variation in terms of week-by-week rainfall variation over India shows that monsoon rainfall activities were largely subdued for three consecutive weeks.“The formation of fewer low-pressure systems compared to the climatology and absence of their longer westward movements during August contributed to the large deficient rainfall in central India as well as all India,” IMD said in a statement on Friday. Negative Indian Ocean Dipole over the tropical Indian Ocean, a phenomenon where the western Indian ocean becomes colder than the eastern one, and which is unfavourable for monsoon prevailed throughout August, contributing to deficient rainfall. There were also fewer typhoons in the West Pacific and so there was an absence of westward movement of their remnants into Bay of Bengal. This led to fewer low-pressure systems forming over Bay of Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thirdwarmest-august-on-record-received-lowest-rainfall-in-19-years-101631258218187.html
11-09-2021||NA||Breaking news highlights: UN raises alarm on Taliban crackdown on protests||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:UN raises alarm on Taliban crackdown on protestsThe United Nations on Friday raised the alarm over Taliban's crackdown on peaceful protests, many of them by women demanding equal rights, and journalists covering such events.Russia summons US ambassador over 'election interference'#BREAKING Russia summons US ambassador over 'election interference' pic.twitter.com/nmA7exU1zoChhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel's father Nand Kumar Baghel granted bailA local court in Chattisgarh granted bail to chief minister Bhupesh Baghel's father Nand Kumar Baghel on Friday. The 86-year-old was arrested on Tuesday by Chhattisgarh police, after being booked promoting enmity between different groups on the basis of a complaint filed by Sarv Brahmin Samaj.BKU says talks with additional chief secretary Devender Singh was ‘positive’Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni said talks with additional secretary to Haryana government Devender Singh was 'positive, and the next meeting has been scheduled for 9am tomorrow. The Haryana government sent Singh to talk to farmers ahead of Samyukt Kisan Morcha's meeting on Saturday, after farmer leaders had refused to hold further talks with the Karnal DC, alleging that he did not have the authority to take a decision on their demands.India’s cumulative Covid-19 vaccination coverage reaches nearly 73 cr#Unite2FightCorona#LargestVaccineDrive➡️ India’s Cumulative #COVID19 Vaccination Coverage crosses nearly 73 Cr landmark milestone.➡️ More than 56 lakh Vaccine Doses administered today till 7 pm.https://t.co/Ejt9DZn1fr pic.twitter.com/IhJPA70bCDMaharashtra reports 4,154 Covid-19 cases, 44 deathsMaharashtra recorded 4,154 Covid-19 cases on Friday, taking the total number of cases to 6,491,179. In the last 24 hours 44 deaths have also been reported, the death toll now stands at 138,061, according to the state health department.Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal, wife Sunita participate in the 'Ganesh Pujan' programmeDelhi: CM Arvind Kejriwal and his wife Sunita Kejriwal participate in the 'Ganesh Pujan' programme organised by Delhi Government. #GaneshChaturthi pic.twitter.com/RrCrbJS01vKerala reports 25,010 Covid-19 cases, 177 deathsKerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan told reporters on Friday that the state has recorded 25,010 new cases of Covid-19 in the last 24 hours and 177 fatalities. Marking a slight decrease from the 26,200 cases the state had recorded a day before. The fatality count however went up. BKU asks political parties in Punjab to suspend campaigning till elections are announcedBalbir Singh Rajewal of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) told news agency ANI on Friday that the union has asked political parties in Punjab to suspend election campaigning before elections are announced. "Congress and SAD said that they will hold discussions about this with their high command," he added.PM Modi chairs high-level review meeting on Covid-19 situationPrime Minister Narendra Modi chairs a high-level meeting to review the COVID-19 related situation and vaccination in the country pic.twitter.com/buGonucrx7Covid-19 restrictions extended in Punjab till September 30 in view of the festival seasonPunjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Friday ordered extension of the existing Covid restrictions till September 30, in view of the upcoming festival season, with a limit of 300 on all gatherings, including political, and strict enforcement of wearing of masks as well as social distancing. He also made it mandatory for organisers, including political parties, to ensure that participants, management and staff at food stalls etc in festival related events are fully vaccinated, or at least have had a single dose.Punjab to send unvaccinated staff on compulsory leavePunjab government announced on Friday that state government employees who are yet to receive their first dose of vaccine will be sent on compulsory leave after September 15. Those with medical condition are exempted from this order, the government added. Priyanka Gandhi attends election panel meeting in LucknowCongress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi attended the party's election panel meeting in Lucknow on Friday ahead of the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections of 2022, reported ANI.Mamata Banerjee files nomination for Bhabanipur bypoll#WATCH West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee files nomination for by-polls to Bhabhanipur seat BJP and CPI-M have fielded Priyanka Tibrewal and Srijib Biswas respectively against the CM pic.twitter.com/LSvB1ZdfykSingapore maintains current Covid-19 rules, monitors for severe casesSingapore sees no need to tighten Covid-19 curbs for now despite a spike in infections over recent weeks, a top official said on Friday, but will not press ahead with more reopening moves as it monitors for severe cases.India lead Test series against England 2-1India lead Test series against England 2-1, cancelled fifth and final match can be played later: BCCI source, reports PTI.Singapore maintains current Covid-19 rules, monitors for severe casesSingapore sees no need to tighten Covid-19 curbs for now despite a spike in infections over recent weeks, a top official said on Friday, but will not press ahead with more reopening moves as it monitors for severe cases.Pakistan reports over 3,689 Covid-19 cases in last 24 hoursPakistan reported fresh 3,689 cases of Covid-19, after 61,128 tests of Covid-19 were conducted across the country in the last 24 hours, according to Pakistan's National Command and Operation Centre data.PM Modi to perform Lokarpan of Sardardham Bhavan on September 11PM Narendra Modi will perform the Lokarpan of Sardardham Bhavan and Bhoomi Pujan of Sardardham Phase – II Kanya Chhatralaya in Ahmedabad on September 11, via video conferencing: PMO.India forfeit fifth and final Test against England in ManchesterIndia forfeit fifth and final Test against England in Manchester amid Covid-19 concerns.Puducherry adds 111 new Covid-19 cases, overall tally rises to 1,24,629The union territory of Puducherry added 111 new coronavirus cases during the last 24 hours taking the overall tally to 1,24,629, a senior official of the Department of Health said on Friday.Delhi CM announces 'grand' Ganesh Pujan; live telecast from 7pmDelhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced a "grand" Ganesh Pujan here this evening, which will be attended by him and his ministers and telecast live from 7 pm, saying the festival is a blend of patriotism and spirituality.Terrorism will increase under Afghanistan's new Taliban govt, experts warnWith the Taliban forming the interim "Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan," and appointing hardliners in its new government, experts have warned that risks of terrorism are set to increase in the war-torn country.BJP's Priyanka Tibrewal to challenge Mamata Banerjee from BhabanipurBJP's Priyanka Tibrewal to challenge Mamata Banerjee from Bhabanipur seat in Bengal by-polls.Major fire at plyboard godown in north KolkataA major fire broke out at a plyboard godown in north Kolkata's Nimtala Ghat Street on Friday morning, officials said.Mobile internet services resumed in KarnalHaryana: Mobile internet services resumed in Karnal where farmers are staging a demonstration demanding action against officials behind lathi-charge last month."As of now, there is no plan to suspend the services again," says Assistant District PRO Raghubir Singh.Owaisi booked in UP for 'vitiating' communal harmony, violating Covid normsThe Uttar Pradesh Police has booked AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi for allegedly vitiating communal harmony, violating Covid norms and making "indecent" remarks against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, police said Friday.India reports 34,973 fresh Covid-19 cases, 260 deaths in last 24 hoursIndia recorded 34,973 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, which pushed the nationwide tally to 33,174,954, while the death toll climbed to 442,009 with 260 daily fatalities, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Friday. Thunderstorm, light rain likely in parts of UP, Haryana: IMDParts of Uttar Pradesh and Haryana are likely to receive thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain in the next two hours, said the India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Friday.PM Modi greets nation on Ganesh Chaturthi: PM ModiWishing you all a very Happy #GaneshChaturthi. May this auspicious occasion bring happiness, peace, fortune and good health to everyone's life. Ganpati Bappa Morya!," tweets PM Narendra Modi.Xi says US policy on China has caused 'serious difficulties'Xi says US policy on China has caused 'serious difficulties': State mediaMan guilty of hate crime in attack on Black man sentencedA Colorado trucker who nearly killed a Black man by slashing his neck in an unprovoked attack at an eastern Oregon truck stop was sentenced on Thursday to 16 years in federal prison.Competition between two powers should not become conflict: Biden tells Xi JinpingUS President Joe Biden talks with his Chinese counterpart Xi Jinping for the first time in seven months, seeking to ensure that "competition" between the two powers does not become "conflict," the White House says.Afghanistan commercial flights resume as UN accuses Taliban of harassmentThe first international commercial flight under Afghanistan's new Taliban interim government departed Kabul on Thursday carrying more than 100 foreigners, including some US citizens left behind after last month's chaotic Western airlift.Waterlogging reported outside Qutub Minar metro stationWaterlogging reported outside Qutub Minar metro station following early morning rainfall in the national capital.Joe Biden takes steps to vaccinate rest of AmericaUS President Joe Biden on Thursday announced a series of steps, including issuing several executive orders and taking a few punitive measures, aimed at vaccinating the rest of America, arguing that the unvaccinated people pose a grave danger to the health of all Americans.Australia's New South Wales reports biggest daily Covid-19 caseloadAustralia's New South Wales state, the epicentre of the country's worst outbreak, reported on Friday 1,542 new locally acquired Covid-19 cases, its biggest one-day rise in the pandemic, topping the previous high of 1,533 hit last week.India calls for inclusive dispensation in Afghanistan: TS TirumurtiIndia calls for inclusive dispensation in Afghanistan which represents all sections of Afghan society. A broad-based,inclusive&representative formation attained via inclusive negotiated political settlement would gain greater international acceptability and legitimacy: TS TirumurtiChina reports 17 new Covid-19 cases on September 9 vs 28 a day earlierChina reported 17 new Covid-19 cases on the mainland for Sept. 9, down from 28 a day earlier, the national health authority said on Friday.None of the new infections were locally transmitted, the National Health Commission said.Multiple people shot in southern Illinois, 3 suspects fleeMultiple victims were reported shot in southern Illinois late Thursday afternoon and three suspects who crashed their getaway vehicle into a passenger train remained on the loose, authorities said.Ganesh festival begins in MaharashtraAs the 10-day long Ganeshotsav begins on Friday, the Maharashtra government is closely monitoring the Covid situation, amid a jump in active cases on Thursday.Guterres to AFP: We must have 'dialogue' with the Taliban and avoid 'millions of deaths'UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres pleaded with the international community, during an interview with AFP Thursday to maintain a dialogue with the Taliban in Afghanistan, warning that an "economic collapse" with possibly millions dying must be avoided.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-september-10-2021-101631230322636.html
